[Music]
[Laughter]
it is Friday April 19th 2019 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA we're not really live folks
who cares most of you listen or watch
after the fact anyways but today on the
program staff writer for the New York
Times Magazine
Jonathan Mahler will be with us to
discuss planet Fox an in-depth
investigation to the Murdoch family and
the ownership of Fox News as it stands
today while there's a smart guy this is
a pretty in-depth look at really the
individual Rupert Murdoch and now his
family which have fundamentally altered
I think the trajectory of the
government's on three different
continents in three different countries
at least and the politics in particular
of creating their more virulent strains
of conservatism and it turns out folks
some apples don't fall so far from the
tree we will get to Jonathan Mahler
in just a moment this is an example of
our vacation shows today is Good Friday
it is also the well the the
des tonight is the first Seder of
Passover I will be celebrating with my
family for the next two nights the
Passover Seder yes
spelled exactly like my name cedar
that's one of the ways I can get the
kids interested in the holiday for about
35 seconds and then that wears off and
then they are not interested in it but
it is spring baked as you know if you
are a longtime listener of the show we
take the follow the schedule basically
of the do-e around here the Department
of Education from New York City when
they go on break my kids go on break we
go on break which means that I really
don't get a break because I mean it's
fun hanging out with the kids but after
a while it starts to become a job
because it's hard to kids I'll be so low
taking him to Florida hopefully can keep
him occupied you're doing Disney we're
not doing Disney good that was probably
a mistake
cuz Disney but I feel that that would
have been exhausting to I was trying to
find something it's very difficult to
find something that a thirteen year old
girl soon-to-be 14-year old girl and a
six year old boy both like and more
importantly will not complain about if
they're forced to do so one instance I
could take the 13 or 14 year old I guess
it's only a couple days away from now so
she's still 13 on a ride and of course
the six-year-old can't go on it and vice
versa so that's why we can't go to
Disney I went to Disney around 14 and I
was disappointed by how lame all the
rides were yeah well you would think
there were a lot lamer if you went on
rides that six year old God yeah so but
vacation has started we've got a whole
week's worth of pre-recorded interviews
that are fantastic frankly but before we
get to Jonathan
mahler I should tell you one of today's
sponsors is Skillshare anyone who goes
to sk l dot s h slash majority report to
is going to get two whole months of
totally free access to skill shares
entire library of super quality online
courses and tutorials skill share is a
vibrant online learning community that
offers courses on everything from design
to video editing photography business
technology cooking meditation
everything in between there are skill
share courses for everyone you'll have
no problem finding courses that will be
useful to you both in your personal and
professional life whether you want to
sharpen your skills with something you
already love doing or you want to learn
how to do something totally new
Skillshare has you covered
they of course is for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages photoshop you name it so
right now I'm going up to Wooster I'm
not as I speak to you but I'm heading up
to Wooster and my whole plan is when I
have a little bit of time is to dig in
to some entrepreneurial things I am NOT
a great business person but I feel like
I can pick up some broad strokes and
this is the way for me to do it also I'd
like to learn how to do Photoshop maybe
I'll do some audio editing just in case
everybody decides one day to call in
sick which is not in impossible around
here but I it is the vast array of
courses that you can get from Skillshare
that is so amazing and now you can get
two entire months of free access to
every single course offered by
Skillshare again go to sk l dot s h
slash majority report - just think of
everything you're gonna have your
fingertips for two whole months for free
again that's sk l dot s h slash majority
to report numeral two and i've put a
link underneath this video if you're
watching on youtube or if you're
listening
i've put the link in the podcast
description and also today the majority
port is being supported by in part by
simple habit it's a mobile app simple
habit
that provides a massive and diverse
library of five-minute guided
meditations majority report audience can
try simple habit totally for free for an
entire week when you go to simple habit
comm slash majority look there's tons of
my evidence that show that meditation
benefits you in a myriad of ways and
they have over 2,000 guided meditations
on simple habit specifically designed
for different parts of your day so just
about anything you might be dealing with
in life
they've got two meditations for
mindfulness meditation for anxiety for
depression when you're having trouble
falling asleep meditation is when you
want to overcome procrastination or when
you're having something important going
on at work meditation is designed for
parents needed the meditations made
specifically for when you're waking up
or your lunch break or when you've
gotten home from work when you go to bed
look the beauty about this is that if
even if you don't immediately get into a
regular practice with every day you have
the flexibility of doing this at any
time during the day or when you need it
the most
or for things you need the most that's
what I like about it different people
are trying to accomplish different
things with meditation simple habit can
cater to just about anyone regardless of
what your goals are or regardless of how
much past experience you've had with
meditation the variety again of guided
meditations and simple habit is what
sets it apart simple habit just one the
2018 Google Play award for bet west best
well-being app it's available on iOS
Android and web browser and the majority
report audience can try for free for a
week by going a simple habit calm /
majority if you're watching on youtube
link in the description if you're
listening link in the podcast
description check it out alright I'm
gonna take a quick break when we come
back we'll be talking to Jonathan Mahler
on planet Fox
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program author and a
staff writer for the New York Times
Jonathan Mahler Jonathan welcome to the
program thanks for having me Beth
so how rupert murdoch's empire of
influence remade the world this is a
massive undertaking by yourself and jim
Ruttenberg in the new york times
magazine is it in the magazine or is it
interactive I mean I don't know how you
know I guess it's both I mean it's in
the back the print format is the
magazine and you know digitally they
kind of did a big big rollout on the
website and basically you put into
context the sort of the the political
role of the Murdoch Empire I guess and
also the the machinations and I should
say we're recording this on April 8th
and we're about seven days away from the
premiere of the final season of Game of
Thrones and there's a little bit of
quality of Game of Thrones to this that
I think it's like it's it there's which
I I found I guess sort of stunning in a
way but before we get to the sort of the
machinations on you know who took over
the company and how let's just place the
Murdoch I guess brand or you know
lineage in the context of politics
because this is a really I mean Rupert
to for the most part has influental II
changed not just our politics but like
politics broadly speaking I mean is that
that's not really an overstatement is it
no not at all I mean he is you know like
I think without question the most
powerful media mogul in the
english-speaking world and sort of like
what that he kind of lever
is that power through like literally
dozens and dozens of newspapers around
the world in numerous news channels
international news wire I mean until
recently a massive Hollywood studio and
you know basically you know he is he is
he's a businessman he's a kind of an
empire builder in the sense that he is
all about kind of territorial conquest
wants to just keep growing and growing
and growing and he's also a conservative
I mean in many ways like the the
ideology is is in some ways kind of less
important to him than than the advancing
of his business agenda but you know it's
very much there and he is constantly
kind of pushing history to the right and
really what's happened in particular in
the last couple years is that he has
sort of seized on this right-wing
populist wave that you know that we sort
of first saw with like the improbable of
rise of Donald Trump and you know but of
course we also saw what brexit and
really we saw all over the world with
kind of right-wing authoritarians
getting elected far and wide like he
really seized on that opportunity and
and sort of rode that wave and you know
profited from it and and also not just
profited from it but but really kind of
accelerator didn't amplify it and I want
to get to that because it was that to me
seemed like not the there was a certain
amount of improvisation based upon what
you've written as to his jumping on that
but let me go back a little bit you know
before that because the thing about I
feel like there have been media moguls
that have influenced politics in some
measure another maybe not ones that have
done so you know when you talk about
Australia and New Zealand and UK and
then the state yeah it's also been over
the course of you know even the United
States which is that yeah we're talking
decades and decades yes yeah yeah no
it's been going on forever no there's no
there is no there seems to me to be no
historical precedent for someone who
has had this level of durability and
this level of sort of Vanguard quality
to what they're doing right like he's
not been following the the political
trends or safely you know sort of like
entrenched he has been blazing really
yeah really in my opinion horrible new
path yeah I know that's right and I
think you know another thing to keep in
mind too is he has done it across these
mediums I mean so you know you had you
know in the old days media moguls tended
to work in like one medium in one
country and you know so you had like a
newspaper Baron or you had a guy who
owns you know some radio but you know
Murdoch has done has has like gone but
across all of the platforms and has gone
all over the world so it's like you know
it's like a whole other kind of media
mogul and of course like now we're
living in a world where we're like just
because of the nature of media because
it's just no shot all over the world
instantaneously media moguls are just
just kind of inherently more powerful
than they've ever been and I mean let's
talk about that sort of the ideological
sort of businessman divided and maybe
that's uh and maybe it there's more
redundancy to say those the two things
then then yeah maybe I'm assuming but I
mean we're yeah that's right yeah well I
mean but tease that out for us because
you know yeah
yeah I mean because I mean like well the
easiest way to think about that is so
you have you have a guy who is his his
like agenda he's like the main in the
top five things on his business agenda
is grow by grow by and he basically you
know in order to do that she needs to
make sure that there are no regulations
in his path right that there are no
whether it's kind of anti-monopoly rules
or anti-foreign ownership rules or
whatever it may be that might be
standing in his way of growing his
empire he needs to get them out of his
way so it's not surprising that he has
historically championed a right wing
anti-government energy regulatory agenda
so so they kind of work the to sort of
work together and it's not just a
question of expedience it's just
consistent with what he thinks is is
right I should be able to monopolize
this stuff at one point there was also
he had he had basically got a waiver I
mean I remember like going back to I get
maybe two decades ago when when Ted
Kennedy was preventing him from owning
both like I guess Fox maybe Fox a Fox
affiliate and maybe was the post and he
uh through all of it didn't he yeah
that's me and you know he even got um
Reagan to fast-track his citizenship
application to because he needed to be a
US citizen to own TV station so you know
when he wanted to get into the u.s. TV
market
he went to Reagan and and just boom he
became an American citizen and you know
he did is also in the UK I mean like in
particular in his early years there in
the 80s with Margaret Thatcher I mean
she he was was was constantly in you
know violating a monopoly rules and she
just you know let's give him a pass so I
mean that that's just a power that came
with his empire his ability to kind of
punish his enemies and reward his allies
it's just like you kind of wanted to be
on his good side and so you did you did
his bidding for him I mean that's the
thing that's sort of like I guess maybe
pre maybe foreshadows the the sort of
the the world of social media on some
level where the the content and the
marketing are the same in a way right
like I mean his media empire it seems to
me both functioned to build his business
by getting by being political and was
political in and of itself does that
make sense
no that's ya know that's right and and
there is like inside there is also kind
of like a fun contradiction which is
that like you know in order to get
government out of his way he had to like
cozy up to governments so it was like
you know he would kind of get
get in with you would have to kind of
his playbook was basically to get in
with politicians you know presidents
prime ministers whomever then and and
once he kind of had them then he would
just pursue this kind of anti-government
agenda right well I mean this is
actually that's like the sort of the
old-school neoliberal play is you know
we're ostensibly you know the Mont
Pelerin people would would argue that's
exactly the the play you want ya to to
make government work just for a narrow
set of interests and and then shackle
everything else all right well so in in
and then so let's talk about it and and
I want to make sure that we put a pin on
on the the Fox entertainment because
that is there there is arguably well I
don't know you'll tell me but I don't
think there is a political agenda in
that sort of like that part that they
jettison but let's let's wait till we
get there chronologically because that
that dichotomy to the extent that it's a
dichotomy of just a businessman with
right-leaning proclivities versus a
movement conservative guy seems to have
basically basically described as his
offspring or at least the two male
potential heirs - yeah - his his empire
tell us about those - yeah that's
exactly that's exactly right I mean you
know if you think about Rupert as being
this guy with with just kind of endless
ambition right so like you know if you
are if you want if you want to own as
much as he wants to own it you know it
can't all be political because he wants
to own everything so then he has these
these two boys and and you know he has
he has some girls as well but the only
two - you know children who are in
contention for the throne or of course
the males and so he one of them James is
you know is much more kind of
politically neutral you know a centrist
sort of a know kind of like a Davos
style below
West who wants to you know just kind of
grow the business move into emerging
markets and then he has his other son
his his sort of favorite son his eldest
son who Lachlan who is much more
politically minded much more in line
with that kind of right-wing agenda I
mean people say that he's more
conservative than his father and so you
know that's the essentially those are
the two figures kind of fighting for the
throne over the course of their entire
lives and Rupert really I mean almost
almost deliberately kind of pits them
against each other over the course of
their lives and so you know it's not
surprising that that um they don't like
each other and that they had these two
very different visions for for the world
and for this company's place in the
world I I mean as as late as like I
think two years ago and and maybe I
think even maybe uh you know had more
questions until reading your piece I
didn't realize that Lachlan was so
conservative I mean it seems to me I
mean you know and and maybe there just
was just I was reading the wrong things
but it seemed to me that like James and
Lachlan seemed more of like a unit to me
where they were both sort of like James
but yeah I mean I think that was you
know they've they've really kind of gone
out of their way or over the years the
Murdoch family who kind of went out of
their way to not you know to give the
appearance that lot that Lachlan and
James were were kind of a team that they
were a unit and they were in fact like
running the company together for a
couple years so you know so it's really
only I mean really only recently I'm
really only this piece I think that has
exposed what were these like like really
kind of serious underlying differences
between them all right so let's I mean
let's talk a little bit about this
wrestling for control and then I want to
get into sort of just like how I mean it
seems to me that the Murdoch AMP Empire
is a is a but for for a lot of like for
maybe
for Donald Trump I mean I want to get
there we're not quite there yet but just
give us a little bit of a thumbnail of
the back and forth between the favoring
of James and Lachlan and what was it
that ended up putting Lachlan in charge
of a of Fox News essentially which is
obviously the most you know from a
political standpoint the the the most
important entity at this point and and I
should say like you know when Ailes left
the I think broadly speaking there was
still enough question about Lachlan that
people are like oh okay the dingdong the
witch is dead and things are gonna
change there and in fact they got if you
couldn't sort of measure this way worse
but but just give us a thumbnail that's
James and Lachlan as they as they you
know like who was your a pole position
it did various times yeah yeah so
basically you know Rupert's first choice
was Lachlan he was his eldest son they
you know they shared their this kind of
mutual love of Australia they you know
Lachlan was was more political which
which were but like Lachlan loved
newspapers James didn't really care
about newspapers so so Rupert's initial
plan was to put Lachlan in charge of the
company and was kind of proceeding on
that path and then you know in the early
2000s
Lachlan kind of started his ascent up
the corporate ladder and then just got
into like repeated clashes with with
some of Murdoch's kind of senior people
including ales and so you know it got it
and and Lachlan came to feel like his
father was constantly siding with the
senior executives over him and he
started to get really angry and so at a
certain point in 2005 Laughlin's like
I'm out I'm done
and he he quits the business the family
business he moves to Australia with with
a hundred million dollars from the
family trust and and he seems to be kind
of done and at that point James like
kind of starts his scent and then he
becomes kind of the presumed heir
apparent so like you know for most of us
who've been and James is the older
family right James is James a younger oh
okay okay
Locke one's the older
so the you know the eldest son was the
preferred choice but once he kind of
took himself out of the running it kind
of became James's Toulouse and and that
is sort of what happened because James
was then kind of proceeding and it
looked like he was going to become me
the air and then the like the crazy
hacking scandal happens on James's watch
in London kind of leading up to year
2011 I mean and then at that point
Lachlan kind of re-enters the picture
and then it's sort of not clear what's
going to happen and then in 2015
Rupert like brings Lachlan back from
Australia but he doesn't quite displace
James he kind of puts them in charge of
the company together in 2015 and so then
that sort of has what he's like kind of
this last act that has been playing out
over the past couple of years and it's
like coincided of course with like the
rise of Donald Trump and you know the
two of them you know we're trying to run
the company together but like not
getting along at all and having all
sorts of problems and then that sort of
like leads to rupert ultimately deciding
that he's gonna sell off a big chunk of
the company two-thirds of the company
which is 21st Century Fox like send
James on his way and give what remains
of the company which is you know Fox
News and his newspapers basically like
his political weapons give those to his
eldest son who kind of shares his
politics I mean it really is stunning
because it's almost as if like you add
up those two guys and you get ultimately
what Rupert Murdoch's
you know I guess just perspective on the
world is if I'm going to sell off the
the more the the the last politically
charged elements of this and then I'm
left with just as sort of like movement
conservatism and I'm going to give that
to the movement conservative son exactly
that's right yeah okay so let's just
talk about since we're up to like you
know the selling off of 20th Century Fox
like what what what was how much of an
income driver was I mean I understand
the mass right I mean it made
company a big company big terms is your
profit it seems to me like Fox News may
have been like you know a dollar for
dollar more profitable dollar for dollar
more profitable but but just in terms of
because of the scale of the studio um
and you know it's library and and and
all that it uh you know it generated I
think two-thirds of the revenues for the
entire company so basically selling off
you know the Fox News hugely profitable
certainly but but he didn't should've
one fell swoop sell off two-thirds of
the whole company's revenues when he
sold off the studio right and obviously
the expenses involved in doing things
like films and TV shows much higher than
it would be to do you know people people
sitting in a desk but nevertheless so
the Fox News is very cheap cheap to
produce
now you report that Lachlan was like why
would I want this company now that it's
a like a smaller player like it's it's
going from like this massive machine to
down to like this more sort of like
nimble just weapon really exactly that's
right yeah I mean yeah I mean Laughlin's
reaction was like you brought me back
from Australia to take over the family
business and now you're selling off
two-thirds of that business and and like
by the way like the the like the most
fun part of it you know like Walkman you
know having returned from Australia and
to take over this company in 2015 sets
himself up in like this amazing
executive office on the lot in you know
on uh on the Fox lot in in Studio City
you know he's like a movie executive and
then suddenly you know one day his
father says to him that were selling the
movie studio so even though he he you
know shares his father's right-wing
politics and he likes what Fox News does
this is still like a massive shrinking
of his birthright basically to his mind
and you know he you know he was like his
attitude wasn't just like how can you
sawed off this company was also like why
would I want to run what you're leaving
me with and like what that is about was
not like a political objection at all it
was an objection to like basically the
business model it's like you're given me
dislike cable news channel with an
audience like an ageing audience like
you know what is this business going to
even be in 10 years because you know
people are increasingly like you know
turning to streaming for news and have
you know cable subscriptions are like a
you know already kind of starting to
feel like an anachronism and then you
know and then and then you have this
audience of like old white conservatives
who are like how much longer are they
going to be around to so I think he was
like as a business proposition this
thing is is like dubious and I would
just imagine it's more fun just like
hanging out Holly god I mean totally if
I've got that kind of money so why did
he
why did what what changed like what why
is yeah why is he burning in it yeah
yeah oh with Lachlan why did he change
why did he decide to do it yeah I mean
you know ultimately it's it's this is
what's left of the company so I mean you
know he could have I suppose she could
have walked away and and he may yet I
mean you know this is like this just
happened like the company just went
public like literally you know two weeks
ago so so he might he might decide he
doesn't want to stick around but like
for now I think it was like it was what
his father wanted it's what's left of
the Murdoch Empire and you know he kind
of had to make his peace with it
so okay so James meanwhile wants to sell
out to Rupert and Lachlan and his yeah
got his sisters also because they're
basically like this is embarrassing that
we don't want anything to do with this
company and we don't want our innovate
they own these special shares that are
special Murdoch's voting shares in this
company they can't sell them to anyone
else and they don't want their they
don't they don't they don't as you say
they're embarrassed by the company they
don't want their their financial future
tied up with this company they don't
trust their brother Lachlan to run this
company they just don't want anything to
do with it so they try to sell their
stock to Lachlan and he said no and so
that's where we are today in terms of
like the status of owning yeah
all right well go back just a little bit
and just talk a little bit about
and and I know you know we don't have
too much more time but talk a little bit
about how Murdoch basically he was it
sounded like he was gonna support
Clinton he'd had a relationship with the
Clintons Bill Clinton I think in many
respects made it possible for his empire
to flourish in in this country with the
1996 Communications Act where it
reversed a lot of the ownership
requirements so you know he and and he
thought yeah and like above all he you
know he thought that Trump was an idiot
I mean he truly did you know he had no
respect for him he was right but but
yeah nothing changed I mean what what
was it that yeah that that that turned
Rupert and then ultimately got Lachlan
to basically say we're all in yeah yeah
well I think that you know see he
ultimately he you know he decided to he
tried he tried desperately to support
other other Republicans during the
primary so I mean he was like actively I
mean he was he was writing checks he was
like you know writing tweets and like
you know promoting you know everyone
from you know from from Jeb Bush to Ben
Carson you know he wrote you know
$200,000 checked it to John Kasich I
mean he was he was like he was working
to find someone else and then at a
certain point you know Trump begins to
feel inevitable he has like a brief like
flirtation with Hillary but Hillary
won't even eat with him because at that
point she's getting challenged and of
course on the left from Bernie Sanders
so she's like she can't you know she
can't very well like coming into Fox
News and sit down with Rupert Murdoch
that that like would have been a
dangerous move for her politically at
that point so you know so he ultimately
he ultimately decides he's going to get
behind Trump for the for the primary and
then you know for the general election
rather and then you know the assumption
of course is that he's not going to win
but you know as soon as as soon as he
does at this point he's like you know
Rupert has always wanted to have
he's had these amazingly close
relationships with Prime Minister's in
in the UK
I mean beginning with Margaret Thatcher
but like continuing through you know
Tony Blair John Major and he you know he
never he's never had a relationship like
that with an American president he's
only desperately wanted one and you know
he immediately saw that that's what he
had with Trump and uh and so you know so
after he like kind of throws the weight
of Fox News behind Trump in the general
election you know Trump is basically in
his pocket once he's elected and you
know and that's like that's the dream
for him it's a dream come true and so
that turns and what I mean so what what
was the theory behind like we're gonna
pedal to the medal this like we've just
had all of this sort of you know we've
been exposed as basically being a
sexual-harassment factory we have had to
announce to our shareholders that we've
paid a huff millions of dollars in the
maintenance of the sexual harassment
factory now what we should do is become
even more rapidly right-wing like how
does that like what's the business plan
there right now my understanding is is
that Tucker Carlson is at the almost the
peak of his ratings and about
underperforming his advertising by fifty
to sixty percent because people don't
want to be associated with that yeah
yeah yeah I mean it's like it's that's
the that's the the paradox here but I
mean he's you know be the business
decision is like that and you know and
in some ways this like begins earlier
this begins like this story begins you
know in really during the the like in
2008 really the kind of beginning of the
Obama years when Fox News starts to
become this kind of like Pro tea party
anti-government kind of Pro often kind
of racist Pro conspiracy theories you
know the birther movement etc you know
it so it's like it has kind of already
started to whip up just base and in like
it's I can tell you Jonathan when I
perspective like this it predates this
right I mean more to us it does but but
like if you just want to think about
like like this business decision which
which you were asking about right
so like the business decision is
basically like the fox news audience has
been radicalized or you know is radical
and this is what the Fox News audience
wants the Fox News audience loves Donald
Trump they want Donald Trump and so the
business decision in that sense is like
if seems to be kind of simple the
problem as you point out is that that
it's now becoming a problem with
advertising right and so what so what
what are they what is the plan here I
mean they're like what yeah like what
well one plan is is that they're
launched this new service called um Fox
Nation which is like a subscription
streaming service which is basically
like Fox News over the internet without
advertising right that people pay
subscriptions for so it's like you know
that they don't have to worry about
advertisers they can just be as like
they can just go as far out on the right
as they want they can be as like you
know crazy and edgy as they want and and
they're not too worried about alienating
advertisers because that's not the model
so that's like one they're late to this
though aren't they I mean this is the
Glenn Beck model this is CRT million
blaze TV that's what a model is yeah
you're you're right I mean in fact they
think and and you'll recall that they
fired one back yes yes yeah that's right
they are late to it yeah I mean they
probably should have should have been
doing this years ago but part of the
problem is that because Fox News is like
even though everyone recognizes this
cable model is like increasingly
anachronistic it's still like a massive
ATM for them it's a huge it took a huge
cut profit driver these cable
subscriptions still so even though like
you can see when you look out on the
horizon you know that like who the hell
is going to still be watching cable
television in ten years but for now it's
like enormous they're profitable so they
just they've been short-sighted about it
Wow
so okay so have you gotten any feedback
on this piece from like them from like
the Fox world are they bad are they they
just ignoring you because they're like
you're the with the new yorks lines or
whatever think I think yeah I mean I
think there's like I suppose I mean
they're obviously not not happy about
the story but
I think that you know their their take
on the stories yes of course like the
New York Times's is biased is unfair is
you know everything else fake news the
whole thing so yeah so that's their you
know that's that's been their their line
on this too of course
and so what so really we're gonna have
much more clarity in in the short term
do you think like it's been only a
couple weeks since the the company's
gone public I would imagine I don't know
I haven't been following the stock but I
imagine there's got to be some concern
with like this company that's so reliant
on Fox News and watching the the power
of because this is a relatively new
phenomena in the past couple of years
where corporations step back from
politics I mean certainly within the
context of you know air America was on a
blacklist because they did just because
companies didn't want to be associated
with something that was that
controversial in terms of politics yeah
we've had that problem in YouTube but
this seems to me to be you know a a
potentially lethal problem for Fox yeah
yeah no I I think you're right and I
think that you know you think about
someone like Tucker Carlson you know
he's you know in many ways like he's
kind of the future of the network so so
you know Hannity we all think of as now
being kind of having replaced Bill
O'Reilly it's like the big star at Fox
News right but but I feel like Hannity's
like celebrity is so bound up with
Trump's whereas like Tucker Carlson is
like working on a different level he's
like kind of pushing this like kind of
white nationalist
populist thing in a kind of
anti-immigrant it's like he's kind of
you know he's part of something a little
bigger and and he's you know younger and
so you know you could and and his
ratings are now like he's now like like
really starting to challenge Hannity so
like he's enormously popular you know it
with the Fox News audience and and with
the Murdochs they love him so you think
like okay well that's where things may
be going over there but as you say like
he's having a lot of advertising
problems so
like it does seem like you know if the
problem is if like what your audience
wants is something that no advertiser
can stomach then you know where does
that leave you right well I guess we
will have to either wait for your sequel
or just watch ourselves know people know
people yeah we'll all be well yeah I
don't want to we're gonna hold you to
both those answers
Jonathan Mahler the piece is how rupert
murdoch's empire of influence remade the
world people can check it out in the
current issue of the new york times
magazine or online thanks so much for
your time today really appreciate it my
pleasure Stan thank you
[Music]
I was just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
