[Music]
earlier that George Herbert Walker Bush
bush senior as we call him passed away
he was old run yeah he had a good run
had oversaw at least one war where tens
of thousands were killed also all the
covert actions right not to mention all
the things he probably did in the CIA
had to go arrest Noriega
so that Noriega didn't spill the beans
or rat it out
no pipeline through slatton America
Rowan had the he had a rich life I mean
that both literally and metaphorically
he was extremely wealthy one of my
favorite quotes was from his sister
Nancy Ellis who in the 1998 and 1988
election was trying to make it sound
like George Bush Senior was an average
guy despite the fact that he was
mystified by the scanners of a
supermarket oh my god Sean just told me
about that
yeah arias imagine the erection of Bill
Clinton got when he saw that though
she's like the scanner well I'm gonna
take this was during Dukakis and it was
I thought it was during the 92 Wow
pretty sure are you serious Dukakis
couldn't even cap I'm pretty sure that
was during Clinton maybe and but the the
the quote where he's just an average guy
his sister said something to the effect
of and I tweeted it I couldn't find the
link but I'm quite sure that that was
the quote we were raised by strict
Midwestern parents if we left our tennis
rackets out in the rain
we got punished ah it was a 92 on top of
on top of which George Bush was able to
pardon a couple guys who probably would
have implicated him in the iran-contra
deal more than a couple right wasn't
quite a few well to the big
like cap Weinberger and I can't remember
the second one off the top of my head I
probably should Donald Trump should
definitely not pardon anybody that can
implicate him in a criminal conundrum
ining of normality and everybody
involved in the cocaine shipment Popeye
into fun paramilitaries I'm just gonna
just gonna give them a nice little slew
of pardons before we have an evasion of
Panama he also in an attempt to prove
his bona fides to his right-wing base
completely ignored the existence of HIV
and AIDS to the detriment of thousands
of people's of lives and ending of
arguably of ending of people's lives
haven't even mentioned the Horton aunt
can't welcome on the ground for racist
campaigns to this very day well he was
he he voted against the Civil Rights Act
first time around or said he would have
in his first race for Congress I think
it was in 64 of course Willie Horton and
he even even implied that there was
something really mysterious about
Dukakis for being Greek for being of
Greek Harry glee now what that means and
I did what the Greeks did up it yeah
weren't just the symposium wasn't just
an exploration of ideas but and my
understanding is a lot of people thought
that the the bushes were actually
contrary to the sort of the the the look
that they have in public real ales and
you know that they were more of the elk
of like Barbara when she went to that
Houston Astrodome and looked around and
said look at all these people here who
had been displaced from New Orleans like
they have a better lifestyle here it's a
that's the verb you know I just want to
say that George Bush Senior has passed I
think to a certain extent there's a very
good argument that almost implicit in
being a necessary and being a Prez
the United States that you are somewhat
sociopathic or you are a war criminal or
you know you have to but I would say
that it and to the extent that that's
true or not I I don't know I'm not
capable of making that assessment but if
it is true Bush would be in the sort of
like I would say top 25 percent maybe
top twenty percent of the worst oh and
don't forget he was a prolific groper
anyway David Copperfield I was gonna ask
a question about that that was serious
how many times do you think he faked his
own death so he could grow up a nurse
it's like I'm not breathing anymore
Oh David Copperfield right exactly
so I'd like to take this time to
remember him I'm not the least of which
like you know how about raising your
family better so that we don't get
George jr. but and I I left out his
basically telling the the Shia's to rise
up the clerk the Kurds and the she is
telling that she is too but the Kurds
were yeah the Kurds told but the Shia he
said in the South like rise up right and
also was very it's I don't know that we
have the real story about how a Saddam
thought he could invade Kuwait and that
it was okayed but we certainly do have
the real story as to the lies that were
sold to the American public as a way of
getting into that first Gulf War
I just them referring to people can can
look it up the story of the of the
babies in the incubators that were being
killed in Kuwait but with all that said
I want to just recognize that a former
president has passed and I know for me I
look back and this was one of those
memories I had of George
Herbert Walker Bush that I will never
forget can we roll that tape that was
George HW Bush okay here we go and this
is this is of course a famous clip aware
George Bush I think it was in 1991 I
believe if I remember correctly in fact
I made one of my first videos ninety-two
I made one of my first videos I cut it
between two video decks for cross comedy
starring David Cross about this incident
and so it's always stuck with me and so
George Herbert Walker Bush this is the
way I would like to salute you with the
way that you saluted the Japanese Prime
Minister Kichi Miyazawa back in 1992 at
a dinner in January
his 4x3 video he's not feeling so great
this is really not feeling great slumps
over and vomits on that's the weirdest
vomiting I've ever seen the Prime
Minister's little trick I learned in CIA
school you just laid down and then
trickle out I needed to show the
Japanese that I wasn't gonna be a
pushover tariff negotiation so what you
do is you pretend you're ill and he came
out and and later with such great humor
he said something to the effect of like
I told Barbara just to roll me under the
table and continue on with dessert wow
that's funny yeah let me just indulge a
couple of requests I've got for five
seconds which is uh Jeb stop being such
hobo dad die stop crying you are no bad
wait I don't understand you don't
remember Barbara Bush throw mama from a
train from the primary I do but he's
like mutated into like a Japanese
samurai version of that I didn't hear
that but I guess Japan on the mind
subliminal influence you were yeah
became arigato jab I am fat Gemma right
now you dishonor family you might throw
brother from tray
