[Music]
let's uh we're gonna touch on Brazil
Fernando Haddad ji is in New York now
and we'll be at the I think at the
conference of progressive leaders that
Bernie Sanders is organizing up in
Vermont this weekend and this is
happening at a fast clip Lula da Silva
still imprisoned and they've also some
22 people in lava jato related charges
have been released from prison even as
he's still sitting there obviously let's
pivot back to him in a minute
but first I want to really distill
what's happening here you have a foreign
minister who has been appointed in the
incoming Boston ro government who is
called global warming a cultural Marxist
plot you have a new created Ministry of
citizenship headed by an Ave angelical
who is claim that black Brazilians are
from some type of satanic tribe I
believe you've heard all sorts of
comments about from bowls and arrows son
saying they got rid of the Communists in
Indonesia we could do that here that's
of course a campaign of mass government
mafia us-backed murder in the 1960s and
70s and the Trump administration and
John Bolton specifically of course could
not be more excited to have a new circle
of far-right governments that mirror
Pinochet in the 70s in terms of giving
their country away to Anglo
multinationals Amazon b2b totally
destroyed public acts a resources to be
stripped austerity destroying unions
everything that capital wants along with
neo-fascist authoritarianism this is
john bolton greeting volson ro here in
brazil and just i have to say actually
think of this in today's world we do
have national borders we do have
national pride it's not all at all a
negative thing frankly I have to say if
you're Brazilian regardless of where you
are in your
politics aren't you embarrassed by this
feeble pathetic display from bolsa
narrow not even to a fellow head of
state this is a National
Security Adviser look at this he's
saluting John Bolton because he knows
that Bolton's his new boss and not
saying like a look at that idiot
look at me proud of this SUV catering
their catering showing them around he's
treating him like a guest of highest
honor the nationalist international
there's no doubt and I think that look I
mean obviously it's no surprise and it's
important of course to always note the
Wall Street Journal endorsed this the
Brazilian oligarchic elite neoliberalism
will break fascist when pushed to the
brink and the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation which tweeted out after
bowls narrow one like a says some bad
stuff but this can be great for Canadian
companies we need to be honest in every
way shape and form people like Bernie
Sanders have already spoken out on balsa
narrow they've already spoken out on
Lula da Silva is a political prisoner
but people need to do a lot more
Alexandre Ocasio Cortez needs to be on
this Russia it to live needs to be on
this any self-respecting Democrat needs
to be in on this and this is an
interview from a couple of days ago Noam
Chomsky visited Lula da Silva in prison
before the elections and rightly called
him the most important political
prisoner in the world today and noted
his stamina and his energy in the
context of his confinement people asked
me from time to time why Lula matters to
me so much and I've done a lot more
coverage on him particularly on TMDs but
let me just say look
again tens of millions lifted out of
poverty a policy that tried to strike a
balance with positive relations
everywhere from Iran to the United
States and wanted positive relations to
the United States but as an example
refused to privatize all of Brazil's oil
refused to totally give away the store
to Western corporations in u.s. foreign
policy which is obviously what balsan
arrow and the bankers and the
petrochemical companies and the foreign
policy elite of both parties wants Lula
had enormous social progress in terms of
afro-brazilians in terms of women in
positions of leadership and so on and
also even in terms of some environmental
policies with the Amazon he is the most
successful leader of the 21st century so
far and it's also a lesson about what
capital will do and the just hatred that
the elites have for someone that came
from poverty and was a metal worker and
was better than they are and his
treatment is a obscenity he's an
incredibly important political prisoner
and they usually accomplished person and
we should all honor that this is Noam
Chomsky explaining it to Amy Goodman
talk about who exactly vole senado is
are you afraid that the country will
descend into a military dictatorship and
where Lula stands in all dust today well
let's start with Lula there has been a
long slow right wing what's often called
soft coup one step was impeaching the
president Dilma Rouseff 2013 she was
impeached on the riser II charges by a
parliament of Thieves most that the most
dramatic vote for impeachment was in
fact bull Sanaa rose when he voted for
impeachment he dedicated his vote to the
chief torturer of the military regime
who in fact had been the responsible for
the torture of
Dilma Rousseff herself so that was his
dedication when he voted for the
ridiculous impeachment it's a it's a
competitor for one of his most violent
moments there's plenty of competition
the next step was to ensure that Lula
would be put out of commission he was
far and away the most popular political
figure in Brazil so in order to carry
off the right-wing soft coup it's
necessary to get rid of him he was sent
to prison for 12 years virtually a life
sentence solitary confinement barred
from receiving books press or journals
and crucially the courts decided not
permitted to make a public statement
unlike say a convicted murderer
so he's silenced put away then comes the
next step a huge there has been a major
in fact I think he should be regarded as
probably the most important political
prisoner in the world today a hundred
percent and we need to stay on this and
the political imprisonment of Lula is
connected with what you will see now
which is a full spectrum effort to
criminalize the quote-unquote left in
Brazil which is essentially being
determined as the 40 million people that
voted for Hernando Fernando Haddad or
didn't vote for bolson ro and that
includes bills to ban certain areas in
the curriculum in amber includes bills
to ban protests and Steve Bannon and
u.s. foreign policy makers have
supported this in Brazil the Obama
administration was complicit in the soft
coup against Dilma and this stuff is
gonna come back to us at home if you
look at polls Republicans voters are in
love with Jerr bolsa narrow to the
extent they know who he is we live in a
globally
synchronized time and you can't think of
these things as in isolation from one
another so care for Brazil have
solidarity with Brazil and what Lula but
also see that this kid be migrating
right back here what do you think it
signifies that her dad's coming up here
to meet with Bernie and not Obama says a
whole hell of a lot doesn't it
and it also by the way it says a hell of
a lot to that eat like in the European
context former heads of state that are
Obama's equivalent have all signed like
moderate Zapatero
blonde Shultz like they've all called
for the freeing of Lula this is like an
absolutely as well as of course the
leaders of podemos just went to visit
but in Europe this is even the centrists
are supportive of this like this is not
controversial and Barack Obama used to
love Lula he called him my guy and the
most popular politician on earth when
they first were spending time together
so well it's a it's atrocious Obama
should be speaking up on Lula absolutely
I would only add that it really shows
the limits of bushwa democracy and
electoral politics in just bringing
about not even socialism but social
democracy for everyone to have a decent
life like there is a fundamental check
on the power of electoral politics when
the oleg arks and those with economic
power can decide at any minute
no we're actually going to take a
democratically elected politician and
put them in jail
so people need to be doing other things
as well outside of the electoral system
that have the power to oppose the power
of these forces I think it's true and it
was definitely what was historically
possible when Lula was in office even
and Dilma was very different and there's
also like yes but the broader point is
is that even even you need to disarm the
enemy
so they can't come back on you and even
in a social democratic context the deals
that they had to make like leaving the
media monopolies in power like not
dealing with those power structures
definitely allowed for this counter you
know Cory Robin held out had an
interesting post on Facebook a month or
so ago about how the left you know very
opposed to citizens united and this
conflation of money equals speech right
right but if we just if thought
experiment we accept that and we
understand that like well actually when
you allow people to have a bunch of
private wealth that serves as like a
bunch of extra votes they just get to
have right and that's the I think
thinking about that more and flushing
that contradiction out a bit more and
that maybe we just lean into this like
say like fine money's gonna be speech
like I don't know how exactly we what
exactly this means like long-term
strategically but I thought it was an
interesting sort of principle to think
about to like because it sort of by your
own logic them to like what they're
saying about the nature of how voting
works not not necessarily to score
points in the debate but I like I mean
like legislatively right like well if
money is speech then we should do
something to level the playing field
about speech because if if certain
speech is spread if speeches all of a
sudden on a market then somebody having
more money equals then having more
speech which means that everybody else's
speech is devalued right which means
that speech like literally is cost
prohibitive at a certain point yeah it
goes back to using libertarians
arguments against them because if they
really care about freedom of speech they
would care that rich people have more
freedom of speech than people without
money and obviously almost none of them
do care about that but exactly right
