[Music]
let's have some fun
what is this map well you know people
are really concerned about deep fakes
what are details sort of
computer-generated photo shops of real
life where they can put your face on a
porn star or whatever or like Steve
Buscemi for instance as like I forget
who they photoshopped him on top of a
female jami actor actress at a awards
show and it just looked like Steve
Buscemi's face on it so I see okay well
so but we're taking this fear and we're
putting it in a fun direction well it
might be fun I don't know or terrifying
we have some footage of Ben Shapiro
basically so I think this is snapchat
right does anybody use this up I think
I'm too old to understand it yeah it's
so intuitive that I can't figure it out
but they have they have this filter
where you can make people appear as a
baby sort of live and well some yeah at
yeah still on Twitter put it over the
Ben Shapiro clip okay and I asked you a
question you failed to answer this whole
thing a waste of time if you want to
read the boutique's the book why don't
you read and critique the book if you
want to read oh yeah Wow okay Matt
having his own CD rule I just don't know
why Twitter this stuff no it's very
annoying the whole point of the do it
live I do think if you tried to run that
Neil's face it would probably break your
phone right looks the same well no he
looks a little more adorable oh my god
dave rubin looks horrified so now we
have a dave rubin and joe rogan all is
done by i think a listener of the show
at Showtime 8 8 d 7 ok check it out
a lot more wouldn't though competition
would start kicking in do something like
slightly like off about that argument
between Rogan and Ruben but now that
that's two babies talking about it makes
a little yeah now I get it it's so much
easier to deal with them as babies yeah
it's like that is like the way that they
think they're just babies
IDW babies it's like Muppet Babies but
it's like I really I think the Sam Sam
Harris is like scowling mean baby
there's something we need to take really
seriously do do definitely do Sam Harris
yeah anybody tweet at me at Matlock on
Twitter if you do any of these yourself
I'd love to see them indeed I want to
see the work I do to have your babies
IDW babies you
