[Music]
it was a hit piece that was put out
about Bernie that was a really funny
piece I had mentioned earlier that
Bernie Sanders attended 39 rallies in
the last three months of or in the
general election you know three months
of the in support of Clinton 17 rallies
in the last seven days there was a
Politico piece put out that quotes four
or five one named and the other
anonymous Clinton campaign staffers
saying that X Clinton staffers slam
Sanders over private jet flights and the
story was that the Clinton people
apparently were upset because Sanders
wanted charter planes and let's read a
little bit from this during okay so
according to here it is I'm not shocked
it says this guy that while thousands of
volunteers braved the heat and cold to
knock on doors until their fingers bled
in a desperate effort to stop Donald
Trump his royal Majesty King Bernie
Sanders this is a quote we the only
brains very regal would only deign to
leave his plush DC office or his
brand-new second home on the lake if he
was flown around on a cushy private jet
like a billionaire master of the
universe said Zack Pitt con us who was
the director of Rapid Response for the
Clinton campaign who does not know the
value of subtlety when trying to sound
legit and it kinda the Sanders campaign
preferred mode of travel quickly emerges
a point of tension according to six
former Clinton staffers and another
source familiar with the travel the
senator ended up flying private it's
actually Charter I don't know what the
distinction
but on three separate I listen to this
here we go that was on three separate
multi-day trips in the last two months
of the campaign all right so three
separate multi-day trips prior to
working out the logistics of Sanders
travel quote our working assumption was
that 90 percent of the time it would be
commercial said another person familiar
the matter if he was trying to hop from
city to city in a particular state and
commercial didn't work we were open to
chartering a plane so they anticipated
10% of his travel would be on charters
they have a quote from Sanders
spokesperson saying it would have been
possible to do all this and then later
in the piece they say okay
Sanders helped 39 rallies in 13 states
on behalf of Clinton's campaign
according to Jones 17 events in 11
states in the last week alone okay
forget about that I've just died just
scared literally we actually have some
numbers here and I did some news I mean
I did some math I should say which is
news because I did some math so 39
rallies right presumably let's just say
one rally a day they had 17 rallies in
seven days so they did two and then one
day probably three two days three over
the course of those seven days so there
were you had 30 days of him actually
going out taking plane travel now it's
back and forth so it's really more do
you know trips than that but let's just
say 30
he took a private jet on three days now
according to my math 3 equals 10% of 30
in which case what they anticipated
which was 90% of his travel would be
commercial actually happened they wrote
a four-page story ultimately that Bernie
ended up traveling
by charter in the exact percentage that
they assumed that he would Wow
well I'd like to fly hi put me in a
socialist jet all but egg to support
Hillary but it needs to be the best my
plates fly around here take me from
Beaumont any way but this is what
its gonna be there's going to be a
series of hit pieces from people who are
upset or worried about Bernie and
they're all and the narrative you know
apparently they're gonna end up having
to find another narrative because that
they anticipated Bernie would only use
chartered Jets in support of Clinton's
campaign ten percent of the time and
then do an expose that shows that he
used chartered Jets ten percent of the
time is just not going to further the
narrative well it's great that there are
so many conflicting narratives against
him right because he's being attacked by
the right and the center and they don't
tend to work together at those two sides
so like if anything this is gonna help
him in the primary with people who are
concerned he didn't help Hillary enough
indeed now the attack on Bernie for
supposedly using charter jets in support
of campaigning for Hillary Clinton
yes he's attacked as supposedly a
hypocrite to his socialism or democratic
socialism as he as he made a point of
saying at the CN n thing the other night
but Tucker Carlson also enjoys it
because it's it's more part of his like
the elite are our hypocrisy is a segment
he wanted to do with Rutger Bregman yeah
this is the one he wanted to do with
Rutger Bregman where it's like oh he'll
tell you that we have a problem with
global climate change but he took a
charter jet yeah I bet he wears a coat
in the winter too exactly here it is
so they say it a lot they demand that
you repeat it they require that you
believe it they attack you if you don't
any evidence of doubt makes you would
denier
but today themselves believe it that's
an interesting question and rarely asked
when he was campaigning for Hillary
Clinton in 2016 Bernie Sanders
repeatedly demanded private jet access
for his himself in his entourage over
the past three years according to a
report in Politico Sanders has spent
almost 350,000 dollars on private
flights how can you justify that if you
believe the world is ending because of
climate change alright so that's the
premise and so it's like authorized Jeff
Weaver Bernie Sanders tad Devine Jeff is
Vinnie
excuse me obviously birdies Vinnie
slowly uh Tucker brought on mark Greene
M knock mark oh my god friend of show
ahead of the p triple c or co-founder of
the p triple c i think they is this
title and i think he's i think they're
you know a warrant folk over there at
the p triple c but nevertheless here he
is basically telling tucker you're
ridiculous tucker and tucker is having a
tough time lately with guests who don't
agree with him i feel like something's
going on maybe with tucker that he's
lost a little bit of he's lost esteem i
hit a wall and is that if you believe
that carbon emissions are destroying the
earth that's too many houses that's too
much consumption that's too much carbon
you lead by example why is it the people
who are trying to control my life and
tell me what i can do and can't do it
how many kids i can have you don't
bother to restrain themselves again
that's not silly it's true it's it's
silly it's a fake apostrophe apocrypha
argument you're basically saying that
you know if you believe that facebook
has bad privacy policies you shouldn't
check facebook every day if you believe
you want a better job you should know
don't cheat other people tens of
millions of jobs in the future and clean
energy of course he should spend the
last few days of the campaign doing
everything he can to fight now agree you
should reduce your emissions no it's
really simple you should walk walk yes
you did yes usually provided you see
that shows I'm sorry you subscribe okay
taking over you are making excuses
because all I want is power all he wants
is power it's so obvious so why is it
just a smearing sociopath cable news
story what happy turn is very liberal
like political it's also because like
the best-dressed without the respect
item I've ever seen like you did it like
this is the power guy like all you want
is power that's why you decided to
become a bold you know just start a
group called bold progressive thing
ahead weird target happily he's hunker
that heat a lot like it lost the step
like that's where you go to like after
like if you feel completely millas tell
you this in parenting right like you
don't go to like threaten to take stuff
away because that that that communicates
to the child that you have no power and
Tuckers doing that when he's like all
you want it's bit take over the world
did you hear how his shoehorn in having
kids to that to like now it's Bernie
with the one-child policy well it's
actually it's green who wants to keep
people from having children
from Vermont you're using the shower
argument takes any static is idiotic you
just said he should he should walk from
Vermont to DC obviously you don't
believe that millions of new jobs in the
clean energy economy this is idiotic
what you're saying because look you will
just walk from our selfie where your
leaders from Vermont to DC I asked if
you can walk you said yes come on not a
real argument you got me out and you got
me you're a brilliant guy thank you
much I appreciate we're so mad
unbelievable there it is Tucker Carlson
alright let's just quickly check in with
Adam Green Adam so Adam Green welcome to
the show you did a good job on on Tucker
Carlson was it fun thank you it was very
fun it was a blast yeah and do you
anticipate that he will have you back
again
no right
alright thanks Adam there you go
power-hungry yeah it reminds me a Luke
navel there's a freedom Idaho Luke navel
who you know who's doing work for expand
Medicaid there's Medicare in the Idaho
Medicaid Medicaid expansion Idaho
they're accusing him of leading a band
of agitators on Twitter so right right
no to scary guys well right because what
happened was was that they passed it
overwhelming me
overwhelmingly through referendum and
now the Republicans in the Statehouse
are trying to kill it which basically
subverts the state constitution and so
Luke is doing Luke who like teaches like
John Adams at Columbia's tweeting things
like respect the will of the red
[Laughter]
