[Music]
pretty nuts story about the blackout
yesterday okay so there was a blackout
and where it was in in Canarsie it's a
part of Brooklyn Rockland
yeah and I'm just telling this to people
who are not from New York and so we had
a blackout in New York like a week ago
right and it was in Manhattan I believe
I'm not sure which part now Midtown shut
it down maybe was Upper West but
definitely the point being this was not
I think this was not a controlled
situation Con Ed just did not know what
was going on and so they clearly have
been on their toes to try and make sure
that they not subjected to a surprise
blackout particularly with this heat
wave coming everybody's got their air
conditioning on what not understand what
happens when there's a blackout people
are trapped in the subways for extended
periods of time I mean it's awful awful
and so it appears that con Edison as a
way of avoiding a blackout in a place
like midtown Manhattan or the Upper West
Side or the Upper East Side for that
matter or really anywhere in Manhattan
or in specific places in Brooklyn that
might have more money specifically more
political power you wouldn't want that
to happen so maybe how can we save some
of our kilowatts so that it doesn't
happen in an area where we could get in
real trouble for it now what we're
hearing is that con Edison purposely
turned off the lights in this
neighborhood to prevent a bigger outage
what do you guys think about that
oh I didn't even know that what do you
think about that very crazy if that's
the case so what do we are not important
enough like we're supposed to sit in the
dark while you watch survey who's gonna
be unprotected who did it protect what
about us so you're making us suffer to
preserve rule who are they are
preserving so why are we're not
important I'm trying to understand
because I'm soaking through this is news
to me very exact one apposite she
understands it she understands it so
exactly what are they looking to
accomplish so we need to suffer so that
you could do what preserve whom what
about a preservation of us yeah you'll
see a lot more of that yeah this just
shows how you know class struggle
anti-racist struggle energy justice and
you know the fight against climate
change all go hand in hand
and they have to if we're gonna do
anything about it when we say was that
one by the time the Republicans and the
right quote-unquote accepts the science
which is a terrible frame my opinion it
will be the overt it will be policies
like that at a macro scale efficiency
right yeah and there's a long history of
the government doing this to like the
reason I spoke to an immoral and about
this like the reason that some people
thought that the government flooded
black neighborhoods on purpose during
Hurricane Katrina is because they
actually did that decades before hand to
save white neighborhoods right
