this this these these new regulations by
the Trump administration they are
they're basically a way of limiting
immigration particularly legal
immigration for people who are already
here as well this public charge stuff
and I mean it fails under the weight of
its own rules anyways but here is Erin
Burnett in the ongoing saga of Ken
Cuccinelli trying to make the Trump
policy fit in to at the very least the
perception we have about ourselves in
this country that perception I would say
is probably a little bit more
aspirational than actual but
nevertheless let's use this frame when
it is worthwhile and in to a certain
extent there is an obvious truth to the
fact that it wasn't necessarily always
with open arms and it wasn't always
necessarily pleasant but this country
was built and has been built through
much of its history on taking in
refugees and immigrants from around the
world and it is strengthened this
society in in many respects here's Erin
Burnett again returning to Ken
Cuccinelli's you'll recall yesterday we
played this clip when he was asked about
will taking your poor your wretched and
then he said and he added we'll take it
we will take in your poor and your
wretched who can stand up on their own
two feet and blah blah blah
now that concept is good for Ken
Cuccinelli well we'll pick it up after
this you say this is about
self-sufficiency and you say that
proudly you heard me to play you this
morning when you quoted the Emma Lazarus
poem on the Statue I wasn't quoting it I
was answering a question
right okay I'm sorry but you were giving
your version of what you thought the
poem should say right no no I was not
you said give me you're tired and I'm
not rewriting poetry okay well what you
said is give me you're tired and you're
poor who can stand on their own two feet
and who will not become a public charge
I just played you sang it right I listen
okay making sure not just being said
okay so obviously the actual poem is
quite different
I'm gonna read right I was answering a
question I wasn't writing poetry Aaron
don't don't change the fact I'm not
twisting this like everybody else
you're saying that it's very important
to be able to stand on your own two feet
a lot of people may so or respect you're
saying that but the poem doesn't say
that right the poem Tyranno Authority I
didn't bring up the poem what you an NPR
reporter did and now you have I didn't
bring it up I'll answer your substantive
intelligence okay however it came up you
said give me you're tired and you're
poor okay who can stand on their own two
feet and who will not become a public
charge that's what you're saying I just
played it the poem reads give me your
tired your poor your huddled masses
yearning to breathe free the wretched
refuse of the teeming Shore send these
the homeless tempest-tossed to me I lift
my lamp beside the Golden Door wretched
poor refuse right that's what the poem
says America is supposed to stand for so
what do you think America stands for
well of course that poem was referring
back to people coming from Europe where
they had class-based societies where
people were considered wretched if they
weren't in the right class and it was
introduced it was it one no what do you
f does this guy talking America was a
total communist egalitarian utopia no I
understand I get it
it's his logic his logic is that yes and
in the way he's talking about class is
that in a European context at that time
you might even be relatively loaded but
you're looked down upon because you
don't have a title or something and so
you can come here and you don't have to
put on airs but you have a lot of money
still so you can stand on your own two
feet so classes I think it's literal I
think it's basically what he's saying
you don't know the difference but for
idea I
not saying he's I'm telling you how I
think he's spinning it dude I I think he
think he's just skipping over poor I
think I think this is like he should
rewrite the Bible like the meek who own
their own businesses shall inherit the
earth
the apotheke small business small
business owner I mean Aaron may have hit
may have you know emphasized wretched
but the poor seems to be the operative
issue here now I think and not talking I
think he the poor of title poor of title
there's a lot of there's a lot of old
Regency dramas about that type of thing
this guy's he's got a shoe factory I'm
sure he wants to marry the Dutchess
everything's problem everything's fine
but it's a problem because he ain't it
didn't pour of olive garden's
was written one year one year after the
first federal public charge rule was
written that says and I'll quote it any
person unable to take care of himself
without becoming a public charge
unquote would be inadmissible or in the
terms that my agency deals with they
can't do what's called adjusting status
getting a green card becoming legal
permanent residents same exact time
Aaron same exact time in the year it
went on the Statue of Liberty 1903
another federal law was passed expanding
the elements of public charge by
Congress this is a Scotland right they
could they had no education they had
nothing right but I am here because they
were allowed in and I'm an anchor on CNN
right my tying grandfather sponsored his
two cousins to come here this is a
tradition that many of our families
yours and mine can point to when our in
we're white we're white from Europe well
we learned at the time but we are now
clusion areas no no but what I'm saying
is I would have been I don't know about
you but I I would have been well no
that's not your deciding on one point
and our is OS are gonna take what's
called a totality the circumstances test
which has been long been the test for
public charge okay and this will he's
lying about this and I'll tell you this
here's the here's the thing the public
charge thing is a vague term and the
rules and regulations that define it and
according to this new rules and
regulation they must have a 51% they
must assess with each potential
immigrant they must assess that there's
a 51% chance that they will end up being
a public charge now we know that at
least 80% of all immigrants do not
become a public charge and there is no
subset of that group that has any
different numbers than that you can't
say only 50% of immigrants from
Guatemala
don't become public charges or only you
know only 40% of people from Moldova
moldovia Moldova whatever don't become
public charges there is no Department of
Homeland statistics that would indicate
that you can make an assessment on any
group of immigrants that they're going
to be a public charge
51% sure so this is ripe for abuse and
it's intimidating immigrants and it's
total BS
