all right let's as this is all happening
it's um the the it really does feel like
you know I watched a little bit of a
Morning Joe this morning because I was
just curious
I know it's first time in ever and it
was they had on jihadists on they really
did yep and he muffins are you talking
about he was on it is but it's
fascinating to see all these things and
sort of line up okay I mean because the
they spent the whole day talking about
the shutdown
it wasn't Joe and Myka was the it was
Willie Nelson or whatever the guys name
is oh that's okay no I don't think it's
not really good really guys so willie
Geist was hosting but they they're
talking about the shutdown and it's
getting serious right and they're
mocking in the same way that we have
Donald Trump and Wilbur Ross and Larry
Kudlow trying to seem like they have you
know actual warm blood flowing through
their veins like the Millennials but
then the story that is coming out of
Davos the main story is the critique of
Davos at this point at least in what's
in the in Davos has been sort of out of
the the news for the past couple of
cycles and part of it is that there's
this critique out there and they've let
people into the building on some level
where the critique is and here is an
exchange and this is just a stunning
exchange for multiple reasons and I
think they should be obvious to a lot of
people a Washington Post reporter is
moderating the this panel and it's a
Washington Post panel the the reporter
is heather long she just does like a
general beat she's Niq oh no she's she's
she is
Kiron tear as an economics correspondent
for The Washington Post I just want
everybody to sort of sit with that for a
moment and imagine what the base line
knowledge of the United States economy
and just the things like the history of
the economy basic stuff
basic basic just knowledge of how the
tax system works just very basic
overview she is doing this panel on it
is this guy is Michael Dell from Dell
computers right and this guy from MIT
named Erik Brynjolfsson he is the
director of mi t--'s initiative on the
digital economy and so here's the
exchange she asks a question they get a
big laugh because the idea of actual you
know tax regime is hilarious but listen
to where this goes there are growing
calls to address these inequalities that
particularly the wage inequality with
more taxes in particular in the United
States there's been a call by
congresswoman Ocasio Cortes to tax
people earning over ten million and a
seventy percent tax rate the current top
rate United States is 37% michael doe do
you support this I just want to say I'm
thrilled the dirt
Wow
[Laughter]
well look I mean you know my wife and I
set up a foundation about 20 years ago
positive I just love the fact that he
can't even joke around like they're all
laughing and he immediately he
immediately goes to the talking points
that he that that that his Matt like he
goes into defense my can't we just say
that Bill Gates who's you know more
classy unless I mean I hate Bill Gates
but he's less of like an obvious
than Michael Dell made exactly the same
point about 20 years ago and we would
have contributed quite a bit more than a
70% tax rate on my income on my annual
income and I feel much more comfortable
with our ability as a private foundation
to allocate those funds than I do giving
them to the government all right I'm not
supportive of that and I don't think it
would help the growth of the US economy
I'll name a country where that's worked
ever United States briefly first off
first off she is completely stumped by
his his challenge name a country where
its work in addition to having no
further really follow up this is the
this is an economics correspondent for
arguably the second most important
newspaper in the country I don't know
where it would rank internationally but
a fairly important paper they
internationally as well
an economics correspondent about me not
the economics correspondent and she says
for a short time in the 80s now when
Reagan knocked it up he whacked it up to
80% the top marginal tax rate starting
in 1936 through through til 1982 was
never below seventy percent the highest
in the 90s and that was for over 10 to
15 years it was in the high 80s from
like 36 to 50 maybe hitting 90
occasionally these reporters just
worship the orthodoxy of the current
economy voters don't have Google yeah
they don't like they don't like it like
hey I'm going and i'm reaiiy am the
economics correspondent for The
Washington Post
and I'm going to ask Michael Dell about
these tax rates I wonder what the tax
rates have been in this country that I
am an economics correspondent for in the
second most important this week magic
features of the modern economy that
you're always writing like dumb like
tributes to and the Washington Post is
Google each computer and then you go and
then discover out an item back there's
just something fundamentally wrong with
everything that that that this basic
level of competency when you head into
it like it's just it's just mind but you
know what it is guys I think she's more
interested in ideas
it's ideas but wait a second so
fortunately they have a I guess you need
to be a professor at MIT to know this
but go through the US economy mmm and
can you say a little bit more about why
I'll name a country where that's worked
ever United States briefly in the
eighties no no from about the 1930s
through about the 1960s the tax rate
averaged about 70 percent at times it
was up as high as 95 percent and those
were actually pretty good years for
growth so I don't have a strong opinion
on that proposal a lot but the devil is
in the details but I think it's there's
actually a lot of economics that
suggests that it's not necessarily going
to hurt growth yeah I mean and it's
actually it wasn't 82 the the top
marginal tax rate went down to 50
percent and then in 86 I think it was
for the big omnibus tax reform I think
it was went down to where it is now like
in the Tahoe
and the during that period of time it
was post-war granted they call it the
great compression the economy worked for
more people
broadly speaking than it has in terms of
wealth and equality and in terms of
everyone you know living a decent
middle-class life black people didn't
share in a lot of this and part of it
was by design by the US government
frankly but that's that's the reality
but the idea that just the basic I I'm
just flabbergasted by the reporter more
than anything else I can understand she
doesn't cheek I mean and I've never seen
something so satisfying as that MIT
reporter bodying her I mean I can say it
cuz I'm a woman right thank you
but yeah I mean it was think it's it's
mind-boggling I think that there's what
when you see reporting around economics
the CNBC's of the world and you know
I've include her in that it's not even
about the history it's not about looking
at policy even it's about this kind of
disturbing worship of corporate culture
and of wealth building and Economic
Forum's like Davos you know where are
part of that weird worship it's a
capitalism shrine basically and they're
just kind of stenographers about what's
going on currently as opposed to giving
context as to how things were all in the
past
I think that was a prime example of it
an egregious example and it also is a
great example of the implications of
someone who gets elected in a primary
with 25,000 votes in Queens and you were
following around AOC during that primary
and the run-up to the primary oh yeah I
was one of the first people I think so
it was about a year ago you know in
March so that's when I first covered her
or did that full-day report on her in
that that question doesn't obviously
doesn't come up and there I think that
that MIT guys probably more in bull
to bring that up or we just do all of it
I mean it's just people I think that's
the other dynamic of like cuz Davos I
think is always invited like they like
to have okay
come give us a little critique to prove
that were willing to sighs but if you're
in a room with all with like a couple
hundred literally the global elites
right like in the proper usage of the
word and then you just know it's gonna
be streamed on c-span nobody's gonna
watch it because it's really boring
after you like get over the novelty of
watching like bono lecture like some
leader from Zimbabwe on debt relief or
others like nonsense that happens at
Davos but now because of social media
like their market and Anand gets this
like better than anybody else it's not
Davos it's the fact that I'm gonna get
clips pissing Tony Blair off right
that's gonna go viral that's the whole
point of this conference is Michael Dell
looks like an idiot
they are whining about tax rates and
then doing bizarre exercises where they
pretend to be migrants as like
experiential learning and it's for the
rest of us to look at them and though oh
you people should be in a dustbin of
history you've ruined the world and
you're delusional I'd say we're about
three years away from Davos being a lot
less public burg oh yeah like a
government in exile I think it's gonna
be like no social media well definitely
we need to be able to really extreme we
don't want people they erupt with oh
absolutely here is another example of
Davos basically people basically Jujitsu
in Davos in some way like I'm glad
you've all assembled here to make each
other feel good and now we're going to
use you as an example of everything
that's wrong and this is this is a Time
magazine panel on the state of
inequality they invited this guy rut
Rutger Bergman he's an author I don't
know what else's critic credentials are
but he's written a he wrote another book
about about wealth inequality and the I
guess the disequilibrium the
created by having such wealthy people
and I think where is he from
he's European obviously Dutch Dutch
alright here is the exchange and it's
interesting to look at I don't know who
the other panelists are but they're all
like wait a second you know nobody likes
to have one of those comments that
indict severy buddy before being on
stage this is my first time at Davos and
and I find it quite a bewildered still
be honest I mean 1,500 private jets
flown in here to here Sir David
Attenborough speak about you know how
we're wrecking the planet and I mean I
heard people talk in the language of
participation and justice and equality
and transparency but then I mean almost
no one raises the real issue of tax
avoidance right and of the rich just not
paying their fair share I mean it feels
like I met a fire fighters fighters
conference and no one's allowed to speak
about water right there was there was
only one panel actually we've had two
Pierre the second was only one panel
let's go there one panel hidden away in
the media center that was actually a tax
avoidance I was about I was one of the
15 participants so something needs to
change here I mean ten ten years ago the
World Economic Forum asked the question
what must industry do to prevent a broad
social backlash they don't seems very
simple just stop talking about
philanthropy and start talking about
Texas Exes Texas we need I mean just two
days ago there was a billionaire in here
what's named Michael Dell and he asked a
question like name me one country where
a top marginal tax rate was 70% has
actually worked
mm-hm and you know I'm a historian the
United States that's where it has
actually worked in 1950s during
Republican President Eisenhower you know
the war veteran the top marginal tax
rate in the US was 91% for people like
Michael Dell you know top estate tax for
people like Michael Dell was more than
70% I mean this is not rocket science I
mean we can talk very long time about
all these stupid philanthropy schemes we
can try Boehner once marker come on it's
we gotta be talking about Texas yeah
that's it taxes taxes taxes all the rest
is bullsh
in my opinion enjoy your last time at
Davos I mean that's the I mean it's it's
obvious it just it's a lot shorter
conference if that's the only panel that
you have right which is the one which
talks about tax avoidance in basically
these schemes in which to rollback taxes
and they don't get to self in Grand eyes
about all the philanthropy and
foundations as Michael Dell did in his
first breath after that question was
asked of him while he was justifying tax
avoidance I mean there's net exit of
capital from Africa because of tax
avoidance schemes that cancels all of
the like you know because that's a they
loved the Africa save right if you buy a
cow for a local business person in
Africa that'll change it yeah Michael
Dell's like I much prefer to buy a cow
for someone in Malawi with him be tax a
lot of a lot more comfortable with that
there was also a massive report that
came out just I think at the beginning
of this week probably timed for Davos
which showed that a very very strong
correlation between companies that have
donated to nonprofits and those
nonprofits turning around and advocating
for deregulatory practices on those
companies just willy-nilly really I know
that's very shocking to you I hope we
haven't ruined any of your illusions I
know I'm a mere 24 but I I still am as
cynical I feel like is everyone at the
table so it's a little sad it's a little
sad
