[Music]
there's there's two there's two groups
of people in the country who have the
most self aggrievement possible and do
it under the guise that they are
aggrieved because of how much
aggrievement other people feel and that
is of course almost anyone who
identifies as conservative or a
classical liberal and comedians who for
some reason can't get booked at colleges
anymore or don't or college students
don't like their comedy and so of course
of course it's not oh they don't like my
comedy they don't think I'm funny it's
that Society has gone off the rails
because I don't get the same amount of
laughs at colleges that I used to with
my stale material
well we held this for today because
Michaels such a fan of the bodega boys
love these they now have a show on
Showtime right it's in nightly show me
oh no it's a Thursday's yeah it's not
yeah yeah and and they so they they're
on this this is hot ones a complex
magazine where they eat sort of spicy
food and talk there you go so here's a
bodega boys on hot ones talking about PC
culture and and and their comedy is not
PC not PC so four years you guys have
rift on trending topics on a hot mic
without much of a filter why do you
think you've avoided the problematic
police at least in a big PR disaster way
is the key D zhis to just say allegedly
and qualify everything that way um I
think it's more resource center yeah
there are certain things you know that
you could have gotten away with saying
in onine that you should not even
formally as a sentence in your head
don't even put in your drafts okay I'm
sorry
have you watched the progression of our
comedy there's certain jokes we used to
do that we won't do anymore be
as we've experienced the world we've
come across with different people we
realized that the humor hits differently
that a certain joke that might have been
funny four years ago like you actually
meet a person from this specific group
and you're like oh like I even know
that was offensive Oh like guests moved
from the Bronx it's like I suck my dick
know that but we're not in the
crosshairs of PC culture like that
because we're not like fighting against
it like we're not went out there like oh
now you can say what you want you've got
to be funny about it am i smart about it
and approach it the right way and don't
just say something for shock value
because that's what a lot of people do a
lot of people just like oh you're
offended oh sorry
like triggered you lib like and you
know like we say there are people who
saw our arenas doing that but it's just
like at the end of day what's the what's
the expectancy on yeah how long can you
do that for I mean the all of this stuff
that they're saying is really fairly
basic but somehow seems to escape the
vast majority of well and I shouldn't
say the vast majority of committees the
vast majority of comedians are fine it's
just like but the the ones that we hear
piercing through with the biggest
complaints you know Jerry Seinfeld when
he's not driving around you know showing
off his fleet of cars is complaining
that colleges are just they don't like
my gay King what's so funny like it's
just it's unbelievable it's not so funny
about it those like on it it also just
shows the the real the misunderstanding
of it because I could guarantee you
they're listening to a Bodega boys
podcast if one were to listen cuz I do
think that there are skulls if we want
to use that word and they exist in all
quadrants there are they're people who I
would say our lefty squares who were
annoying about this stuff I make no
bones about it they're obviously people
who are religious people who are
right-wing people whatever you say to me
grapes as well now that's what I'm
talking about
but if you listen to bodega boys you
will find infinite more grounds to
potentially get you know bothered by
something than anything Jerry Seinfeld
has probably done other than you just
sort of being like hey he's kind of
seems like an
right like that's what's he's not
hitting
not because of what the terrain he's
going after he's not hitting because a
19 year old is like you mean that like
eating french toast makes you gay and
that's like so you not only the 14 youth
like what you're not allowed to make fun
of anybody ever it also depends if it's
coming from a place of good faith or bad
faith right that's partially what
they're saying yeah yeah I think I think
their their empathy their empathy you
know and where they're coming from comes
through I mean I I think that they're I
think one of the reasons I mean you'd
know this better than me Sam because I
didn't I don't know as much of the show
as you but I think one of the reasons
that Howard Stern is kind of survived is
because he wasn't like like he was very
problematic whatever the word you want
to use but he didn't seem to have like a
kind of malicious dimension to it well
it was also and it was satiric the
certain level of trust that you build
with your audience when they feel like
they know you and maybe they'll give you
the benefit of the doubt and if you ever
do say something that maybe oversteps
the line or hurts people's feelings like
you can have the critical distance on
yourself to be like all right maybe I
shouldn't have said that
right I don't think the problem is that
I don't think that the idea is that
people should the people should
necessarily self-censor all the time so
they never step on a land mind it's how
you react to when you find out that this
is a land mine which is what they're
saying so much context involved to like
I've talked a lot about this with Jay
Flores the comedian and podcaster and
friend like so much of it is contingent
on context and on who you are and on
where you're coming from like louis c.k
people used to give him the benefit of
the doubt and now they don't anymore and
there's no going back
right and this is not a concept that
escapes comedians at all I mean whether
it's the the
the broader context that some people you
know you go up you see a stand-up you
don't necessarily know anything about
them other than what they're presenting
but you have a so you know they're
visual cues and then there are other you
know the context of the jokes and
whatnot but the bottom line is is like
this is nothing this is nothing new and
the idea that some people find some
jokes offensive and some don't on others
and if people in society are becoming
more aware of the sensitivities of
people who are not exactly like them
like there's always been you've always
had the sensor to a certain extent you
know white sensibility or certain like
you know narrow sensibility it's just
that it was one that was widely accepted
and unchallenged and to a certain extent
the sensibility is broadened that people
are just more sensitive to what other
people are sensitive about and so you
know the idea that it this is in some
way like inhibiting comedy this is a
perfect example of why that's not the
case
