[Music]
here is the end of Bernie Sanders Town
Hall on Fox News ladies and gentlemen
and if I don't think in a million years
that anyone would have predicted that
the Town Hall is going to end in this
fashion like it turns into some type of
like religious revival a you know show
where like III mean honestly like I I
don't know who could have done better on
Fox News like who are their regulars I
don't think like Sean Hannity gets this
treatment from an audience and you know
that somebody is gotten in trouble
because of this in some fashion and
they're not clear why or how this
happened they're all just sort of
shrugging their shoulders and the next
time you go to a Fox News Town Hall
there's gonna be full vetting of every
of every audience member and they're
gonna make sure that they are you know a
member of the freedom caucus fan club or
whatever it is I think one of the kids
that asked a question maybe the first
question was a turning point kid yeah
that's the amazing thing about it though
is that like II this is how it ended all
right well thank you very much and I
hope I wasn't too hard on you sorry we
can take it all right cause this is what
we were saying earlier that was so that
was done so well by Bernie in this he
got his proposals out there they turned
out to be extremely popular on this show
but he also undercut both the hosts and
Fox as an institution and that's a very
helpful to fir frankly for society at
large regardless of how Bernie Sanders
does in this campaign or off of this
show being able to do both those things
is a is a service to the country as far
as I'm going
thank you all very much for being here
and thank everybody for watching just a
couple of points I think sometimes the
divisions in this country get a little
bit too hot okay at the end of the day
we are all Americans who love this
country and I also think and the media
plays not a good role in this and again
not just Fox is we have a lot more in
common than most people think we do all
right poli up the ball should we raise
the minimum wage to a living wage yes
one second go back here because that
point of departure where he says we have
a lot of things in common every other
politician you will hear who is a
Democrat when they launch into that the
things that will follow is like we all
love our kids we all like a hot meal
opportunity we we we we all want to see
you know we all love our friend and said
the key words right they literally say
the key words that's exactly right
that's this got passion preamble Ness
right we all care about our community
just pablum know we're all human beings
no but yeah we're mean like literally
it's all just that type of problem but
he goes into basically a litany of
progressive policy points and doesn't
even start with one that he would expect
everybody to be on board with their
people which is and it there are plenty
of people don't want a $15 minimum wage
we've had them on this program but
apparently and this is what is was was
awesome about this moment and I don't
think that Bernie expected it to go in
the place that it end up going should we
raise the minimum wage to a living wage
yes
should we rebuild our crumbling
infrastructure should we make sure that
our veterans get the health care that
they have earned all right should we
make sure that we do not cut Social
Security or Medicare or Medicaid
should we give huge tax breaks to
billionaires you know that's how most
people feel so I hope I hope look I'm
looking forward to a good campaign and
the last point that I want to make and I
thank up you know for the
opportunity of being here and and that
is I want to see our country have the
highest voter turnout in the
industrialized world not one of the
lowest so no matter what you abuse all
get involved in the political process
stand up and fight to make this a better
country thank you all very much
wow you could have gone even further you
could've been like we're all for free
public college right so as you can see
yeah we're basically socialists
propriate the bank's right oh yeah
there's any diamonds should be hung in a
public square it's like they're gonna
say that this audience was stacked or
whatever but like a lot of the people
watching are probably on Social Security
and care about these things too of
course but I mean how can they say that
this audience was stacked it was a Fox
event yeah I mean they organized it they
didn't there's no controller and put
from the campaign I mean if there's no
there's nobody sitting around Fox going
like oh we should not have done all of
our flyering for this thing at the DSA
convention they're not they're not
saying that and but it know most normal
people like this stuff I mean I I also
just think like you know I I was
obviously very bullish and you know this
MIT I just you know didn't buy the
argument that Bernie shouldn't do Fox
and I think frankly and I want to be
really clear I would not criticize any
candidate before doing it you know
anybody gets offered a Town Hall on a
major Network who's running for
president should do that is my opinion
but I also think that you know there's
there should be more bullishness and
confidence in our views and perspectives
because exactly what Sam said not only
did he put across great policies he also
stead
the undermined this toxic propaganda
cancer on our country which is Fox News
this is uh this is the one that was
going around it's from March 17th to
20th but a Fox News poll how would you
vote if the candidates in 2020 what
Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump forty to
forty seven other four percent wouldn't
vote three percent unsure five percent I
mean it's better than Bernie being down
but you know at this point
Bernie's winning and winning by a little
bit you want to see over fifty percent
before you start like getting bragging
rights for something like this but it's
that's pretty good but and what are the
methodology of a Fox News poll they had
a they said the they have a margin of
error there of three percent
I guess the sample size is a thousand
two you need to go in to look at the
crosstab so how many Democrats how many
Republicans have they have they looked
at but in popular vote may not be the
the issue right I mean it wasn't last
time let's go to the phone
