here is Donald Trump defending Ken
Cuccinelli for rewriting the the poem
now again I agree
the poem is aspirational our country has
never been you know as welcoming to
immigrants as we sort of pretend that we
have been but there is no doubt that
immigrant populations in this country
have well I mean to some extent we're
all immigrants here but the ones that we
consider to be immigrant you know waves
of immigration have undeniably made this
country to the extent that it's a great
one a great one and here's Donald Trump
though Ken Cuccinelli
just can't they're so insular that they
just don't know how this sounds
to to people outside of it and again the
question is they've redefined and
provided their henchmen and instantly
this is being done at a time where the
Trump administration is attacking the
unions representing immigration judges
because the Union makes sure that the
immigration judges have some
independence from the DOJ remember Jeff
Sessions one all the immigrant judges to
basically say like you know you have to
decide basically you know here's a color
chart and if they cross this this shade
of brown they're not eligible some it's
an exaggeration it's an exaggeration but
it's on that continuum maybe exactly and
it's like we found proxies actually that
we scientifically tested can find
actually the hue of the person that is
standing in front of you without having
to actually just stand in front of the
slide so exactly feel like they hired a
weird British guy for that um but
nevertheless here is Donald Trump
defending Ken Cuccinelli
well I don't think it's
the American tax
about America
the American taxpayer
what we've done
what the place Jenny
founded
[Music]
are that fair
welfare as there
first of all that doesn't happen it just
doesn't happen I mean obviously it
happens to some extent but it certainly
happens to a lesser extent than
native-born Americans and the the amount
that immigrants put into the economy and
pay in terms of taxes is still a net
positive and they're you they don't have
the ability which is really the bottom
line to make these assessments in any
accurate way unless it's like patently
obvious someone comes in they don't have
the ability to work or they don't have
the ability to care for themselves that
they don't have someone who's going to
sponsor and guarantee that but they
won't need that type of support so there
you have it it would be fine if they did
though what people are entitled to a
basic level of a humane life no matter
where they're from or who they are I
mean I think that's true and I don't
know that you know the American public
would necessarily agree with that
broadly speaking and I think from a
moral standpoint we should take in
anybody that that that that comes but I
think you know broadly speaking for the
American public I mean this is obviously
they're doing this for not just for
ideological reasons but because they
perceive that this is the what their
voters want and they are trying to
create a wedge where they are getting
Democrats to get on stage and say we
should let anybody in even if they're
going to immediately you tax dollars are
gonna go pay for them I mean this is the
same dynamic that they have been
demonizing all sorts of welfare programs
since you know the the mid 60s which is
to make it as if all these money you're
paying in taxes just go to black
people or two Mexicans
I remember study the welfare staying for
everyone I remember to study from the
eighties where it was light or yeah I
think was late eighties but it was
basically Chomsky's decided all the time
but it was basically that from news
coverage Americans believed that the the
majority like they didn't even overshoot
they thought that most of their tax
dollars in the federal budget went to
wealth in foreign aid right right
and writeable began a job and they I bet
you they also believe that the majority
of their of the money that goes to
welfare goes to black people well not
only well I mean of course I mean
there's a reason why those two things
are even correlated in the polling like
why you know welfare programs at foreign
aid are not necessarily at all the same
thing right like I get in some ways how
there aren't a continuum but of course
racializing it would even connect those
two things so firmly to begin with okay
like here's all the money we're giving
to other people across the board and
that's why anti racism has to play such
an important role in getting back some
semblance of the welfare state right and
mass politics but I feel like where we
got hung up on yesterday was that you
were arguing more in the short term and
I was arguing more in the long term
about this stuff because it is true down
the line I see climate change is going
to cause massive waves of migration
around the world like we know that
that's true I don't have the numbers in
front of me and until we take a hard
look at borders and the idea of border
enforcement and keeping people out of
our particular state where the stage is
set for kind of eco fascism and I really
don't want to see us go there I'm not
sure I follow but listen to the anti
Fattah I I will here is here is Ainsley
Earhardt trying
you know she is a friend incidentally
who has an all chicken salad
rather than Antep rat and that is going
to be she worries about the future of
that chicken salad Enterprise
particularly if if immigrants are all
getting you know all sorts of taxpayer
largesse good Jesus eylem seekers not
part of this but it is folks who come
here Melissa it's common sense if you're
a taxpayer you want to know your dollars
are going to people who if they're here
are doing so productively if you show a
pattern of dependency why would we want
you to become a permanent resident or a
citizen as opposed to the folks who say
I've worked hard two or three jobs to
provide for my family I want to do it
the right way legally to get a green
card that and that's what the Trump
administration is said those are the
folks we welcome there's common sense
think socially people come over here and
they get a green card so they can work
in a restaurant or wherever they want to
work a better opportunity but to come
over to our country when you're not
fleeing your country because you're not
in danger you're just coming to live in
our soil shouldn't you contribute to
problem is the left is creating
incentives for that when you can get a
driver's license you get free college
you can read healthcare and then it
won't deposit well first of all we don't
have free calif care yet we don't have
the free college yet and getting a
driver's license I wouldn't say is like
a huge benefits just a way than which
you can work also a way to vote
illegally right exactly the taking of
the polls but the fact of the matter is
is the point is is that to the extent
that people subscribe to this notion
that you don't want to allow a citizen
regardless of who their family is or
whether their family is here whether
they are in any way inhibited from
working because of ailment or whatnot I
mean even if you subscribe to their
ideological perspective on that that's
where we're at now this rule is about
denying people that assessment based
upon stuff that has no reasonable way of
predicting that they would not be if not
self-sufficient largely self-sufficient
you've read healthcare and then it won't
vote food stamps and possibly voting I
mean all of that leads to that culture
and that's what the president's trying
to fight right
I mean culture I well
the culture of dependency rounding the
culture of brown the or as Naz said an
African looking Manhattan although he
meant it in a positive way but I think
it's also just so like the way you
cannot talk about the foreign policy
dimensions of this stuff across the
board right and there's no
contradictions for ruthlessly protesting
and fighting against and dismantling
what they're doing and at the same time
whether we're talking about ecological
policies or direct us interference in
places as well or European or Chinese
for that matter these are it's just
gonna be impossible to solve I mean you
can you can directly correlate just even
specifically Honduras with this massive
spike going back to the Obama
administration backing a coup against
Manuel Zelaya
right in 2009 and now they have a
narco-state with massive street protests
happening I mean the foreign policy
dimension is so obvious and inescapable
and you have to ask those people when
they talk about our borders and blah
blah blah how they think they take it
they could take that stuff seriously
when they continue to push these foreign
policy paradigms that generate
instability in crisis as long as you fly
over the border well there we go doesn't
have the same yeah it's different
