[Music]
folks as you know it's very positive as
you know one of the reasons why we have
to have an ID W and in a intellectual
darkweb is because we do not allow
people to explore enough issues in an
intellectual way we punish them too much
for instance take these children who
high school students they were in a
Wisconsin School District you remember
we talked about this they took a some
type of class photo or something like
that before junior prom before the
junior prom
Bera do Wisconsin and they're all giving
the Zieg Heil signal actually there was
one or two guys in there who did not one
guy flesh in the three white power three
high power three thing now of course you
know what happens next
these kids they go on to be suspended in
some cases they get punished they get
reprimanded by their school for
partaking in what appears to be a Nazi
salute oh wait a second no I'm sorry I
got these two stories confused nothing
happened to the kids with the Nazi
salute however you'll recall that high
school was threatened to punish students
who kneel during the anthem hmm right
and of course there was that girl who
wore the cornrows to school that's a
pretty common problem and was punished
because of what it expresses about
cornrows so there you have it ladies and
gentlemen now I am sure Dave Rubin and
others in the intellectual dark web
we'll be spending hour after hour on
there they're going to Dave Rubin will
interview one of the weinstein brothers
and then the weinstein brothers will
interview ben shapiro and then ben
shapiro will interview dave rubin
and dave rubin will interview the
Weinsteins would Ben Shapiro and then
you know Peterson will sit in and around
all of them will interview each other
it's interesting cops and then they will
all do a question in the round thing and
then they'll shoot a video of all of
them eating dinner asking questions
about it and they will be talking about
this ad nauseum how clearly the
inability to protest during the anthem
is a huge deal for them I would imagine
that's going to be the next six months
of videos and of course YouTube then
will Aldi monetize every single one of
their videos because they're so
controversial and then of course the New
York Times will write another a feature
on all of them for taking up this mantle
and let's not let Baraboo out of the
news it's interesting what's going on in
this town this is from the Baraboo news
Republic a guardian says I'm frustrated
with that because you know I see Baraboo
being divided between let's figure out
what we can do so this never happens
again on one side and the other side
saying oh but the boys didn't mean it
blodgett said you know it doesn't matter
if the boys meant it or not the factor
is fact is the pictures out there and
yeah I think Baraboo should be
associated with this picture until they
take proactive measures to make sure
this doesn't happen great of course this
is what this town should be known for
