what do you guys think Jamie you're a
big fan of a tank what do you guys think
of this latest Andrew yang news who on
that debate stage is closest to you in
terms of your view of the world who's
closest to you in that sense yeah that's
funny you asked that I mean you'd have
to sort of like put us all together and
some kind of like Franken candidate you
must know wanting spirit who's perhaps
closest to you I will say the only
person who's taken me aside and said
that we need to really worry about the
fourth Industrial Revolution because
that could potentially tear our country
apart is Joe Biden
such an intriguing would you serve on a
Biden ticket you said you were open to
anything I'm definitely open to working
with Joe we've actually talked about it
so that's Andrew yang joining us for
host live was the close up intentional
that was a desmond sugah who has the
left his best youtube channel they had
it there so Andrew yang who people and
his cult have been whining and
complaining and kvetching and whining
and complaining and confetti and whining
again because we've said from the
beginning this guy's not of the left
that $1,000 pay off a month to
accommodate neo feudalism
that a guy who in almost every single
appearance says like well well text
might be a good idea when it's not gonna
happen so let's just how it raised that
much anyway Corey so much anyway so
let's just give you thousand dollars a
month which will get sucked up by your
landlord and now medical costs and will
be primarily funded through a V 18 which
is the most regressive tax in the world
I'm gonna open it up in a second but I
just want to say VI T is a very
regressive tax rate and I understand and
I have seen like the graphs that these
people send me where they go you're
totally lying about Andrew look at this
graph and here is the bad things and
good things and Andrews on the good axis
but in terms of real
liddie what he's talked about with the
v80 would still be incredibly regressive
he talks about high ticket items on
things like Amazon first of all who's
defining it right secondly why is it
just think logically for one second
let's just do a little bit of a thought
process if you're on one hand saying
that we cannot have a wealth tax we
can't do anything about media monopolies
we can't have real structural reform in
this country because these companies and
these individuals are oligarchs are so
powerful that it's not gonna happen why
on earth do you think that those same
forces would allow for the Easter Bunny
of a progressive v80 which is basically
impossible because by the way if you did
have a progressive vit that would yield
like no money because you literally
would have to just be like okay this is
for Maseratis and private planes right
like what does that mean does it mean if
you order five hundred dollars worth of
things on Amazon that that becomes
extravagant spending I mean a lot of
families order basic household
necessities that way so I think between
this and if you've been actually
analyzing and thinking a little bit
critically was a lot of people haven't
he's opposed to Medicare for all and
he's vibing with Biden and you know it's
it's well we have to keep in mind here
is this is that part of the election
this is the time of the primary where
the deal-making happens I've been seeing
this for a while but but every crowded
field some some are crowded because they
want to block people like Sanders um and
in this case you know I always say to
folks like pay attention to those early
promises like what hooks you in the
beginning I think there are a lot of
folks who became part of the and regain
cult believed in his idea and are just
tuning out everything else because the
emotional attachment let go of the
emotional attachment this guy is there
to basically I think they're they're
trying to push Pete out of the way
because Pete is now a threat to buy it
and so buy it in him or teaming up it's
like Game of Thrones stuff let's say you
gotta think about this at this point
look yeah you bi I mean Facebook Mark
Zuckerberg is a fan of you bi yeah it's
almost like the opposite of the tax
equation we were talking about with
Bernie earlier where he's like yeah
you'll pay more
up front and taxes but you're gonna get
a whole lot more in services yang you're
gonna get a thousand bucks a month in
you bi but you're gonna lose a whole lot
more than that in the destruction of the
welfare state and it's it's said to me
because I really do believe in anti work
politics and in automation and in using
that as a springboard to a better world
in a post-capitalist world I think it's
gonna be really important that's not
what this is there are left versions of
the ubi where you can balance it with
Universal Services and a welfare state
the national welfare rights organization
in the 60s and 70s is a really good
example of that people mostly women
mostly women of color we're arguing very
strongly for it in a way that really
would have moved the ball in a
productive direction because we need to
work fewer hours it's better for the
environment it moves us in a better
direction o fq bi for a 20 or 30 hour
work week incidentally I just you know
Jeremy Rifkin wrote a book 1990s called
the end of work and I don't know if by
the way like I think how many jobs are
actually being lost by automation is a
much more contested subject than what
Andrew yang says I don't know but it's
not as linear as he says it is it might
be a real thing but it's not like this
that she marks left equation a you know
the alternative which is that it's not
oh no it's it's a factor but even Rifkin
in end of work even he actually
correlated it with like more like
postmodern FDR stuff where is just like
how again like the basic stuff like how
many places need to have infrastructure
rebuilt how much environmental projects
and then on the other hand he even got
into like why can't people be paid to be
mentors why can't people be paid for
peer to peer learning I mean there's all
of these generative ways that you could
correlate it with and it reminds me Ben
Burgess always used the example of like
there was a period in Rome where a
certain class of serf or peasant was
like given a certain amount of grain
ration essentially to stop them from
rising up its pork it's price is
essentially what this is yeah if you
don't know what pork is it's when
lawmakers go back No
the bad ones go back to their
communities and and instead of talking
about you know all the crappy things
they've been doing at the Capitol they
go back they hand out you know checks
for Community Improvement projects they
create a park they write you know like
they have an event for a thousand
dollars and invite the whole
neighborhood it's like the guys in high
school that would throw all the parties
and run for president and then when
do-nothing way to do it is power not
pork right that's the distinction it's a
jobs first economy a jobs first housing
first you know protected jobs ugh I mean
I love the idea of decoupling access to
basic necessities from your
participation in the labor market that's
a very important horizon that we need to
be moving towards right now and if
they're a wade if there were a way to do
the ubi in a substantial enough way so
that would actually reduce people's
dependence on their employers I've heard
it talked about as a universal strike
fund that would be awesome I also think
the amount of political power and will
that it would take to get that kind of
ubi
like we might as well use that to get
socialism it's a complete distraction
and he's putting out there like I
criticized and reing on Twitter and all
the the intriguing people came out and
really will he does understand labor
because he got an endorsement from Andy
Stern it's like wow exactly it's like
saying you understand doesn't Stern have
a ubi proposal that it does let go at
guts like the welfare state did he do a
book or something about Andy Stern is
trash don't I mean that's like hey this
is been only reason but he's been like
the like I used to do labor and now I'm
talking at Davos guy for quite some time
I mean that's like an anti endorsement I
mean also yeah yeah I mean um you're
calling from a 208
