this week we saw two separate set of
hearings one for the head of the EPA
Andrew wheeler had his Senate
confirmation hearings this is a guy who
is a more or less a climate change
denier he is a an industry lobbyist
fossil fuel industry I believe and so
not terribly surprising we will get into
that more obviously they were protesters
at wheelers hearing but let's turn our
attention to I think a slightly more
urgent concern and that would be the
Attorney General or I should say the
attorney general nominee this is a
William Bar he this is round two for him
thirty years ago was in charge of of
George Herbert Walker Bush is Department
of Justice and dutifully helped the
senior Bush pardoned figures from the
iran-contra affair
so as ultimately to protect the senior
Bush and so that's always nice work so
this guy is highly experienced and he
had written a 19 page memo as you know -
and gave it to the Trump administration
as an explanation or I should say is you
know creating justifications as to why
the president did not commit any crimes
that he's being investigated - with
which is you know if nothing it shows a
lot of hutzpah
- right 19 pages upon you know an issue
that you couldn't possibly know much
about because it's a a secret
investigation or at least the what
they're finding is kept secret is pretty
pretty impressive without knowing any of
this stuff but this is uh this is Bill
Bar and by impressive I'm being
sarcastic it's ridiculous but what what
what's your sense of bill bar because it
seems to me that's go let's go sideways
for the president or it could go
sideways for the country yeah I mean
that's exactly what it is I wrote it
when he was first named I wrote a piece
a couple of months ago for salon in
which I sort of you know I posited there
were two two possibilities with bar he
could end up being you know and the
optimistic case in which he's good for
the country and bad for Trump is that he
would be you know someone sort of a you
know a hardcore right winger you know
typical conservative but a little bit of
the old school he's been out of it
during these years of real
radicalization so perhaps he comes in
with a sense of you know sort of
old-fashioned conservative commitment to
the rule of law in the Constitution and
while he may you know have thought that
you know Trump isn't that bad when he
sees the evidence then he realizes just
how bad it is and I drew the parallel
between that and Leon Jaworski the
Watergate prosecutor who was brought in
after Nixon fire dr. Archibald Cox and
that's exactly what happened he was you
know a Nixon supporter and had also been
asked to be part of the team just as
Barr had been asked to be part of
Trump's team had turned it down and then
finally they called him up and said hey
you don't your ski said hey you know we
really need you now you need to come and
so he did and then when he saw the
evidence he went okay you know you guys
do your job excuse me um so that was one
possibility the other possibility is
that William Bars brain has been rotted
by Fox News as has many conservatives of
his age and that he has bought into all
this crazy nonsense and that he is now a
you know official and true true Trump
believer as have many you know just look
at the array on Fox News and there's
evidence in both directions and the
hearings this week sort of showed that
right he he you know has been revealed
to have you know first of all just the
fact that he wrote this memo and he sent
it around to every sort of Trump
supporting lawyer he could
and he didn't send it to his good friend
Bob Muller apparently but he did send it
to all these other people you know he
wasn't asked to do it he just sort of
did it based upon a bunch of nonsensical
information things that were wrong that
have been revealed to be wrong and other
close observers like Marcy wheeler just
rolling their eyes going gotta be
kidding
this guy was basing all this you know on
bad information and he made plenty of
comments to the press willingly just
kind of out there just saying things
like I think the you know the Clinton
uranium story and the Clinton Foundation
there's far more reason to investigate
that than to investigate this collusion
which he put in in scare quotes this is
you anon stuff this is Q anon stuff
right I mean this is crazy right-wing
conspiracy theory you know rotted fox
brain that that is what I'm referring to
is these are people who were formerly
you know pretty normal who've been
sitting in there you know lazyboy
loungers watching fox all day and having
their brains rotted and and so there is
this danger that that's who this guy is
now the the hearings showed him to be a
pretty smart guy he's not somebody you
know he's not just you know he's not
Louie Gohmert or something I mean he's
he's a you know an experienced
Washington hand but there was a lot in
what he said that was very kind of made
me nervous and kind of made me tip over
to the rotted brain side of the equation
on this in which you know yes he said
you know Bob Miller's a friend of mine I
have great faith in his integrity but he
is very clearly laying out a predicate
for either firing Muller for cause I
don't think he'll do that but he has
another out which became clear as they
uninformed as he is about everything
else
he was very informed about the special
counsel statute which says that the
special counsel has to deliver if he
decides to write a report deliver it in
confidence to the Attorney General who
will then decide if it should be
disseminated to the public or he could
write his own report summarizing in some
way what he wants it to say there would
be nothing Robert Muller could do about
that aside
from going outside the rules which you
know I don't know maybe he would but
it's unlikely and this may not even be
shared with the Congress and I saw Adam
Schiff come on TV after he saw this and
he was boiling because he's like yeah
this is completely outrageous he
understood exactly what bar was bouncer
which is to say that bar is going to you
know and a lot of other people are going
well you know bar he's just a rules guy
he's just going to follow the
regulations and just saw through it
right away no he's going to use the
regulations for the purpose of obscuring
whatever it is that robert muller comes
up with that is that is dangerous to
donald trump and you know again maybe
he'll be Leon Jaworski and go oh my god
this is way worse you know okay go ahead
Bob you know let her rip but there's
every possibility that he is suffering
from serious Fox brain rot and that he
is going to do the opposite at the very
least what he's doing is he's keeping
that door open I mean he is I mean
that's exactly what I my sense was too
is that he was basically telegraphing
what the Republican Trump strategy is
going to be to deal with the Muller
report which is we're gonna let them
finish we're gonna we're gonna provide a
veneer that this is actually a process
that is going to be dealt with with
integrity and we will corrupt that
process in its its public face facing
part of it which is you know we will
reinterpret the report we will bury the
report we will say there are problems
with the report the report is
complicated
we actually have written a counter
report to the other report these are two
different sets of opinions I mean this
is what this is going to be the strategy
we've seen it before and you know it's
very hard for the Senate well maybe not
that hard but I imagine it will be
unlikely for a Republican Senate to in
any way sort of assess what is the real
report and act upon it but in bill bars
I
is the person who's basically going to
who's been hired to bring a veneer of
old-school republicanism but basically
hide the ball as it were all right well
let's take a break when we come back
there was a lot to discuss in terms of
Russia this week at least in terms of
reporting on Donald Trump's activities
relative to Vladimir Putin sort of some
shocking stuff we gonna take a quick
break we'll be right back with more I'm
Sam cedar this is a ring of fire radio
talking to the great Digby
