[Music]
all right final call today you're
calling from a 585 area code who are you
where you calling from 585 are you there
hi yes I am I'm sorry I'm calling I'm
calling from Rochester New York I need
some points I know you're going I know
you guys got to go pretty soon but the
one thing I wanted to say is we do
actually have to pick up the slack for
bunny phonebank buy a shirt monthly
donations because when you do a monthly
donation that means they can project
into the future what they are going to
be using those cost for such as
commercials and other kinds of like
programs like to to support him and his
campaign that's that's they have to
budget for that ahead of time so please
be a monthly donation personally the
other thing I wanted to bring up real
quick is this bs about the Dallas PD is
really scary they they are totally they
totally covered up that I mean okay
long-serving me that witness mr. Brown
who came out and said he saw the cop the
lady cop that killed her her neighbor by
quote by accident or whatever she still
didn't he testified and now all of a
sudden he dies from a gunshot to the to
the mouth into the chest and he's a
black man in Texas and he went through
all the trouble to testify even though
he seemed very scared and very
uncomfortable on the stand he put
himself out there and now he died in a
way where you know that it was just like
this is what happens to snitches this is
what happens to people to talk and on
top of that um now they're trying to
smear them and pretend like like it was
a drug deals on yeah let me just say let
me just say and I you know and I have to
say this on like some level I'll put it
this way and I talked about this
extensively last night we don't know
what happened we don't know why it
happened and I'll say this
was a Dallas PD said happen I absolutely
1000% do not believe I believe and if I
had to wager bunny that he was killed
for retribution that's what I believe
and think that's what every fiber of me
thinks and more broadly and thanks for
bringing this up is a really important
story when you even the discourse of I
see some people dismissing it oh that's
a conspiracy theory what you know why
why would they want to do it well first
of all they would want to do it if they
did it theoretically for one retribution
- by the way mr. Brown was set to
testify in a civil suit against the city
as well and killing effect it brings up
a in fact chilling effect this is a
country where the FBI is is following
monitoring taking tips from Alex
Jones on people doing black lives matter
activism and writing terror threat
assessments that are putting you know
people focusing on policing issues in
the same category as white supremists
terrorist groups that's where we are I
wouldn't and and incidentally look let's
just think this out for a minute
this guy testifies in a case where a
police officer went into a man's home
and murdered him that's what happened
now III could be wrong on this but I'm
very transparent I am loath to be in a
position to demand longer sentences for
anybody just to be honest but the
reality is she got 10 years we know that
if is this was any other configuration
of people that would be a life sentence
we're in Texas I would imagine the death
penalty she gets 10 years for this oh
this guy this guy let me just
finish this guy goes no it's fine I just
want to really spell this out and
because I really appreciate you bringing
this up I wish I did this before yeah
but hang on the line then we are told we
are led to believe in incidentally this
goes back to after Botham jean was
murdered supposedly found marijuana at
his house which a irrelevant be
I don't believe you again I don't
believe you now we go to okay this guy
just testified in a nationally important
trial of a police murder that was so
flagrant that she actually did get some
jail time
that's how insane and racist this
society is Danny goes back to his house
calls people from Louisiana to do a weed
deal in front of his apartment they
murder him execution-style and as far as
I know and correct me if I'm wrong
anybody I don't even think the Dallas
police in their report said that they
took money from him
I mean who who kills somebody in a drug
robbery and doesn't take something this
happened within this guy is terrified
exposes himself to all sorts of of a
threat forty-eight hours later is in
front of his house doing a we deal with
people from out of state he doesn't even
go a couple of miles to a parking lot
somewhere else are you kidding
me I'm sorry I keep swearing and we're
supposed to like we're supposed to get
the message I think this is a kind of
white supremacist terrorism that the
cops are carrying out in order to send a
message precisely so other people will
be scared to do what this guy did we
think and I agree with you also are go
ahead go ahead
oh no I want to go ahead please well I
just say also in the genre of things we
don't know much about other than we know
what we believe I know what I believe
with regards to lots of mysterious
deaths with regards to Ferguson
activists for instance I think I believe
what you believe man I think this I
think there's a very very dark part of
this country that a lot of people
frankly aren't prepared to confront and
so we tell ourselves bedtime stories
like I saw Beto talk about this this guy
dying
this witness dying and said it was a gun
problem well it's it's a police holding
the gun no we have confirmed that they
have murdered black radical activists in
the past so to think that they're not
still doing it I feel like that would be
the crazy thing okay I agree if you
don't mind me saying what if I was up
all night on Twitter
about this because I just can't even it
reminds me of how when we learned that
one of one of potent and one of trumps
things that they do is they'll lie just
alive because you know they're lying and
and I know you know they know that you
know they're lying but it's a Power Move
to just make you feel even more helpless
because they know we're the police and
we're gonna and and we in the press will
always be on our side and even though
the story is completely ridiculous like
so ridiculous they you know the the man
was testifying on national television
and it turns out he's got a stockpile of
drugs nobody can go about it what kind
of drug dealer do you know that's gonna
be okay with testifying against a cop in
a national forum I can't think of a
single person they pick through your
entire life before they put you on the
stand because as a character witness or
even as a regular witness they know that
the process that the defense attorney
for her is going to dissect right it's
shocking that it wasn't even brought a
trouble trial I agree with the call
thank you we got it thank you so much
thank you I appreciate it thanks that's
really important thank you so much
all right folks couple im's and then we
