and Tucker Carlson's Yelp account goes
dormant all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen
yeah let's just let's just jump in this
very quickly I know we weren't playing
through this but I I'm so distraught by
what's going on with Tucker Carlson that
I want to put this up on the top of the
show I wasn't planning it I mean we I
know we have what we will talk about the
gram in a moment but this is too tough
folks too tough Tucker Carlson who you
have to understand people get into
habits into ruts live in New York City
maybe you have a small kitchen maybe you
get home from work too late you can't
cook for the kids but Tucker has know
those issues Tucker is not only
well-paid because of his Fox gig but
even when he lost all those different
jobs that he lost and was desperate to
make a name for himself with the was it
the Daily Caller I think it was his
thing even then it wasn't an issue
because of course he's an heiress or an
heir to the Swanson frozen food fortune
so Tucker is used to eating out and used
to eating out at nice places alright so
the transition is that much hard this
would that's why this makes this story
that much more difficult it would be
easy to Slough it off and just say wow
you're like 99% of the people now but
that discounts how difficult it is for
some people to change their loss
aversion exactly term in behavioral
economics it's it's not the same for him
because he's used to a certain lifestyle
[Music]
and pathetic Sam I can't really go out
to a lot of restaurants anymore because
I get yelled at Tucker said on a
national review podcast or at least that
one day I don't feel threatened
having someone scream you and a
restaurant it just wrecks your meal
Carson said he only goes to one
restaurant these days I go there because
I love it nobody hassles me Oh
incidentally that's the palm steakhouse
I think you probably find that that
place is still open yep
I can't wait for this revolution to end
so I can go back out to dinner so
[Music]
if you scream at someone to the point
where they have to leave the restaurant
that's an act of wild aggression he said
last week on his television show which
promotes race wars and also promotes
people like Gavin McGinnis and promotes
vigilance gypsies yeah usually against
gypsies live spreads neo Nazi propaganda
about South Africa but the only
restaurant that he can go to anymore is
the palm that's a real bummer of the
steakhouse for lobbyists I was simply
trying to get that is what like being
really like being gay in the 1950s it is
just like being gay this is my
impersonation of myself at a restaurant
Tucker's at and of course the irony is
the the palm it's not in the Upper West
Side right no this is in DC this is 19th
Street Northwest oh he lives in DC and
Jefferson place that's 19th Northwest
Street all right well then forget
everything I said about the feeling bad
form because you got a big kitchen
probably no I thought when you said none
of these problems apply to him that was
the joke about him not being in New York
oh I thought you were actually setting
that up I thought you're doing that on
purpose I didn't know but I mean I knew
I mean there you have it so Tucker
Carlson just waiting for this moment to
pass so he doesn't have to deal anymore
him in your prayers he should be forced
to eat those frozen dinners that's right
they won't swear it probably it'll be
cool if the delivery man did the Swanson
delivery man was just like oh here's
your frozen dinners from your era from
your a fortune and you there you go
