[Music]
you
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it's Thursday March 28 2019 my
name is Michael Brooks on a Michael
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report joining us
on today's program daniel bessner
professor of international relations at
the University of Washington talking
about his new piece in the Nation
magazine foreign policy Beyond Good and
Evil co-authored with Judy Greenberg
talking about charting a left
humanitarian that also were real world
based foreign policy approach a disaster
relief bill hits a snag in the Senate
Democrats are pushing for greater
assistance to Puerto Rico Trump says
they're already getting too much as Food
Stamp hits hit the colonized island of
Puerto Rico Donald Trump has signed off
on selling nuke technology to the Saudis
in a major escalation of global security
a judge strikes down Medicaid work
requirements in Arkansas and Kentucky
good news for people there what will be
the counter-attack DOJ charges 18
members of a white supremists
gang as more and more information
emerges on the identity Europa fascist
gang the NRA official sought Sandy Hook
hoax her to question parkland shooting
emails show the nexus between the
weapons cartel lobby and the conspiracy
industry shown there Theresa May tells
MPs that she will be out after the UK is
out of the European Union but the UK
crisis austerity and brexit continues to
deepen you seem to be a bit much she
does seem to be a bit of a gloom bucket
actually absolutely terrible in
xenophobic but I think we're gonna have
to give her fairly resilient the Mitch
McConnell for some reason keeps blocking
the full molar report which will
obviously look totally great for Donald
Trump and be totally awesome wonder why
he wouldn't help his friend out more by
letting everybody see the food
exoneration majorities incidentally from
both parties across all political lines
want to see our report fact was
literally used with our tax dollars on
our behalf yeah the Republicans want to
see it for different reasons one right
Mike Pompeo is now a fish is now backing
out of even mouthing us support for a
two-state solution as Bibi escalates a
neo-fascist authoritarian run for
re-election in Israel and Israel pummels
Gaza killing more Israeli civilians
president Maduro argues that it was a
sniper rifle that took out Venezuela's
hydroelectric dam 187 Republicans vote
against a bill to close the gender pay
gap and over 400 jurists and lawyers in
Brazil sign a letter condemning the
imprisonment of President Lula
on baseless corrupted ridiculous charges
and president bolson ro sinks to record
low approval ratings even as other
mechanisms are afoot all that and more
on today's majority report
well everybody as we said there there's
an election going on in Israel and I
should say it's boys Thursday for the
boys were boys Saturdays for wicking I
like that trumps that that is a funny
like part of salt trumps self-concept
that he's constantly working and he's
like never worked a day in his life but
his sense of work it's like
you yell at underlings you have
ridiculous phone calls you golf and then
TV asked me about my arguments with
other people on TV there's an election
campaign going on in Israel and you
could listen back a couple weeks ago
with one coal there are actual
disagreements inside Israeli politics on
as an example spending on deregulation
Israel like everywhere else in the world
has gone through a sort of market
deregulation privatization process
oligarch wealth concentration process
the past couple of decades that have
hurt their social safety net massively
increased inequality increased poverty
diminished job prospects and also added
to a much broader atmosphere of serious
corruption and systemic corruption
Israel Israel is a huge amount of
corruption problems the indictments
against Bibi are not just about
garden-variety corruption though that's
part of it but it's also the leveraging
of a free newspaper that was just funded
and distributed freely by Sheldon
Adelson the American far-right casino
magnate and you know with a very very
very very extreme views on Israel and
Netanyahu using that as a base to be
essentially try to extort
press coverage right so this these
charges are also about a broader
unwinding of even inside 67 borders
Israel's institutions no candidates that
are in the race as of now with any
serious chance of wielding power will do
anything about the fact that Israel's an
apartheid state the fact that they
control five million other human beings
the fact that there's rampant civilian
abuses and killings the fact that
there's two different sets of laws in
places like the West Bank
and the reality is politically that
besides an occasional rocket attack
which of course should go without saying
that I feel like we do need to say it of
course we condemn Israel is very secure
and there's no political price to be
paid for this and the modern consensus
in Israel is really I mean there's some
arguments about nation branding and
someone like a hood Olmert will come out
and still make noises about a two-state
solution but there's there's a huge
amount of racism there's a very
right-wing political consensus and
there's a comfort in that situation the
joint list of Arab and socialist parties
as of a couple weeks ago we're not
allowed to run even as a cojones which
can literally be called
at least actual Jewish terrorists
adjacent political party is running and
and and in a broader right effort so
democracy in Israel is in bad shape and
the rights and justice for the
Palestinian people remain at the bottom
of the list of any kind of broader
project and you saw that in all the
racism and conspiracy theorizing and
bloodlust that AIPAC but this really
drives the point home this is an ad that
is running in Israel right now everybody
knows that Netanyahu and Trump are
incredibly close I would argue that they
share a broader on tendencies of the
global far-right but there's also all
sorts of specific synergies between
people like Adel sin' the Christians I
and the the Christian Zionist community
um and Trump gave Bibi even no to go on
over a tweet formalized an occupation
has supported you know every step of the
way killing civilians protesting in Gaza
Jerusalem's the capital all the other
things that we know and also torturing
just generally you know pulling even
basic funding from Palestinian
institutions Bibi is running on the race
card again just as he did in the last
election when he did an emergency video
warning people that Arabs were coming
out to vote here is an ad this is
basically an excerpt from a frontline
documentary which shows Bibi just
disrespecting President Obama to his
face in the White House and then there's
reactions it's again it's it's clearly a
frontline documentary so you have the
clip and then it's interspersed with
journalists and I think Ben Rhodes who
was a obviously Obama's foreign policy
one of his foreign policy guys basically
just talking about how angry everybody
in the White House was and how just sort
of shockingly disrespectful this display
was on a protocol level and and the the
spin here that the twist I should say
this is a campaign ad that Benjamin
Netanyahu was running in Israel so as he
hugs Trump the white supremacy president
he's literally running an ad which is
just designed purely to showcase that I
personally and directly disrespected
America's first african-american
president and this is a by the way Bibi
bees also was a prime minister during
Clinton's presidency so there's and
there were conflicts with Clinton in
fact Clinton sent his campaign
strategist to advise a Hood Barak or
maybe not personally but clearly Clinton
wan and Netanyahu out there was no
equivalent of this kind of disrespect
towards Bill Clinton let alone of course
the relationship he has when then Yahoo
watch this is an ad running right now in
Israel but this time Bibi Netanyahu
would lecture Barack Obama was taking a
hard line on the peace process
it's not gonna happen everybody knows
it's not the man and I think it's time
to tell the Palestinians forthrightly
it's not gonna happen I've never seen a
foreign leader speak to the president
like that and it's certainly not in
public
and I've never certainly never seen it
happen in the Oval Office as well
obviously cannot be asked to negotiate
with a government that is backed by the
Palestinian version of al-qaeda
you're watching President Obama there is
basin Asst hand and you can tell it's
not going over well this is this is his
house and to be lectured in his office
rankles bill daley standing next to me
and he's going outrageous outrageous
Makani oh you mean and that is Netanyahu
telling Barak Obama that even this
process of a two states in 67 borders
which is already stunning like the for
the Palestinians to accept that they
would have to accept you know it's a
given than hundreds of thousands of us
were displaced it's a given that we're
not necessarily gonna get financial
restitution and all of the two-state
solutions that were put on the table
still were not sort of fully autonomous
for the Palestinians all sorts of
questions about waterways and air travel
and air airspace so that was Netanyahu
just basically saying no Obama like hey
listen get it we're going to be an
apartheid state and even if I have to
fake with you some type of pseudo
two-state solution which he's still now
it won't be a real one this happened and
I and I look you can see Obama's rage
and by 2017 the Obama administration was
at least ready to abstain on a
resolution condemning settlement
expansion and that actually of course
leads to the story of real and look I
don't want to say real because I don't
want to get into this argument but an
actual case of collusion that we do know
about and there's been on the public
record from 2017 which is Michael Flynn
during the transition get can
to Russia presumably others at the
behest of the Israelis to try to
undermine Obama's a policy of simply
abstaining not even voting for the
resolution but abstaining which was
significant but now we have a whole
other level of courage about this thug
accuracy with Ilan Omar and Netanyahu at
AIPAC personally addressed her uh and
you know again this isn't a context
obviously with their just a massive
amount of racism and sexism and paranoia
and bigotry and fear about Muslims which
is the meeting ground of Netanyahu and
AIPAC and Trump and all of that that's
the Nexus certainly I mean if you think
it's concerned about anti-semitism then
I would you know I would like to I would
like to take some time to figure out an
internet scam I can list you in if I
ever get time this is what Netanyahu
said to Ilan Omar and of course he's
referencing her it's all about the
Benjamins baby tweet of a couple weeks
ago that people made a whole ridiculous
melodrama about from this benjamine it's
not about the Benjamins undoubtedly
maybe a saw maybe a line written by his
stupid son and this led to Ilan Omar Yas
Queen do I am legitimately a grief that
I will not be able to vote for this
woman for president one day she and
continues to impress and impress and
impress the these sort of what's what
would you call this emoji this is like
the kind of thinking face sarcastic
yanking face crunching Jim scratching
chin emoji which I actually have used
some decent effect myself not a big
emoji guy but I like this one this one
does a lot of work she writes this a man
face this from a men facing indictment
only reads favor this from a man facing
indictments for bribery and other crimes
in three separate public corruption
affairs corruption affairs next
not have anything ads that go contribute
to her campaign thank you
go contribute to Olano Mars campaign and
make sure that any effort to undermine
her we be back and destroy we need her
in Congress we need her leadership and
we also need to protect her from the
conspiracist in the hey mom yeah that's
profoundly important so as always props
to her her and her staff need to know
that people got their back 100%
and again I've you know I'll be
transparent I've given two different
twenty-seven buck donations to Bernie
that feels great and my estimation we
simply need him to be that's just the
obvious choice and I think I'm very
transparent about that and a couple of
weeks ago at the height of this I went
to her committee and chipped in 27 bucks
and that hell felt incredibly rewarding
so if I would just editorialize I'd
recommend everybody else do the same one
of the most important things we can do
for our health every day is brushing our
teeth yet most of us don't do it
properly do you guys know this I do but
only because I'm familiar with this copy
indeed or this excellent product I am I
am personally familiar with this product
I used it this morning I'm not familiar
tell me more
Thank You Brendon those are both very
helpful bridges clip is a better
electric toothbrush toothbrush created
by dentists and designers equip and I'm
a regular equip user myself totally
convinced its best in terms of brushing
and travel travels well definitely quip
was designed to make brushing your teeth
more simple affordable and even
enjoyable with sensitive sonic
vibrations it's gentle on your sensitive
gums and the built-in 2-minute time
pulse pulses every 30 seconds to remind
you when to switch sides and guide you
to full and even clean because yeah like
your your teeth are like a like a like
four quadrants and what ideally
you want 30 seconds on each area of the
distribution well to quit times it for
you and you don't have to deal with a
clunky charger which I love that means
it's easy to travel so you can keep up
your great brushing routine when you're
on the road and it runs for three months
on one charge I love this toothbrush I
have certainly never in my life and I
don't think that this would surprise
anybody I'm not a liked product
recommendation guy I'm not somebody who
finds like you know I don't know like a
new cooking salt or something you know
even if I do it just doesn't occur to me
I'm not someone who shouts I recommend
like books to people yeah you're not the
gadget guy I'm not the gadget guy at all
I have recommended and purchased as a
gift quip for at least a couple of
people in my life it's an incredible
incredible convenience that's why I love
it and that's why they're backed by over
20,000 dental professionals quip starts
at 20 just 25 and if you go to equip and
if you go to get quip comm slash
majority right now you get your first
refill pack for free with a quip
electric toothbrush that's your first
refill pack free at GE T Q u IP comm
slash majority get quip comm slash
majority we're gonna take a brief break
we'll be right back with Daniel best nur
you
welcome back to the majority report
joining us now is Daniel Bester he's the
pile professor of American foreign
policy at the University of Washington
he's the author of hunch spire and the
rise of the defense intellectuals he's
also a regular I must say on the Michael
Brooks show Daniel bessner thanks so
much for joining the majority report how
are you doing
thank you good good it's always a
pleasure so you took first why would you
name a foreign policy piece after
Nietzsche that's like well well as you
know and probably many listeners do
authors don't actually come up with the
names of those juices but it it's the
nation's editor said but I think it
works pretty well I mean the dosa claim
being that we really need to stop
thinking of foreign policy in these very
stark dualistic or what might be turns
manic II in terms of good of we're good
and other people are evil even if of
course other people are in fact evil
it's not a useful way to think about
what the United States should do in the
world so you specifically actually you
and your co-author I should say OD
Greenberg lay out a pretty um you know
you you've got some pretty tough were
you you took the two you know the
progressive candidates you took Bernie
Sanders and Elizabeth Warren and and you
laid out actually some pretty hard
critiques of them um we'll get to that
in a second but can you before we do
that go to your kind of intellectual
history roots how did the how did this
notion because it isn't just the neo
cons and a rock and it isn't just the
you know the new reporting on the sort
of like Christian Armageddon agenda
through Trump and Pompeii or Pompeo I
should say there's a history at least
going back I would assume to the defense
intellectuals that you Chronicle or
Chronicle after World War two
of this manichaean worldview of American
foreign policy how how did that develop
and how does that connect with you know
the reality of American foreign policy
isn't as a militaristic transactional
Empire sure I mean it's a great question
and the beginning one really has to
recognize that for a long time at least
probably six to seven thousand years
anthropologists have discovered that
societies have been defining themselves
against an outside other right there's
us the community and and there's an
other and we are against them so this is
a very deep thing in human society and
human civilization but to bring it back
up to a recent period I think beginning
it really in the 1930s when the United
States and the North Atlantic countries
the UK and France in particular began to
confront Nazi Germany what I would what
I would characterize it's a truly evil
state you know like state that was truly
evil in its in its goals and in its
leadership in particular of course began
to the the countries of the North
Atlantic began to define themselves
against this other this this evil other
you know democracy versus fascism and
and this became a rallying cry before
World War two when FDR was trying to get
the nation fight World War two and then
during the war itself but then what
happened I think is that after the war
this governing logic this idea that the
United States is good and its enemies
are evil began to be placed began to be
pushed from Nazi Germany and on to the
Soviet Union and of course this is not
to apologize for Stalin many many many
crimes but I do think that the character
of the Soviet regime especially as we
open up their archives and learn more
and more about the decision-making
process of the Soviet Union it just
wasn't the state that was as bent on
destruction and domination as Nazi
Germany we know was in fact bent on like
if you go to the Soviet archives you
could see how Stalin you know kind of
wanted to make peace after World War Two
and didn't necessarily want to fight a
cold war with the United States and and
really after Stalin's death death when
the Khrushchev took over Nikita
Khrushchev
he was certainly ready to make peace
with the Soviet Union but the reason
that this didn't happen I think is that
the United States began to view during
and after World War two they began to
view international politics as a realm
of struggle between good and evil where
the United States was good and
democratic and was spreading Liberty and
of course capitals around the world and
the Soviet Union was its total mirror
image opposite other communist
totalitarian and bent on world
domination and of course I think a lot
of that view had a really important role
in legitimating a lot of actions that
American leaders themselves understood
to be anti-democratic so for example the
1953 overthrow of Mohammed Mossadegh in
Iran which is very critical to
understanding why Durrani and hate the
United States the 1954 overthrow of
Yaakov o or bends in Guatemala the
American support for the East urban
uprising in December of 1953 a lot of
these actions which were understood to
be anti-democratic we're legitimated
because the United States considered
itself to be in a basically global
existential struggle with the Soviet
Union that's a really and and so just
and I want to just actually elaborate a
little bit more and I'm thinking of this
now so I don't remember this person's
name unfortunately but I was at some
event once where you know one of the
speaker's was basically some type of you
know some type of kind of young young
and up-and-coming neocon and what he was
doing was trying to propagandize against
obama's Iran deal at the time and it was
incredible because you know most of the
arguments against the Iran deal were or
not most was a lot of them were some of
them were very technical and you either
could just dispel them technically like
no first of all there's a lot of hype
around Iran's program and begin with we
don't actually know what it is and
secondly there is ways of monitoring and
measuring it or or bringing in like
ancillary issues like well you know in
fact if you want to deal with long-range
ballistic missiles or Hezbollah actually
establishing this deal
open a roadmap maybe to further
diplomacy whatever but this guy's
argument I think circles back to what
you're saying where he basically said
well we know you know Iran and and he
and he had some you know some examples
which were true of the Iranian
government you know seriously abusing
people and he basically just said well
if they treat their their people like
that internally then we know they're
untrustworthy externally and you know of
course the the basic you know one
response which I has some merit is like
whoa okay you want to talk about how we
treat people internally let's talk about
you know I don't I Nina policing mass
mass incarceration right but then the
second point was actually like dot is
ludicrous and I think going back to the
Stalin example that's that's actually
very good right like a lot his crimes
and his intention was to continue to go
on to you know run and increasingly you
know horrifying and totalistic and
murderous police state to consolidate
power in the Soviet Union and actually
to keep on the sort of communist path
which is another quite a part of the
interest of the scholarship where it's
like well actually there was some
genuine commitment there too which is
interesting and disturbing actually
but his foreign policy was very like you
know was actually pretty cautious and
conservative and he had already sort of
climbed down from clearly but it's when
he made the initial peace pact with
Hitler the idea that this is gonna be
some global revolutionary force was
already climbed down on and even you
know one more thing to put in one of the
speculations around things like the
Cultural Revolution is that in addition
to consolidating Mouse power
it's the corollary of realizing that
China isn't going to be as aggressive
and as you know in fomenting revolution
so there needs to be like internal
disruption and recreation of that fervor
so it seems like that idea that we can
correlate internal abuse with external
behavior on things like an arms control
treaty is really deep in like the
American foreign policy psyche
absolutely and I think it's just hi
the difficulties of applying a
particular type of morality to
international affairs because I think
you and I know we agree and I'm sure
most people listening would agree that
that Stalin regime in the 40s and the
50s and really at the beginning with the
purges in the thirties and the Moscow
trials and 3637 in Mao's Cultural
Revolution a really terrible crimes
against humanity in a real sense they
really you know would carry every
leftist principle that I think one one
should advocate in favor of but at the
same time the fact that this happened it
doesn't mean that the United States
should commit itself to a half a century
long militaristic foreign policy where
it's constantly intervening in other
countries to avoid the specter of a
Soviet of an expensive Soviet Union or
what people are trying to do today an
expansive People's Republic of China
right which is now for the first time in
its modern history really truly
expanding into the world giving
development aid to Africa the group
Alton Road initiative creating these
basically what might be termed counter
hegemonic structures like the Asian
infrastructure Bank and its various
development projects but but I think
it's important to emphasize that the
United States cannot for even though its
citizens may deploy these various
internal actions doesn't necessarily
mean that we have to fight these
existential global struggles because
what I think happened in the long run is
that the United States winds up
intervening like in the cases I just
mentioned in Guatemala Iran one might
also add Chile and variety of their
small actions or in places like
Afghanistan and Iraq and Libya when if
you go back and actually read what
people were saying and the run-up to
these various wars particularly Iraq was
that they were literally comparing
Saddam Hussein to Hitler and Iraq to
Nazi Germany which is basically an
absurd historical historical comparison
but it serves as this legitimating
function for basically never-ending us
militarism in u.s. and wars abroad so
this is why basically you have to have
two ideas in your head you have to you
know criticize style and criticize the
People's Republic of China while also
being willing to say that we can't
necessarily do anything about it and
that's really the tragedy of
international relations you could do
certain things work through
international institutions use diplomacy
etc for example I think you could use
diplomacy to try to halt or at least
alleviate the Chinese persecution of the
Weger
Inchon John but you can't really do much
more than that because of the global
effects of that I think history has
demonstrated are really and truly
terrible so it's important I think going
forward and particularly for progressive
candidates like Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren and just to put my
cards on the table I'll support Bernie
til my dying day I think he's the only
really legitimate candidate and I very
much support it but what I was trying to
do is try to like I think it's important
for the American public to be to be you
know discussed with or not to be fed but
to use that language to be federal
language that doesn't that doesn't
basically set international politics as
a struggle between good and evil because
it's far more complicated than that and
that dichotomous Manichaean vision has
done so much damage in the past and I
fear could do an enormous amount of
damage in the future but and just a
complicated a bit I think Bernie is
really hasn't had publicly been a little
bit of two minds of this so he does I
think constructed this dichotomous
vision between a global authoritarian
access and fair enough there is a global
authoritarian access but to frame that
totally as evil in the United States as
good is not necessarily the right thing
to do but Bernie also I think very
correctly says that even if we disagree
with what China is doing we still need
to deal with them to address climate
change we still need to deal with China
to address global inequality so Bernie I
think is of two minds and and and and
what I would do is just to emphasize the
co-operative elements at least when
you're talking about international
relations while also recognizing that
the United States should do things that
at the UN there through various other
global institutions to for example
condemn the Chinese persecution of The
Weavers I wanted so I want to actually
get really specifically to the problems
and opportunities you see with Sanders
and Warren but I think there's one of
the threat I just want to put into this
I think is really important there was a
piece that came out several years ago by
a guy named Paul Berman who has had a
lot of bad takes over the years but it
was it it was a very interesting
intellectual history of a guy named
yashka Fisher that I think Poorman drew
all of the wrong conclusions from I mean
clearly he did because I think he was at
the time writing in favor of you know
invading Iraq so objectively he did
um Joschka Fischer to make a long story
short was a German like an actual German
radical like a guy who there's photos of
him beating up a cop at a street protest
he would go on he transferred arm oh
yeah transferred arms was at a
conference in the Middle East with like
where the PLO was established this was I
mean you know when you when you talk
about the the European sixties and
seventies radicals you know it's like
sure I guess there was some weathermen
people that blew themselves up or
whatever I mean I don't know I don't
want to minimize it I know that some
people got hurt and so on but like there
were actual groups in Europe and I
clearly in many ways was actually very
failed and politically destructive
effort but like you know just to be real
they were actually doing some actual
guerrilla activity and yashka Fischer
wasn't quite there but he was adjacent
anyways he would go on to help found the
Green Party and then by the time he came
to public consciousness and the arts in
the late 90s he's Germany's foreign
minister and he's actually leading
Germany into its first external military
engagement since the Nazi era so there's
a lot of like wait how does this you
know hardcore left anti-nato
anti-vietnam guy turned into it kind of
like Europe and European liberal who's
forced humanitarian intervention and one
of the threads and this is where I want
to get to you one of the threads that
Berman argues is that by in the early
80s when Doctors Without Borders came
out came around the founders of Doctors
Without Borders tapped into this idea
that instead of these like grand
ideological narratives like getting rid
of capitalism and so on because they
were coming from the left they just want
to go to places where people need help
and help those people and Berman was
like you know this is the great post
ideological turn and then disastrously
he basically kind of correlated that
sentiment with you know the Bush
administration Havok waging an illegal
war and you know killing tons of people
and appending the Middle East which is a
disaster and nonsense but I wonder if we
actually stopped you know that thought
process into the disaster of kind of
like liberal humanitarian intervention
ISM which is a massive problem but
actually went back to the more
modest version of it so that like if we
went looked at Syria we realized like
there might be diplomatic solutions that
are really hard and really dissatisfying
because it will involve any number of
factions from Assad to rebels and
certainly Assad I want to emphasize who
have an unbelievable amount of blood on
their hands but still retaining power
right but then on the other hand all of
the conversation about to intervene or
not to intervene in all of this actually
distracted from some really core points
that ever been in the left should have
embraced like massively higher
investment in refugees and humanitarian
resettlement and areas like that that
like the whole globe is actually
significantly dropped the ball on and so
when you talk about these other
mechanisms I mean like concretely is it
a way of saying like well getting away
from the disaster and military
intervention ISM what about like the
u.s. commitment to full funding of you
know the UN refugee agency or whatever
else that actually deals with the
literal human cost of all of these
policies instead of by the way of course
making them worse with our own military
presence that's absolutely right and I
think it's important to highlight since
Woodrow Wilson at least so let's say for
about a century and I think it actually
goes back further the great hope of
liberalism in an international context
is that it will be able to manage
international affairs in the ways you
exactly described and you'll be able to
do things like for example precision
strikes and just get the quote-unquote
bad guys and it's also the undermine
like it's kind of ridiculous that that's
the language we use to talk about
international politics but bracket that
for a second or that you'll you be able
to use the military as some sort of
position for us that could make the
world safe for liberal humanitarian
ideals and I think that it's important
for us to at least acknowledge the power
of that claim particularly before it
proved to be false over and over and
over again throughout the course of the
20th century so I think what what
leftist could do and would let this
foreign policy think he could bring to
this entire discussion is to temperate
liberal dreams with historical realities
that even though you know in an ideal
world one would be able to you know stop
the quote unquote bad guys and make the
world safe for everyone it just showed
just history has showed that
international politics just doesn't work
that way that the United States actually
creates a lot more problems when it does
things like Angola terribly inter
in Libya for example or Iraq or
Afghanistan or though you know 149
countries our special forces were
deployed and in 2017 and that for this
reason you really have to temper those
liberal dreams with what I would call
historical realities but this isn't
necessarily to advocate a question a
question of posture right I think that
the United States is being you know the
center of world power and it's still
very much is the center of world power I
do not think it is an absolute decline
even though it is in relative decline
the center of world power and having an
enormous amount of resource and I think
the left could advocate a lot of clever
solutions to the global humanitarian
crises right so let's say the United
States is an enormous ly gigantic
country if anyone's ever driven through
it you say how much empty space there is
why not actually resettle refugees here
why not use our massive resources to
bring people who are being oppressed to
the United States and actually
contribute to the American fabric as
opposed to you know trying to bomb the
people who are oppressing them why not
work with foreign governments to do
things like that why not like you said
the fund a United Nations there's a fund
basically maybe even think about
creating new institutions that could
perhaps be more effective to help
refugee resettlement now of course
listen I think we all agree no one likes
being drafted moving from their own
cultural context to another but in a
tragic world and world in which there
are only imperfect solutions I think
bringing people here is better than
trying to use the military to save them
the only problem is is that the reality
the desires of liberal internationalism
come up against the realities of
American domestic xenophobia and racism
so you have these things that are
fundamentally in tension and the liberal
answer has been to basically not
incorporate people into our own polity
people who could actually only make it
stronger if you're a cosmopolitan like I
am but instead to try to use what is
fundamentally and is liberal tool the
military and war are a liberal tool so
what they have tried to do and I think
this is the paradox of liberalism the
bones are national and liberal
internationalism over the past hundred
years is to use the most in liberal tool
for liberal ends and I think this
history shown time and again that this
is impossible
absolutely all right so you touched on
it before but let Sanders and Warren
what are they doing wrong what are they
doing
right so I mean so the difficulty is is
that the United States is the United
Sates public is used to hearing about
foreign policy in the particular idiom
it has been used to hearing it for
seventy years which is essentially
framing the United States and
quote-unquote good and and our
challengers as quoted in quote bad so I
think that it's important to just
contextualize Sanders and Warren who
very much grew up in the era of the Cold
War and hearing this political language
over and over again this moralistic and
Manichaean language I think it's
important to contextualize them so it's
not just this to be I'm thinking
criticism but just to appreciate the
context of which they arrived but what I
think that that they have done and that
in some some way basically reframed the
Manichaean division of international
affairs that began with the US and Nazis
and then continued with the US and
Soviet Union and one might add
continuing with the US and radical Islam
quote-unquote radical Islam it's
basically a nonsense
turning he can't really mean anything
but basically three decades the United
States has organized his foreign policy
thinking in dichotomous terms and I
think so let's take what Bernie said he
basically constructed I think a division
of the world between you know good
democracies who actually care about
liberty and and what he called I think
it's uh I forget the exact phrasing but
something like the global authoritarian
kleptocratic access consisting it's like
Russia and sometimes he I think he added
China and and of course Brazil which I
would agree with all of these things I
think these these places are global
called the Craddock states but the
question is that does that language
actually um basically push progresses to
adopt an interventionist foreign policy
that as it has in the past under rates
diplomacy and promotes the type of
violent interventions that I do think
have more negative outcomes in the in
the long term and medium term and Warren
is basically the same thing and I think
warrants actually a little worse on this
than Bernie I guess unsurprisingly
because she's a liberal in the way
bernie is not but she claims that the
very existence or she is intimated at
least in speeches at the very existence
of these types of kleptocratic
pseudo fascist state threatening and
undermine American democracy right so if
that's true if these states the very
existence of these states necessarily
undermines American democracy
then what can
the solution be but try to overturn them
or regime change right so this is the
difficulty because I think both Burnie
and Lauren are absolutely correct like
as you know we're better than most most
in hours of horrible fascist and he
shouldn't be in power and he's done a
number of illegal action but you should
absolutely not be in power but the
question is she if it's very existence
threatens democracy particularly
American democracy does that mean that
the United States should go go in and
overthrow them the same could be said
for Putin the same could be said for G
and a lot of people are making the same
claims about Maduro and Venezuela now
right so it's a very very complex and
difficult right
right right and so it's a very very
complex and difficult situation where
they are correctly identifying these
states as bad actors but by framing them
as necessarily engaged in a mannequin
struggle with the United States I think
that it has the potential if it's not
you know stopped or thought about a
different way to go down the slippery
slope towards some sort of intervention
ISM whether its military it probably
won't be would because I think Bernie
has absolutely categorically rejected as
you should military intervention but
even if it's something like sanctions
right when that's more and more research
shows sanctions actually have an
enormous ly damaging effect on just
normal people
for example normal people in Iran right
so if you're going to impose sanctions
against Brazil that's ordinary
Brazilians who are going to really
suffer from those sanctions so the
question is how are you able to identify
these bad actors as truly bad which they
are I would like to underline they are
truly bad without necessarily retreating
in this into the psyche on amiss and
moralist understanding of world affairs
and it's a very very difficult task
particularly when as the United States
you have such an enormous amount of
power that you can really do what you
want in the world but I think these are
the sorts of difficult questions that we
on the Left need to be thinking through
right now if we truly want to transform
not only our domestic but also our
international affairs I want to get I
think there's some complications in
Bernie that I want to want to elaborate
on good in bed in a second but before
that I mean what you know obviously of
course I'm a hundred percent Bernie
that's obvious and transparent and it
isn't just foreign there's I mean
domestic the case he's making yeah but
you know it seemed to me like you know
on domestic stuff what Warren is putting
forward other than this very weird
equivocations on Medicare for all she's
putting together in some cases
you know proposals that are the best of
the Democratic field her foreign policy
particularly the way she's you know you
know pretty pretty horrible on Israel
stuff Bernie was certainly the first
person willing to at least even invoice
actual support ironically for what his
official US policy in terms of opposing
occupation or even just acknowledging
basic Palestinian humanity you know
Elizabeth Warren was right there with a
Kamala Harris a couple years ago and not
even with a beta O'Rourke and it just
kind of being like whoa like we're
supposed to be 2019 Democrats we can't
exactly embrace like you know an over
bigoted like Netanyahu but do you think
um well I guess I guess that's like a
preamble of like what is she getting
anything right and foreign policy like
what what is she bringing to the table
in foreign policy that's distinct and in
a good way or or none I mean she hasn't
been particularly uh she hasn't
particularly elaborated on this but from
my sense I think Elizabeth Warren would
be very good at sort of reconstructing
the global financial architecture to be
to be less than welcoming to basically
American multinational corporations who
flee so many taxes in various tax havens
particularly in the Caribbean that's
what I think Elizabeth Warren would be
would be best at essentially her global
economic policy but my sense from all
that I've read about her security and
diplomatic policy it's basically cold
war retreads in a very serious way where
she she would I think promote a lot of
the sort of interventionist policies
that have defined America Democratic
foreign policy really since Lyndon
Johnson decided to escalate the war in
Vietnam in nineteen sixty four - sixty
five so as she's been to me a big
disappointment on foreign policy even
though I think like you said she has
been way ahead
ironically or somewhat sadly of many of
the Democratic candidates in terms of
advancing like particular technical
policy solutions now the question about
the particular technical policy
solutions at least the question that I
have is that maybe this isn't the moment
for the type of brand I see an
anti-monopoly politics with Elizabeth
Warren which essentially is I view it
tries to save capitalism from itself but
it might be actually at the moment for
Bernie Sanders who just fundamentally
rejects a lot of the institutions
and doesn't think that necessarily that
they could be made better but needs to
be replaced but they need to be replaced
by new types of institutions that are
more skeptical of fundamental capitalism
and so this is this is I think this sort
of Rob with with you know it's good that
she has these proposals but is that
necessarily what we wanted the next
president no I mean of course I hon
percent agree with you I was just
curious to find you know yeah we're on
the same page but I but I do think you
know in foreign policy it's in I mean in
domestic policy a lot of proposals are
really good and intellectually demanding
and yet important and a foreign policy
it's just I don't see like I read her
you know her her fans where you need to
read your foreign policy say and it was
like right I I get I think that's
correct I think in the areas that she's
we already know she's really good on she
definitely has a sense of of things like
the Panama paper foreign policy right
like and and that's hugely important but
I don't think there's any evidence you
got on a whole slew of basic you know
hierarchical relationships built on
faulty faulty assumptions let alone sort
of horizon issues of you know not
indulging and you know dangerous policy
towards China as an example or you know
rethinking how we deal with Africa I you
know I just don't see it but in Bernie
there's a funny contradiction to in that
I see too because I think on one hand I
mean if you look at his career in the
eighties he had very much like he was a
lefty you know he was a here's a Vermont
shout-out even though he wasn't from
there but he is a Brattleboro food co-op
foreign policy right like this guy is
he's handing out the Flyers he wants to
do you know he's talking about how
Reagan's backing all of these you know
murderous regimes across Latin in
Central America
I'm sure that his feelings on Israel
were much more complicated because you
know I again I just thought frankly I'd
just give a generational past that being
said he endorsed Jesse Jackson he noted
there's videos of him in the 80s saying
the Palestinians need rights that
actually puts him well to the left of
the dial and then he gets into Congress
and again I think again we got a credit
where credit is due I mean the basic
dividing line he opposed the invasion of
Iraq that still is the most important
you know mate macro foreign policy
decision last couple of decades and he
was a hundred percent right on it uh you
know and then I think in other areas it
was a combination of you know his
priorities really were domestic that's
also probably where he felt he could do
some things and I think in in 2016 it
was almost like he got really kind of
just put his head down and even
sometimes went along with and voted for
some very bad foreign policy ideas and
then in 2016 he kind of started with
like well hey you know I'm not a fan of
Kissinger cuz I sort of like don't like
war criminals how about that and then
people were like hey that's great what
else you got he's like well you know
while we're at it I don't think
Palestinians are subhuman and she could
hit with white phosphorus every other
day people like you know what sounds
pretty good man what else you got and
then you know in preparation for running
for president he brought on that dust
and so on and he's been trying to
synthesize and I think you know again
there is a global authoritarian axis but
that's you know that's also the kind of
outreach to a sort of liberal view but
at the same time in the same speech
where he's talking about bolsa narrow
and obviously this would be something I
would notice he's certainly the only
presidential candidate who recognizes
like you know in the phrase you know
Lula's in jail under very questionable
circumstances whereas I think you know
even just brand wise Elizabeth Warren
gonna take on the process of being like
oh well there's sometimes just like fake
nonsense corruption investigations that
are political projects not legal ones
and they're really dangerous and it you
know belies a certain deeper skepticism
so I think that you're writing to both
sides of Bernie's nature here and you
know what's your sense of the team
around him of what way it breaks and if
it breaks the good way is America ready
for that like a real just kind of more
fundamental sort of you know not
anti-american not you know not though
not a guys giving just you know like
anti foreign policy dive diatribes in
the White House but somebody's really
like fundamentally is about diplomacy
and also I really acknowledge just as a
practical matter the ways in which the
United States is a major problem world
affairs I want to de-escalate those
problems because ultimately they aren't
beneficial the American people I think
that's a great question so I think
fundamentally I trusted Bernie I think
he has good instincts and I particularly
as you alluded to trust people like Matt
does who are around and who have been
really thinking about these issues for
decades and I have no doubt that
basically agree with everything that we
said if I had to guess I would take Matt
does agree with everything that we just
said and that Bernie could very quickly
be convinced a bit and and if he did
sort of reaffirm these types of cold war
frameworks it's probably just because
more out of habit than any deep
conviction to fighting existential Wars
who with with these various global
authoritarian axes I think he was as a
what I think ultimately is that he was
trying to draw attention to what is
truly a global problem particularly as
it relates to his major issue which is a
domestic inequality and how things like
like tax havens and kleptocracy abroad
do affect American domestic politics at
home so I I have no like I have no
reticence whatsoever about supporting
Bernie a hundred and ten percent because
I again I trust the man I think and
things have long been correct foreign
policy was not his major focus but I
think he could very clearly be convinced
and again that's demonstrated by the
people the team that he's hired and the
team that he's recently hired to run his
campaign are people who basically agree
with everything we just said so I think
Bernie and elected would be would be
great on this now the question I think
of American receptivity to this is an
interesting one and a difficult one and
and I want to basically break it down
into two issues so on one hand I think
Americans are ready to recency of the
United States's world role because
unlike let's say in the period between
1945 and 1975 the majority of Americans
do not benefit from the United States as
prime position right they do not they're
the wages have stagnated inequality is
increased and despite the fact that the
United States has 800 bases abroad the
Empire doesn't really do much to help
them so I think that in that sense
there's a material reality that
Americans are like what is this
globe-spanning system of 800 bases all
of these aircraft carriers all of these
commands that essentially control the
entire world what is that doing for me
and particularly the fact that so much
of our domestic
resources so many of our domestic
resources are diverted to the military
with Trump asking for about 750 billion
dollars in military aid going forward
which is literally absurd in the world
where the United States faces no pure
competitors and basically no global
challenges the only the problems of
international relations particularly
climate change and nuclear weapons which
me are than one and two most important
problems that we're facing our basically
problems that can only be solved through
diplomacy and the military could
literally do nothing about them and
therefore we should basically ramp down
our military budget
dramatically I would say like get rid of
600 billion dollars of it most people
won't agree with that one but at least
we should get rid of a significant
significant hundreds about yeah I know
you would but I will hundreds of
billions and I think there's a Henry
Kissinger zuv were criminals so you know
what do I know exactly right what do you
have right basically refund the State
Department but the other problem is and
I think this is important particularly
honestly Michaels shows like this I
think are really crucial this effort
there is a cultural militarism in the
United States that really began taking
off in the 1940s and there's now just
absurd the fact that military bands play
at football games the fact that all
these military aircraft are always flown
over football games and things like that
in various other sporting events the
fact that all of our video games are
about basically fighting good wars the
incredible militaristic violence in
American society is I think a major
obstacle to having Americans rethink the
role of military in American society and
I think the question is particularly for
the left particularly for you know
cultural figures like yours like
yourself and shows like majority report
in the Michael Brooks show is what can
they do to basically attenuate this
cultural militarism which is really
informed and I would say infected many
of the ways in which American rules the
world so you have the material reality
where the military and the global basing
system is not really benefiting the
ordinary Americans but you have the
cultural reality where the military is
basically the most of our eyes
institution in American life and this is
actually a really difficult and complex
situation and so I think that's going to
be a major issue going forward if people
like Bernie and I think he does if
people like Bernie want to reframe and
and rethink how the United States
interacts abroad
final question I just want to touch on
China for a minute do you think it's
possible that the machine like what
China is doing in Africa is actually you
know I just want to note is an
incredible process of aggressive neo
imperialism beltran road is very mixed
and might yield some good things but
it's also again it's very
environmentally damaging and you know I
hate the I mean this idea of like a
three party proxy war in Africa between
primarily the United States and the and
China but also like France trying to
protect
it's basically uninterrupted colonial
relationships there is very disturbing
and you know we'll talk about that more
but do you think it's possible to
reorient the g2 china-us relationship on
basically like a okay plenty of disputes
and things to work out and so on but we
need to have a sort of global
partnership on climate and a broader
global environmental policy which for
all of their problems you know China
does appear to at least on a policy
level take somewhat seriously and if we
had some in the White House who wasn't
you know just an insane sort of patron
of oil interests or in fact even like a
Democrat that accepted the science but
still is essentially just in the pocket
of oil and gas industry but somebody who
actually comes in there and says no I
get that this is the number one global
emergency we face could that be the
basis of a kind of productive
partnership amidst other conflicts yeah
and I think that that's a really
important question so it's the way that
I view it is in 50 years the United
States will almost certainly not be in
the eastern hemisphere in the way that
it has been right so a lot of people
disagree with that some people really
are committed to maintaining the US
presence in the eastern hemisphere in
the South China Sea and East Asia etc
but if one believes as I do that the
United States that China is basically
simply too big simply too powerful and
simply too interested in maintaining
dominance of its region just like the
United States has for centuries in the
very bad ways I might add maintain
dominance of the Western Hemisphere I
don't think it's fair to think that the
United States will still be in East Asia
in the way that it has been for decades
at this point so to my issue
to my view rather the way to foster
Chinese us cooperation which I agree is
absolutely central to pay a basically
fighting climate change most importantly
but also you know contributing to
nuclear demilitarization etc etc the way
to do that is for the United States to
recognize that it needs to start drawing
down in East Asia and what that means
for our allies right what is it going to
mean for Japan South Korea and and the
other nations and I want to people Ramiz
I would yep
yeah this is it's really difficult I
it's really difficult because I don't
think the United States is going to
fight World War three over any of those
countries so the issue is how do you
basically negotiate some sort of
security transition in East Asia that
enables places like Japan in South Korea
and Taiwan to maintain some sort of
sovereign independence in the face of an
enormous China while also not
antagonizing China needlessly
particularly when we need to cooperate
with them over with issues like climate
change so I think this is basically the
great question of the next 25 to 50
years of American diplomacy
how could you essentially do that and
basically do you do that in a way that
where you have a type of ring of
containment from Japan to Taiwan to
Australia what might add that tries to
quote-unquote contain China or you
develop some sort of true global
architecture where they're basically
accepted spheres of influence for
particular countries and I might add
these are all imperfect solutions but in
an imperfect tragic world of
international relations I think you're
choosing really between imperfect
solutions and the way to foster peace
and the way to combat climate change is
for United States to recognize that it's
not going to be able to have the
influence that is long had in East Asia
and to begin a process of drawing down
in the region that at the same time
doesn't just totally abandon our allies
to the Chinese to the Chinese right
perfect I I just want to spit ball an
idea I'm wondering if we could organize
a debate between you and Samantha power
but here's the twist
it's moderated by Sebastian Gorka and he
calls both of you daddy
Daniel bessner I appreciate your time as
always the piece in the nation foreign
policy Beyond Good and Evil co-authored
with OD greenberg
read it's great piece read everything
Daniel does particularly a on spire the
rise of the defense intellectuals I mean
that book is actually like if you're
just really even interested in just a
kind of filter of understanding like
post-world War two America it's a well
written great history Daniel thanks
million as always I appreciate it
thanks so much Michael have a good one
you too thanks man all right folks
become a member the majority reported a
majority dot F M slash become a member
less than a cup of coffee a day become
go to just coffee co-op get your
Fairtrade tea coffee or chocolate that's
such an awesome company subscribe spread
the word like review all that good stuff
do the same thing with the Michael
Brooks show become a patron at patreon
accomplished EMBs this last show we had
on Francesca for on teeny talk about a
pack that's ieb to talk about the media
failure of Russia gates and on this
Sunday in elicit history of redlining
and a case for reparations with Marissa
Pereira Doran patreon.com slash T MBS
and all sorts of clips at Michael Brooks
show on YouTube Matt yeah literary
hangover next episodes gonna be the
first Saturday in the next month but the
King Philip's War episode is still up
there if you're not subscribed on
YouTube subscribe because that is gonna
get monetized soon and I might I might
start doing some more stuff on that like
actual video stuff but we'll see it's
good idea
it also check out Intifada we have angel
TNT Fattah we have a new well you've
heard the song before but now they're
Bowl Prague has done a full Prague is
quite animations is very all around
media produce this is a talented person
check this out seeing the fun half Jamie
and I may have a disagreement yeah you
can't just say whatever you want about
people just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
they're buggy whipping like he's boss I
am NOT your employer you know I'm tired
of the negativity I'm sorry I didn't
mean to upset you
you're nervous a little bit upset you
riled up yeah maybe you should rethink
your defense of that you idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes
exactly I'm happy now oh yeah now listen
to me two three five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27
1/2 5/8 3.9 Wow don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the swirl fine
we can double dip yes this is a perfect
moment no wait what you make under a
million dollars come here not they
accuse me you you all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber silastic I'm
feeling more chill already hood Donald
Trump can kiss all of our asses hey Sam
hey Andy you guys ready to go with
such there
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report damn we'll be with you
shortly
[Laughter]
Wow
that is like all these digs incredibly
impressive and terrifying I feel like
watching the next one now like honestly
you just give me a dose of the Dave
Rubin one they seemed
yeah just keep you started angry I don't
know well I don't want to get into that
that wasn't my my own thing hey Dave
this is a very brave move on your part
kudos
have you heard about the SJW nonsense Oh
[Music]
Dave Rubin is gonna absolutely need to
be exposed and then there was like 14
videos parade of awesome people on
youtubes basically everybody we got a
ton and debate cedar cedar run you're
safe speed ease
I do respect just a reminder it is your
support that makes your show popular
does not get less mature than those
folks Jesus Christ bullfrog isn't
 Jesus
wow that's obscure Bobo Prague
definitely subscribe to bullfrog Wow
seriously kudos that's incredibly funny
you're calling him a 9 to 5 area code
who are you where you calling from
Michael this is the monocle from the
discord shop hey the monocle from the
TPMS discord how are you what's going on
what's on your mind
very very good I was just calling in
because I was listening to your
conversation with Daniel Bester and I
had a couple questions for you knows
obviously it would be great if Daniel
could answer them since he wasn't
talking about them but as you seem as up
to speed as he does about these issues
so ok I'll give it my best shot
hopefully it'll work alright so first
I'm kind of curious like the concept of
taking and refugees as opposed to
intervening when it comes to like
genocide or like mass like grave human
rights violations instances I'm just
kind of curious like how do you reckon
with the incentives that you build when
you do that like let's say
you just say we're gonna take all 11
million Weaver's first of all and this
kind of going to allow you to just take
there 11 million weaker
oh but look how you do that okay but
let's secondly stick with an example
that's like more plausible because we
were talking about we could definitely
do way more for Syrian refugees so the
approach he was talking about with China
and the we Gers would definitely be like
diplomacy and advocacy right so let's
stick with an example where it actually
applies like humanitarian intervention
in a place like Libya or Syria versus
doing way more for Refugees and you know
documenting crimes or other non-military
lethal means let's let's stick with a
real example because I think in China we
both know it's like yes they are not
gonna release 11 million we Gers and
we're also I mean actually some people
do want to in militarily engage with
China and I think both you and I would
agree that's absolutely insane so let's
let's focus on you know examples that
make sense for what we were talking
about yeah so ok so about the I brought
that weird thing because he explicitly
brought the agree thing when he was
talking about context but okay we'll
move on yeah I know that he's not
talking about you know he's certainly
not saying that they would release 11
million people but anyways go ahead yeah
yeah okay would you okay looks like any
instance okay let's even in smaller in
small areas like Rwanda etc okay like
any any instance in which there's a
genocide going on right and there's not
an implicit threat that a country's
going to interview now I'm not saying
America's that country that has done
that that has any intention to do that
that's not the way the country is set up
the country's intention is not to go
around stopping genocides and the
country's intention is to go around
making money first like class of people
in the country but obviously we're
talking about all these things in the
context that we have one and we have
power in the country because we we're
talking about Bernie Sanders unraveling
US Empire which is not something he's
going to do with a tenuous relationship
or the Democrat Party after he just won
the presidential election I'm assuming
they see instance magically that
socialists are having a dominant
position in American governance
well actually see I don't know I don't
agree with that presupposition because I
actually think like he's gonna have
actually I mean I'm not saying he'll do
it and not Daniel and I don't you know
it's going to
unbelievably hard but actually republic
rhotic president i mean a presidents
period have more power frankly over
foreign policy over domestic so he
actually could go in there and frankly
use executive branch to do quite a bit
so actually i you know i don't agree
with that but anyway alright let's get
get to the specific of the way congress
reassert its ability to control those
issues what's an interesting
hypothetical so what's what i'm saying
is that if you are basically taking a
policy position which by the way is
politically unpopular at home an idea
we're gonna take refugees from
everywhere
like we do have a racist country is so
the question is you know it's a very
hard sell of course i was like you wanna
you want to pull it build a political
platform based on these based on this
particular set of policy prescriptions
how does Bernie Sanders brought there
and so that's the American people well I
mean first of all again I don't want to
like I think you know let's not fixate
too much on the one example of him
saying that we could like bring like
he's not saying literally to bring in 11
million huger's as an example he's
saying that certainly brain I'll answer
let me let me let me just and I'll give
my I'll give my best shot so because I
just want to set the proper parameters
so like I'm sure everybody agrees on any
sort of left that we should take in more
than a couple of thousand or no none
Syrian refugees right so like there is a
big wide difference between 12 million
people and you know even frankly a
million verses like 10,000 and this is
interesting to me because I think you
know I would assume that you're somebody
who is a you know obviously a harsh
critic of ice policies and of various
other forms of weaponizing of phobia and
I think this is like I think these are
the always the dual paradoxes if you're
running a cosmopolitan socialist
politics whatever you want to call it
you um can absolutely
run successfully on the economic issues
because that's where most people
actually are I think most people
actually are with us on the economic
issues or very easily persuadable and on
the flip side you're gonna have to
sometimes take on unpopular causes of
fighting various forms of prejudices and
hope that the country will come along
with you
so same principle applies but even there
I mean again when when we talk about
funding new international agencies or UN
refugee agency this could also be as
simple as like significantly upgrading
the conditions in Turkey or Jordan or
any number of other places the point is
resetting the conversation to deal with
humanitarian needs instead of indulging
in humanitarian interventions which have
been in the main turned out to be
absolutely disastrous now every time you
have these conversations people can
always you know I think this is where
it's important where it's like we're not
lawyers we're trying to think out big
pictures so like anybody on any issue
and I'm seeing this frankly well you can
always find like I know there are people
in Kosovo who will say that Clinton's
and NATO's intervention their save their
lives and their families I totally
believe them take their word for it 100%
and I respect that but I also know that
that intervention had bigger structural
problems right then not one benefit
which was significant and so that's hard
conversely in Libya um you know again
some people feel the need to whitewash
Qaddafi I never would but also and he
was absolutely tyrannical and murderous
um and did hire paramilitaries and was
doing door-to-door operations and it was
really horrific and guess what our our
intervention there was an absolute
disaster just as it was in Iraq just as
it was in um you know to the extent you
know we even just in Syria which has
actually been greatly exaggerated by
some people we've killed a tunt we've
killed thousands civilians even just
with the air campaign so
this approach does not work and the
argument is we need to rethink it on a
policy level and I would assume that
anybody on good faith on the Left would
say that just like as in any other issue
where maybe there's a prejudice in the
country we we're gonna fight it I mean I
thought that was the approach also I
would add that even when these things
succeed okay let's say we go into Syria
and we save the Kurds and we invade and
when you use like the full weight of our
ground troops and air strikes and
everything we can to just get rid of
Assad get rid of Isis everything and
just set up a set up a Free Syrian area
well I mean ultimately there's like yeah
like 50 60 70 thousand like hardcore
Islamist terrorist fighters over there
but there's also millions of Sunni Arabs
and the city Arabs don't necessarily
have to do with Isis and are just stuck
there just trapped in a situation they
don't want to be in for people to like
ethnically divided all this stuff up but
the reality is like most people don't
have to do with they have no
power they have no influence then just a
sack they are living with their
surroundings
and any instance where yeah we do the
good thing where we would go in and save
the credit also means they will kill 100
200 thousand seniors that had nothing
I agree with you and I know I know some
people are gonna say that I'm being
contradictory because I do support
leaving the forces in there that are
already there supporting those Kurdish
areas I do support that and I'll get to
this in a second but it's frankly for
the same reason and I think no one can I
mean the whole Russia story aside I've
been someone who's criticized Putin and
Russian foreign policy for the whole
time I've done this I'm glad that
Russia's sending troops to Venezuela for
the pure fact that that is potentially a
de-escalation of of what Trump is trying
to do there so there's also another
element of just like working with the
materials you have in a non ideological
way in a smart sense right like there's
never non ideology the baseline ideology
is anti imperialist anti interventionist
and about addressing inequality and
guarding rights the extent that's
humanly possible but not having
rigid rule one way or another and
sometimes it's like okay well in this
particular configuration US troops there
is our helping and important and we'll
protect a stop a greater evil turkey
going in and ethnically cleansing and
destroying these very worthwhile
experiments and also just killing a lot
of people and then on the other hand
like yeah if if Russia or China both of
whom have their own abominable foreign
policies disrupt the you know complete
us reassertion of a hegemonic far-right
turn across Latin America then that's
also good and incidentally you can add
to the case that this again as always
does not mean that I'm a you know big a
fan or support or whatever Maduro this
is just the critical context right like
you know and I think that that broader
frame that you can't look at this in
moralistic terms you have to have ethics
but you can't be a moralist I think in
actually is almost true across the board
but it's particularly true in foreign
policy I really appreciate the comment
thank you so much and it was good to
hear from you let's actually play this
sound mm-hmm Donald Trump hosted uh Juan
Guido who is just declared himself
president of Venezuela and now is
recognized as such by Canada the United
States European countries other Brazil
under the fascist balsan ro the
far-right Colombian government basically
countries that are still pushing for an
illegal regime change or a coup his wife
was at the white house and Trump you
know it's funny it's rambling it's
nonsense
but then there's a specific response
Russia has deployed I think about a
couple hundred troops in Venezuela they
I don't think it's a main foreign policy
priority for Russia it's not like Syria
Syria is definitely a main priority for
them but they have relationship with
Maduro and they clearly see an
opportunity to create at least a little
bit of indigestion and heartburn for the
United States Trump's response to that
is it's it's verbally tough
we are with Venezuela we are with your
husband people that he represents which
is a big positive we the white people of
Venezuela and the oligarchs and the oil
interests yes big majority of the
country what's happening there should
not happen and be allowed to happen
anywhere
so we're with you a hundred percent ok
please give my regards a little workout
it's all gonna work out it always does
we're gonna get it to work out thank you
very much it'll be fine Steve what's
your next question so that let me
restate my point and I really want
people to understand this when people
who have a manichaean view of the
Manichaean view of the world which is
purely us-centric there's no other
problems in the planet besides the
United States it's one thing if you say
as Noam Chomsky does that your primary
obligation is to deal with the United
States because a you live here or be its
the prime superpower those are valid I
actually think mostly correct arguments
but if the third option is the United
States there's all these horrible things
and China's just just beautiful benign
in you know an interest in Africa
they're not bioprospecting they're not
you know taking over economies and
countries and destroying environments
and abusing labor rights they're great
or you know no Russia just wants this
enlightened multilateral world that is
ridiculous and it keeps you from saying
as an example in the Kurdish case there
is a small group of US troops why would
you pull them out just on a pure
ideological principle sell out the Kurds
and open the door for even more Turkish
ethnic cleansing again the comment of
Turkish ethnic cleansing is based on
what happened in a freeing which where
they actually went in and did it because
the in that case the russians betrayed a
group of kurds and
Turkish foreign policy makers saying
we're gonna go gutter to gutter
it's a paraphrase to get rid of these
people okay now conversely great I'm
glad Russia's going to Venezuela because
you see I don't want US imperialism
there those might my prime
orientation is anti-imperialists and
that is primarily United States because
I'm the United States the prime
superpower and imperialist and I'm an
American but I don't want a world that
is to the extent it is humanly possible
clustered under the corporate or state
hegemonic umbrella of anyone it's
abusive it's profoundly unjust and it
also tends to be antithetical to really
important political experiments whether
the Kurds or still yes in some respects
the Bolivarian government so understand
that distinction and reassess your
actual strategy and understanding of how
power works the other thing I just want
to add is an addendum and I think we
might need some sound for this which I
don't know if you have ready met a
certain there's a music maybe what I'm
about to say about the other aspect of
this video which is which is that and
and this I don't I don't want to lead
with this and I definitely don't want to
talk about the Russian investigation
everybody's annoying me but Trump said
Russia get out but in the beginning he
said everything was going to work out
now if you rearrange the words in that
segment he's saying Russia will work it
out and that should concern you I'm
Rachel Maddow bullfrog news then RA news
of the NRA has been wait is that the
bull Prague the very same Wow
respect news on the NRA an NRA has been
nuts lately enlisted Sandy Hook truther
is so doubt about parkland
shooting help racist groups in Australia
blocking violence against women act
former director tied to identity Europa
oh thanks for the props love you guys
well we love you back and yeah they're a
a is a weapons cartel lobbyist that has
actually it's bread and butter has been
white identity politics and stoking
paranoia of a race war for ages that
would be a good show topic we should
maybe look for somebody to do it NRA
wrap-up good idea because I'm always you
know my bias is to look for the domestic
anti-democracy organizations that might
be a bit more useful P gif hey guys
could you have someone on to talk about
the influence of religious values and
today in today's society the write
always talks about so-called
judeo-christian values even though it is
clear every day that we really live in a
society with values centered on
capitalism and the Oh liberalism which
are somewhat incompatible with
judeo-christian philosophy I really
think that this was just Islamophobic
dog whistling and I'm getting pissed
every time ben shapiro or even dave
rubin talked about it love the show left
his best um yeah i mean i think that's
true and again i think that it's this
whole one of the things that was so bad
about new atheism as a discourse and
please understand that this is not this
is attack on individuals and people that
don't believe in god indeed and even
though i don't identify as an atheist
which i understand still triggers some
people I you know I especially I'm
reading my this book I get a sense of
like who a lot of my prime intellectual
influences are even if I wasn't
conscious and a Cornel West is a
Christian calls himself a Christian
socialist so he is religious and he's
probably the person I admire most but
you know I don't know marks it off read
I mean atheists are great is the point
and critical a good work the atheists
have done a lot of tremendous work which
more and more people are noticing and
the historical tasks of atheism to
actually explain how religious
narratives track other societal
political hierarchies or block the
inquiries and discoveries of
Sciences is uh not like correct but like
noble but the new atheist narrative that
was basically a proxy for anti-muslim
politics and Western chauvinism and was
also so just empirically inaccurate
about religion and this is an
anthropological statement again I don't
care
believe whatever the hell you believe
but the notion that you cannot
understand that there is not one version
of Christianity there's not one version
of Buddhism there's not one version of
Islam this is both literally true
geographically in terms of how these
things change from country to country
and culture to culture but in terms of
the ideology that they promote and I
want to give Cory Booker some props here
because the reality is is that even
though things are changing particularly
in certain parts of the country
candidates are still going to have to
pay their respects to religion and and a
lot of people also again I take I tend
to take people at their word I don't do
I remember Christopher Hitchens did a
lot of like I secretly think Obama's an
atheist I don't know why I'm doing a
Gorka for him but it was like I don't
know Chris like I I get that that's your
way of complimenting him but Barack
Obama says he's a Christian so I'm gonna
just I tend to go with what people say
about themselves right so I think Cory
Booker is a religious person I don't
even know if he's actually necessarily I
thought he almost seemed Oh more like
kind of like general New Age guy but
maybe he identified as a Christian I
don't mean that as an insult I mean he's
a you know he's a he's a positive quotes
guy but this answer on what religion
means in public life I will never
support Cory Booker all the usual
problems with him blah blah blah let's
index those if more people could answer
this question like this this would do a
lot of good in our society I am a pastor
here in town and in my faith tradition
we keep partisan politics out of the
pulpit yes sir but as a citizen and a
person of faith I do have my own
opinions and I find president Trump's
whole demeanor and most of his policies
to be abhorrent or should be to persons
of faith so I'd like to ask you can you
share with us how your own faith
would influence you as president God
thank you for that question so I just
want to say up front that I'm a person
that often says it before you tell me
about your religion show it to me and
how you treat other people larger and
frankly before you tell me about your a
thei ISM show me how you treat other
people in a church where my mom taught
Sunday School and I'll never forget
learning that verse that faith without
works is dead and and I'll tell you what
I feel like I'm in church right now and
I'll tell you what this is what often
bought I would rather hang out with a
nice atheist and a mean Christian any
day of the week and so so thank you for
asking me about my faith you asked and I
will share the foundation of my life was
a raising with a faith in God but I was
taught that faith demands first and
foremost humility before God that you
look at your brother and sister
regardless of their faith regardless of
the background with a conviction of love
love thy neighbor and love is not easy
and it really bothers me that when folks
think that being loving or kind I tell
you to be strong you don't need to be
cruel to be tough you don't need to be
mean it's great and that's exactly right
and I mean look at anybody it just just
is a very basic example do you think Pat
Robertson and Desmond Tutu are doing the
same thing again and again you can have
a broader objection to religion that's
fine
in some cases again even heroic but if
you can just reduce that either - well
it's all Christianity and it's all false
or even just do kind of like mental
gymnastics another Christopher Hitchens
had a great excellent debate line that
was also totally empty and vacuous where
he would say I respect dr. King enough
to say that he would be like a great
leader even if he wasn't a Christian the
only problem was is that he was a
Christian and his entire intellectual
infrastructure as well as the physical
base of his
social movement was in the black church
in the south and then it was a
interfaith coalition with people like
Abraham Joshua Heschel one of my heroes
that did the actual work and then his
intellectual infrastructure and because
King was in fact as we forget many
things about him in addition to being a
shrewd strategist and a political
radical was an intellectual was a
Christian intellectual with secular but
also Gandhian and Eastern influences so
I'm not gonna do a counter thought
experiment it's like hey if Martin
Luther King wasn't a Christian he would
be a terrible person no he wouldn't have
had the prominence and acceptance that
from media that he got well the irony is
that the material reality which should
be the Atheist focus in my estimation
the material reality is he objectively
would not have his prominence or success
because the social base came from the
church but the rest of it is just pure
speculation it's like okay that's a nice
sounds like a compliment but it doesn't
mean the guy that we had in this
world
what's a Christian the other thing we
should say about judeo-christian values
as a term is it just a transparently
bigoted propaganda term because you
could have just said Abrahamic but they
want to exclude Muslims
that's the TEL that's right that's right
um all right which one you want to go
for first here uh we can either do Trump
about the border Tucker on health care
let's do Tucker on health care Tucker
Carlson has been taking a victory lap
he's clever he's cynical this is an
Apocrypha point actually this is a raw
fact we need to argue in Centrepointe
this guy is the main anchor on what is
functionally state media and I'm telling
you it's true like I haven't watched a
lot of actual state media but I remember
like seeing state media in a place like
Turkey and he it visually and
stylistically cues Fox News this is not
a defense I think all tape most cable
news is trash
okay Fox News is in a distinct reality
and the Jane Mayer report was not
something just to shrug
because she filled in the dots on even a
distinction between a far-right bias
Network versus an actual systemic
pounding of not only a specific for a
political party but at this point is
essentially an individual a head of
state Tucker Carlson is the main anchor
on the network that does that and
whatever you know he he toys around with
leaving right-wing orthodoxy and he's
either doing it to directly almost more
than wink to the worst forces in our
society who are also instantly close
with the White House of course I mean
the white nationalist crowd or to do the
economic populism thing with no
substantive follow-through and if you
believe him on the foreign policy stuff
uh where all the blocks demanding that
Trump stop interfering in Venezuela and
incidentally where we're at it what
about Tucker on the Iran deal
I thought soccer was fact-based and
opposed unnecessary and stupid Wars
well pulling out of the Iran deal is the
most dangerous and dumb thing that's
been done on that level in the last
couple years so sure screw CNN but bear
in mind that you're you're watching the
prime time anchor of a arche propaganda
functionally state television network
saying this we've no idea what they've
been showing over on CNN for the past
four hours we had to turn it off at 4:00
p.m. but if we had to guess health care
oh I'm sorry
I'm getting weird I'm sorry we have a
news alert now according to our
producers who are monitoring the
situation both CNN and MSNBC are talking
about
that's health care right now health care
close these orders what does that tell
you it tells you where your news comes
from Democratic officials pick the topic
and the story line their servants and
cable news dutifully repeat it to the
word all day long CNN is not a news
outlet it's
super-pac it is running unregulated
campaign ads 24 hours a day someone
ought to call the FEC about it
first of all your Joe I mean even on CNN
which does plenty of antitrump coverage
they also constantly have on far-right
extreme pundits and hire former Trump
officials that's number one
secondly I get the point he's making
he's trying to do we just had this
Russia debacle which frankly I agree it
was a debacle more than some people I
also think you're radically overstating
your case and if you're so confident why
aren't you telling Mitch McConnell who
released the full report but that being
said I agreed I actually agreed with you
I was like yeah all of this endless
speculation and and some points just
straight-up fantasy about Russia is
distracting from yes stories like the
Trump administration embracing a lawsuit
with no legal basis whose singular
attempt is to cause premature deaths of
thousands of Americans and kick twenty
million off of their health insurance
I'm glad this should be a celebration
that MSNBC and CNN are actually finally
talking about something like health care
oh and incidentally isn't this the same
network that putting aside how much I've
just don't you know I I agree who cares
but isn't this the same network that
actually literally sat on the stormy
Daniels story during the election cycle
purely because it could hurt a
presidential candidate maybe the FEC
should look at that yeah I mean I I
generally agree with the media critique
of the Russia story but I will say what
Fox News does every single night is does
more damage to this country than I think
David corn or Rachel Maddow has I'm
gonna say and I say that is a vehement
critic of a David corn in a Rachel
Maddow but you know what yes that is a
truism Winnipeg Greg I just want to
thank Matt for respecting Canada Michael
do better what did you respect Canada I
just said I respect them because you
guys were dismissing their concerns I'm
like I hear you can
cuz you're uh you like snow yeah and I
mean fresh well I'm preparing for the
freshwater Wars Franklin who we should
do more Canada covers it's actually a
good point water both from Kashmir to
serious questions of a majority of
Jewish Americans wouldn't support a
far-right organization like APEC why
would Chuck and Nancy attend even though
the presidential candidates are not
Nancy Pelosi had to come out and say she
didn't think auntie Nancy Pelosi had
come out and said she didn't think Ellen
O'Mara's anti-semitic when the
resolution was changed to include all
forms of hate why do you think that she
insinuated ill on Omar said something ne
Semitic at AIPAC
I can't square these two circles well I
would just say this is how politics is
typically done you talk out at both
sides your mouth to different audiences
the only difference now is that we have
things like social media and it's much
easier than easier to see it I mean she
has to use the phrase dual loyalty to
this because I don't think Nancy Pelosi
necessarily hates Ilhan Omar I think but
I think she is also probably more
concerned with the you know historical
alliance they have with I'm sorry to say
guys but like you know Haim Saban
I believe his name is yeah this guy who
made a fortune off of the Mighty Morphin
Power Rangers he is one of the most
important Democratic Party donors in the
country and he has said Israel's his
issue so you know I know that when L on
Omar says you know this and that there's
supposed to be a magical protective
umbrella and the laws of money and
physics and politics that apply to every
single interest group on the planet
can't apply to people advocating for a
far-right policy in Israel but in terms
of reality it does and there's still a
huge donor base for this I also think
that I think it's really important to
hammer that stat because it's true but I
still think with some older Jewish
voters even if they don't like Netanyahu
and oppose the occupation they're still
not gonna be quite comfortable yet with
completely exiting that consensus and
then I think like you know and
particularly like Schumer represents New
York and New York I mean you look at
Bill DeBlasio I mean go
bends over backwards I mean this guy
supposed to be mister woke his policies
on Israel are you know to the exam far
extreme racist right so these
contradictions are in terms of donors
funder networks and also I think in some
cases as in Schumer I think if it's kind
of amazing the Schumer is like such a
you know transactional hack but I think
he's genuinely got some extremely
far-right convictions on Israel uh herb
Munk Ulis still haven't heard you guys
talk about Briana Joy gray being hired
by Bernie she's been great on CB s well
I talked about congratulate her on T MBS
it's awesome it's great hire she'll do a
great job and great everyone pulling
their hair out of it was nerds yes who
did you'd be surprised at how many
people I mean people were more obsessed
about David Sirota oh yeah oh yeah
that's what's amazing about like the
sirota and I don't even I don't even
bother to follow it's just like it's
it's nerd disingenuous nonsense but it's
like it's like you know these other
candidates have people working for them
who've done like astroturf work for all
sorts of corporate it like just I don't
know man did you hear the coal miners in
West Virginia talking about Sirota the
last time around so they said so I could
tell you what a like the idea of
rebuilding me
I mean industrial belt but we order
garlic David Sirota who in a three week
span went from writing a column for The
Guardian which I read regularly on my
tablet that said that you know the Obama
era was a missed opportunity for
structural reform which has always been
the attitude of this beer hall and then
three weeks later you go and you work
for Bernie Sanders I know I just got a
question that look fair no stop in my
list fair enough that basically the
entirety of David's rose output was
basically a bias towards Bernie Sanders
bent that he actually officially joined
the campaign I mean what does that mean
for the ethics and journalists I mean
when you think about the idea that I
mean and granted journalists go and
double-dip and they cover an industry
and then become PR hacks for it and
MSNBC clearly doesn't give the guy a
fair shake and I acknowledge all that
but that being said there's something
just super disturbing about a guy who's
transparently Pro Bernie ending up and
going in work form
raises some serious ethical
say what you will about Zerlina maxwell
Sirota that's where I drop them that's
right throw the line right after my lyft
driver asking about the molar report is
like by the way more importantly what do
you think's gonna happen from all this
David Sirota
yeah it's just like yeah it's like look
I'm not saying that I'm not upset that I
can't afford my health care and my kid
can't get a job out of college that I'm
driving a lift to keep the mortgage on
our house but why did David Sirota write
a column critical of komlin Harris's
banking policies and then take a speech
writing job with Bernie I mean what the
 I mean the most amazing thing about
that story is was it in Atlantic writer
yeah he's obviously just some conduit
for APPA like dumb Oppo reason yeah but
Manny literally literally like crudely
photoshopping a time stamp out just
because it disproves or like Masek may D
emphasizes the point you're trying to
make and then nothing happened as father
you know nothing happened nothing
nothing I mean what does this mean about
ethics and journalism is what I want to
know that's what I want to know I mean
you know I yeah it's it's insane I and
all you can do is just like put like
like I you know I don't I'm not calling
well I think maybe actually the Atlantic
cases but I'm just saying look it just
put out a general call all these places
gonna be biased were against Bernie but
like can you at least like register to
MSNBC like hey you know like you gotta
puns it on it just like set it straight
up falsehood about it might at least
like that registered yeah or at least
like when you put up graphics of those
vying for the nomination put his photo
in it yeah that's also you know it's
it's usually best practices to have the
lead declared candidates photo up there
with like unprecedented crowds and
grassroots like me yeah it's just just a
thought just a thought a brother from
Brooklyn how much of a thought is Pete
how much of a threat how much of a
thought how much of a threat is Pete
Buddha gig boot edge edge boot edge edge
who to judge we call those fans the
Buddha ed the
food edge edge Lords how big a threat is
he - Bernie although I honestly think
homophobia prevent him from beating
Trump he could be a dark horse from
nomination well I would be concerned I
mean actually I hope not but you could
be right about the homophobia I mean no
III don't that's the bottom line
I don't you need to learn a few more
languages I just know I think I think he
is very you know it's it's one of these
like sort of truisms that the right just
totally abuses and misuses but like
there is a certain there is a liberal
credential esteem fashion with things
that normal people don't share so like
you know he speaks Norwegian that's
great
but where is the clear policy on
everybody getting health care uh I
I've actually been pretty sympathetic to
him I found what he said about Chelsea
Manning to be like disturbing it's like
that's wrong that's the one area he's as
far as I've noticed he's consistently
wish you're not not good on his foreign
policy stuff yeah I mean he had that
great line about you know Bolton's
shouldn't be in the Situation Room but I
I think it's you know it's all on like a
you know I'm a soldier I know how to do
this stuff and so I'm out sighs but yeah
when you say we're gonna as you just say
like if we're picking you know more of a
moderate leaning to leaning into the
moment I would pick him I mean he's a
McKenzie former McKinsey consultant so
they're like sir you should against him
yeah he's got a checkered past but like
who knows if he's can lean into the
moment enough to like actually affect
some change or run deep into the primary
we'll see yeah we'll see I I but I'm I
don't I'm initially I wouldn't worry
about him peeling off progressive votes
early I guess is what I'm saying
yeah I mean if I was a better fan I'd be
worried about Budaj edge yeah I think
that they're swimming in some pretty
similar water there but yeah I don't
know I I'm sorry I just it's like if
you're on the left
Bernie Sanders I'm sorry like and not
because I mean nobody is perfect
there's valid criticisms of everybody
bla bla bla bla bla but like I'm if you
look at the scale of problems we have
and the fact that we might have a very
small period of time to dig out of them
on both a level of urgent human need as
well as widespread structural and
ecological problems if you have a left
diagnosis of the world there is one
candidate who is by far in his own class
of representing those issues and I'm
sorry if you think he's grouchy sorry if
you didn't you know if if dozens of
campaign events for Hillary Clinton
wasn't enough I'm sorry I'm sorry
frankly that look Elizabeth Warren ran
2016 I think a she might have actually
won and be she would be in the position
and frankly I think Bernie wouldn't run
I think Bernie's a mission-driven guy uh
but he's the one he's the moment to base
and most importantly is the one with the
critical power analysis of how this
actually gets done and actually I want
to play this out I think this is good
framing here this is a new Bernie spot
Medicare for all I actually thought
Medicare for all was gonna be kind of
off the table in the Democratic primary
because I thought that that was the
issue than enough work had been on done
on and you know all of the centrists and
moderates like Harris Gillibrand and
Booker had signed on to it but already
and even with Elizabeth Warren there's
just this unbelievable equivocation
about it which I don't understand
now rate lowering the Medicare age and
some of these other ideas are very nice
reforms but I can tell you even just
frankly as a matter of self-interest to
be blunt I am tired of a as someone who
spent a vast majority of my adult life
without insurance and experienced how
horrifying that is on a daily basis
and also now is somebody who is a small
business owner who over pays on a crap
product I'm done with this and I'm done
with the system we're growing up in
poverty family like my family couldn't
necessarily get medicines you need it
all the time where you know there's
major impediments and the Jay Paul and
Sanders bill that's how you do it
Jamilah missioner on my show she
recently said I forget because we're
talking about how to balance all of
these demands of universal programs that
we absolutely need with the specific
legacies of racism that are in the DNA
of the country and I remember one of her
takeaway points she's like look if I'm
paraphrasing her but something
effectively passed Jay Paul or Sanders
bills become law the types of problems
we're dealing with are urinate you've
gone from you're about to die in an
emergency to how do i most effectively
want to spend my golden years right like
it's an imperfect analogy but like yes
we have to iron out home care rules we
have to figure out the extent of eye
care we have to make sure that the
legacies of racism and classism and
States are eliminated and destroyed as
we eliminate Medicare as we deliver
Medicare for every single person
residing the United States period but to
do that is already in a completely
different reality and benefit for people
here period and even like a nice little
reform it's still not going to take that
leap we need it it's a basic moral
question and it's also a basic freedom
question which is why I like this ad
that they put together with ROH Khanna
for Bernie Sanders on Medicare for all
to dream about starting a business
without fearing that her family will
lose health care it's about the freedom
of an employee to change jobs without
worrying about losing his doctor it's
about the freedom of a mother to take
care of her sick child without fearing
that the hospital bills will pile up the
goal of healthcare what are your a
radical idea another one goal of
healthcare must be to provide quality
care to all people not to make billions
in profits for the insurance companies
and their CEOs here's what Medicare for
all does it reduces the cost so that
families don't have to pay $6,000
premiums every year that they can't
afford and it saves our country money by
getting rid of the excessive insurance
profits and the big pharma monopolies
today we say to the private health
insurance companies whether they like it
or not the United States is going to
join every other major country on earth
and guarantee health care to all people
as a right
every time the people come and say
Medicare for all is not affordable
here's what we need to point out I want
us to ask them how is the current system
affordable with its fifty nine million
dollar payout to Ed the CEO it's three
hundred and fifty billion dollar
giveaway to Big Pharma and it's forty
nine trillion dollar cost to the
American economy
[Applause]
the current system is not affordable
medicare-for-all is about freedom guys
we need to get this this needs to be
elected president
no no pivot into technocracy mode like
well there's a lots of ways we can do it
 not the time for it Warren
specifically the other ones are gonna do
that the Elizabeth Warren needs to get
on the race Elizabeth what right
precisely because Elizabeth Warren is
significantly better than the other ones
the other ones will do it because
frankly they're just compromised by
donations and ideology and lack of
commitment in my opinion to be blunt but
we need this period and we need someone
who understands that frankly ironically
even those little technologic necrotic
interventions would still require do you
realize that the ACA which is the
center-right corporate friendly version
of doing this still took an on a
Herculean political effort to achieve
but reconciliation Budget Reconciliation
they lost the Senate over it and me and
the only equation that was missing was
maybe if you delivered a plan that was
clear and no and not so
convoluted they just said look we're
gonna get rid of this parasite industry
and we're gonna give everybody
healthcare then you might have mobilized
millions of people to go out there and
do the work that is what you need a
leadership that understands period
you're calling from an eight for five
area code who are you where you're
calling Harold
hey it's Jeffrey from Rockland County
hey Jeffrey what's on your minds um I
wanted to talk about a couple of days
ago I remember listening to the show and
there was a caller that came in talking
about how you know you know the very
basics almost you know new atheist type
of argumentation that I heard like
Mohammed was such a bad guy you know he
killed 10,000 people and enslaved the
popular the women and whatnot I remember
I don't you remember you that call I
think I can't
I think middle I came back from it was
this the call that during my dentist
appointment that I came back for I am
yeah I think so okay and I had to be
like you know the best part of the Quran
is we said we've got 20 minutes convert
get the chop it wah wah bar yeah okay
that was fun yeah um that was the best
part of that offering was one of my
biggest issue for that was that it is
such like when the guy was speaking
about it it's such it's so reductionist
in history like when he said that I was
just like bro wait by that logic
Alexander the great Julius Caesar a
whole bunch of people were very bad guys
by that logic because they did the exact
same thing I mean what Mohammed did if
you talk to an actual real historian no
matter how brutal it was it is it was
the standard practice of many ancient
societies for many political purposes
that is how it was done well you know
what I think the morning um to me the
more interesting response is and look
I'll just say this here's my bottom line
frankly I think you can criticize Islam
and the Quran if you want to criticize
religion and if you want to actually
have a serial I give you have an actual
argument about how it affects politics
but then you'd already be in a different
place because then an example you'd be
talking about Wahhabism or Salaf ism you
wouldn't just talk about islam and i'm i
doubt these people even know these
distinctions but they don't the other
point is like look like the other point
is like look the bottom line is like
this is a important figure to people and
yeah like if you can catch I don't
understand people like one distinction
would be to say yeah I don't care what
your religion is we're not gonna support
you in you know keeping girls from going
to school yes that's an objective
absolutely no now if you feel an
incredible overwhelming personal need to
prove that the founder of somebody
else's faith is an
I actually just object to that honestly
I agree on historical grounds so I'll
get to in a second but also just
civically I'm
sorry that's useless and you're just
being a dick and there's a reason
almost certainly why you're exclusively
fixated on Mohammed now the other
interesting angle on this
I'd recommend everybody read a book by
Robert Reich called the evolution of God
and what he tracks it's funny because
unlike the atheists he actually word the
new atheist it's a very materialistic
driven book and what he actually
documents is that part of the reason and
he talks about the three main Abrahamic
faiths but we'll go with Islam for this
there are genuinely contradictory
passages right and so when you get these
debates like you'll have people who will
say like no like Muhammad said to take
one innocent life is the equivalent to
like you know killing all of humanity
and then the atheist will respond with
some you know really bloodthirsty
passage and the answer which makes a lot
of sense to me is and his conduct -
because he responded very differently to
different situations and also again he
did other things that were very
progressive in that context he actually
was disrupting slave networks and things
like that but was basically just like
what were the politics of the alliances
he was building so when he was had it
when he had diplomatic relationships
with other tribes that's where the
verses where it's like all of the
religions have different prophets we
respect all of that like there there's
lines in there like that and that
reflects like he's got a peace treaty
going and then the lines like shame what
yeah it's the same with all religions to
some degree or another they're all even
even to the extent we can determine it's
hard obviously with ancient texts and
limited yeah you know resources but like
everywhere else the politics and the
conditions influence these things so
Robert Wright's whole are the rise of
Christianity - there was a lot of things
going on at the time but just like a lot
of like historians what pinpoint like
Christianity's rise during the time of
the Roman occupation and the Jewish
revolt that were going on yes well
that's a really that's a super
interesting history like how does I
don't know enough about it but I've read
like how does you know one way of
understanding Jesus is that he's
basically like a radical rabbi who is
opposing
like the rot in the religious
establishment and the Roman occupation
and then Paul comes along and Paul's
actually like we might have like a
global brand here that works for the
whole Roman Empire and the thing gets
you know so yeah and what's amazing is
like the only people that seem to not
want to talk about religion in a way
that is both respectful civically but
also is willing to explore the
historical and political questions are
either religious fanatics or new
atheists everybody else seems to be able
to be like yeah including by the way
members of the faiths in my experience
who aren't fanatics yet from my from my
experience too I mean it's the same
thing I had issues with I mean my
brother's an academic in Israel and he
brings up stories about like how and I
remember I brought up to him like what
do you get what do you think of sam
harris and my brother flat out with
nothing with like no indication said
he's an idiot yep i don't kind of listen
to like anything he says all of a sudden
we idiots anymore i wanted to say thanks
for the call no problem no problem
sam harris like because for this book i
have to go back to the new atheist stuff
to see the transition of how that turned
into IDW in some respects and all of the
obvious massive problems with Hitchens
and the fact that Dawkins is a great
evolutionary biologist but basically a
crank in and a spin on one lately to I'm
sure and then it's just like a boring
whatever but it but a serious snooze
fest but a serious academic and you look
at this at this for people and you're
like okay
an but a legendary evolutionary
biologist an but one of the most
important reporters and bon vivants of
the 80s and 90s and then like Daniel
Dennett who's a snoozefest but a serious
academic and then like this guy in his
30s who after like doing a bunch of
meditations and retreats and stuff for
10 years rights like atheism as good
muslims or bad book how did he get in
that group and my speculation and it's
pure speculation is like guys if i can
be in the video we can use my mom's
house
she was in the golden she wrote the
Golden Girls open bar if I can be in the
video you're calling from a nine three
seven area code who are you where are
you calling from Michael Brooks finally
on the digital sphere this is this is
Boris Epstein calling you from beautiful
sample Brazil if this is Boris Epstein
why don't you have something to say to
Matt more so than me because Matt's been
your arch nemesis from the show I have
problem with your foreign policy takes
Michael but Malik has fake degree
nuclear media let me out of my quarters
where I'm surrounded by televisions to
correspond you and your show and defend
both both both fan role again from
regressive left you so you're like a
rube menu you can't pronounce Paulson
aras name huh i I
Rubin quite bit bottom line when Lula
hands out Obama phones and he or other
man in street it hurts us and all our
children who pee on just like liberal
icon our Kelly liberal icon our Kelly
yes people I report you from here on
ground this is bottom line first lady to
meet with Trump's bill done the only
thing is I thought it was this is line
that his bottom I thought was Boris
Assad thing Michael you're like Seth
Meyers you commit several episodes to me
and I have reply rate Sinclair put right
over my head and throw my course with
TVs is quite bright day mascara me we
talk of anarcho-communism thank you for
the call that was pretty good for us
I was solid so I Ben Shapiro is having a
little bit of a
Azzam and this is a this is a very much
I don't like that quote actually my
answer is my feelings don't care about
your facts because our facts don't
matter has I mean just uh yeah next
don't matter which Oscar Wilde was
another guy yeah Oh Oscar I was a super
facts don't matter guy which is why he's
such a great writer so I the economists
and they've actually deleted the tweet
um but there is no sunscreen yeah you
wanna put that up Brennan says inside
the mind of Ben Shapiro the alt-right
sage without the rage and I haven't
actually looked at the piece yet but
then Ben Shapiro says The Economist this
is a vial I not only am I not alright I
am probably their leading critic on the
right I was the number one target of
their hate in 2000 in 2016 according to
ADL data IRA man I demand a retraction
in source of their hate huh yeah no he
was the number one target of their hate
I mean if you want to get into data he
was also the number one guy that the one
of the mosque students I think the one I
forget mass shooting in Canada he was
one of his top Twitter search big hero
fan but the other thing that's getting
your bag been that's a fact that's just
a fact we're just talking about facts
here yes this is a day after it was
revealed that the Christchurch killer
was a donating to identitarian movements
in Austria sort of connected to you know
uh well Britney Pettibone is one of the
women who was on it there she is with
stefan molyneux the britney Pettibone is
connected to martin cylinder one of the
leaders of it he is an austrian
identitarian and they actually raided
his house so i don't know the state of
things now but he was actually there was
at least some form of initial
investigation i think whats confirmed so
far as the guy the shooter donated money
to them right no he wasn't arrests or
anything but I believe they exported
we're looking for things yeah but if you
look through this is a nice thread by
Becca Lewis here who just connects all
the different people who've been
platforming this and wouldn't you know
that Lauren southern who's also
connected there she is with Dave Rubin
and some other guy I don't actually know
who that is and it's like a Dave Rubin
parody whoever that guy is but that's
fun look what we have here the daily
wire has actually hosted southern
several times Andrew Klavan another show
host on the network has also had her on
as has the head of the network Ben
Shapiro she seems to be a favorite there
there's a Ben Shapiro discussing with
Lauren southern is America on the verge
of a mental breakdown hmm I wonder which
way in which people they discovered
there so maybe it was an interview where
Ben talked about how dangerous it was to
promote xenophobia and racism I'm
guessing not unhook her to task very
hard chuck her to task very hard we're
only gonna have you on six other times
on my network I take you to task here so
and the economists did eventually
backtrack and said we apologize they
call them like a conservative or
something now but bench bureaus like in
other words if you label me outright
 you and the horse you rode in on
Jesus nice as herb yes I'm really glad
to see a revival in the word herb yeah I
actually don't think the economist was
wrong to call Ben Shapiro all right I
mean you could technically say maybe
he's alt light because he's a conduit to
the outright yeah but I think we're
splitting hairs there after you know a
number of like actual killings racist
Killians have killers have cited this
sort of you know where his main spin
when he quit Breitbart over Trump and I
don't Ren I remember he hated banning
and God knows like yeah that's the thing
he's like I wrote this thing against
banning it and who knows why what the
real beef was I mean maybe it was
sincere but I don't take anything that
means people say a face value but a big
part of his spear of his excuse me of
his spin was Andrew Breitbart would
never do this Andrew Breitbart the
founder of Breitbart news the spreader
of the Acorn lie a guy who was in the
heart of every racist conspiracy about
Obama I guess with the exception I don't
think he I think he was careful about
not getting too involved in birth or his
I'm sure was a conduit for it on that
site andrew breitbart it was a just a
pure extremist media hustler he would
have liked after a career of of lies
about Obama and socialist conspiracy
theories would have been like oh you
know a tabloid figure running like a
troll campaign for president with money
at stake yeah this is the time right I
have a conscience all that would happen
if I am quite sure that if bench if
Andrew Breitbart was still alive bench
bureau probably would be working for him
and wouldn't have had his fake anti
Trump phase this is the mosque shooter
info yeah the list of Twitter profiles
vetted visited by Quebec City mass
killer in weeks leading up to the
shooting its inch and I don't know how
they tell how many times he visited
there maybe his search or internet
history but right at the top of the list
ben shapiro
the editor in chief for The Daily wire
and animated tour of the bench Bureau
show that's weird also John Nolte up
there at a third Breitbart author of The
Daily wire of ben shapiro
Tucker Carlson mmm Fox News
founder of The Daily Caller this guy was
really intellectually curious yeah I
mean he also goes you know more explicit
racist as Richard Spencer there but yeah
that's actually funny because in a way
that's actually a pretty good that's
sort of how it works right like you be a
little Shapiro little Carlson that's
your main and then we start moving then
we get then we get some I mean it's it's
jumbled up but I actually liked that
trajectory Shapiro Carlson Spencer Duke
that makes sense to me yeah I mean I
think that that's how the pipeline in
theory works right like you have these
bigger media figures and then you have
this were the intellectual dark web well
what ideas are really hidden here I
guess we're gonna have to like follow
all these different people you've had on
your shows right you're exposing me to
Lauren southern because presumably she's
part of this intellectual dark web as
well these ideas were just being hidden
from ladies like maybe ideas about
Muslim birth rates and that sort of
thing right yeah yeah I mean this is a
it's a it's so obvious and I think more
stuff is only gonna
or is gonna out because this close of
the jerk encirclement all right let's do
one more piece of sound I want to play
this and then like we will end soon but
um are we I may break the third wall
here oh we tight okay cool
Oh what is gab it's the intellectual
dark web that's exactly what it is know
it like literally is gab is like this is
where we go to be right yes exactly
right I want to play this appeal from
the United Nations from Mozambique there
isn't much to add to this but I just
want to keep this in our awareness at
least there's a cholera outbreak there
now several hundred people have died I
know that there's some South African
true presence and this is a report that
was done on I believe it's the South
African Broadcasting Corporation so
that's South African Public Television
through the UN just the center
Mozambique for a little bit here the New
York has launched a 282 million dollar
appeal for Mozambique similar Appeals
for Zimbabwe and Malawi will follow in
the coming days the funding is only for
the next three months with the big focus
on hygiene sanitation health and
education for children show and bryce
piece compiled this report as the death
toll now reaches beyond 750 across the
worst affected countries the immediate
concern is preventing an outbreak of
disease and with thousands either
huddled in camps or schools humanitarian
workers are bracing for the spread of
diseases like cholera or malaria vera
has been separated so it's been an
island the airport is now working
communications are back up as of this
weekend there is running water which
will be extremely important but we are
very worried about disease what should
we be learning from this we pressed
these UN officials on what the long-term
recovery and development requirements
would be for one of the poorest regions
of the world
the future will have to be public and
private which is what was the basis of
the Marshall Plan and so to Mark's point
as you're rethinking the economy we have
to try to make sure that these are
knitted together in each country as best
we can and encourage it with a need for
the agrarian economies of the region to
diversify faster in order to offset the
extreme weather that will continue to be
a common feature with at least half a
million hectares of agricultural land
damaged in Mozambique alone
how is Malawian countries like it going
to is going to evolve the economy to be
able to cope better with these kinds of
problems the scale of devastation
extraordinary with entire communities
villages and cities having to be rebuilt
once this phase of the humanitarian
response is complete Shevin bryce B's s
ABC News New York
so the so obviously of course there
needs to be a just immediate
humanitarian delivery but there's a lot
of problems in the assumption of that
report so like as an example we know
that more money migrates off the
continent then goes in because of tax
left and tax shelters and things like
that we also know that yes of course
places like Malawi and Mozambique need
capacity-building to adopt the climate
change but the notion that it's sort of
on them when they are the least of
contributors to the global climate
crisis
compared to obviously the United States
or China for that matter and in addition
to that the notion that this is a
question of their own economic
diversification is a profound mystery
d'ang of all of the systems of
exploitation in the global system that
still operate on africa and block not
only economic diversification but in
fact even the types of industrially
productive and development moves that as
an example china got to make china got
to break the Washington Consensus and
protect democratic industries and manage
its growth
because they were big enough to not be
bullied by international organizations
Mozambique in Malawi or not so we create
the broader effects of a catastrophe
like this you're calling from a to 100
area code who are you where you calling
from hi I'm Mike Matt and Brendan with
Kody how's it going hey Kody was no no
sorry Oh from San Antonio welcome um
yeah hey I had a few thoughts about the
Tuesday show kind of like the other car
did let's see I thought I hated
oh you I know you showed up a halfway
through on that one oh mercy
well I was gonna get to that one I was
gonna mention that that color that was
kind of up on Jaime a little bit I don't
know how people receive this word but I
think there's a lot of anti intellectual
ISM going around with like you know it
was always especially that way with
socialism and you know obviously
anarcho-communism is not really the way
I don't think it's conducive to American
society but you know I mentioned it one
time to my dad Jamie has actually kind
of got three just a little bit you know
it's obviously not realistic but I do
say you know abolish the estate
like she once said I would never mind
that but there's you know a lot of
Tomczyk that's super utopian so I just
yeah go ahead make it make the point on
it I was just gonna say I appreciate her
saying more about the Overton Window
Park because I think if you know her
being there on the Overton Window you
know if she won there I don't know if we
would have had you know people like AOC
come along and make socialism okay it's
good just to my point yeah well you keep
pushing the dial I didn't hear that call
to be honest but I guess it sounded like
there was some guy that was that
literally was scared of it's a cold war
hang up thanks for the call man
appreciate it I mean yeah I don't even I
would love to be in your psyche if that
if if Jamie talking about
anarcho-communism is what makes you
scared my
only take on labels right yeah we might
only take on label relaxing life I think
there's a lot of people you can reach
with I guess sort of policies or
approaches that are anarchic on a
knocker communist then they'd go along
with it much easier if you explained the
the sort of approach then say this is an
narco communist just to notice like the
culture we have yeah of course
no doubt you're calling from a to 8:1
area code who are you where you calling
from a yes who are you where you calling
from uh my name is David I'm calling
from Austin Texas from the University of
Texas actually no cool Oh what's on your
mind
yeah I'm a big fan of all you guys
thanks but I do have a bit of a
criticism with basically how you guys
members in bed oh so I just want to
quickly say that I am like my top three
people are Bernie Liz Warren and then
beto but I don't necessarily think that
y'all have been fair in your
representation of the bed Oh some so
like firstly when you represented voting
record you talked about how he's from a
solidly blue voting districts but in my
personal opinion or my personal
experience with other secular Democrats
what they tend to be are people who say
yeah I don't hate gays and minorities
but I like low taxes so whenever your
vote whenever you're representing a
Texan Democrat you're gonna vote right
on certain economic issue but I think
that uh oh wait but I know be strong
nice here though yes you've said the
word texas not america nor national
politician it blows it all out of the
water
yeah I mean right hey that's so honestly
like that's the first point to be honest
it's like even if we took the most
charitable interpretation than great run
for Senate in Texas you're not a leader
of a party that's frankly thankfully
finally moving in a better direction so
that's number one and then number two
that's not strictly true because we went
back and we talked about when he was
embracing Medicare and Social Security
cuts when that was politically
fashionable it was one I he was running
against there yes yes who
absolutely in the clip you showed he
said she would consider it and I should
talk about it what do you mean what do
you mean I mean what I was running
against the Democrat he said running
want me in that room he was running
against the Democrat saying this guy is
fiscally irresponsible and you want me
in the room because we're in a crisis
buying until the hole and again to be
fair this is maybe literally you're in
college so it's an age gap at that time
the main Drive in the country was
austerity and cutting Social Security
Medicare the simpson-bowles Commission
put cuts on the table they would have
gone through in fact Obama and Biden
offered them and Democrats like bado
fillit ated them the only reason they
didn't go through is because Republicans
were so extreme they wouldn't take a win
so buy it so bait enough dude he was
part of that and honestly saying I would
think about it is worse than just
embracing it that's that's the quiver
cating no no buddy you got to
do better than that
I understand he's a nice guy and that's
fine I wanted to defend the least
okay Texas Democrats are more
conservative okay cool so run for Senate
and also that you don't really want to
defend well no bracing of terrible
policies all right give me one more one
more okay well I'm not necessarily sure
exactly what I just think that he has a
really strong rating on LGBT issues
environmental issues I don't know not
environmental not environmental big
question marks on environment so first
of all I'm sure you could look up and
get hundred-percent ratings on those
kind of scores from other candidates but
those votes and those ratings in general
you got to be a little bit more like
wary of because they as an example like
you could show a chart where two people
vote 90 say like say that's a year this
is just bear with me for a second say
it's the year where the invasion of Iraq
happens because this happened with
Clinton and Sanders right people would
say like hey they voted together 95% of
the time
it's like okay where did they vote
differently on these liberal lists oh
the most important historically defining
issues of the time invasion of Iraq the
Patriot Act the bankruptcy bill so I
know that Vado takes oil and gas money
interests I know that even recently he
tweeted about a balanced approach
between oil and gas and renewable
energies I'm sure again for a Texas
Democrat he's better but no he's not
good on this relative to where we need
to go as a matter of science and
certainly even where the party is going
I mean you think that Vado is gonna be
better than Sanders or Warren or Buda
gig or Gabbard or even a Booker on the
environment just even become and think
of just his political base from Texas
well I mean I'm definitely to the right
of you so maybe it's just because I
essentially agree with better work more
than you do okay to be fair he votes
right on like certain deregulation
issues but he tends to vote left
where it matters in my opinion well so
good so you alright so that's okay so
what we have here is all right so let's
just run and then as far as LGBTQ issues
everybody's on the same page with that
so we can just discard that I'm sorry
unless unless the only case you can make
is if you want to say I want the first
openly gay president then you could
support Budda Budda guck or whatever and
I do like good judge
I'm sure great but what you but let's
just run this down okay and I think the
last part is the most legitimate thing
you've said which is that you're more to
the right on things like deregulation I
think that being to the right on
deregulation particularly things like
the fossil fuel industry is basically
like telling Sam's children to grow
gills to swim in the future if you
accept the science so I think that is a
ridiculous actually very extreme and
insane position and then the other two
things that you said are are that yes
Texas Democrats are more conservative as
is bado but that's not where the party
is it's where you are it's not where we
want to go and then the other part was
that yes he had a terrible position on
Social Security and Medicare but he
didn't have it a hundred percent
yeah I mean these are not good defenses
well also I want to say he supports
Medicare for America which is
essentially a public option yeah I think
I know we invented okay so that's cool
well no no Republicans gonna vote for
any of these bills so yeah that's naive
if you're thinking that there's a
republic buy-in on any of this so all
right man I don't know I that's fair
enough you have different politics
that's totally fine I actually I you
know I appreciate that you told me like
you want a center center right Democrat
instead of telling me that he's so
inspiring but I don't want a center
center right Democrat I want to
progressive that's what we need right
now so thanks for preciate it man thank
you all right a final call of the day
you're calling from a 602 area code who
are you where you're calling from with
me yes hey Kenny from Phoenix take
anymore
I may be digging up some old irrelevant
stuff question mark a pretty big fan of
Jenny glue you literally just cut out
are you actually telling wait wait I'm
sorry is this a joke not real okay so
you're a big fan of us and you're big
fan of Jimmy Dore and go and you have no
idea what the problem was like what your
guys's beef is with them I mean there
are so many videos we've done on this
yeah I don't know why don't you just
watch the videos yeah we use YouTube
well I don't know your guys's views have
updated a tantrum though that I want to
probably eat on why would probably not
why would they have okay well I mean the
most recent video that I saw was Sam
saying something about Jimmy poisoning
the well when it comes to left ideology
on certain ideas we still agree with
that yes correct I mean and you know how
much it pains me to defend what sam says
here but that okay I mean
well you guys just apply that to Jimmy
or is that everybody cuz I mean they're
actually of especially I will I would
say actually a demonstrable I mean I
don't know what you mean by everybody
but yes if you go on the chat in fact I
think that that's the only concern that
I've had at times which is like at some
point we need to like you know figure
out where we want to you know minimize
that but are you kidding me
like everything from pod save America to
Jimmy Dore there's videos on this
channel explaining why they're wrong
right but I mean you guys are bring
closer to Jimmy than you guys are tap on
save America I mean they're pretty
central f-word a lot farther from Jimmy
than a lot of people think we are
guarding strategy yeah I'm not dude I'm
like I agree I agree he definitely glows
answer but he fell advocating and
promoting well actually no he's not
supporting Bernie Sanders this time but
I think yes so Tull sees not okay so it
means that's a very big difference there
too but let me just go from what my
problem is and and I think literally Sam
has explained his problem like dozens of
times so I guess you could call it again
but he could also just watch the videos
I'm honestly like the conspiracy theory
stuff triggers me less I think it's
stupid too but whatever my main problems
are moralism as a substitute for
economic analysis and politics and I
also have a really big problem I
so there's poisoning the world is poison
why is it why is it that why is it that
and Jimmy can say Michael is an
and I hate him whatever that's fine this
is prerogative but why if you do a video
about the lava jato team in Brazil that
has been used by the way right up
Jimmy's alley like it's supported by the
DOJ it's been it was something that
Clinton and Obama were involved in Kerry
was involved in at least passively all
of horrible records on this and it was
weaponized 2d legitimize the Workers
Party and make Lula a political prisoner
right and it's I'm simplifying but I
don't have time to get into everything
he did one video where he and a couple
of people sat around and were like that
show cool lava Jacko
and he hasn't even done one video going
like hey you know what I think that was
a pretty big up or even one video
saying like I hate Hillary Clinton and I
have big policy problems with her but I
also maybe recognize that um Trump
proposes unique and radical threats to
certain communities and somehow actually
doing the hard and heavy lifting because
I've noticed that this unfortunately
becomes like a talking point and it's a
shame where it's like the two positions
are either the MSNBC pod save America
position which is that you know I'm
simplifying what's like Oh everything
was great and that Trump came along or
the you know Jimmy door position which
is like I'm the only one who says things
were bad before Trump it's like
we do on this show and I do on my show
endless I mean I I do elicit histories
it's about every aspect of u.s. foreign
policy and corporate power since Trump
since Trump got in office every week and
every day and also you got to kind of
deal with trunk because he's putting
children in cages and because he's
destroying the environment and because
he is overtly winking at white supremacy
he kind of got to deal with those things
and I think that you know honestly like
I I don't keep up with Jimmy I'm glad
that he was opposing intervention in
Venezuela
I think Jimmy's entertaining and I wish
he would have taken on the task of
figuring out how to do that synthesis
but he didn't and that sucks that's
poisoning the well right I agree with
part of that but I mean dude I don't
know I feel like there's a really strong
statement however well other people that
may or may not have come over to a left
or side of I don't know I
left four sided I don't know what a
ladder saw I look at his comments and
the type of audience that people that
are like really people that are really
like pro-obama type politics that I've
listened to Jimmy and based on like the
really surface level emotional appeal
I don't I don't know I happen I could
tell you almost certainly the people who
really like President Obama in general
are not swayed by that kind of argument
like a lot of people like President
Obama are very personally invested in
him no I'm again if you look at these if
you look at a lot of the comments and
things around it it's general vague
populist rage and vague populist rage is
great if it's harnessed in the right way
if it's harnessed to draw false all
right one sees that's like that would be
my harness you like that helpful not
saying anything who isn't saying
anything
everybody's saying something like these
Pro Obama type but I crossbow bomb
inside people all the time so you you
don't have a beef with us just say that
Jimmy is poisoning the entire view or
the dynamic of what you guys are trying
to peddle yes I think yes is I don't
like look promoting you know I why all
the positive segments on Tucker Carlson
and honestly like this doesn't gives me
it for me
I totally think no no no no no no this
is see this is what you don't understand
first of all I do actually say things I
grew it Tucker Carlson regularly but you
cannot cover Tucker Carlson as anything
other than a prime conduit for
mainstreaming and normalizing white
nationalism and if you don't see that
that's a strategic no I wouldn't agree
with that so then why is it Jimmy do
that I don't I haven't watched any of
this Tucker Carlson segments but if you
my eye dude I don't I think you're gonna
just have to say that like you know even
just on a level like in general I'm
pretty tired of this topic
and I don't understand people's
emotional need for us to like the same
people you like there's actual critiques
some of which are really important and
go way beyond Jimmy some of which maybe
are just like you know people
call in and we around and have a
laugh but if you can't understand the
conspiracy stuff that is a problem if
you can't understand the Brazile
coverage if you can't understand not
doing the heavy lifting of explaining
that yes the whole political system is
totally corrupt and rotted and that
includes Democrats and Republicans and
at the same time on a relative level
there's hugely different implications
for people's material lives now it's
less sexy it's less exciting but it
actually is true and also the last thing
I'll say look there's other people who
have embraced like as an example voting
for Jill Stein
guess what Cornel West gets to do that
Cornel West is one of America's greatest
heroes and in my mind the finest
intellectual we have and he never draws
moral equivalencies and if he's done
with it and fed up and wants to vote for
Jill Stein cool but some of the rest of
us haven't bought that currency Glenn
Greenwald I'd still defend green Grem
Greenwald overall because he lives in
Brazil he is actually under threat by a
fascist government he's done incredible
reporting and you know what I think
going on Tucker Carlson and doing
victory laps is ridiculous yeah if
you're gonna fund 'mentally wrong the
only reason you go on Tucker is to argue
and try to destroy him yeah and the only
reason you play a clip of him on your
show and my estimation is to either say
this is a major threat that we have to
contend with and be strategic about and
the libs don't have an answer to or to
just straight-up be like here's Tucker
Carlson being full of yeah and my
bias is always I don't think even if you
are unsure which of us is right about
these sorts of disagreements there's no
light without heat folks like let let a
political podcast argue points like
we're not always gonna kumbaya with each
other I don't think it's punching left I
think it's like being deliberate about
these sorts of things and for what it's
worth you know if you go and I don't
really think it's that fruitful but if
you go back to the original drama there
is a debate I had a different eye
arguments with Jimmy and it sucks you
know I was friendly very friendly with
Jimmy I enjoyed doing stuff with him and
then you know he just didn't I would say
even in the summer 2016 like yeah Jimmy
I agree Hilary's trash what about the
dacha what about the Iran deal know it
what about Supreme Court no answers
he and Sam had a debate history frankly
has vindicated Sam it's very weird when
on the merits of what they argued about
which is primarily the Supreme Court so
don't get that twisted let's be very
specific and the real breakdown actually
happens because you know frankly uh
Jimmy said eat up Sam back on his show
to the debate and they didn't have a
follow-up debate and I actually think
overall it would have been great if we
could have kept the lines of
communication an argument open and 90%
of white 99% of why we talked about the
guy in the last year is because people
like you call so you know not every not
all of your friends are also friends
thanks for the call
all right swing state and again I'm I am
the one if if if Jimmy came out and did
a video lava jato how he got it wrong
and what we need to do for Lula awesome
and he can even trash Hillary while he
did it but I don't see it I see a lot of
and and you know 30 seconds I am more on
this point on the other side I've been
agnostic and now undoubtedly I am like I
am more on the Taibbi side of the
equation of the Russia stuff as of now
right that's where I'm at but I will not
like sure I'll dunk on Rachel Maddow but
you do not go celebrate with Donald
Trump and Tucker Carlson period JJ cool
hey Michael do you think the American
public will care about the unbelievable
hypocrisy of selling nuclear technology
to Saudi while ripping up the Iran deal
very unlikely but it is astonishing and
we will talk I will definitely cover
that more bag
bags of osho newest Quinnipiac poll has
me worried over Democratic voters by a
margin of 52 to 39 voters prefer a
candidate that works with Republicans
rather than it stands up to them I see
this as a result of painting Trump is
something worse than the rest of the
party the whole Republican Party's evil
the core voters need to recognize this
and defeat them I think the hundred
percent but I would say I'm pretty sure
those numbers like those are Democrats
getting better like they they usually
always be more let's work with the
Republicans and now finally like those
are dropping so I think probably if you
look at that longitudinally that trend
is going in the right direction I think
you're actually exactly right guys sorry
no more phone calls the final I am of
the day final I am today goes to disco
Stu I sincerely think Warren's AG
proposal is great but does she really
think this is going to win Oh act Rose
was great but she really think is gonna
win over any farmers got news for you
the tariffs are killing them they still
love Trump stop wasting your time trying
to appeal to horrible people well I mean
okay dude I don't know of like there's
plenty of farmers that did not vote for
Trump there's plenty of small organic
farmers that are actually politically
really radical and incidentally like
farms and packed our entire food
supplies so and it could be it could be
it could be the right move even if it
doesn't win you both the farm yeah it's
the correct policy
you really cannot reduce everything to
this like you know cable news war about
Trump and as long as she's not again the
distinction is so obvious if you will if
you try to appeal to xenophobia or
racism then that is disgusting and wrong
we rejected categorically if you happen
to deal with actual policies that
negatively affect people that might vote
badly that's called doing your job as a
leader and politician so you have failed
it's a paraphrase Sam where it's a
directly quote Sam we knew that as a
trap
you have filled all right everybody
we'll see you tomorrow
take us through that guy to get to where
I want but I know some
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
for the rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
