[Music]
is there's a couple parts of it and when
you know I haven't quite seen all of it
but there was story today where Trump is
planning and we've heard reports about
this right like a couple of weeks ago
and it was unclear but apparently
Customs and Border Protection has not
publicly disclosed his plans but there
was local leaders in Broward and Palm
counties supposedly got wind of the plan
that calls for releasing of asylum
seekers and potential immigrants to
those two districts in Florida they've
been told to expect the arrival twice a
week of a hundred and thirty five asylum
seekers rerouted from the El Paso area
that's equivalent to about a thousand
people per month divided between the two
counties they're not getting any funding
whatsoever for this you're gonna have
people in there obviously who many who
don't speak English I mean Florida's not
the worst-case scenario for an influx of
of spanish-speaking people to the extent
that they're all speaking Spanish I mean
there's a lot of people who I think end
up speaking indigenous dialects or
languages from you know depending on who
they are we don't know who's going to be
released there but the idea I guess is
to put pressure on these counties maybe
this is you know some way of creating
stress there so that Trump can carry
those counties maybe in an election I
don't know but it's pretty stunning and
here is Donald Trump laying out the
other parts of the immigration plan
which theoretically are is about getting
the best and the brightest which ends up
you know based upon the system in which
we determined that will keep out
essentially people who are poor people
who are coming presumably from horrible
situations in Latin America and you know
will ultimately probably call for end up
allowing for more immigration from
countries that are a little bit paler
priority will also be given to higher
wage workers ensuring we never undercut
American labor to protect benefits for
American citizens immigrants must be
financially self-sufficient finally to
promote integration assimilation and
national unity future immigrants will be
required to learn English and to pass a
civics exam prior to admission all right
I mean that's fairly straightforward to
figure out right I mean if you're coming
from a European country where English is
taught in the schools and you have
access to funds because you are a high
wage earner you're going to be able to
take the classes you're gonna have
access to all this information that you
need to get in to the country and so
this is you know there's a bit of a bank
shot for them but that's what it is and
it is it really is basically a permit of
action for white Europeans to come into
this country is what it comes down to
yeah as if that many of them want to
come into our backwards nation I mean I
imagine some do but you know there's
probably maybe in some businesses more
opportunity for them here but why is
there seeking more opportunity more
legitimate than people who are less
wealthy seeking opportunity why is there
desire to come to this country more
legitimate than people who are seeking
asylum because their country is a crap
show like if there are jobs for those
people come in at low wages then we have
a need for them just as much as those
people are coming in with seeking high
wages it's there's really ultimately
only one way to explain it and I'm quite
sure they have run the numbers on this
they've probably you know done a reverse
model on this in some way well I mean I
think they also know it was certain
sectors of the people who are doing this
know that it's not going to totally stop
immigration coming into this country but
they want the people who are here to be
undocumented and in danger so that they
can't you know agitate for their rights
and it's easier to scapegoat them and
say to you know american-born workers
hey these are the people who are
undermining your rights not the policies
that we made
