so Heather we had one last thing you had
given us a great update on what what we
learned from the inadvertently
supposedly from the Muller investigation
this week which was that Paul Manafort
the things that Robert Muller says that
he lied about had to do with him passing
information on to a I guess a known
[Music]
colleague asset of Russian intelligence
we should say passing things on from the
campaign that would are very strange to
pass on to the campaign and mana Ford
doesn't deny that he did these things he
just denied that he lied about it but
the question becomes why do we know this
now the easy answer is just that Paul
Manafort has the world's most ignorant
lawyers when it comes to redaction in
you know 2018 there are some people who
speculate that one of the things that
the Muller investigation said about Paul
Manafort when they said the plea deal is
broken apart was that mana Ford had been
in touch with the Trump administration
for you know the Trump people for quite
some time and there was some speculation
that Manta fort was had pretended to a
plea deal so that he could pass
information on to the Trump people as to
what was going on with the investigation
what do they know let's get our story
straight there are some people who
speculate that this was not an accident
these fake these these poorly done
redactions that it was basically a
public way of letting the the Trump team
know what Muller knows from Manta for
what's your sense of that you know I I
don't know I think that's thoroughly
possible I mean why not I mean they have
been obviously mana Ford has been trying
to communicate with the Trump team from
the beginning I mean I think that's
obvious and that's come out in a number
of different ways and it may be that
since they've been buttoned up since the
the plea deal thing fell apart maybe
this was the only way they could do it
on the other hand I read a lot of
lawyers online saying hey look this
happens more than you think you know
they'd this whole idea of protecting
documents and doing all that it's often
sloppy and we did see it earlier with a
thing about Julian Assange where that
was revealed that there was some case
pending against him and caused a big
bruja so I don't know but I do know that
you know it's the type of thing that
Donald Trump will certainly be you know
glad to know if you didn't know it
already and I doubt very much that the
Muller team was very happy with this
coming out I mean it's nice for you and
I and for everybody else being go look
at that yeah but as far as building the
case that may not have been something
that Muller was very happy with I assume
that he wasn't and by the way there was
just one other thing before before we
wrap up this particular segment that
Jared gave Sherman and Vanity Fair who
has submit very interesting sources in
the Trump White House says that he had
he had heard a friend of Rudy Giuliani
said that he knew the ripped the Muller
report was going to be horrific and they
were terrified of it and I just thought
I'd throw that out there because I think
it's kind of amusing considering the
others what we hear from them you know I
guess we're gonna we're gonna have to
wait on that but we shall see there are
three minutes left or so in this segment
and I want to make sure that we mention
this because we didn't have a chance to
when the Democrats came in the first
thing they did was something that I
think you and I had talked about for for
some time was to offer a a piece of
legislation that was a suite of policy
proposals that had to do with voting had
to do with like motor voter registration
had to do with you know allowing people
with felony records to to vote after
they got out of prison there was a whole
series of manat just a motor voter but
any contact that you had with the state
would automatically register you to vote
unless you opt out it there
was and making it a federal holiday for
a federal workers to go and vote there
there was a lot of reforms that are that
do two things one it shows that the
Democrats are understand the problems
with voting in this country we do not
have a constitutionally mandated right
to vote which is a problem and the
disenfranchisement of literally hundreds
of thousands of not millions of people
in this country is an ongoing problem
with the Republican Party it also from a
partisan perspective is a smart thing to
do because you know we see Republicans
do this in a much more grotesque fashion
right they get into office and they pass
a laws that some instances they do this
in lame-duck session that literally you
know amassed them more power and strip
others of more power and to see the
Democrats pass or I should say yeah I
mean passed in the house anyways a bill
that not only furthers democracy which
is obviously crucially important and the
most important thing but it also helps
them build a power base that is
encouraging to me yes I agree with you
100% and and I think this was it was
symbolic but also practical for them to
put that out there first and by the way
I would just add that according to New
York Times one of the first things that
the Oversight Committee under Elijah
Cummings is going to be investigating is
all this scandal surrounding what Trump
and the RNC and the rest of the
Republicans are trying to do with the
census which is also part of this whole
voting you know maybe
of issues that they brought together so
I think that the Democrats are
definitely on the right track on that
and I'm encouraged that they see that
kind of thing as a priority I just
talked about
I hope they start talking about you know
DC statehood and Puerto Rican statehood
and things like that
DC statehood was part of that bill DC
statehood part of that bill
now Berto Rico was not but DC statehood
was in fact I mean so there was a whole
host of those type of democratic reforms
that also have the added benefit at
least it you know that shows that
there's some consciousness of this that
when you take power particularly in an
era with these type of Republicans you
need to make sure that you can maintain
power and digby with the hopes that we
maintain the power of this show hope to
talk to you again next week as always a
pleasure
