[Music]
one seven area code to worry where
you're calling from hey Michael this is
a water boy come here hey how are you
doing good to hear from you what's on
your ma yeah I was planning on calling
it hard to talk what I think I should
well you know this is kind of um
but um you know you name was it look uh
Murtaza do the same that does it the
same yeah yeah yeah yeah sorry you need
to go through the general overview but I
did this so they know that was on the
Michael Brooks show YouTube channel
because there's some people who won't
know what you're referring to I did a
cashmere special with interest with the
intercept reporter Murtaza Hussein
anyways please go ahead tell us yeah oh
yeah no he everybody should check it out
uh stay yet no idea what's going on cuz
those are very good and sorry but kind
of like a general overview because
there's so much to unwrap that honestly
it would be it would take like multiple
shows and unfortunately the way things
are going over the next few months you
may not have any choice but to do
multiple shows as things are kinda
getting worse
so for now all I wanna say is like the
amount of apathy do you - all right I'm
sorry
apathy okay you know I understand I just
missed that apathy yeah yeah
from the generally speaking the
international community in the press
right now is uh and I don't think it's
malicious I think it's just no one
really talks about that region because
there's other things to talk about that
region is a kind of heart-wrenching but
that's sort of leading to a problem now
where if there isn't enough at least
voices from outside saying what the
is going on
pardon my french then the Kashmiri is I
mean they re are sort of are going to
start looking in words for solutions and
for that matter Pakistan by extension
which means worse ah lots of violence I
myself grew up and a lot Kashmir that
would be the Pakistani side of Kashmir
but what I mean what people don't
realize there was a Kashmiri before 1947
like before the partition so ya know
plains of people briefly what the
partition was and then and then tell us
that sure so the South Asia was part of
the British Empire and as the British
Empire was crumbling all around the
world this was also the place where they
left because mostly due to nonviolent
movement by Mohandas Gandhi was Mahatma
Gandhi but at the end in the
fundamentalist kind of went nuts and so
they wanted to create a two-state song
communal lines one for Muslims and one
for well majority of Hindus but
literally everyone else and so the
British partitioned India on the way out
now premiers specific issue wasn't
resolved because it was a quasi
independent state when the British left
and it was under was what they call it
princely state for about a hundred years
before the partition and this is where
the problem I'm not gonna go in detail
to spend the next 10 seconds explaining
for about three to four decades before
partition like before 1947 before there
was in India and Pakistan in a modern
form
there was a feudal rebellion in the
state of Kashmir that includes both the
Indian side and the Pakistani side which
no one talks about because that has huge
implications on what happened you know
in terms of modern conflict because I
mean it was almost medieval the rule not
almost and almost exactly Wars like my
own family if you go back like a three
and a half almost four generations
two of my ancestors personal life I mean
this was like normal of the only quote
that comes to my mind right now is very
small story to India when he was at
Kashmir this was think in the 1930s he
said that the lower caste Hindus or even
like a middle cast for that matter were
treated like dogs and the Muslims are
treated worse the majority of population
was well so I mean outside this context
that's what I've spoken to I don't know
dozens of a lot of Indian friends here
because you know New York is a melting
pot and with the exception of a couple
of them they kind of got these glassy
eyes when I asked them like what was
going on right before 1947 because I was
like a black hole of information right
no one has idea that and and I had the
same exact experience with like my Saudi
friends you know that kind of students
studying here I think hey so what was
happening in Saudi Arabia in 1923 they
have no idea they didn't exist I mean
that part of history is like it raised
or not hot so well I am there's Otto
unravel I want to go into that because
it'll take the next two hours well all I
say right now is yeah please go ahead
it's uh these sides very important that
people are at least paying attention and
let's just be careful when we make I can
waive arguments of like oh it's a
compliment in India and Pakistan and
Pakistan militancy here because that
completely Falls up the situation on the
ground and well currently the Pakistani
government is incredibly incompetent
which is why music an really really
pissed and they're looking for the
Pakistani military for signals and
and they are giving signals I mean
they're making straighteners now and
serving what was that it's very
disturbing
I mean I yesterday and guardians front
page two separate articles had quotes
from the Pakistani army chief not the
government
they had no strategy and one thing that
people would end with this something
that people don't know is they're about
five million Kashmiri so four and a half
million on the Pakistani side and we've
all like a very deep connection to both
sides of Kashmir and historically
Kashmiri have made up a large portion of
Pakistani army and even though they
represent around four percent of the
total population of Pakistan they make
up over one-third of a Pakistani army
which has huge structural implications
within the military in Pakistan so
Kashmir is like a very touchy issue I
don't know how it doesn't lead to
conflict if people don't put pressure
and the only thing that for the in India
people are responding to at least for
the Congress is when there's pressure
from outside and yeah I don't yeah
but sorry well I'm gonna do a sec I'll
actually I'll move from this what we did
have a little bit of a package planned
on it so we'll do that now thanks so
much for the call back soon hang in
there I mean so yeah there's some really
important just kind of brief history to
overview on this like he was saying the
route of this current iteration is 1947
that there's first the split of Pakistan
from India there's the partition which
happens after the colonization in India
and Kashmir is disputed area now on one
hand it has been under heavy military
occupation since at least the
ladies and there has been constant and
well-documented serious abuses by the
Indian military on Kashmir II civilians
and there has also been the use of the
you know the the Pakistanis have funded
militant groups which have engaged in
terrorism and the Pakistani see it it's
both a question of national pride for
Pakistan because of the loss of
Bangladesh which goes back to the 70s
the Pakistanis that Bangladesh actually
used to be part of pakistan pakistan 'is
waged the genocide a war there the
Indians
supported Bangladeshi independence for
their own strategic reasons and so on so
there's a lot of history here and of
course the broader context is that these
are two nuclear-armed states who've
already fought three wars and there's a
lot of tension there's a small amount of
Kashmir which is under Pakistani control
but what narrow who did do and has held
mostly even for all of the abuses is is
basically regional autonomy so that
outside of an independent Kashmir a
foreign policy there can be a lot of
rule setting inside Kashmir so one of
the things that this does I mean this
revokes and changes the Constitution so
it is part of a broader effort of the
BJP to destroy pluralism in India not
necessarily secularism I don't know that
necessarily called India a secular state
but it really did have a degree of
significant pluralism under the old
Congress party tradition that was a huge
achievement so they're trying to destroy
that with their own version of
nationalism and imagined past and so on
and we already know Modi's record look
at his conduct during the mass murders
in Gujarat in 2002 I mean this is a
horrific record of this guy that has
been whitewashed through right-wing
forces through you know people that just
want to carry on sure you know the
diplomatic and political activity of the
United States when India Barack Obama
co-wrote a column with Narendra Modi
this was a guy who back several years
ago was not allowed to enter the United
States because of his possible
complicity in genocide all atrocities
and
so this move is about destroying in the
employer ilysm and then it's also about
the fact that cashmere is beautiful it
has a huge amount of it it has an
enormous potential for tourism and so if
you basically allow it to lose its
autonomy there can be a rush and there's
an analogy to a China and Tibet
situation where the local population or
puerto rico even local population can be
uprooted and there can be basically a
primitive capitalist accumulation
process as well which is the perfect
distillation of the BJP hindu
nationalist politics there's a report
that we have from al jazeera on the
ground and we'll just play some of that
just some of this sorry it's sound
number 10 just a little bit of a report
just so you can that's the kind of
historical political context the extent
i can give some of it and this is some
reporting on the grounds of the
incredibly aggressive measures that the
indians are taking here in kashmir let's
play a little bit of that Srinagar a
ghost town troops on every corner
barricades everywhere in the largest
city in the indian-administered Kashmir
India's government says recent troop
reinforcements are to ensure security
and to maintain order as Kashmiri see
the effects of the significant changes
to their autonomy and statehood they
didn't tell us anything and revoked
article 370 all the phone lines are down
strains are not working we haven't seen
anything like this in Kashmir in our
lives migrant workers who hope to find
employment here happen stranded for days
so there's a sense of it I really
serious I'll make the specific point
look of course Tulsi Gabbard should be
answered asked about this but every
single presidential candidate should be
this is one of the prime crises in the
world today
the Indians have been extremely
resistant on international mediation on
Kashmir and even the acknowledgment of
the abuses that that government is
always on take undertaken in Kashmir and
the Pakistanis have fomented as I say
terrorist actions there as well okay
