like this um this email and she's she
lives in in Ohio and that email and what
what was the latest conservative hit job
on I want to say hit job but really
failed hit job on AOC reminded me of
Footloose not the remake the original
where it was illegal to dance in the
town and who was the guy had the six to
six degrees of Kevin Bacon was was the
rebel who came to town taught everybody
how to dance and there is I there's
something deeply deeply wrong with the
conservative movement and they are you
know I don't hold much stock in this
because I think they're terrified of a
lot of things and much of them are made
up right I mean like I don't I don't
think the the reason to you know I
I'm not in favor per se of the caravan
because there were people in Michigan
who were afraid that the caravan was
going to come and take their house or
something
and so my support for AOC is not founded
in the fact that they are so terrified
of her but I will say that I am
beginning to get more enjoyment than I
think a person should you know out of
how affray Bay you know the phrase
living in someone else's head right so
they have been the the the gateway
pundit is that who it was or somebody
someone on some right-wing outfit
plummeted anonymous q 1776 oh yes a very
very very happy person I'm talking about
yesterday
they are two days ago came out with the
revelation that in high school
Alexandra Acacio Cortez went by the name
sandy and that they confirmed what she
had been saying publicly was that we
moved out of town into a richer town
where we were ended up being one of the
poorer members of the town so I could go
to a good school you know up in you know
just outside of the city outside of the
Bronx and that apparently was I'm not
sure exactly what the Florrie was areas
Republicans always resort to like the
most crude form of identity politics so
they're basically saying look she's not
real right it's like it's like Rick Ross
he was a security guard he wasn't a real
guy yeah like she was she didn't she's
that working-class crowd her family
scrapped together savings to make it
impossible for her to go to a better
public school I just saw the
phrase she misrepresented her past like
whatever and whatever it is so that fat
that failed but these detectives on the
right found this incredibly damaging
video that they put up on liveleak this
is the place where they literally put
like snuff films right and this is it
folks if you're at home please sit down
because it turns out that at one point
in her past
Alexandria Acacio Cortes danced
yes with a guy then with a girl what the
hell okay now I know there's probably a
lot of you are disturbed out there
solution just Annabelle on the green new
deal guys she clearly was younger but
that's no excuse for dancer dollars
right here is well no but we don't know
that it when this is released oh we
don't know that she's alesis junior a
senior in high school right so I mean
still right still stands okay
I was appalled but here's now aside from
the fact that they thought that this
would that video would somehow be
damaging to her and everybody was like
oh my god this is it's incredibly
charming I think wow she's like like
what an authentic person who you know
like it turns out and this is what's
even more bizarre about this that was
not the video what they did is they took
clips of her from another video and they
changed the music the music you heard in
that was called TomTom by TomTom fever
TomTom fever
sounds like the music that Josephine
Baker would come out to in her little
bananas skirt right let's put a pin in
that as to like why they did that but it
turns out that what that video was from
was from a video that was made in at BU
by a bunch of kids who were doing the
listo mania meme essentially from like I
guess ten years ago or so
yeah about 2009-2010 and I'm not
convinced this wasn't even like a
commissioned by bu because it's all be
used
wearing BU clothing and they're trying
to like it's it seems like it's like a
promotion for the admissions office
based upon this meme that was going
around on video so let's watch this part
of it it's a different song and it's so
weird like I don't know if they thought
like we can't show her that we can't
show any like just sort of like average
white guys in there or something
I can't I think they wanted to make it
look like a vanity project like she just
like wanted to be filmed dancing or
something yeah weird but here here is
the original narcissistic folks heart
video
man
[Music]
[Music]
it's unbelievable okay now that's enough
of that I know I can't I can't take it
anymore although it does bring back some
some rough memories for me because it's
right next to the BU Law School which I
attended for a year and that is
sometimes hard for me to watch but they
for whatever reason they cut out parts
of that video and put it with that new
Tom Tom music that does sound like
Josephine Baker and I think was supposed
to be reminiscent like sort of like this
is what's happening way uptown and
there's some like you know like crazy
jungle music going on like I'm smoking
some jazz cigarettes yeah exactly like
smokin the Negro's Devils still have
dominicana voodoo priestess is coming
out I can't for the life of me like why
didn't they just release the original
video or why didn't they make the other
video more nefarious like they're so out
of touch that they can't even like I
don't know how you would demonize her
from that video but they did such a bad
job about it and then the interesting
thing about this whole thing is that
that Lisztomania thing was a meme that
was part of a mash-up that came from The
Breakfast Club scene so she was playing
the ally sheedy role in it and the guy
doing this the the was playing like the
yeah here yeah this is this is it this
is the original video that started me so
she's doing the ally sheedy things you
know coming around
and of course she would play that role
so she's right narcissus okay so that's
what that came from but the funny thing
about that was that as these mashups
started going around where there was
like different kids from around the the
country started doing these videos
Lawrence Lessig used it as an example
for why we needed Creative Commons
copywriting and he actually did a video
about it including these clips that was
then forced to be taken down by the
publisher of the Lisztomania music and
he went on to sue them and win and it it
fundamentally altered the the copyright
dynamic online for all these memes so
the there's so much it it was such a the
fail the Electronic Frontier Foundation
should get behind DLC now after this
what exactly I mean it's just one more
reason why like your internet freedoms
in some way she played a small part in
our internet freedom freedoms
unknowingly and it is edia but she's
ruining The Breakfast Club cuz that
woman's white xacto sick of it it's like
Ghostbusters this yeah the widow and the
brightest Club is white she just is she
just is and so this is great tweeted
this out today I love also that she's a
troll in addition to everything else
first representative who's good at
posting and it's so bizarre and exciting
so she just dropped this like so any
minutes ago in response to the the
failure to I don't know what they were
supposed to do but here it is play this
is pretty funny
[Music]
she just danced outsider and her song
choice that also I mean well you know
what they're gonna do they're gonna take
that they're gonna pull the music out
and they're gonna they're gonna put
Shakira she won't be alright well that
is that is I don't know my first
response that was honestly like I was
sad for the person I was like is this
person ever been outside do they have
any friends like how warped do you have
to be to think that this is Dan um he
literally mentions digital phrenology in
his bio so it's probably not
