[Music]
this is just another example where we're
bar just and this one just stood out at
me because here's chris coons trying to
get bar to concede that even though it's
not criminal or it is it should be an
offense for a candidate of some offense
maybe not a criminal offense but an
offense consider an offense to take
damaging information in the context of a
campaign from a foreign government
intelligence agency now of course i want
to preface this by saying we're like
undoubtedly engaged in this behavior in
venezuela right now it's one of the
reasons why I oppose the Trump
administration because I don't think we
should be doing that I don't think that
we should have been doing it in the past
but if you if you say it's okay
for others to do it to us it becomes
perfectly okay for us to do it to others
and so it has to be you have to have
some type of like a parity here so here
is Chris Coons and I don't know what
Chris Coons is perspective is on what we
should be doing with Venezuela or any
other country but nevertheless here's
Chris Coons trying to get bar to concede
that a campaign should not take
information from from a foreign entity
but a bar is smart enough after he
regains his balance to realize like oh
this is narrowly tailored so I'm not
getting the president in trouble
going forward what if a foreign
adversary let's now say North Korea
offers a presidential candidate dirt on
a competitor in 2020 do you agree with
me the campaign should immediately
contact the FBI
if a foreign intelligence server
Intelligencer a representative of
foreign government says we have dirt on
your opponent should they say I love it
let's meet foreign contact the FBI are
an intelligence service does yes
okay now Kunz let him off the hook here
because you cannot do this you cannot
say I'm gonna give the option a
representative of a foreign government
or foreign intelligence agency because
that's what Barr heard like oh I got the
option I'll just say the Foreign
Intelligence Agency now of course if you
say that you can say well they didn't
know they were part of foreign
intelligence agency they or they weren't
part of it for an intelligence agency
they were just like a friend of a
foreign intelligence agency and they
gave us the information that type of
thing so Kunz you know there were sloppy
with this stuff in dealing with him and
that's why they needed a need a lawyer
in there to get to Tabar but yeah they
didn't contact the FBI and when you say
should and they don't like that becomes
problematic right that's something that
theoretically Congress should look at
and say you know what you're really not
worthy of being the president the
American people should say that I mean
this is just this is just common sense
that that of course and and this was
happening all over the Trump campaign I
mean how did they come up with that I
mean it was like a hundred different
contexts different people at different
points all throughout that campaign and
then of course we know how the Trump is
behaved since then in fact he just
talked to Putin today for an hour and
talked about the Muller report we're all
in the clear apparently he said you know
they talked about collusion everything's
great they're all they're all happy I
mean I I think we can assume that at no
point did he say hey you know fled but
you know no more of this interference
and if anything he did the opposite and
pretty much gave him you know wink and a
nod in a green light to do it again
because there is no price to pay for
either one of them apparently for doing
this so you know this is this is sort of
an ongoing thing and I think Barr backed
that up I mean by being very specific
and he kind of struggled a little bit
for a minute and he kind of any heard
that for us just as you said heard that
you know representative of a
for an intelligence service I mean
that's pretty specific right and of
course that's not what they do they have
cutouts they have you know middlemen
they don't you know they don't send over
the head of the KGB or the North Korean
Secret Service or whatever it is and say
you know hello you know we've got some
information here is the papers I mean
they have other people doing that but
the basic concept that it is wrong for
you to welcome the you know the sabotage
of your you know I mean we're not just
talking about the social media campaign
that's kind of a propaganda campaign
it's almost in a different category the
hacking is the thing that they can't
ever seem to really address and the
hacking which is the stealing of
information and using it to sabotage
your rivals campaign is really not any
different than the Watergate break-in
where they broke into the Democratic
National Committee to you know look for
information put bugs into the into the
bones and they got caught this is this
is you know this is not the ethical
behavior let's just put it that way and
and the idea that they're just sort of
brushing that off is if it's it's no big
deal is is well I mean obviously they're
giving a green light for it to happen
again I'm always curious about the fact
that these Republicans automatically
assume it's going to benefit them and
you know I mean do they have assurances
of that do they somehow know if they're
going to be the beneficiaries because it
seems to me they should be a little
concerned what happens if somebody does
it before the other side I mean are they
do they not where I mean of course you
know they would you know scream holy
hell if that happened to them but this
is a very you know I mean I don't think
they have much to fear frankly I mean
let me
I mean all right what we have emails
from the Trump administration today that
talk about and and I want to jump ahead
here but they talked about how they had
no plan to re reunite kidnap children a
migrant cut and we're not gonna hear
much about it at all I mean the the fact
is that the
the our our media system is much more
and frankly the the the nature of the of
the support for the two parties is is
very different and this type of
information is simply not as damaging to
the Republicans there I I mean what
could we have found out about Donald
Trump that would have shook his
supporters well I mean that's really the
difference between and that's why the
Republicans don't worry about this and
it's really very depressing and
distressing this kind of stuff has been
revealed right I mean you've got this
miscreant in the White House and
completely unfit president you've got
now an attorney general that's engaged
in a cover-up and when you go and look
at his past behavior he covered up the
iran-contra here you know scandal he you
know sicked the the the Department of
Justice when he was Attorney General
before on on in Little Rock Arkansas to
go against Bill and Hillary Clinton
during that election to try and help
help bush senior win reelection he lost
of course but you know this is the kind
of guy he is we see it everybody known
they're in there all cheering on that
side the difference is this and it has
to do with the two the two different
parties not the politicians who you know
they're politicians right they're going
to do what they do it's bent the voters
Republican voters are fine with this
stuff
they are absolutely win by any means
necessary they do not care the Democrats
would police themselves they would not
allow that to happen and I'm talking
about the voters the Republicans can
count on the fact that if the shoe were
on the other foot that Democratic voters
would turn on their own and they can
count on the fact that when it's
happening to them that the Republican
voters will stick with them it's just
not the same thing now it's true that
there's always sort of these partisan
flows back and forth you know on what
side you're on and what have you but I
remember scandals going all the way back
that you know if this it mean and you
only have to look at what the scandals
have been since a watergate's that the
Republican scandals have been humongous
I mean we had Watergate we had a row
contra we've got this one these you know
we had George Bush in the that you know
9/11 and the the that the Iraq war for
crying out loud I mean these are people
who push the limits you know Clinton we
had you know there's Picayune stuff in
Arkansas and this is a you know affair
we had Solyndra and fast and furious and
Benghazi in in the Obama administration
these were things that were you know
patently made-up scandals and you know
if if yeah I remember when Clinton got
got you know caught with literally with
his pants down with Lewinsky they went
to the floor of the Senate and the
Congress and they condemned him and they
said it was wrong and you know to all
the Democrats didn't know they didn't
vote to impeach him and kick him out of
office but they didn't just sit back and
go yeah well you know that's the way
it's done you know no big deal and and
the public they supported Clinton but
they didn't approve of him and here you
have Republicans that they absolutely
love Donald Trump I think he's terrific
everything about him you know they can't
find a thing and so they know they're
safe in doing this because their own
voters I mean I hate to condemn you know
nobody that's right I think that's
exactly look at listen I mean try and
think of the analogy of the the Clinton
emails that came out right that showed
disdain for Bernie voters and and and
stuff like that right okay try and think
of the analogy where where Donald Trump
calls Ted Cruz's wife ugly or whatever
it wasn't he said right and like Ted
Cruz himself is up there talking into
the camera like I this guy I'm gonna and
then you know three weeks later he's
like I love him I mean it and and you
know where were the Ted Cruz voters you
said like we're gonna hold that we're
gonna we're not gonna ever vote for this
guy I mean there were you know they were
what was it Chaffetz was like I can't
look at my daughter in the eye you know
and then literally like he's like he's
he's invoking his teenage daughter as
why he can't support Trump and within
that weeks within weeks he is supporting
Trump and so there is no analog here and
so that's why I think that the Democrat
I mean the Republicans have a structural
advantage
with this they it for them it would be
like yes go ahead
you want to get China to break into
Donald Trump's servers go ahead and
ain't gonna make a difference because he
knows that he can and and and I will say
this about the about bar and let's play
this well let me say this and then we'll
play this clip with Kamala Harris
because it leads into sort of like where
20 20 is going bar is and and and maybe
it's because there hasn't been you know
I haven't been able to see campaigns in
the same way maybe in 2018 as we saw
with Trump but bar and Cavanaugh it
seems to me are two very much post Trump
performances insofar as they just got up
there Cavanaugh a little bit more naked
Lee so I I don't think Cavanaugh has
frankly bars intellect when it comes to
answering questions frankly I mean
there's remotely close but bar also knew
that he had you know he this was not a
confirmation hearing this was like you
can't touch me already I'm already there
but they both sort of did stuff and
naked Lee avoided questions or lied
about stuff where you had the sense that
everybody in the room knows this right
everybody in the room knows he's lying
or he's just being evasive
and nobody seems to care like they're
like it's just this is the way it is I
mean the Democrats showed a little bit
more you know anger towards it than they
did under under Cavanaugh but there's
just there's no there is there is no
shame that is no longer a leverage point
