a couple of weeks ago we play the clip
of a billionaire going to a Morehouse
College and announcing during his speech
and it's always the last refuge of a guy
who can't come up with a really catchy
speech and that is - at graduation that
is to pay off all the loans of everybody
in the audience and everybody walked
away that's the best speech I've ever
heard and the guy didn't have to really
say yeah she did a little cheating but
if you got it flaunt it
that's what I always say anyways and
you'll recall that we suggested that
this is problematic and insofar is that
it it it identifies the problem but
offers a not even a band-aid Hey like
almost like a tiny tiny band-aid like a
band-aid that didn't even cover the it's
I'm saving the wound but it's it's it
identifies the problem but then gives a
false solution which sets us off on the
complete wrong track sort of does a
mission accomplished sort of routine
exactly it in fact lets the air out of
the tires but we still have the problem
of the air in the tire and here
apparently Fox News had a slow news day
and so they circled back around on on on
Giada's credit criticism of this I don't
know why it took them ten days to get to
this but apparently it a slow news day
and they're like remember the ratings
that we got about now you'll recall the
original clip clip kilmeade not only you
know like sort of made it out like wreck
accidentally recognized the problem of
student debt by saying like all these
people they're gonna it's going to be
great for them but also then
accidentally read off this story of how
this billionaire attributed his success
to the busing program that sent him to a
good school in a white neighborhood
kill me could not get past the the
opportunity to extol the virtues of
white people without realizing that he
was actually extolling the necessity for
busing and the problems inherent with
our the way that we fund public
education segregated yes but here they
are a circling back around to criticize
the criticism of this Wow billionaire
Robert Smith's incredible generosity
under fire believe it or not right in
the New York Times saying quote a gift
like this can make people believe that
billionaires have taken care of their
problems and distract us from where
other ways which others in finance are
working to cause problems like student
debt our next guest to responded with a
new op-eds raid of Robert Smith
philanthropy Wall Street Journal
columnist populist contributor Jason
Riley Jason how could something so nice
be perceived so negative well it's a
sort of sign of the time syrup how
polarized we are every act gets to be
politicized even acts of generosity like
this and this was just a very generous
thing to do about 400 college graduate
says I'll wipe out your student debts
and instead of just patting this guy on
the back and saying thank you he becomes
a target of criticism right because all
these kids give this to the moon pay so
if it doesn't solve the problem of the
fact that there's tuition right and
income inequality posit and second I got
you know like all I can job for I see
this Bryan's honor here it doesn't solve
the problem
tuition or income inequality but all I
can see is like like when I see this is
just like wow everything is so corrupt I
mean just like they're doing this
segment ten days later the guy had
nothing to write about he's making up
basically that giornata actually
criticized the guise of individual as an
individual like oh you should be getting
a pat on the shoulder instead he's
getting you know it's getting pied
essentially like they can't even like
honestly look at the critique itself and
it's so desperate and so but continuing
I love it pays off it doesn't solve the
problem of the fact that there's tuition
right and income inequality right and
he's a billionaire he's the wealthiest
black man in America self-made according
to Forbes right comes from a pretty mom
background started out as a chemical
engineer got a new investment banking
and then started his own private equity
firm about 20 years ago and it's been
tremendously successful and he gives
away a lot of his money and this is one
of the ways he does it
college scholarships now he's paying off
student daddy that's a lot for
inner-city kids exposed in nature and
music and so forth and he's in a long
tradition of wealthy philanthropist in
this in this country going back to john
john d rockefeller and JP Morgan and and
and Julius Rosenberg who Rosenwald who
ran sewers robach back when it was the
biggest retailer in America they all
gave back they all gave to communities
to help the less privileged and tickly
educational causes so I hope he ignores
these critics because he is in very very
good company but wow you just identified
a bunch of people who created enormous
societal problems yeah and then tried to
wash away their brand but even I know
that is Jared articies point well know
right even if even if they had true
cause these problems even if there was a
even if there was some way where a
billionaire could amass their money
without it being indicative of a larger
structural problem but they themselves
somehow garnered all this money well my
point is buying a billionaire is that
well yes
I understand but even if they even if
even if it's somehow it wasn't a
structural problem but it is even if
they had amassed their money in a way
that was completely benign and and and
hurt no one and denied no one of
resources in some way which i think is
probably impossible but I'm just
stipulating for the sake of argument the
create the criticism is still valid the
criticism is a a structural one the
criticism is all the things that are
positive about what this person did is
really an argument for how detrimental
the rest of the debt is for the millions
of other people and the we're just
staring in the face of all this
potential benefit that could come from
this and the only reason why at the end
of the
we're not offering this to other people
it's because of those people who have
all that money and don't want to lose it
in some fashion or another now Elizabeth
Warren made the point the other day two
cents on every dollar over fifty million
dollars on that wealth it wouldn't lose
that much but it would pay for all that
stuff well comrade kill me it gets it he
does this that's like his that's like
he'll meets like segment like like
Rachel Maddow used to doing like talked
me off the ledge or talk me down segment
this is kill me like save me from myself
talking back to the right I have a
conscience can he help send me a
lifeline when I just sort of think
through things in my own I realize it's
kind of messed up to commit genocide
against the Iranians and we need to do
something about wealth inequality can we
get a guest to help me out on that now
look we haven't talked about
