[Music]
alright let's take one more call and
that will get out here
alright we got a lot of people hanging
on the phone we don't have numbers on
the call screen anymore so it's it's
tough to know but I've had a lot of
people who have been hanging on for and
basically an hour and I'll just choose
one of them eight six three who's this
where you come from
yes Junius from Lakeland Florida hello
Jill what's on your mind
I live in probably the reddest part of
Central Florida I kind of yeah I am a
tiny blue house in a sea of ruby red on
this part of Polk County I kind of two
things I kind of gauge how like I'm not
a looked Orly like sound and like
analysts like yourself but I watch cars
go by on the grill you know on the
highway on the road going home and it's
just a lot of trunk stickers most the
times a lot of Trump 2016 all of that
but noticing lately just to give you a
little bit of hope I saw these a couple
weeks ago I thought like a Bernie 2016
thicker still hanging on there and I was
kind of happy about that but within the
last week or so and especially since the
Joe Rogan podcast last week I've seen
about four or five Bernie 2020 figures
so I gotta say I would love to see like
an academic assessment you know I mean
some there's got to be some PhD student
out there who's like I'm gonna try
track just like how much to see if I can
see what because now I think that
interview is up to like 9 or 10 million
people and that is those are good
control factors to the biggest like sort
of alternative media guy and then what a
big politician like that I mean that is
an enormous amount of views for an
interview and I mean personally I have a
lot of people around that listen to that
that podcast and I do occasionally but I
mean it was astounding how many people
knowing how but though I'm a huge Bernie
supporter and they've come to me like
why didn't you tell me
Wow and I was like I was like I tried
well because they gave him a gaming
platform when he's not screening over
five other people half of whom are
trying to attack him you know it gave
him an hour to just sit and talk about
the real issues that he believes in and
he gets so little time on the mainstream
media to do that and I think it's a very
big turning point for him I mean it's
you know the the fascinating thing to
you about it is that you could probably
the demo right like we can already start
with the notion that it's probably just
people under the age of 40 more or less
I mean obviously there's some stragglers
you know myself I probably drive the
average age up a little bit but but most
of the people who are watching this are
gonna be in their you know their late
teens early 20s like how old are you
with all due respect if you don't mind
me asking I'm about to turn 26 in a
couple weeks yeah I mean I think your
your your age cohort is are the people
who watch Rogan I mean that's just my
guess but but I it's a fairly there
applies to this video but you're
probably right about that but look at
these eyes are amazing
yeah holy crap I can't believe I'm
saying this but Bernie Sanders just
earned my vote
20:20 it's plain that he really wants to
improve things for everyone in this
nation except maybe the uber wealthy are
so rich that regular people look to poor
people if you ask me the billionaires
will be just fine if we follow through
on I mean it's just every this is you
know media society has brainwashed me to
believe Bernie was just a radical old
nut head this hour and seven minutes
completely changed my mind I cannot
believe how much I resonated with what
he was saying yeah I mean they should
cut an amazing like that it gave me so
much help and the second thing I wanted
to get to leading up to that is like the
Joe Rogan podcast happened like what
Wednesday or Thursday last week and then
towards the end of that week is when you
I I was watching your program live when
we covered the map of Bernie Sanders
individual supporters right after that
there was like this hit piece but I've
seen a couple of YouTube videos on that
is like by the New York Times like
Bernie Sanders campaign watcher or
something like that he went out and did
like but nobody's listening to Bernie in
Iowa he's falling dead in Iowa and if
I'm allowed to cuss I want to ask you
how much you think between the jurors
and podcasts and that that math is like
how much is it that was an oh
moment for the New York Times but
they're you know I don't I don't think
that they register I mean I've told this
story before and and remind me tomorrow
Michael and I have to make a concerted
effort to find out who this reporter was
but in the run-up to must have been
spring of 2015 there was Mike somehow a
reporter reached out to us I'm not
exactly sure how from Politico and
wanted to talk to me because he was
doing a story on Martin O'Malley and
wanted to get a sense so I got on the
phone with a guy and he's like look I'm
dumb we're I'm doing a story on Martin
O'Malley and martin O'Malley's question
that
asking is how do I draw people how do I
draw the you know like how do I I can't
remember how he phrased how do I draw
people away from Elizabeth Warren and
I'm like Elizabeth Warren she's not
running he's gonna worry about Bernie
Sanders and the guy laughed he laughed
and I'm like I'm serious you don't
understand
there's a lot of support for Bernie
Sanders and he's like yeah but he's a
socialist and I'm like I don't think
people care about what he calls himself
there's a lot of support for him I think
that's if I was martin O'Malley that's
what I'd be talking about is how do I
get people away from Bernie Sanders he
is just a racist old guy but the my
point is is that they didn't that
reporter did not was not going to listen
to be that reporter probably still
believes the exact same thing he did
about Bernie as he did then they're not
going to move and on some level it's it
doesn't really matter
Bernie Sanders is going to win this or
not regardless of what the mainstream
media does I mean it's it's just that's
his he's set up in such a way that if he
does what he needs to do right I mean
like think about where we are in the
campaign right now and they know what
they're doing this time he's running to
win this time and going on something
like Rogan was super smart idea and I
suspect you know I mean I think like to
a certain extent when we do videos when
Pakman did videos when Kyle kolinsky did
videos saying that Rogen's not having
people on the Left enough and he's
feeling somewhat self
self-conscious of it he has Packman on
he has kolinsky on and we continue to
press him and just that whole IDW i
think that's part of the reason why he
basically either accepted an opportunity
to have a Cornel West non or seek him
out and I I don't think it's a
coincidence that Bernie comes on within
a couple weeks of Cornel West I have a
feeling that that's the way that that
works I mean that's the way it just
works with our guests and and and so
this is the interesting thing about the
era that we're living in is that there's
an opportunity to influence not the
mainstream media we just saw that
example of Noro of was it O'Donnell I
can't remember who was from MSNBC not
even it sort of admitting that she
didn't know you know that she made a
mistake and having outlets that are not
so defensive and having access to them
in this world where 7 to whatever 10 11
million people are gonna be able to have
access to to Bernie you know because
people on Twitter were you know doing
something I mean so they just sort of
it's it's pretty gratifying but we'll
see if if Bernie wins it's going to be
despite the fact that the the mainstream
media has been sort of well listen I
appreciate the call and hang in there
yeah thank you so much for taking my
calls and listening to your show for
like three years and this is the first
time I've been able to call can I get so
like the horn sounds it's my daughter's
second day of kindergarten
oh good for her are you ready which one
do you want this one
or do you want so far or do you want
this one appreciate the car you got
bonus buy yeah all right folks that's
all our time for today I'm sorry
