oh okay so since we've heard from Jeff
from Georgia you are all familiar with
the enormous amount of voter suppression
that is taking place in Georgia this go
through Kemp who is the secretary of
state this is the guy who's in charge of
voting also happens to be running for
governor and has a unique power to shape
the electorate in a way that is highly
inappropriate and he's already
disenfranchised tens of thousands of
voters a huge percentage of whom are
african-american it must be a total
coincidence but the Secretary of State
to be fair has released a video to show
you what happens if you are somehow
ensnared by their draconian policies and
can't vote on the day of the election
and what's a very cute about this
there's two things one that's cute about
it is it's it's all done with kids all
the kids kids are playing the roles of
the various voters and voting officials
and then the other really cute thing
about it is apparently since camp knows
that the vast majority of people he has
disenfranchised that from their votes
are african-american the girl playing
the person who can't vote is
african-american it's voting location
the process is exactly the same as
voting in person on election night kitty
comes in you will completely sign a
voter certificate provide an acceptable
form of photo identification and then
vote on an electronic vote on electronic
voting machine he gets a sticker I voted
positive for one second now we should
tell you these electronic voting
machines you'll recall after the last
election 2016 they scrubbed some of the
servers right before they were supposed
to be investigated I'm sure that was a
coincidence too so its electronic voting
machine folks there you go
technology's well in New York
we use punch cards and they work
amazingly yes but in New York there's
far less people than enjoy oh okay let's
watch the rest of this video he's got a
sticker oh here could only have an
acceptable for Oh photo identification
when you're at the polls any ID
both on Election Day and during advanced
voting working you can vote a
provisional ballot if you vote a
provisional ballot you have three days
after election day to return to your
county elections office to show your
photo ID oh that's convenient for your
ballot to be except you get to make
another special trip to vote after
you've waited for hours in line to vote
three days now voting is on Tuesday
three days Wednesday Thursday Friday you
don't even get a weekend you got to take
two days off from work to vote folks
because if you are black you just you
need to prove that you want to vote just
a little bit more you need to show just
a little bit more effort to vote in
Kemps Georgia that's just the way it
goes
I like how they don't even try to hide
it in that video it's stunning
representation and film is important
though Sam yes at least African
Americans will get an opportunity to
model themselves after that person who's
been disenfranchised and that's the way
they can respond to their
disenfranchisement with a smile and this
is no problem really just stunning so if
you are in Georgia I was there more
people are mad at me for saying punch
cards
I met paper-and-pencil regardless we
vote analog style yeah more analog the
better if you don't return your ballot
will be rejected and it will not count
please note that all election related
forms and materials including ballots
are available in English only for more
information oh that's nice our website
at SOS GA gov slash elections
at four oh four six five six to eight
seventy one if you have any questions
yeah what's wrong with you basic needed
how about that now question unbelievable
so you know this is what also you know
again Nancy Pelosi has a tenure and
there needs to be a new leadership in in
the house for the life of me I don't
know who that person would be though if
we wanted a leader who's going to push
that to the left people have suggested
Barbra Lee in the past and she has not
signaled any interest in that position
but maybe if there's enough and outcry I
don't I don't know but one of the things
that the Democrats should have on the
list for those hearings is voter
suppression to set up an opportunity
when Democrats control the Senate and
control the presidency to make the right
to vote a federally legislated canonised
right because this is why this end they
need to fix the Voting Rights Act to
override essentially the Supreme Court
veto of the previously reauthorized
Voting Rights Act which had think it was
fourteen states that were subject to
preclearance by the Department of
Justice so that if you make any changes
to your voting the Department of Justice
needs to okay it because you have a
record of disenfranchising minority
voters what do you think the over-under
is on Democrats ever doing something
like that if they take if I would say
the reestablishment of the Voting Rights
Act I would bet I would bet a lot they
would do that I would bet a lot that
they would do that I would love to be
wrong about this I'm much more cynical
about the Democratic Party I think I
just want to put this idea out here I
don't know if it's necessarily a hundred
percent true but the Democrats
relationship with the Republicans is
kind of like oh no it's kind of like
Cuomo's relationship with the IDC right
because as long as they have Republicans
to block the progressive things they're
trying to do then they don't actually
have to do that much and go against the
wishes of their donors except for the 50
years in which they did pass the Voting
Rights Act and reauthorized it time and
time again it was a
republican-controlled Supreme Court that
that gutted it they have the votes to
the Democrats all have the votes to
reinstate that section 5 of the Voting
Rights Act but the Republicans stop it
so it's also a different kind of party
than it used to be right it's back it's
more sensitive I think right now in
terms of that without a doubt I mean I
think like there may be some issues when
you start getting into things like banks
and Wall Street but in voting rights I
think you're on very thin ice in terms
of trying to suggest that Democrats
don't want to pass in New York in New
York with Andrew Cuomo and the
corruption that is in New York state
politics I think there is an attempt to
disenfranchise certain segments of the
population certainly there's a district
in Queens and I think one in the Bronx
which were subject to that preclearance
by the DOJ because you had local
candidates but in terms of like the the
House and the Congress I'd be willing to
bet you all of it well I hope that
you're right every single dollar but
everything your bike I'll bite you bet
you your bike it's not actually mine it
belongs to my friend I'll bet you
friends bike she's gonna be so mad she's
gonna only not
cuz I'm gonna win sad alright so here is
[Music]
