[Music]
so we talked before and again please
thank congresswoman Susan wild
congressman Roe kana and all of the
other thirty signatures of that
incredibly important letter jr. bolson
ro is in a fascist government militarily
subservient to the United States
undertaking a wholesale assault on labor
unions on pensions on indigenous people
on the LGBTQ community and as a long
robust history of racism and massaging
everything else now again it bears
repeating and this is actually an
important press coverage thing because
the origins of this go to the removal of
dilma rousseff from office after she won
her second elect her second term as
president essentially on grounds of an
accounting era literally and and one of
the leaders in that motion is actually
you know in prison or under
investigation the president that took
over Michelle temer has been caught on
tape talking about bribing people and
then of course with zero evidence zero
material evidence Lula da Silva who led
the only candidate he led jared wilson
ro by double digits in the polls was put
in jail and barred from communicating
and is held in solitary confinement so
democracy was already eroding in a
grotesque way because of the coup
against Dilma the imprisonment in Lula
and the rise and threats from the
military every step of the way the u.s.
Business press The Wall Street Journal
endorsed terrible cenar o Canadian
businesses were excited the tweet went
up from the CBC the Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation the day he won
saying well he's controversial but this
might be great for our timber companies
so that willingness amongst the upper
class to boos huazi class and Brazil and
against foreign direct investors from
places like the United States yes it's a
little embarrassing that junior bolson
ro said he might prefer his kid to die
than be gay and it's a little weird that
it seems like there's all these
connections between his family
mafia cartels and way more violent and
serious corruption than anything that
was ever proven against the Workers
Party but let alone even some of the
other actual seriously corrupt parties
in Brazil this is a buffoon clown
gangster government supported every step
of the way by Western finance and he's
historically unpopular two months into
office and Carnival was a site of huge
resistance there were not only people
protesting for freeing lula supporting
the rights of all there was also floats
of Mariela Franco the assassinated Afro
indigenous city councillor and leader
who's the cartel that assassinated her
is almost certainly connected with the
balsan ro family through secret bank
accounts the person who the group that
won the carnival was afro-brazilian and
had Mariela placards so bolson ro hates
presumably carnival but at the same time
carnival is a great tourism attraction
and important for the Brazilian economy
so what do you do if you're a stupid
fascist with a Twitter account and you
can't ban Carnival yet but you also
don't want to embarrass your country and
remind everybody of what the Wall Street
Journal in the United States regime
endorsed in terms of what a jackass and
buffoon you are well here's what you do
if you're a like a gerbil snarl
and I should say this is literally
pornography what we're about to play I
don't know if like it might get a strike
like maybe we just pause it we don't
actually have to play him so we don't
have to play it he literally tweets out
presumably this was shot during Carnival
but it is part according to reporting
that I understand it's a it's a gay
pornography video of a guy peeing on
another dude it's not that pornographic
well no no the shower between friends no
no I don't think it's between friends I
think they're actually shooting
literally shooting a video I think that
I think they're reporting I think
Greenwald and gonzo porn I don't know I
think that's what it is
so he took and of course like yeah
people are dancing up on each other and
all sorts of stuff but he took something
that most likely is literally a staged
production a production outside of
Carnival again I'm not 100% sure but
that's my understanding and he wrote and
we're translating you know the
translation service on Twitter is not
great but you get the gist of it I don't
feel comfortable showing it but we have
to expose the truth to the population
knowing and always taking their
priorities this is what is turned away
many Street turned many street blocks in
Brazilian Carnaval comment and remove
your confusions let's see a Brazil from
the official okay think I'll take you a
little twinkle then there was a
follow-up tweet where junior Bowl Cynara
apparently asked what a golden shower
was in response to being mocked and
there was a golden shower account that
popped up and asked who Junior Bowl
scenario was this is who Donald Trump is
of course tight at the hip with he's
gonna be visiting making a state visit
to the Trump administration soon should
be greeted with a huge amount of
protests should be greeted with a huge
amout of golden shower and then of
course this is also a guy who was
praised by well as dave rubin calls him
bill sign four in a row both are in a
row so dave rubin takes this takes this
clip a story and i don't know this story
apparently it's right and of course it's
brew bin' so I cannot take it at face
value right by definition but apparently
Dave Rubin is saying that there's a
school in Birmingham Alabama which drew
its lessons on LGBT acceptance because
400 Muslim parents petitioned against it
this is not the way forward now I could
tell you with almost complete certainty
that if there was a coalition of
religiously conservative parents it
absolutely could have concluded Muslims
who were wrong and opposed teaching LGBT
acceptance I really doubt that an
Alabama ace
slow a solely Muslim fueled movement did
that job on their own I'm gonna guess
that there were other people in that
movement like I don't know potentially
the Christian community and if there are
any followers of the ben shapiro style
jewish community
Dave's friends who won't bake him a cake
I'm assuming they'd be part of it too so
I'm just gonna stipulate here that I
have no doubt that right-wing Muslims
could be part in our part of course
bigotry against LGBT people but the way
Dave is framing this like everything
else that comes out of his mouth I mean
I don't even think I don't know I
wouldn't even go that he's lying I'm
just sure he saw a top line and didn't
research it oh it could be wide why is
why isn't why isn't his reaction that
these 400 Muslim Alabama and parents
just want to get rid of the SJW nods
well school this is of course the great
point and I don't know if we still have
that sound but this is of course the
mother lode of rad ideas on Twitter says
this is the same guy who praised bowls
an hour for quote unquote getting rid of
the SJW stuff and schools in school so
which is it Dave well that's the problem
when you hate all identities that aren't
your own equally wait but this is Dave
maybe he's had a change of heart maybe
this is him talking about Alabama being
more respected inside the broader in
United States and the SJW stuff in
schools this is Dave Rubin her opinion
on Brazilian Prime Minister Boas our
bowls are narrow regarding there's a lot
of things moving here deforestation of
the rainforest PS I'm a Christian I
baked you a cake though you know I don't
know enough about him but it sounds like
he really hates Marxism and he's and
he's really pushing Brazil to become
more of a world leader and that he
actually is for capitalism and he's
trying to get some of the SJW stuff out
of the schools I just saw a tweet by him
a day or two ago so on you know I would
imagine that it's very possible that
some of those Muslim parents who were
involved in that despicable effort in
Alabama if this is even true are small
business owners don't like capitalism
quite a bit it seems as if their race is
maybe the only thing Dave Rubin has a
problem with yeah
seems as if their outfits and their race
otherwise that might be the
distinguishing issue here they're also
trying to get the SJW stuff out of
schools Dave in fact if you go to places
like Saudi Arabia I could tell you
there's no sjw tortured
relationship with right-wing Muslims cuz
on the one hand they hate them because
they're Muslims also I think they're a
little bit jealous that they've maybe
made more strides in making their
religion political yeah Chrissy yeah
yeah and on the other hand they have yet
they just like them cuz they're Muslims
but they like them because they are
right-wing theocrats right so they can't
really figure it out but they like to
slot them in along with LGBT people when
it suits them like this is all this
crazy cultural Marxism figure it
out guys well I agree with you and I
would say that this is actually a
helpful so I have my I have plenty of
problems with new New Atheism
and I you know I'll continue to say I
just don't like broad bigoted
categorical statements about any group
of religious people because it's
inaccurate and a historical but this is
the interesting difference between the
new atheist stuff that bled into the IDW
because like Richard Dawkins who's
totally a prick about Muslims and
obviously has weird issues there he
though is still has a broadly just anti
religious stance and that's his kind of
stand by but the element of the New
Atheism that was really more about
reactions things like immigration and
globalization and those types of issues
they now are involved in a movement
where you know two of the leading lights
of it are religious I mean one bench
bureau is a overt right-wing religious
person and you know Jordan Peterson is
at the very least a massive religious
apologist and then of course you know
empty head Rubin has gone from you know
something at the cup of Sam Harris
worship to you know I don't think he's
publicly embraced God yet but he's you
know he's tweeting out abortion
conspiracy videos this is where there
are stated principles we're totally
disingenuous from the beginning almost
like that this goes to yes our just to
cover our bases that might have been
Birmingham
UK in which case the point about SJW
nonsense in school still stands
so says no you know what then then we're
okay great I stand corrected if it's in
the Birmingham in the UK it absolutely
could have been spearheaded by Muslims
and it's a huge problem in the UK that
there is basically hugely religiously
tonica's schools that can enforce
policies like that and it's a huge
problem in all communities including the
Muslim one in the UK and it's wrong and
it should be discarded and part of how
you would discard it would be by
injecting some SJW stuff into the
British public schools as it should be
restored in the Brazilian public school
and integrating immigrants into society
instead of treating them like
second-class citizens exactly discos do
pretty
