let's start with this now look god this
guy
alright so apparently there's this other
podcast called pod save America this of
course is a play on on God save America
which is not a thing by the way
well it's not a thing pod save America
is not a thing but it is a thing it
exists and here is a pod save America
they copied us on the type of you know
everything everything the microphone
microphone the the boom the hat wearing
the hat wearing they were had big
headphones though because they're still
getting used to the idea of being on
radio I get over that long time ago and
so here is John Lovett now this is this
is the guy who's now a comedy writer
right is that right is John Lubbock um
isn't one of them a comedy writer I
don't know he's officially a comedy
writer but he fancies himself comedic
but all of their names are taken here is
and and and and this is why you know
back in my bumble days I I wrote on my
profile let me tell you why you can do
better than pod save America the appeal
of that's like I will lecture you over
dinner about why your podcast well I
just realize like I'm missing a what
some honey baby branding options I guess
a bit nevertheless here is here is John
Lovett making an argument that I think
is wrong there are legitimate policy
arguments in favor of a an act of
Medicare acts as a proce as opposed to a
medicare-for-all approach that is not
in the sense that it doesn't make you
less liberal and it doesn't MIT doesn't
make you less progressive to view it as
a positive outcome because again we are
all going to end up paying for health
care the goal the ultimate goal here is
not a process one it does it is not but
you know they're a private health care
plan versus a Medicare plan if you have
good insurance that you can afford that
protects you when you need it most that
gives you the option to get the
preventative care that you need without
bankrupt you and your family that makes
you feel safe and protected that is the
goal as a country our goal is to pay for
everyone's health care in a way that
doesn't eat up a greater and greater
share of our gross domestic product that
is the ultimate goal the debate about
policy the debate about process is a
really really important one but it
should not be always reduced to this
ideological question as to whether or
not you're going along with Bernie or if
you're part of the neoliberals it just
isn't it is more complicated and a more
nuanced than that okay here's what I
agree with it is more nuanced than he's
making it he's actually reducing it far
too in and generalizing it far too much
I keep it back up there because I want
to replay the first part of it look I
agree with the sentiment that it is
silly to put labels on this and that
these questions I don't know what it
means that these questions if he's
saying they aren't ideological
differences or if they shouldn't be but
the reality is there there's there's a
word here he uses that does a tremendous
amount of work more work than it can do
in reality and that word is if all right
let's play it down there are legitimate
policy arguments in favor of a an act of
Medicare acts as approach as opposed to
a medicare-for-all approach that is not
ideological in the sense that it doesn't
make you less liberal and it doesn't
make doesn't make you less progressive
to view it as a positive outcome because
again we are all going to end up paying
for health care the goal the ultimate
goal here is not a process one it does
it is not but you know they're a private
your plan versus a Medicare plan if you
have good insurance that you can afford
that protects you when you need it most
that gives you the option to get the
preventative care that you need without
bankrupt you and your family that makes
you feel safe and protected that is the
goal as a country our goal is to pay for
everyone's health care in a way that
doesn't eat up a greater and greater
share of our gross domestic product that
is the ultimate goal first off it is
clear that we cannot achieve that that
goal that he's talking about not just
the GDP but having health care that will
not bankrupt you and your family it is
clear that we cannot do that with
reliance on the private health insurance
industry that model does not work I
think there's a I think there's a
legitimate actual argument that you
could have you could have you know
supplemental private health insurance
but if every person in the country does
not have the ability to bypass the
private health insurance industry then
we're not going to get there it is just
the case that the private health
insurance industry does not have a
functioning business model that does not
involve making it very difficult to
insure people properly that's just the
fact and so you can say if but unless
that word if is magic and can actually
change physics you're not going to get
there aside from that we shouldn't just
have health insurance that does not
threaten to bankrupt us we are past this
now the American public compromised and
compromised for decades that we're
willing to have the aspiration for
insurance that won't bankrupt us we're
ok with insurance that won't bang
corrupt us or that will actually cover
us right that's what the ACA was that
was supposedly the deal we were making
but it but it didn't work on the on the
bankrupt side it cut down on
bankruptcies no doubt but it also puts
such a economic pressure and it ties us
into employers it doesn't free us up we
want freedom from this and the
government in a medicare-for-all like I
say the existence of private insurance
as a supplement that doesn't implicate
this but Medicare for all
where the government ensures all of us
ensures and assures us you will get
health insurance you will be able to pay
for this the vast majority of doctors
will have to take it because they will
have no business otherwise there'll be
no point in them being doctors they
won't see any patients otherwise and
incidentally you won't have to go
through some type of of maze to get
refunded or to find out if your doctor
covers you all this stuff do a little
rock the America yeah the American
people is done we made that compromise
and it didn't work
it wasn't enough that we just don't get
bankrupt we want it not to be our second
or third job to get health insurance and
to worry if we're covered or to deal
with like oh it's the opt in the open
enrollment this year you know this month
or do I qualify or what if I got a stay
at this job or I'm gonna lose my health
insurance we're done with that the
American public is done with that and to
that extent it is an ideological battle
I mean it I think it gets a little bit
too reduced in some ways I think people
overuse the word neoliberal but
nevertheless it is a real difference
that is not process it's no more process
than like the difference between walking
somewhere and taking a plane yes
you'll get there you'll get there
you want to go to hell hey that's a
process question do you want to get a
like don't argue with me about whether
you're gonna take a plane whether you
gonna walk you'll get to LA that's
that's what dismissing those those plans
as process is if is equivalent to it
really makes a material difference
whether you fly to LA from New York or
walk to LA from New York when you fly
you get there quicker when you walk you
get there much later and it's going to
be exhausting you'll probably have
blisters maybe unless you brought food
along the way you might be hungry or
cold or exposed to the weather where are
you gonna sleep during that time you'll
have a greater appreciation of the lay
of the land
this is that's a no-no Suntree this is
not just a process question and and and
beyond that even if you want to go
beyond that okay there is an argument
that from an ideological perspective
there are implications to simply saying
that the government has a responsibility
to provide health insurance it's not
that dramatic of a thing we do it for a
quarter of the third of the population
right now to the American public and to
have a relationship between its citizens
and the government where everyone can
enjoy the benefits that Medicare
recipients do is important in terms of
people's understanding of their
relationship to their government which
will pay other dividends but even
keeping it as narrowly situated as
loved' wants to he's wrong
well here's the thing like he says that
we're the ones being ideological but all
the evidence points to the fact that the
best way to guarantee health care for
everyone is a single-payer system so if
you look at the evidence and you still
want a market-based solution I think
you're being the ideological one but
also like there there is an essential
difference in ideology between the
people
who believe that health care is a right
that should be socially provided for and
free at point of service and those who
don't think that it is and that's like
not something that can really be
reconciled but that's why the pragmatic
arguments again are so so important
because like just want just just one one
counterpoint to what he's saying that he
doesn't seem to understand is that if
rich people have private insurance and
their taxes are going to pay for public
insurance for poor people rich people
are going to be incentivized to want to
shrink that system as much as they
possibly can so that they don't have to
pay for it whereas if everybody is on
the same health system then the people
with the power have a lot of buy-in and
it's a lot less vulnerable to attack I
think that's true although in the
context of Social Security right
everybody pays in rich people don't need
that social insurance when they're
richer the the whatever the two thousand
dollars a month or twenty six hundred
dollars a month it would that they get
is meaningless to them but they still
can't touch Social Security I think if
everyone is involved in it the the the
the rich that would have perhaps a
supplemental private insurance that they
want a concierge they want their doctor
to show up at their house or whatever
and you know uh you know give them check
their blood pressure at their home fine
all well and good but here's the thing
that is disingenuous about this there is
no argument that the mixed version he's
talking about is more practical
you never hear anyone make that argument
the practicality or I should say is more
functional the practicality is there are
forces that we cannot fight and if we
want to remove the ideology from this
debate the way to do it is to say
Medicare for all you either criticize
Medicare for all that is where you know
on its merits or you say we simply as a
country are to be whole
to the financial interest of the private
health insurance industry to get enough
people to politically do this like all
of that talk you hear about it but it's
whispered right well it's time to make
it explicit if you want to advocate for
this because you don't think that we as
a as a society
even though the vast majority of people
might want it have the political will to
fight the money in the private health
insurance industry then you then you are
doing a disservice to the country to not
admit that's the problem because once
that's admitted then it's also then
things are gonna start getting
ideological like it's not ideological
necessarily to say I want to Medicare
buy-in versus a Medicare for all
particularly it's not until you start
explicitly saying I'm okay with a system
where people the the vast majority of
people want one thing but we have too
many powerful money to interest in and
be specific about there's too many
powerful who who are going to prevent us
from getting that and spell it out and
then we can move on to the next question
is like what are we gonna do about that
problem you know what what are we gonna
do in terms of antitrust what are we
gonna do about X appropriating the the
value maybe it is for some of the drugs
that they get and the runaway Prados
were they're stuck so they can't spend
so that they're allowed to spend on
lobbying but they're not going to
because we're gonna take away the profit
margin on that drug in such a way that
they're gonna want to just pay
themselves instead of just getting
lobbying instead of trying to corrupt
the processing yeah but that's also
where they're just stuck because you
know when Obama did health care I mean
you could legitimately say there just
wasn't the political context and we'll
to take on all the fights you need to
have and that would be a legitimate
historical argument it was the wrong
policy because even my understanding
from reading people
hacker who I think is where like the
overall design for that plan can
absolutely that essentially it isn't
just idea like the public plan is
ideologically important but the public
plan is the structure that keeps the
prices down essentially so it's it's
very difficult to implement that
successfully just even on a technocratic
level without that part of the package
but they might have had a case back then
that like look people aren't invested in
the specifics the debate back then was
you know it was still a mainstream
position for people to say like who
weren't just Republicans to say like
well you know having 40 million people
without coverage is just part how we do
things it's totally not the case today
and if you want to say that we're still
totally backed in a corner um yeah like
what you're saying then then it's like
you have to make a completely different
argument and that's gonna be you're
gonna be split with it you gotta be
super explicit night and I think in same
goes for all of the candidates who are
gonna be prevaricated on those issues
whether they're and clearly like Biden
or McAuliffe or Bloomberg but also like
a Harris or hookers and floor or
Elizabeth Warren or I wasn't I would
have respect for a candidate who says I
want Medicare for all but I'm putting
people on notice right now that they the
the health insurance industry is
extremely powerful and they're going to
fight for it and we may not end up with
a Medicare for all but we're gonna have
to fight for it and it's gonna it
require the American public to stand up
and fight for it and also adopt some
other mechanisms in which to curb their
power in this fight 100% and I and I
mean also though I just want to see like
I agree with you about like sort of like
ancillary providers not being the
biggest thing in the world like if
there's some type of private home care
or something I mean I wouldn't prefer it
but I don't think that that's central to
this question of like essentially
eliminating insurance companies and HMOs
and making it free point of delivery but
I think on the other hand I want to see
I'm very interested in making as much of
the health system writ large in public
as possible so while I'm I would I would
say like Oh
we could negotiate on that but I want to
start seeing like following Elizabeth
Warren what about making the
pharmaceutical industry expropriating
that and making it public and really
starting to put you know more on the
table because theoretically that's
another way of addressing the advantages
they have is actually just blistering
them at as many angles it's exactly say
just like hey we're going for everything
not only single-payer we're also gonna
make the pharmacy industry public it's
all built on public research you brought
you profit off of privatized Commons
anyways we're gonna go after hospital
chains so when you think about the fight
back it's not gonna just be single-payer
it's the whole thing yeah it's gonna
become increasingly clear during this
fight who is a good faith left-liberal
and who thinks it's totally fine to let
a private profit take precedence over
the wants and needs of the majority
