several months ago we played a video
what was the name of that guy who was
running the walkaway campaign he was
some New York like model not like that
guy not a hugely successful model I
don't think who was announcing to the
world that he had been a Democrat now he
was gonna walk away here it is it's the
walk away March what was the name of the
guy poor man's mile oh the poor man's
Milo but he he I can't remember what
let's see and he had a lot of he was
gonna have dinesh d'souza was gonna be
there can't you do the contact maybe or
who was the oppress kid yeah his name's
all over it I bet let's see what again
that doesn't matter what his name is
remember it shows that he's branded and
Straka
oh that's why that's a funny name yeah
it's a funny name so brandon Straka had
this walkaway movement and you'll recall
Dave Rubin I mean go back into Dave
Rubens tweets I don't have the time for
this like three or four months ago and
he was It was as if Dave Rubin was like
on a rolling ayahuasca trip or something
like that cuz he was like hey woke up
this morning and I had visions of of
people walking away from the Democratic
Party and we're on the verge of
something really huge and African
Americans are about to obey because Dave
is so in touch with what the African
Americans like guys did and they're all
gonna walk away Larry elder told me yeah
we're all walking away many people have
asked me and here's then he can he talks
about walk away and then Dave Rubin
cancelled his appearance at the walk
away thing I never addressed it and here
is Brandon straw rak'ahs walk away they
were going to get millions or at the
very least hundreds of thousands or at
the very least
tens of thousands or at the very least
thousands or at the very least hundreds
or at the very least tens and day
delivered on those tens of people and
here is Vic burgers reinterpretation of
the videos that came from there it's a
little bit long but you deserve this
folks enjoy it
Democrats took the house what happens
next is going to be a combination of
oversight and all hell breaking loose I
believe in the lame-duck session but
here is that walk away March again if
you're gonna be part of the walk you
need to walk now I'm gonna make sure
everybody keeps moving now is the time
to walk if you're walking if you're
gonna walk you want to go now so to make
sure everybody keeps moving
you're gonna walk you need to go now
lock her up and you know I started
dancing when I heard it they said lock
her up lock her lock her
yes at the White House yesterday posit
posit for one second guys awesome just
want to remind you I just want to remind
you these are all former Democrats who
were singing video lock her up and then
they realize they were they were gonna
get off the Democratic plantations Obama
showed up that's a lock her up lock her
up that's why they all walked away was
because they wanted to join in in the
cheer my fellow superhero Kanye made
this shirt I left the White House
yesterday it was a pleasure to be there
to see Donald Trump in person at the
White House I love you too so
Hey USA USA USA USA USA USA USA USA I
love you too
walk away walk away walk away I Love You
America
thank you this guy's career did not go
the way he wanted some more music and I
hate to do this because we're so upbeat
but I'm reading that there are there was
a horrible shooting in Pittsburgh at a
synagogue and eight people have been
killed hey JT make everyone happy you
guys inspired today or what the reason
I'm here today is cuz I wrote a song for
our movement I wish we could play
somehow by the grace of God it went
viral I get it I got a show on patreon
soapbox on Sunday nights you guys nine
o'clock come check me out I am
JT wild take your time - whoa
whoa Michael Flynn juniors here I want
to dedicate this song to his dad don't
you cry cause I'll be coming home to you
we gotta say it in the biker world if I
had never
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
thank you guys that's called arm
yourselves I I wish I had the ability to
award the Academy Award that's my
preferred filming waiter would take in
reality that is also sesor such a genius
that's so good
all right folks enjoy we're gonna take a
quick break heading to the fun half
