[Music]
speaking of horrible people right after
the Bernie Sanders Fox Town Hall they
martha maccallum they went home and
cried no she didn't she tried to stop
her crying by bringing on Arthur Laffer
who Arthur Laffer was the genius behind
the whole idea of trickle-down economics
where it's like if we concentrate all of
the tax benefits and the wealth at the
top it will shower down upon us right
like the like the clouds you know the
clouds get so thick with moisture that
they they rain so innocent rain yeah it
would be like a shower like I like and
all the shower of gold you'd get this
golden shower on everyone hmm from from
all the money being concentrated at the
top and Arthur Laffer had this theory
and he had this thing called the Laffer
curve which he wrote on the side of a
napkin it was so you know it's true and
it suggested that there is a that there
is a tax rate in which everybody would
decide like oh it's not worth it for me
to earn another dollar so I'm gonna stop
working now of course that in some way
ignores the concept of of marginal tax
rates because we don't all have the
ability to say like oh I'm going to make
sure that my income comes in at two
point nine million dollars as opposed to
like 3.1 million dollars because every
dollar after three million dollars will
be taxed at a 70% rate let's say and so
I'm gonna just land at two point nine
because my return might you know every
dollar I'm only getting 30 cents of the
dollar over three million well most
people don't have the ability to sort of
land their income in that fashion if
you're in the neighborhood of getting
three million dollars it's quite
possible you might get
three point three million dollars by
mistake but this theory that Laffer had
promoted the idea that we should cut
taxes on the wealthiest people because
that's going to create economic growth
and so who better to go to and to Arthur
Laffer to talk about Bernie Sanders
plans to tax people for health care and
frac to talk about Bernie Sanders tax
returns you know it's an interesting
thing that you bring up with regard to
charity and of course every American can
give or not give it's there you know
right to do now so they're looking at
Bernie Sanders taxes and apparently in
some years he gave virtually nothing to
charity some years just a couple of
percentage points but no no tithing like
you would it's called for bad lord
whatever they want in charity so I don't
forgive I think it was three percent
three point six percent maybe art but
the whole basis of what he's talking
about is that we all should want to give
back more to even out the income
inequality in this country well he
doesn't say we should want to he says we
will be forced to if he gets in that's
what he's going to do to the tax codes
and you know what he doesn't talk about
Martha which is really serious here if I
may what he doesn't talk about is how
those taxes when he's putting them on
will affect the economy you know
whenever you do redistribution and his
whole thing was energy was environment
was health care was education all of
that when every redistribute income you
take from those who make a little bit
more and you give to those who make a
little bit less by taking from those who
make a little bit more you reduce their
incentives and they work a little bit
less and produce a little bit less by
giving to those who have a little bit
less you provide them with an
alternative source of income other than
working and they too will produce a
little bit less now this is math it's
not it's not right wing left wing rib
breaking different crap pop-pop-pop-pop
on spot spot spot spots now do you
understand here what would with okay put
aside the fact that they don't seem to
understand the difference between
already in taxation and that they're
like but the book the kind of giving he
wants to give would be mandated by the
government yeah that's called taxation
Arthur Laffer would have you believe you
ready for this that if you're rich and
you get taxed more you're gonna work
less in other words if you get to have
less money when you work you're gonna
work less but if you get to have more
money if you're as you say you have a
little bit less if you get more money
you're also gonna work less isn't that
convenient that both it if you're rich
and you don't make if you don't make as
much money because you get taxed more
you're gonna work less and if you're not
rich and you get a little more money
you're gonna work less this is like the
in Iraq invasion intelligence of
economics and now there's that's one way
you could just use reason to say that
that's not true and he just says it's
just math it's just math aside from the
fact that there is absolutely no
evidence zero evidence even anecdotally
of someone who said you know what my
major my marginal tax rate was let's say
fifty percent fifty percent of every
dollar over the first ten million I make
and so you know what I hung back a
little bit I just decided to land it I'm
gonna work so that I make nine point
five million dollars every year because
they when you get over ten million
family make it fifty cents on the dollar
forget it why am I putting in that extra
eleven minutes a week or whatever it was
that supposedly this person's gonna work
less or paying people to work for you
which is how a lot of the wealthy make
their link of course of course so not
only is there no evidence for that
assertion and there's no evidence for
the assertion that if we provide free
child care free daycare pre-k higher
education if we provide health care with
the raising of taxes that people are
going to work
less no evidence for that whatsoever
either there's a lot of evidence that
Arthur Laffer doesn't know what the hell
he's talking about
so we all remember Kansas right Kansas
is a state in this country I'm familiar
and in 2012 governor Sam Brownback was
elected and maybe it was elected in was
it in 2010 I can't remember but by 2012
they had passed a massive tax cut bill
that was drawn up by Arthur Laffer and
the whole idea was very similar to the
one that Donald Trump passed if you're
an S corp you get huge tax breaks and
we're gonna eliminate the income tax for
you no 4s corpse and all sorts of tax
cuts and what was going to happen
according to author laugher right is
that it was going to spur economic
growth and it was actually the idea is
this is that when you cut taxes you're
actually going to increase revenue
because it's going to spur so much
economic growth that more people are
going to get involved and more people
going to pay taxes so the the amount of
taxes is going to be less but the amount
of people that are gonna be paying that
smaller amount is gonna be so great that
it's actually gonna increase how much
revenue you're taking in here is a
graphic of sam Brownback's vanishing
surplus it goes from 2013 at its peak
seven hundred million dollars down by
twenty fifteen to thirty million dollars
and let's see the next slide they had to
cut everything the SP downgraded their
they downgraded their credit rating
because of sam Brownback's tax cuts
which caused massive cuts to education
massive cuts to education
it slow job growth relative to all the
states around Kansas it slowed economic
growth relative to all the states around
Kansas including the country but but
more importantly around Kansas so it
wasn't just a regional thing look at
this sam Brownback's tax cuts now
full-blown disaster for Kansans Kansas
tax cut experiment crashes and burns by
2016 the Republican legislature in
Kansas had raised taxes so Arthur Laffer
sitting there telling us all about what
is math play this a little bit more
listen to this this will produce a
little bit less now this is math it's
not it's not right wing left wing
written different Kratt it's not liberal
or conservative it's just plain
economics
whenever you redistribute income you
reduce total income and that is what
he's doing and I am very afraid that if
he were elected we would have an
enormous crash in the market now that
crash would come in anticipation of his
election but it's much like Obama who I
believe was the reason why we had the
Great Recession as he got closer and
closer to winning the markets collapsed
wow this is like psychic economics if
that's basic economics sorry I think
economics might be let me tell
you some he's not interested so he's a
he's a pedantic he's a little bit
pedantic but then not the other
direction
I apologize absolutely struck from there
there was a reason why I gave you a very
weird name but the idea that there was a
stock market crash the stock market
crash because people anticipated Barack
Obama's election this is something that
honestly if you were to say this in
public like if it wasn't martha
maccallum there and he was on another
network there would be people with white
coats to say like me Arthur maybe it's
time for you to take a little break I
think you're a little tired but this is
this is how they're going to try and
explain away any type of recession that
hits with Donald Trump I
that the economic where that Bernie
Sanders might win the election so there
are I took a couple of economics classes
and I think that the economy recovered
because of the stimulus and also in
anticipation that Bernie would be
elected in 2020 there was people early
signals that there would be a serious
plan for the working and middle classes
that would emerge in 2020 which is why
the economy actually started to recover
in 2009-2010 maybe well that's what I
think that's very very strong sense it's
not like trickle-down economics has been
tried already or given a fair hearing so
maybe we should give it a chance right
well we should maybe well I mean I think
to a certain extent we have with the
Republican tax cut and it has done
nothing I mean it is JP Morgan three
point six billion dollars worth of extra
cash this year which I guess that should
help the real estate market on in the
Hamptons but that's about it
