[Music]
so the Senate was this yesterday and
maybe two days ago now voted to endorse
in many respects is an endorsement of
the War Powers Act I mean and well
overdue a resolution to end support for
the saudi-led Coalition in Yemen saying
that we should not be supporting the
slaughter of civilians that is taking
place in the context of this so-called
civil war we should not be supporting
the embargo etc etc this will despite
the fact that it was originally a House
Resolution that the Senate picked up the
the Republicans managed to interfere
with it enough
procedurally to send it back to the
house I suspect that it's gonna pass
again in the house no reason to believe
that it will be less this time around
Mike Pompeo very upset though very upset
because well let's hear Mike Pompeo
complain that the US Senate has actually
acted upon their role under the War
Powers Act to resolve that we should not
be involved in this in this Yemen
conflict I'd like to comment on the
Senate vote this week to end support for
the saudi-led coalition fighting in
Yemen we all want this conflict to end
we all want to improve the dire
humanitarian situation but the Trump
administration fundamentally disagrees
the curbing our assistance to the
saudi-led coalition is the way to
achieve these goals the senators who
voted I say they want to end the bombing
in Yemen and support human rights but
we're willing to think about whose Human
Rights if you truly care about you many
lives you'd support the saudi-led effort
to prevent Yemen from turning into a
puppet state of the corrupt brutish
Islamic Republic of Iran
if we truly care about Saudi lives you'd
want to stop Iran back Lou these from
launching missiles pause if one second I
mean just what what's stunning as you
hear this and for those people who don't
who have not read into this conflict and
you would really have to have really not
read into this conflict to know what
he's saying how these lies are how
audacious these lies are first of all it
is it is a humanitarian crisis what this
has caused like the the possibility of
greater death amongst the the Yemeni
people it's hard to imagine and the idea
that this is in any way mitigated it
this war is stunning no I mean it's
actually lit I mean you could translate
it as you should have a genocide I'll
camp Ain and I we can actually on the
border of legitimately use that word if
you include like cholera epidemics and
food shortages to undermine Iran what we
do point to we haven't even got marry
that's it that's point to mother always
saying because so it doesn't become an
Islamic Republic the point to is the the
idea that Iran is in any really sort of
like seriously material way associated
with with supporting and the the Houthi
efforts is debunked by any reasonable
individual Houthis have existed for a
very long time of their own independent
power base and if anything the
relationship between the Iranians and
the Houthis is all has been actually
like it is a more true statement today
than it was in the beginning of 2015 but
they are not Hezbollah at all in terms
of depending on Iranians to operate this
is just the most disingenuous display of
supporting the mass murder of of people
that I think you know we've seen in
quite a long time this is a coalition
remind people do you member the a couple
of months ago the Saudis bombed the
school bus and it was relevant for a
couple reasons because one was I think
it was a General Dynamics bomb or maybe
a locky bomb and this was the same time
they were doing like a we're supporting
girls to go into Sciences cat right and
the Saudis who normally don't publicly
comment on their daily murder and
slaughter campaign they came out they
were just like yeah that was a mistake
because what happens we thought there
were two people in the bus that weren't
in the bus so sorry about that
yeah no I mean they Basel II literally
click you know the subtext was obvious
let's listen to the rest of this it's
disgusting if we truly care about Saudi
lives you'd want to stop Iran back
Houthis from launching missiles into
Riyadh if you truly care about Arab
lives in the region you'd support allied
efforts to prevent Iran from extending
its authoritarian rule from Tehran to
the Mediterranean Sea and on down to
Yemen and if we truly care about
American lives and livelihoods and the
lives and livelihoods of people all
around the world you to understand that
Iran and it's proxies cannot be allowed
to control the shipping lanes that abut
Yemen Wow
so and also releases how many children
sorry Yemeni children shouldn't have had
your shipping lanes abutting Iran you're
gonna pay for that alright
