Richard Oh Jetta this is a good example
of a guy that people should be looking
forward not backward with he made the
wrong call for the right reasons in 2016
we know from the polling that very few
people did that but a handful of them
did and he's not only turning around to
vote the right way he's running the
right way he's talking about justice
he's talking about inequality he's even
talking about marijuana legalization in
the context of veterans health care
crisis in Virginia and he's also a guy
who got stabbed because of his political
work and was a major figure in the West
Virginia teacher strike this is an ad
for Richard objetive who's running for
to represent West Virginia in the United
States Congress is good at ten thousand
gallons of toxic chemicals poured into
the Elk River threatening the health of
300,000 people and what did Carol Miller
do she voted against monitoring the
health of those sickened by the spill
Miller even supported legislation
allowing corporations to dump more toxic
chemicals into the water no surprise
Miller's accepted thousands in campaign
cash from corporations that profit by
poisoning us crooked Carol Miller sold
us
out I'm Richard Oh Jenna and I approve
this message it's great and that's real
you know I gotta tell you let's let's
get back to I don't know how many people
remember it but keep it simple keep it
simple guy he was only wrong about all
the stuff he wanted to keep it simple
about but actually as a general rule for
politics that's a good rule keep it
simple
my opponent took campaign contributions
from the same people that are killing
you and your environment and then she
voted to destroy your health and where
you live I won't do that and we're out
and for good measure here's my army sure
cuz I'm a veteran and you know that's
politics and by the way that is and I
don't I say this in a more neutral way
than most people say this we say it here
because we're we're we're not freaked
out by this but that's identity politics
too and that's a smart deployment of
identity politics
