so Sophie let's to put what's going on
in terms of the tensions between Russia
and Ukraine in context and why this is
relevant to the United States let's
let's start with the Ukrainian
revolution what that we are now or I
guess almost five years out from that
revolution now what what was what's the
significance of it what was the
relationship between Ukraine and Russia
prior well Russia and Ukraine have had a
pretty fraught and complex relationship
ever since the end of the Soviet Union
obviously Ukraine was part of the Soviet
Union and had always had very strong
ties although in the Soviet period there
was a lot of repression of the Ukrainian
language of Ukrainian national identity
and and so on so it was by no means a
happy relationship but it was a very
close relationship and after the Soviet
Union there was a series of different
leaders with sort of a variety of
political views which I won't go into
sort of closer or further from from
Russia their next-door neighbor but then
in 2013 and winter of 2013 there emerged
this huge street protest movement which
came to be called Maidan after the
Central Square in Kiev and to some
extent it was about breaking Ukraine off
from Russia sort of breaking off the
ties that continued to bind Ukraine and
Russia to a very large extent it was
also a protest against the rampant
corruption of the then President Viktor
Yanukovych who did have pretty close
ties to Russia but who was also just
enormous ly enormous ly corrupt in
general but it became framed especially
in the Western media as a pro-european
pro-western revolution and protest
movement and it was adopted by the EU or
it was sort of met with a very warm
welcome by the EU partly because it
seemed to affirm that European values
were still compelling that
there were still states outside the EU
that were desperate to join and be part
of the European community and so on but
the reality on the ground was more
complicated there was a significant
strain of far-right nationalism in the
protests and this very quickly led to
the flight of Viktor Yanukovych the
president to Russia which was followed
shortly after that by the annexation of
Crimea by Russia and Crimea is a
peninsula which had a separate status it
wasn't integrated into the rest of
Ukraine the way all the other regions
the OBE lists are but it was part of
Ukraine under international law it was
primarily russian-speaking
but Russia annexed it and shortly after
that there emerged this sort of
quote/unquote separatist movement which
was certainly funded and supported to a
significant extent by Russia in eastern
Ukraine which is still going alright
well let's let's let's just pause there
and we'll go back but I want to just the
the implications of the the revolution
and what does I mean so the people can
can understand the the various national
interests that are involved here and I
guess in to the extent that you know we
can refer to this sort of the
nationalist you know agendas of the EU
but from from from the Russian
perspective the that they would have and
maybe I'm overstating things a client
state in in Ukraine prior to 2014 like
what were the implication about we
talking about resources is it simply
just a matter of national pride well
what were the underpinnings of of that
relationship and the desire for Russia
to maintain at least a significant
amount of influence over Ukraine well
there are many different types of
underpinnings and one level there's the
economic tie between Rush
Ukraine which is extremely strong and
extremely important especially actually
to the crane Ian economy and the
Ukrainian economy has been devastated by
the breaking of ties between Russia and
Ukraine recently but then there's also
the linguistic relationship Ukraine does
have quite a lot of Russian speakers
it's a region that has traditionally
been considered by Russians and again
this has to do with the repression of
the Ukrainian movement but for better or
worse it's been traditionally considered
by Russia to be sort of little Russia
it's sometimes called the little brother
to Russia Russians still oftentimes
think of Ukraine as a part of Russia so
there's an economic tie there's a
cultural tie there's a linguistic tie
there's a historic tie and I think there
is a feeling that of all the things that
Russia lost with the end of the Soviet
Union and that the loss of Ukraine was
almost the most painful you know one of
the biggest republics it has a lot of
Mines it has it's a very rich
agricultural region so it was a loss on
many levels and then of course there's
just the fact that Ukraine is one of
Russia's largest and most important
neighbors especially on through the
Western on the sorry on the eastern side
they have a very large shared border and
it's not surprising that a country as
large as Russia is preoccupied with a
large country that has close ties to it
on many levels and orders it and right
and and and and because of obviously our
our national politics
I would imagine too that from Putin's
perspective to be the guy who lost the
you lost Ukraine is not necessarily what
he wants for his legacy yes it would be
an extremely bad look to completely lose
Ukraine anyway peep because you know
then there's also the question of the EU
and NATO and Russia sees itself I would
say not without some justification as in
this sort of epic struggle with the EU
and NATO for many years now they feel
that they were completely betrayed by
NATO expansion they feel that the West
is trying to encroach on their sphere of
influence they're very very upset about
a
and the EU can't really overestimate how
upset Russia is about that
so this Maidan revolution was framed in
Russia as sort of a conspiracy of the
West against Russia and Russia
historically also going back centuries
has been incredibly anxious again not
without some justification about its
borders and so anything that causes them
to feel that their borders are being
encroached upon causes immense anxiety
and hostility okay and so we're now at
at 2014 the the revolution has taken
place Yanukovych has left Ukraine for
Russia and just okay and I know this you
know to a certain extent is a little bit
annoying to reduce the the geopolitics
here to the the you know how this
impacts or impacts or effects Donald
Trump but just place for folks who want
to contextualize Manafort Paul mana for
its relationships here just place man
afford in this in this circle at least
you know in the in the small quarters in
which he operated and and wanted to
influence US policy I'm not an expert on
mana for it I am a little bit I'm
certain that metaphor is an awful man
and a criminal and so on but I am a
little skeptical about how much
prominence mana Ford has been given
I mean metaphor was making a lot of
money consulting for Yanukovych's people
and after the Revolution they went into
Yanukovych is a state I guess and you
know found a lot of documents about all
the money that was being given to mana
fort he was you know he's a good corrupt
political consultant going around
consulting with corrupt dictators well
fair enough I just well I don't know how
much it means either but I think for
people who you know hear that metaphor
had relationship you know relations and
was representing people in that region
he couldn't very well have just been
some barnacle Hooda saw a pot of money
and was dipping into it which is
at the very least likely but people I
just you know so the people it's not a
black hole for people when they when
they hear about these relations alright
so let's take a break here and when we
come back we're gonna pick up at the the
beginning essentially of the of the war
between Ukraine and and and Russia
coming out of the 2014 Ukrainian
revolution where the I guess the the
sort of the client state relationship
between Russia and Ukraine ends and has
yet to been in many respects resolved
leading up to the latest incident which
has created tensions between Ukraine and
Russia we gonna take a quick break I'll
be right back with more I'm Sam cedar
this is wearing a fire radio
