[Music]
yesterday in a vote from a of 87 to 12
and that includes I mean you do the math
38 Republicans joining the 49 members of
the Democrats because all Democrats and
I guess 37 because probably Bernie as
well
I know 49 would be all the Democratic
members of the caucus I would say the
first step Act passed II basically only
impacts the federal prison system and I
think federal prison accounts for maybe
ten percent of all people in prison mmm
somewhere around there and it allows
inmates to earn reduced sentences
attempts to lower recidivism rates there
is a different version that passed the
House so they're going to have to
reconcile those but there's every reason
to believe that a Democratic House will
be will be just as easy if not easier to
deal with than a Republican house it
does not cover state prisons or jails or
it will essentially shave a collective
53,000 years off the sentences of
federal inmates over the next ten years
that's according to the CBO there were
about a hundred and eighty-one thousand
federal inmates as of sometime this
month the first couple weeks of this
month there were some amendments that
made what is a fairly compromised bill
even more compromised that included sort
of some bumps for faith-based
organizations you get you get if you get
if you get if you drink the Jesus juice
so you can get out a little bit quicker
or something
and Ted Cruz limited the number of of
convicts who are eligible for earned
time credits but of course he is such a
despicable disgusting thing but look it
is it's it's positive it's moving in the
right direction right no means it is
good but insufficient key factor
apparently was that Jared Kushner
supported this because his dad's in
federal prison so and as Neil Meyer I
don't know who this guy is the Edit
editor at the the call the call he said
key factor he said the lesson here is
ending mass incarceration requires
throwing more parents of rich and
powerful in prison and frankly I mean
we've seen this lesson before right
marriage equality gets support from
Republican column Akers who find out
that their kids are are gay we see
people who Republican lawmakers whose
family members get sick they become much
more supportive of things like
pre-existing condition getting rid of
bans on pre-existing condition or
increased ensure health insurance this
is the most conservative Republican
thing in the world which is to have
absolutely no empathy or understanding
of a problem until it directly impacts
them and then all of a sudden they
become far more aware of what's going on
yeah I mean I'm a prison abolitionist
but this might be one case where the
carceral solution is a step in the right
direction there you have it and trying
to find
