[Music]
speaking of coming from a distance
Donald Trump as you know flying into
into England
everyone's getting into the the protest
here is the work of an 18 year old young
man named Ally Nancarrow he is from he
lives around Stansted Airport in Essex
and apparently the president and going
to be flying in around there he mowed
out a message for Donald Trump in his
family's land he took a picture of the
what he mowed with a drone and it was
become pretty pretty viral here it is
are you showing that picture now there
he is there's the young man and it is a
facsimile it says Trump and then it has
a very large penis that is there and
we're sure this isn't more UFO evidence
in crop circles he also he also had a
climate change do we have a picture of
the climate change yeah we also has a
picture of climate change so he spent
the weekend carving this message out and
he had to get through his a level
business exam I don't know what that
means but I imagine it's like finals or
something like that and this is what he
said he said all my teachers have been
shaking my hand and congratulating me my
phone's been off as I've had this exam
but all my friends have been showing me
the news articles he also went on to
write climate change is real in the
moing that and a picture of a polar bear
and he was asked if he thinks it will
get in the way of his remaining a-levels
which is I would imagine his other
finals all he said no and if it does I'm
not too bothered this was more important
too
only three to four hours to complete the
project didn't take as long as you think
he said it was all done freehand with no
planning I just went for it
I just well then I mean and I I don't
want in any this is just future creative
possibilities but if you're gonna do a
penis base installation art to upset
Donald Trump next time I would suggest
to go back to a you know not a trendy
topic anymore but go back to last summer
and read excerpts of the stormy Daniels
book where she has some pretty grotesque
descriptions of trumps particular image
and you could add that to the visual
joke let's go to the phone's what's that
toad from Calicut
