[Music]
let's play that clip though this is
Donald Trump meeting with Yazidis in the
White House now understand the Yazidis
were during the Obama years where we're
under siege by Isis they apparently
they're their struggles did not end with
Isis but the Trump administration
brought them in to praise Donald Trump
for getting rid of Isis it didn't quite
work out in the way that Donald Trump
wanted it to and if you want to see an
example of a human being who cannot be
moved
emotionally who's so detached from other
human beings that they cannot be moved
by real literally anything that doesn't
directly involve them watch this clip it
is stunning
I mean if you combine this clip well
watch this clip vice president he helped
us a lot but now today you you can't
solve our problem now there is no Isis
but we cannot go back because current
Kurdish government and the Iraqi
government they are fighting each other
who will control my area and we can know
it go back if we cannot protect our
dignity our our family and what we we
get a lot of support from president
macron he push he put a lot of pressure
in Iraqi and Kurdish and government to
to help minorities easily to stay in
their home but we still continue to
emigrate to find a safe place to live I
hope you can call or anything to Iraqi
and Kurdish and government what Isis is
good but if I know it's Kurdish and
Iraqi Iraqi government if I can not go
to my home and live in a safe place
and get my like my dignity back this is
not about Isis it's about a mini country
as my people cannot go back we are not
many enough people we are only health
men young people and after 2014 about 95
years 95 thousand years AD they
emigrated to Germany through a very
dangerous way not because we want to be
a refugees but but we can not find a
safe place to live
all this happened to me they killed my
mom my 6th brother they left behind them
where are they now they kill them they
are in the mass graves in Sinjar and I'm
still fighting just to live in safe
please do something and it's not about
one family it it's about us millions
about the whole community and you heard
the Nobel Prize yeah that's incredible
but they gave it to you for what reason
they can explain for what reason for
that after all this happened to me I
didn't give up I can I make it clear to
everyone that Isis threat thousands of
vzd woman this one was first time the
woman from Iraq she get out and talk
about that happen - oh really
it's first time and you escape escape
but I I don't I don't have my freedom
right because you you you didn't see any
Isis in it could Isis are we don't know
if they killed everyday everyone if they
are in jail but we know we have 3,000
years IDI women and children including
my niece my nephew my sister-in-law
three years ago she called us she said
I'm in Syria and now we didn't know
anything about let me look ok thank you
I mean Jesus Christ right I mean I Jesus
Christ I mean that's I think what is so
frankly there's
a fair amount of sociopaths I would
assume in political space but it's like
the inability to even like pretend the
understanding that this is the time
especially frankly because and I and I
just I hate that I would even have to
like go this cynically here but it's
like the easy DS we're facing genocide
that's absolutely true and part of the
reason they mobilize some support
amongst people who typically absolutely
don't care about the well-being of
anybody in the Middle East is because
they're Christian so it's like he
there's a lot of reasons for him to
pretend to care about this one and he
just no I mean these only thing is kinda
interested in it's like you have a Nobel
Prize that's prestigious that's like
Obama I'm on wanted those yes it's on oh
Jesus Wow
I I don't they're not Christian IUDs
they're there's some similar but they're
they're Yazidis I don't I don't believe
their their their their Christian but
nevertheless they they oh yeah - you're
right the the inability it's like he's
like a sociopath who has also grown up
in a closet like Oh like literally was
not allowed to go outside because he
does not even he obviously does not care
about these people at all
he can't even pretend to care he doesn't
even know how you would act if you did
care all he cared about was the Nobel
Prize I know the area very well who is
it between the Kurdish in the who I
don't think he had even a clue as to
where I mean he if you take the those
three clips of this week Mike Pence
overseeing the cage full of human beings
Donald Trump prancing around on stage
as his minions cheer sent her back and
that last one which is supposed to be
the one that shows that he cares about
people who are not white right that's
why they brought those people in there
and it in it's it's of course it's it's
meant for his supporters to remind them
that they're not really racist that's
the idea there right and it's it's
stunning and the thing is is that it
will not make a difference you could
show that video clip I think to everyone
in the country and it would not make a
difference in terms of where people are
dispositional e about Donald Trump do
you think of the future that those sort
of sensitivity perceptions are
completely blown out and can't be
brought back in with like subtlety or
does it just not matter I just don't
think that people I think that people
you know it that's what that's I mean
that gets back to the call that reminded
us to play that clip this is a
mobilisation election where it's a
mobilisation society that's basically it
and frankly it's been like this for
several decades at least the I think in
in fubar writing about conservatives 10
12 years ago I mean I would describe
these people as the the conservative
movement as you know being like there in
Masada you know the story of Masada was
they basically it was like the Alamo for
a group of of Hebrews and they were
under siege for an extended period of
time they eventually I think they all
they may have committed suicide or they
were because they had basically were cut
off from food but this idea that they're
under siege these this mentality of
conservatives they're under siege from
15 years ago it was from gays they're
under siege from women
they're under siege from black people
they're under siege from brown people
they're under siege from you know
feminazis and and the Liberals their way
of life is constantly threatened and
they are mobilized which is why they
have done traditionally much better in
off-year elections and the left has -
this is a mobilization election you can
do both mobilize and persuade but there
is got to be an emphasis because the
fact of the matter is we have a very
polarized country and like I say I mean
I don't think you know subtlety is going
to make a material difference
