[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat the
majority report with sam c de it is
Friday October 26 2018 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks
joining us to look back on the week that
was and still is Ben Dixon from the
Benjamin Dixon show also on the program
comedian Ted Alexandro news special out
check it out at Ted Alexandro con maybe
we'll talk to him about that also on the
program up to 12 bombs and Counting sent
to demonized non Republican figures a
suspect is now in custody a Florida man
who like most flawless flaggers came
from a van full of pro-trump posters
very suspicious meanwhile Trump
considers sending troops to the border
to guard against wayward piggybacking
parents and also in Florida Democratic
governor candidate Andrew Gilliam may
win been Milsons Senate seat for him
meanwhile the Saudis now admit that the
Khashoggi killing was premeditated
slight reversal from when they said it
he left the embassy and finally
regulatory relief for abusive payday
lenders care of Mick Mulvaney 's
consumer financial protection hahaha
Bureau and the megyn kelly 69 million
dollar experiment has ended New York
State sues Exxon for misleading
investors on climate change and Trump
proposes a Rube Goldberg mechanism to
achieve the Democratic plan to lower
drug costs and also he's lying meanwhile
a Democrats ignoring Trump in campaigns
at record levels while Republicans focus
on brown people
and lastly Brazilian elections this
Sunday the fascist balls bowl Cynara up
by 10 percent if you are listening from
Brazil please vote otherwise good luck
keep your fingers crossed all this and
more ladies and gentlemen on casual
Friday yes it is the famous casual
Friday here in in the majority report
just one more note on Brazil apparently
Lula says ask Brazil not to go on a
fascist adventure but you know we know
how luring that can be super annoying
also Noam Chomsky pointed out that
bolster his plans for the Amazon
rainforest alone could also be another
nail in the coffin of global climate
because of the Amazons distinct role and
regular regulating the global
environment that would be
voting out of fear I wish I could do a
Portuguese that I have Brazilian accent
for it like Brit like voting out yeah
yeah if you get rid of it Amazon's very
Jackie aunty that one I like the one
with Lenin which was somebody said like
so I say he took money from the from the
Germans I say we get rid of Lenin we
give the power back to the Tsar we wait
for a real revolutionary to come over
said Jimmy doors grandfather I don't
know why we're getting it so early in
the program
what at today's sponsors is news voice
dot-com / majority you're aware of just
how hermetically sealed many of us are
they left and the right the right of
course are hermetically sealed in a
world of news that is many times
incredibly fabricated in fact most of
the show today is about the idea of like
you know these two different these two
different narratives that seem to exist
in the country and they're competing for
each other for in terms of electoral one
is we need better health care the other
is that there are throngs of invaders of
families who instead of going to out to
a family picnic are going to invade the
country and and beat us up with
pacifiers and you know like a stuffies
which is not good for pre-existing
conditions and Democrats want that right
example that's what that there's a new
media company that has come up with
their own response at least to these
problems of the hermetically-sealed news
bubbles that people are in not so much
the other problems but maybe one will
help the other it's called news voice
it's an app for iOS and Android it gives
you access for free I'm sorry you can
get access for free at for this app if
you go to news voice dot-com slash
majority gives you a personalized news
feed by aggregating a mix of mainstream
media sources international sources and
independent media sources multiple
sources are provided for each news story
so in my mind that's the best thing
about this service is that if you want
to have arguments with people about
stuff it's very important to know what
they are what they're sort of starting
point their basic assumptions are the
entire app is fueled by crowdsourcing
you can upload stories you think are
important so more people will see them
you can add stories to the app you can
add a source that's missing to the story
it's meant to be completely open and a
democratized news aggregator like I said
lets you get every side of every story
they also have video interviews a series
featuring guests from Chris Hedges to
Alexandria Acacio Cortez go download the
app for free at news voice comm slash
majority if you are listening to this
program we have it in the podcast
description if you're watching this
program it's in our youtube description
check it out news voice comm / majority
alright so today we're gonna be talking
about this with with Ben Dixon broadly
speaking we are now what 10 days out
from the from the election I can't do
the math a week from Tuesday and
[Music]
obviously super important to get out
there to tell people to vote my basic
assumption is that 99.9% of you who are
listening to the sound of my voice are
planning to vote so I'm not gonna waste
my time imploring you to vote I am going
to waste my time imploring you to get
other people to vote find by any means
necessary those people who you think are
not voting and have them vote super
super important even if you think you're
in a safe district the sheer numbers
will help the narrative and that's also
important that's what a big part of
politics is and it's you go out there
and you vote you get people involved who
knows where it goes from there so go out
meet some people talk to some
maybe you will create relationships that
will be helpful two weeks from now when
you start agitating for the winners of
these elections to do what you want them
to do which is ultimately just as if not
more important well probably more
important but obviously one is
subsidiary to the other they have to be
in office for you to be able to agitate
that to them to get them to do what you
want so here is Donald Trump he is in
Wisconsin Wisconsin reportedly has
purged their rolls of hundreds of
thousands of voters certainly know in
the run up to the 2016 election they had
practiced a finely-tuned
form of voter suppression they have a
strict voter ID which targets African
Americans and students at least at the
top of the list
Donald Trump is there campaigning for
Scott Walker who is in big trouble he
predicted at the beginning of this year
he would be in big trouble
hopefully he loses badly but Donald
Trump here lays out what Republicans and
we're gonna play other clips from people
who are pundits to people who are
candidates and Donald Trump here is just
laying the groundwork you will hear this
is obviously the message that
Republicans are running on which is be
afraid of brown people and let me come
up with multiple different ways of
trying to express it so if you're not
afraid of brown people because of this
small anecdote you're gonna be fraid of
brown people for that anecdote and then
of course a trump adds his own sort of I
want to say hyperbole but it's really
just complete lying in in presenting
this case it's so so and you know where
I grew up near Long Island we have like
these great communities and they were
infiltrated with MS the
- and we got a racist get him the hell
out we are actually we actually are but
we are getting him out of this country
by the thousands
you can believe her
[Applause]
but you know it's like a liberating like
a war like there's a foreign invasion
and they occupy your country and then
you get them out through whatever and
they call it liberation you're liberated
ice goes in and they're much tougher
much stronger and much water they go in
and they in a relatively nice way I want
to say that relatively guys they get
them out they put them in the paddy
wagons and they get them out of the
country they bring them back home or
worse or worse or worse the percentage
of members of ms-13 that ice has
arrested in the two years of the Trump
administration we don't know exactly
because I don't know if they released
this type of data but it can't be
anything just by sheer numbers unless
there were hundreds of thousands of
members of ms-13 in this country it
can't be more than a couple of
percentage points ice is far more adept
under the trump administration of
rounding up and deporting moms and dads
of middle-class families people have
been here for an extended period of time
I mean this is all obviously alive but
that is just you got to start like you
know you got to think about this is like
steps right you can't get to the top
step in terms of like incredible lies
unless you go through these subsidiary
steps and so and now he's taking us to
stuff that like honestly the idea that
grown people
I understand motivated reasoning but the
idea that grown people don't get up and
walk out and go like this is just too
much what if somebody sees me here at
this point after this lie is blows my
mind I called
and these towns have been liberated and
the people at slapping they're looking
I'm telling you it's like like watching
World War two movies
it's like watching documentaries on
World War one and World War two the
occupations they get them they take them
out and the people are in their windows
and clapping and screaming and they're
happy
this is ice and the Democrats want to
terminate us they want to get rid of
them I posit
has a I mean is there anybody in the
audience is just gonna like well I mean
maybe he's exaggerating maybe there
aren't people wouldn't we be the people
that would have seen that footage but
you know what I think partially what's
going on though and this doesn't in any
way undermine your point is that is the
the I forget who first came up with the
phrase but taking Trump seriously but
not literally and I think there's a lot
of like for all intents and purposes if
you're this xenophobic and bigoted in
your voting in it might as well be right
like ms-13 is do that in their windows
because there's too much peace eNOS but
inside they close the drapes and then
they're cheering out there so I think
he's actually so it's a funny way I
think he's actually saying like they're
basically saying like it's all the same
to me
and here's like a touch of ridiculous
non-violence conspiracy I know it's the
exact same sort of lie but just flipped
as he said when when he said Muslims
were celebrating 9/11 yes yeah I think
that's exactly in a sad day we're inside
it literally I think that's exactly
what's going on and I say want to get
rid of her
so if you want to uphold our laws our
borders and our way of life you need to
vote for Scott Walker and glia bar she's
so funny I'm so impressed that I got her
name right Luke MA that is that is you
know why he said that right because
phonetically that's the way it's spelled
out on his on his on his teleprompter
how is he how is he not like a
professional Liberace impersonators he
kind of is is basically a professor I'm
a really racist professional Liberace
impersonating with the maturity of a
teenager less than alright folks we're
gonna take quick break and when we come
back Ben Dixon from the Benjamin Dixon
show
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the
proprietor and host of the Benjamin
Dixon show available on iTunes and
stitcher and at the Benjamin Dixon show
calm Benjamin Dixon hello Ben yeah I'm
doing great Sam I'm always a pleasure to
be here with you all how's it going over
there
it's going great thank you so much for
joining us let's just briefly talk about
this I mean it's sort of I don't know
maybe I you know on some level I feel
like I'm not doing my job as a plumb
assist and as a sort of you know
propagandist in the most a sort of value
neutral expression but there have been
12 bombs now sent to Democratic leaders
and and you know one guy associated with
the you know and a couple of like
administrative people like Brennan and
hold right and you know I don't know why
these bombs didn't go off I'm not a bomb
maker or a bomb defuser and but they
could have and maybe those people
wouldn't have been killed but it would
have been other you know people but the
idea of like bombs being sent to the top
leadership of the opposition party seems
a little problematic and you would
imagine that like everything would stop
right and they have found the guy here's
a picture of his van
it is adorned with pictures of Pence and
Trump and pictures of like Michael Moore
with a target on it Hillary Clinton with
a target on it Jill Stein with a target
on it others and I mean it's and now I
don't know maybe it's all falls flat
maybe this is maybe when they get in
there it's gonna be you know I don't
know Tom Perez is going to be that's his
band and whatever but highly unlikely
well just give me your sense of how
underplayed this is in like the idea
that Donald Trump you would think that
that Donald Trump would like sake all
the other the former president and say
hey just want you to know we're doing
everything we can to protect you
yeah yeah that's that's the most one of
the most notable things outside of the
the insanity of bombs being sent itself
I feel like you like I gave the same
disclaimer on my podcast this morning
like I I mentioned it but I didn't want
to stay there because there's just too
many variables there that we don't know
except for the ridiculousness that we're
getting from Donald Trump and the
Conservatives this perfectly sealed her
medical they exist in they have accepted
in their minds even the president he's
floating this idea that it's it's a
false flag that's clearly a possibility
but to have that spread by the president
before the FBI can actually resolve that
that is the case just shows you just how
ridiculous I mean how far going we are
to the point where that that behavior by
Trump is the exact same thing that
drives our news cycle that it's just
constantly day after day we can't even
keep up with this so now that twelve
bombs have been set our packages that
are suspected of being bombs or whatever
they are you know it's it's not nothing
shut down nobody's moving any slower the
news is still going just as fast as ever
but I mean let's talk about this notion
of people floating that it's a false
flag right like look I think I saw that
guy Brett Weinstein you know making some
argument about like it would be
irresponsibility the idea of raising
this question shouldn't be criticized in
some way right and Bert I do not
remember a single instance when any of
these people when anybody ever said it
was a false like like hypothesized that
it could be a fall
flag when we had any other type of like
the Time Square bombing or this other
stuff because I mean let's be honest
here it is a possibility that it's a
false flag in the same way that it's a
possibility that it's a false flag of a
false flag of a false flag of a plan
exactly
like the idea that someone's gonna send
out 12 bombs and it's some type of
democratic operative okay and they're
gonna send this out and not get caught
right like they're so good at this that
they can send out 12 bomb packages and
not get caught is highly highly unlikely
it seems to me like beyond unlikely it
is almost to the level of absurdist now
it's possible yeah you could have a
crazy person who sends this who is like
I'm supportive of of all these people
and therefore I'm sending it and I won't
get caught and they're completely crazy
but it's not really a false flag as much
as it is it's a crazy person who has
been driven to do something crazy and
you know no doubt this guy has some some
some some mental issues if it's a guy
who sent these out but this is like you
know there are certain the the idea of
entertaining this as a false flag like
it's an operation right like the right
um is just absurd and it is I don't know
to me that's just it it's absurd it's
but it's to be expected from certain
circles like Dinesh D'Souza this is
right part of course this is this is how
he makes his money right to have it
coming from the White House I don't care
if Donald Trump is the president I don't
care how ridiculous Donald Trump is to
have that coming from the White House
absolutely undermines the entire process
right and I'm not surprised that Donald
Trump is doing this but we still can't
like let that be an excuse for how
absurd this is at some point we have to
grab
hold of one of these new cycles and and
not just be flung around with the with
the madness all day and cling on to the
fact that this is happening right before
our eyes and and and it's being
spearheaded by the President of the
United States I think one of the reasons
we can't make anything stick to Donald
Trump it's because we're spinning so
fast and he knows that and he's
contributing to that and I think that's
why he floated the false flag notion
this morning and I don't know if it's
this morning or last night but when he
floated it he knows what he's
contributing to he's contributing to the
chaos let's listen to this clip from
what's her name trish regan she is on
Fox Business and she has an interesting
take as to what caused this the
situation with these bombs but also sort
of like you know there is a a Chiron
underneath that the breaking news US
troops are deploying to the border
because been as you know and I'm sure
you know you are I believe down the
Atlanta area so you were south of us and
I imagine this makes this that much more
harrowing for you but approximately
2,000 miles from you there are almost
2,500 families with children who
terrifying who are obviously looking to
take over your home so but let's listen
to what Treasury can break this down for
us night plus new tonight a nationwide
manhunt underway for the suspected male
bomber we have fresh Intel that Florida
Maryland and New York are key areas of
interest meanwhile the media is
ratcheting up its attacks on the
president saying these heinous acts are
all his fault the media refusing to take
any responsibility for themselves it's
the victim mentality all over again
Geraldo is here and he is my guest on
Geraldo
right yeah which part of that is the
most absurd the Jurado part hands down
like he's gonna be the expert on this
issue but no seriously did the entire
framing is
asinine Sam I don't even know what you
want to say about that well I mean CNN's
taking a victim mentality probably
because they had two bombs sentences I
mean there's that there's there's that
you here's here's a bigger problem that
you speak to all the time and and I
always like to cast it in this in this
frame right this is strategic this is
not an oversight this is part of the
programming it's not a bug it's a
feature they know what they're doing is
the victimizers playing the role of the
victim it's calling the real victims
people who are having the victim complex
is the oppressor trying to maintain
power by feigning as though they are the
oppressed and anytime they can find a
scapegoat that they can fulfill that
victim complex that they are projecting
onto us through right now it's the the
migrants that are coming north they they
execute it flawlessly and they do so
where here's the biggest problem they do
so through this massive propaganda
machine that is funded by billionaires
that we don't have anything remotely
close to on the left and that
combination makes them successful over
and over again we felt like we had one
step forward I guess you know with Obama
but now it really feels like we've taken
ten steps back that's because we never
really took a step forward we just kind
of had an anomaly but this this
conservative machine that is able to
project this victimhood this victim
complex that they are operating in
they've been doing this masterfully for
years so this is just an extension of
that you know the there's along those
lines there's a new book and I think
we're going to have this one of the
authors on but and and in it I mean it
it's nothing you know it's not huge news
to you or I or probably to most of the
people who listen to this program and
certainly there has been advances since
2004 and in the early aughts but a
professor at Harvard Law School has
written a book network propaganda
manipulation disinformation and
radicalization in American politics
basically saying that you know you know
if you had removed Rupert Murdoch from
the equation 25 years ago
the world would be much nicer place and
so I guess maybe that's you know maybe
that's folks goal you know you want to
you want to have impact on the world and
if you can't do it if you know as long
as you're superlative it doesn't really
matter which way it goes but just to
your point about what you know as we
sort of pivot to look at the the
elections that are you know now about
eleven days away here's a clip of martha
mcsalley which i think and and this is
taken from i think they played it on an
MSNBC on may be a morning joe but it's
it's it's a local news coverage of the
arizona Senate race martha mcsalley is
running against christian cinema not
necessarily my favorite candidate of the
Democratic field but it's better than
John McCain or Jeff Flake and but here's
martha mcsalley this clip captures the
dynamic of what's going on in the
country right now in terms of the races
there was a report out by the Wesleyan
Media Studies group that showed that
Democrats paid advertising at least
which is the easiest thing to measure
uses the word or reference to Trump less
than any Democrat any political party
has in a midterm election in fifteen to
twenty years and on top of that they
have found that that Republicans are
using immigration more than they have in
also similar period of time and here is
that that dynamic distilled in a series
of quick sound bites from martha
mcsalley as she's being questioned by a
local reporter in arizona will you fight
to retain pre-existing conditions as
they are today
from i have fought for pre-existing
conditions I voted to protect
pre-existing conditions you voted for
something that would weaken pre-existing
conditions
you voted for something that would
weaken pre-existing condition right now
from it's not true you know press
release comes out and something that's
processing and you guys are asking me
about it in this top race in the country
it's just it's just ridiculous without
Economic Opportunity you know if any of
your staff is getting their health care
through the ACA Denis can we please talk
about the things that matter to most
voters instead of repeating the Arizona
Democratic Party press releases I mean
this is men maybe from the party is
ridiculous honestly do you have anything
to talk about like the caravan there you
go do you have anything to talk about
like the caravan the thing that's on
people's minds I mean it's amazing
that's staggering
you know that that she can get away with
that this there has to be a new style of
journalism or maybe just a heart hearken
back to other ages some journalism maybe
because you can't let them get away with
that I mean don't get me wrong when it
when it politician is intent on
weaseling their way out there's almost
nothing that you can do but you can
really expose the fact that they are
reasoning their way out I don't know how
the rest of that clip played out but
that attempt to pivot was so transparent
that it should have been caught on the
fly and that's really the only way we're
gonna be able to hold these people
accountable but to the bigger point I
mean they the fact that Republicans are
running on the dog was so and the the
bullhorn of racism and xenophobia and
the fact that that Democrats are timid
about attaching this to Donald Trump I
mean I don't know it's is it possible
for them to really be this genuinely
incompetent Sam I'm Ginny I'm asking
that question it helped me out here well
all right all right let me address that
let me let me address that second first
I will say like these local reporters
they were hounding her about the about
you know the pre-existing conditions and
I thought they were doing a pretty good
job it's almost that the problem is is
that we know what she's talking about
what she says the caravan right like the
problem has been all the coverage where
people were sending people down to the
caravan because that is to me it's the
functional equivalent of
a meteorology report that is focusing on
a rainstorm that is you know off the
coast of Hawaii and it may implicate you
know California I mean it's not it's
just it is is so irrelevant the story
really is Donald Trump seems to be
focusing on something that's completely
irrelevant and we we shouldn't even know
we shouldn't be able to know what she's
talking about when she says the caravan
but the second part I think like III
think is I I don't know I think there
are Democrats who are afraid of who are
perennial II afraid of racializing
things and on some level that's what's
sort of fascinating but what's going on
in Florida to pivot to that because I
think everybody's seen the clip we
certainly played it yesterday in Italy
live really viral where Andrew Gilliam
is the Democratic nominee for governor
and he's running against Ron DeSantis
and we should just say as a back story
Gilliam was not expected to win the
Democratic primary writer was I can't
remember her name now it's been there's
somebody but he was not expected to win
he had a late surge and he is the most
progressive candidate of that Democratic
primary field he wins he's
african-american if people have not seen
this club who are not familiar with him
and De Santis is you know there are
Republicans like this like you know in
New York we had that guy Carl what was
his name pavulon or I can't remember
Palumbo who you know was famous for
sending around
Obama as you know as a Kenyan faxes and
ran for prefer for governor in this
state but DeSantis is like that but was
you know people thought he was going to
win and he still may but it's highly
endowed and Gilliam basically just went
right at him
yeah or his racism and said something
that I thought was really brilliant he
said I'm not calling you racist I'm just
saying the racist has seem to think you
are and
that's a brilliant construction I think
yeah that it's going you don't reckon
you don't recognize that though it's
it's totally from The Simpsons Fox News
not racist but number one were racist
and when I heard him say it I was like
you know what that is a brilliant use of
that meme that's been going around but I
I was a little I was I was surprised
that he went head-on into it for the
same reason that you outlined in your
setup because you know there's a lot of
Democrats who were really afraid of
doing that I mean what what's also
interesting about this race in Florida
is that if Gilliam wins he's winning
he was an unprofitable winner in the
primary and he's running in a way that
is embracing a very progressive values
in a you know a genuine swing state
this is stay that went for Obama big in
2008 went for Obama not so big in 2012
it more or less flipped by a couple
hundred thousand votes for Trump versus
Clinton and if Gilliam wins in the swing
state he's also gonna be basically gonna
drag Bill Nelson across the finish line
yes it seems like yes yes and that's so
critical like i-i've I'm from Florida or
one of the states I'm from his Florida
I've lived there through high school in
most of college and I'm just encouraging
everyone if you're going out to vote for
Gilliam I think the last poll I saw he
was up by seven or eight pointing
they're gonna couple I've seen three
I've seen nine I've seen seven but he's
raised to be up he's going to be the one
to carry Bill Nelson so I'm employed
pouring the please we don't need Rick
Scott of the last person like we don't
need any Republican but Rick Scott who's
thrown fifty two million dollars of his
own personal money because he's made
that money off of Medicare fraud I mean
for him to be able to go to the Senate
it would be obscene but Bill Nelson is
in a tough fight there so you're
absolutely right Gilliam would be
bringing the more centrist the more
senior establishment Democrats
pulling him over the hurdle which we
absolutely need right now because the
last thing we need is Rick Scott to take
a Democratic seat and turn it red and
and in the the implications though of
that dynamic right where you have
someone who is young african-american
unabashedly progressive basically
carrying this old white guy centrist
across the finish line in a genuine
swing state to me is has huge
implications there are other races
obviously we want to win but this one
seems to have like big implications as
to what forms the narrative within the
Democratic Party as to where you need to
go to win yeah yeah yeah it's critical I
think you know in a way it's going to be
far more significant than Acacio cortes
not that we have to make a comparison
but Acacio Cortese was kind of like the
flash point where we realized wow
there's going to be a new generation of
Democratic leadership across the country
but now we're seeing it play out in a
very substantive fashion in a very
difficult state like you said a swing
state in a race that in the first place
I ever got called the n-word was Florida
I mean I'm telling graduation yeah it's
an achievement right it's the North
Florida is is the south it is the
legitimate south and that that Gilliam
is able to call off this racism so
directly and I don't think he's going
down on the polls yet I haven't looked
at him this morning it really speaks to
where we have to go I mean it's not
Nelson it's not Nelson who's put like
this Joe Biden who is looking for some
type of way for us to get past the
incivility
that is not the person and the brand
that's going to be able to take us into
this next fight yeah and we're seeing
that similarly play out in Florida I
know that the Republicans are not as
afraid of Joe Biden as they pretend to
be because because Charlie Kirk told me
they were and I know that I'm quite
convinced that can I ask you something
yeah
did does it not frustrate you that a
scumbag and like Charlie Kirk is
even put on the same stage as you I
mentioned this on my show a couple weeks
ago and I was like I'm gonna ask him
about it and you just reminded me for
bringing him I mean the guy doesn't
really know anything he simply has
millions of dollars behind him which is
completely reflective of the thing that
we always talk about media in money /
conservative money in media just making
stars like you know not that it's
important but if fred has frustrated me
for you like I mean look I you know I
feel like I have a job to do and you
know I think you you certainly you know
more than most people can understand
it's like you have a certain skill set
and you know I would have liked to have
been you know a better student maybe and
maybe be in a more you know had or the
capacity to have more academic pursuits
but these are the the skill sets I have
at this point in my life and if I can go
and in any way inhibit the trajectory of
any of these people I am more than happy
to do it
frankly I mean so well you did that that
you did but it was just just the fact
that this guy from nowhere gets some
millions of dollars from some donors and
and instantly is inserted into the
national conversation for the purposes
of propaganda is like it's like our life
story right now like this happening over
and over again all around the country
yeah I mean I I i I'm note I don't think
about it that way I don't feel like you
know I don't know who else I would go
you know be on a stage with I mean I
think like if they want to do some type
of academic debate with good faith
people I think there are people who are
better suited for that then then then I
but I think I'm pretty well suited to go
up on stage with somebody who's not a
good faith actor and and and if you know
I mean that's so you're the met your if
they're gonna put these morons up there
you're the man to take them out I sort
of feel like that is you know for better
for worse you know
I think I was probably genetically
engineered for two things one fairly
lame sitcom sitcoms to play the the lead
who is put upon and when that sort of
ran its course then I think this was the
next thing for me well listen ask you
this just stick them before it for one
more minute
the interesting thing too about Gilliam
is I mean this is why this race to me is
so so fascinating has so much importance
in addition to what we've already said
about the the narrative that it sets for
the Democratic Party this is also like
the the ability for a Gilliam to impact
the the the electorate of Florida is
also super he's right like you know he's
gonna have the ability to enfranchise
like literally tens if not hundreds of
thousands of people and this to me is
huge because so often we see we see and
and we should also say simultaneous is
there's a an amendment for which would
basically you know Riaan franchise like
1.5 million voters you know for you know
people who had been convicted of a
felony in Florida and and you know right
now Rick Scott's been doing it literally
hand picking the voters you know yeah
the gillum's going to impact that
amendment as well right and yes and vice
versa so like turnout it's gonna be
fascinating the the exit polls in
Florida gonna be fascinating and and the
implications of him winning are gonna be
huge but you're in in Georgia what's
what's going on there Stacey Abrams
I think she's she's up by two points
which means that she's not up we're
going to knock on doors my friend and
Noah chunga she's really active here
we're going to knock on doors on Sunday
for her
just because the turnout is so critical
especially when you have this Secretary
of State running for governor who has
the ability and is utilizing that
ability to disenfranchise so many people
purging voters across the state
particularly in black counties we're
seeing it over and over again
the ACLU we got a quick win this week
we're not a quick but an important win
this week with the ACLU determining that
individual poll workers cannot reject
signatures balance because they've made
an individual call and in the case that
they do reject ballots they have to
contact the person this was the craziest
part about this Sam was that they could
reject your ballot and not notify you
now they have to notify you in this
upcoming election so there's some
critical wins of the ACLU it's been in
the front of that that are going to make
the difference but still like no one is
even batting the eye that we have a
Secretary of State Republican running
for governor who's creating this
situation in the first place and
everyone is still acting as though he's
a good faith actor and and I guess I'm
just not sure how those two things can
coexist when you literally see him
targeting targeting communities of color
in this race all right is there anybody
there talking about like hey this would
be a good thing to do regardless of who
wins to reform this in some way have the
concept of recusal in certain instances
or something to that effect um you know
I think it's gonna take a Democrat doing
this for them to actually say okay we
wanted we want to put it into this
because previously you've had other
secretaries of state run for governor
here in the state and then generally
have been Republican if my memory serves
me correctly so no but that that kind of
goes back to that questionable
fecklessness that we occasionally see
from Democrats because that should be
something that happens every you know
even if they're not in power that has to
be a war drum that they beat because we
go through this you know Georgia has
gone through this many times apparently
is there do you have any sense that the
that there's been a good enough job in
talking about the voter suppression to
drive
votes like they're having cassia you
know what I'm talking about yeah I know
what you mean
I noticed it so III do this thing now
where I actually I go to church now
which is different but they're talking
about all the time in church and
churches like I'm hearing it everywhere
and like the barber shops so this is
having the reverse effect it's like you
want to take this from us we're gonna
show up and make sure that you don't
take it from us so that's that's a net
positive but you know these are all
anecdotes it's actually gonna be a
number significant enough to overcome
that the the purge I don't know all
right let's briefly just talk about
megyn kelly for a minute okay I mean I
know I've seen you on Twitter with this
stuff and you know I think I there's
been you know people can go on Twitter
and see that you've been you've been
getting into it a little bit with Jackie
ogre who didn't think that megyn kelly
should be fired for her latest
insistence that it was okay for
blackface I mean I mean let's just start
with the let's let's start with the
blackface question just more generally I
mean I from my perspective like I've
gone on TV and I have said I remember
going on TV one time and saying you know
I can't remember what context but I was
saying somebody had gone off the
reservation and people with Twitter you
know we're like dude you got to start
thinking about what you're saying
because yes and I you know I grew up
using that it was just a vernacular you
know it was a clear and and then when
you start thinking about it like you
realize like you know what I can
understand why that would be pretty
offensive to two people that you know
the idea that a group of people were
sequestered so that we could steal their
land and told you can't the reservation
and if you do and somehow it's like as
opposed to like you're liberating
yourself or you're taking it is somehow
you're you're you're doing something
wrong and and so I stopped using it but
I also think that like I didn't have a
history all right maligning at Native
Americans and so people were you know
okay they were satisfied that I had
learned my lesson is it possible for
anybody to take that position with megyn
kelly I mean let's just put aside for a
moment that it was clear somebody made a
very very bad professional bet on megyn
kelly okay they made a very bad bet and
it was a very expensive bad bet and they
were looking for any reason to get rid
of her that could make it seem like it
wasn't a function of them making a bad
bet okay so putting that aside for a
moment because then the question is do
you give megyn kelly the benefit of
doubt who could possibly give megyn
kelly the benefit of doubt why you know
that's what made me so upset about jinx
segment because he framed it in the
sense that it was that she just maybe
don't know people don't know and the
thing is it's like if you don't know and
you want to imitate a black person you
don't go get tar baby black coal and put
on your face because that is a direct
harkening back to to Jim Crow to the
Klan using it in their movies and Birth
of a Nation that's the the imitation and
the insulting of black people with this
tar baby if you want to look black you
get a brown hue and and and I'm making
that distinction because ignorance would
tell you that if I want to look black
I'm gonna put on a brown face this is
not done an ignorant this is done
intentionally to irritate to racially
irritate the black community now we've
insulated ourselves from it to a certain
extent where it's like we expect this
because every Halloween we have this
conversation so not only did I do I not
extend this grace to megyn kelly and
neither should have Jenk youger but i
don't extend this to anybody anybody
because you had to research blackface
for you to say oh i'm going to get this
tar baby black color instead of a brown
pigmentation which most African
Americans in America are brown versus a
true black you had to have done that and
you come across it you make a conscious
decision and and this this Sam mind you
is going underneath the grace of
ignorance we're giving them extending
them the grace of saying they're
ignorant about it when you come out of
your house and your home and your ATAR
baby black with white lips you are
intentionally going back to an era of
Jim Crow and you're doing it
for the purposes of I don't know well I
don't your show on on radio because I
don't want to cuss it no you can at this
point about you're doing it for shits
and giggles you're literally doing it
for shits and giggles with the Trayvon
Martin murder you know one of the first
images that that are still being
circulated right now is a guy in
blackface tar-baby blackface with the
hoodie on with skittles with a Arizona
iced tea and with a bullet wound in his
chest this is never done in ignorance
it's done intentionally and megyn kelly
above all people who made sure that she
reassured the children who are watching
Fox News that Jesus was white and Santa
Claus was white I mean are you okay I
you know fine she is well aware she's
she's 50 something years old she's paid
twenty three million dollars a year
she's gonna walk away with sixty nine
million dollars a year
she is not ignorant and to infant lies
her in that way in order to insulate her
from criticism or being fired is not
something that a progressive leader of
the independent media should be engaged
in I like Jake I actually tried to get
on The Young Turks when I first got in
in this game and who else was I was
gonna try to get on their shelf with but
but come on man you he knows this and I
don't get it I honestly don't get his
move on this one I mean all right well I
mean putting aside you know what what
what Jenk was thinking the I think
there's the idea that like look if
you're gonna go on television you know
and this is what this is you know this
is you know almost almost distinct from
race I mean there or I should say
broader than race if you're gonna be on
television and and you know some people
are defending or saying like well why
can't we have a conversation about race
it's like well if you're gonna talk
about something that is clearly a
sensitive topic and very important to
society you have a responsibility to do
a certain amount of research so I mean
like even if she was to say like look
I'm a little bit ignorant about this
well then you know what you're really
really almost criminally bad at your job
and you should be fired and you should
give back all the money that you're
earning because you should be so
embarrassed
that that as a professional you would go
on without researching the implications
of blackface in American right I mean
you know just I mean it clarify like
you're saying like if people are going
out for Halloween right people who are
not on television promoting something
but they're just going out for Halloween
like I don't know I feel like you could
go out right as a Holocaust victim
people what I mean but honestly it's
like and people would be sort of like I
think right to be like a little offended
like hey man yeah that's yeah not funny
or right you like what's going right on
there like and you know to go as a to me
it seems like the same thing and it's
not like you know if you go as a
Holocaust victim it is it's very
specific if you're go to specific to not
have been researched like you thought
you put some thought into this and you
had to have known that this is going to
ruffle some feathers and and and Sam I
don't mean to cut you off but that's
literally the point the point of
blackface and all these insulting
costumes generally yeah I mean of course
you have something you do have examples
of people who are just clueless but
we're not talking about clueless items
we're talking about people who picked
something that is most certainly
offensive no matter how you cut it
they put thought into it and this is the
point the brutality is the point and I
that's that's what makes this so
insidious all right well let's say I'm
going out as a Idris Elba or however you
pronounce that guy who should be bond
that guy right what I mean what like and
I put on like bronzer where am I on that
spectrum you're on the spectrum like Sam
what are you doing just go wash that off
and put on the nicest suit that you can
shave your hair and take off your
glasses and just say that you're easier
tonight let's just call it call it a day
right you know right I think I or just
go is like I'm the white idris elba or
whatever yeah I don't know how to
pronounce his name but the guy is you
mind
the guy who connects bond there's this
there's this imitation that is flattery
but then there's imitation that it's
mockery and that's what blackface has
always been there's never been an
example and the fact that that the onus
is being placed on black people time and
time and time and time and time and damn
time again for us to do the education
even of people who are making millions
of dollars to do the education is the
part of this equation is so infuriating
like know you you you know you did the
research to figure out which hue of
black you want to go with you should do
the research on your own and pay the
consequence for why this was such a bad
idea and we should say like you know the
there are people are very comfortable
with certain things being taken off the
table in polite society come on
like like you can't go on television as
a host of a show and you know just with
on multiple occasions burp in the middle
of what you're doing or you know or fart
and you know on one hand you know you
could be like well man it's the human
body and right uh you know while we why
are we pretending like this doesn't
happen and it's really offensive like I
can come up with the exact same because
this expands into like you know how
certain comedians can't go on college
campuses and deliver certain jokes in
some way maybe I'm teasing Ted Alexandro
a little bit you know appearance in a
minute but this concept of like really
what we're going through it seems to me
and and in this dynamic I think explains
our political moment as much as anything
you know obviously broader issues but
the idea that like essentially that
black people now they get to have their
say in what might be offensive to ya
right and that's what's step too far for
some people I mean I think that's
basically the era and not just black
people obviously but trans folks that
women if people have colored generally I
mean folks who have been more marginal
in in an onion you know disempowered in
our society since the beginning are now
have a little bit of power and they get
to say what they also think is
Sam if if I got on my show as small as
my show is and I dropped the F word not
not F uck but the the homophobic slur if
I dropped that there is not going to be
a single person in my audience and
rightfully so who's going to say well
let's have a conversation about it and
let's let's educate Ben because listen
let's make sure that this guy who talks
politics all day long and and gets paid
the the coins that I get paid that I
need to be educated about it and that we
need more speech not less speech know we
have rightfully determined that there
are certain things that are not
acceptable and if you call that being
politically correct I just call it not
being a dick there's no reason for us to
do these things when they have been
clearly demarcated as a bridge too far
for people that you in the progressive
side of the equation are supposed to be
allies why are we it why are we even
having this conversation on the
progressive side of the conversation
I understand megyn kelly I understand
her trying to play this game that's what
she did it Fox but I don't understand
and I you know he's cool I like him but
I don't understand change Jake
supporting this yeah I mean and to me
like the conversation just broadly
speaking has value because it we
understand also I think like you know
what people who watch megyn kelly to the
extent that there are anybody left who
watch megyn kelly you know what they're
thinking about and like we sort of what
these these complaints and because it
does you know I again like I I can't
explain what would would jinx what what
the reasoning is there but that to me is
is less relevant than what it sort of
like this broader political time I think
is so much about this like you know yeah
basically a large portion of the white
people in this country you know just
resent get off on this resenting that
you know non-white males get to choose
what is impolite when it's always been
white males who get to choose their
parameters as to what's employed right I
got hip to this and I know you we
probably have to get out of here I got
hip to this the day after Hillary
Clinton lost I was scheduled to be at
party debate I took it cuz why not in in
Massachusetts I was right around the
corner so I went Wooster and at the
rally was her sweetheart yeah what
nothing
but it was it was I came to grips with
the reality that this is the point the
brutality is the point two years ago
when when the moderator was describing
Donald Trump's slurs of of Elizabeth
Warren and the Pocahontas and all these
types of things the guy who was debating
against me said oh no that's the part I
like I'm glad he does that I'm not
embarrassed by it you know this was
really really the point there's a big
part of our population that enjoys this
and if we don't recognize that we'll
always be playing this game of trying to
understand them
the only thing you need to understand is
that this is what they enjoy Ben Dixon
the Benjamin Dixon show people can find
it at the Benjamin diction's show.com or
you can hear the podcast on iTunes
stitcher google play whatever wherever
you find podcasts are disseminated Ben
thanks so much I really appreciate it
buddy hey it's always a pleasure to talk
to you again right bye-bye
all right folks gonna take a quick break
oh geez were running late and when we
come back Ted Alexandro
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report we will have more to say about
this later in the program apparently
this guy has threatened folks in this
office but the scenario super funny
stuff but the Mogga bomber allegedly
they have a suspect who is allegedly the
Mogga bomber bomber his name is Cesare
seoc jr. he was apparently a trump rally
celebrity he has an arrest history in
Minnesota and criminal records in New
York and Florida
he was traced by DNA evidence and we
will have more on that in the program
later and apparently he you know
threatened some people in this office so
with that said let's have our top
billing for the night that was their
opening act and now I would like it to
welcome to the program Ted Alexandro
how's that Ted
how's that that's not the first time
that I've had somebody bombing open for
me talk about a pro folks so Ted you're
on the road and let's just start with
this an image tell people you can get
more information at Ted Alexandro
dot-com and we're gonna talk about your
special which has been released I think
it was released a couple of weeks ago I
want to talk about that in a second but
you're you're on the road right now
where are you like in Indiana I am in
Indianapolis yeah yeah and I just found
out as a matter of fact that President
Donald Trump will be here tomorrow so
let me ask you this now maybe we should
play some let's play your clips to set
up this because I don't know if people
are familiar with your work you've been
on the program before but you are
you are somewhat political in your
comedy and I would put you to the left
side of the spectrum in your comedy
let's no be fair that let's listen to at
least this clip and this is from your
special what's the special called again
senior class of Earth senior class of
Earth and here here is Ted Alexandro in
and where was this was isn't it where
was a shot in the the Comedy Cellar
College underground alright here it is
oh it's the movement's everybody it's
the movements we the senior class of
Earth are tasked with doing what we can
you have to join the movement see what's
going on wait lost sound sorry just a
bit though that's basically the Jets
that's it that was the funny part folks
and we had a technical problem and a
week about to resolve it hold on one
second but that is just tease them you
know that's nice they just give them
enough that they're curious where is it
going with this right you want them to
want more here we go so it's the
movements everybody it's the movements
we the senior class of Earth are tasked
with doing what we can you have to join
the movement see what's going on plug in
right all the Marches of women's March
the climate March the science smart the
scientists are marching that's how bad
it's gotten they don't even like going
outdoors they have to research they
should be inside you have to give up a
Saturday because the president doesn't
believe in climate science thinks it's a
hoax you know the way those scientists
are always trying to pull a fast one on
us ha ha ha you rapscallions fool me
once and then prove it over and over and
over
have it reviewed by your peers and
phillotson back
[Applause]
[Music]
all right well that's just a taste of it
but all right so you're in Indianapolis
how does that go over there because
Indianapolis is not necessarily I would
think like your key demo well I mean
like every city you're gonna have a
cross-section of everything but this
particular weekend I'm opening for Jim
Gaffigan so like I kind of split time
between I do a lot of dates opening for
Jim so I'll do like 15 or 20 minutes at
the start of the show and then I do my
own dates and comedy clubs you know
where I kind of it's more of a varied
cross-section of you know kind of doing
my relationship stuff doing political
stuff but when I opened for Jim like I
am in Indianapolis yeah it's going to be
more down the middle like I try not to
polarize too much like when I'm opening
for him because you know the crowds
there to see him and it's a lot of
families and you know can be anything
from seven year olds up to grandparents
so yeah they're not there they didn't
buy a ticket to see a political show so
I'll kind of drop things in but I try to
be a little more selective when I'm
opening grants do you get a sense of
like where like you know even when you
drop that stuff in does it give you a
sense of where the audience is and what
might be changing and so people should
know with Gaffigan and ice actually saw
him recently just by chance you know
he's still doing more or less hot pocket
stuff and I don't know if he's doing
that on the on the road but his stuff is
you know largely about like what a
goofball he is
and so people are going to see their you
know like this is this is about as like
middle-american as you can get it seems
to me and I'm just curious do you pick
up like any changes in people's
perspective or or know like politically
well you know what's interesting is I've
been touring with Jim for a few years
now and before
Trump got elected like let's say during
the election cycle I could do stuff in
front of Jim's crowds about Bernie
Hillary Trump and and it would all kind
of go over but then there was the shift
after Trump won where I guess people
weren't you know like Trump supporters
were no longer willing to be the butt of
the joke and not that I even target you
know it's not like I just slammed Trump
though you know that's not hard to do
but you know I try to write stuff that's
funny
and that hopefully you know anyone could
kind of see the humor in but I did
notice this distinct shift that after he
won we would go to certain cities and
like I couldn't even I couldn't even
really mention his name it would just be
like you know it would be too much it
was more trouble than it's worth
that's weird is that like is that a
function of like people feeling embolden
and sort of righteous because he won
like we yeah we're right we you know
what what what's blowit yeah I think you
know what it was was a lot I think a lot
of Trump voters were probably in the
closet until he won so I think there was
this natural like release for them
especially in the you know the immediacy
after he won like yeah we don't have to
hide anymore you know like I'm not going
to even let you start this joke about
about him you know there was more like
yeah we put up with this long enough you
know I think it's kind of changed a bit
now after a couple years that you know
again I can I'm I'm kind of strategic
about when I do it if I'm opening for
Jim but you know less though within my
own sets I just you know kind of say
whatever I want and have you gone on to
a lot of podcasts and on Twitter and
complaining about how you can't go into
these clubs anymore because of the
political correctness of the Trump crowd
no no I you know I don't feel
particularly again like if I'm doing my
own show at a club Ted don't you realize
you're aggrieved because they're not
laughing at your Trump jokes in these
venues yeah no that is it that's a tough
road for anyone but uh you know as a
comedian it's it's up to me you know
that's part of the job like depending on
where you are and what the job is you
know because I could be doing a club gig
that's my own date I could be doing a
corporate gig I could be doing a college
gig so we constantly kind of assess as
comedians like what is going to get me
through the show is this more of an
artistic artistic endeavor where I'm you
know really staying exactly what I want
to say or is it a paycheck is it you
know you're constantly assessing those
things as a comedian so yeah I don't I
don't feel as though I mean like I
perform at the cellar in the city
primarily when I'm home and uh you know
you get a cross-section of people there
too because it's a lot of tourists but
yeah I mean you know as a comedian if
you're going to stand behind your stuff
you do it no matter who's sitting there
what is uh the senior class of of Earth
refer to is that we basically shutting
it down after we're done today yeah yeah
we are the final graduating class of a
verse it seems more and more it's just
kind of an apocalyptic reference just
that kind of impending sense of doom
that we constantly deal with so it's
kind of dealing with that but it you
know I would say that it's the album is
probably half socio-political stuff and
I think it's also you know hopeful in
some senses and you know as you have to
be right you can't just kind of give in
to the I mean saying that we're the last
class on Earth of people and then we're
wrapping it up is you know it's not you
but we graduate we did graduate let's
not lose sight of that you're basically
like setting up yeah that's a tough
that's a tough joke to follow after that
yeah we you know we sell there is a
measure of celebration there's no
there's no jobs to be had and but we we
made it through
did you ever have a time where you would
open with that that we're all gonna die
and then realize like I gotta put the
relationship stuff first and then leave
[Laughter]
you know I'm not that careful about what
I open with because sometimes I almost
like the challenge of opening with the
darkest thing that almost takes a little
bit of a whole um yeah so sometimes
that's fun to go with the new thing or
the dark thing because you know you can
you can get them back or you know if you
have something that's more polished you
can always go to that but yeah I don't
mind I don't mind digging a little bit
of a hole what give me a sense of like
of how you think comedy has changed you
know in the course of particularly as it
relates to politics because I mean my
sense and I'm not involved in it I mean
I'm barely involved in that world at all
anymore but my sense is that comedians
have gotten far more political over the
past I don't know five years or so yeah
I would agree that like almost everyone
has something political in their act now
whereas that you know that wasn't always
the case you know certainly in the Obama
years so I think by by virtue of Trump
being elected it was almost like you
couldn't ignore just the spectacle of it
you have to you know you have to comment
in some way so I think anyone who was
political maybe got that much more
political and anyone who wasn't you know
at least had some stuff referring to it
but I also know I don't have this sense
that like you know you can't talk about
this or that I think what happens is it
makes it a little more difficult you
know like you kind of have to hit the
target a little more dead center and
that goes for like with the the PC
police to that people sometimes but Mon
the fact that the PC police can't take a
joke I think no it's just that you have
to be a better comedian you like the
lazy stuff that used to get away with or
stuff that was outright offensive or
misogynist or
or what have you is no longer being
tolerated and that's a good thing you
know so I think a lot of this is
actually ultimately to the betterment of
of comedy if you're you know if you're
progressing and trying to write better
stuff will you tell me a little bit
about the the comedian's coalition I
know you will want to like the guys who
were involved in starting that what what
does that do yeah what's happening yeah
the the New York comedians coalition was
a kind of an organization that was
started by myself and Russman Eve Tom
shaloo buddy Bolton a group of comedians
because for many years the pay-for
comedians and New York comedy clubs had
remained the same essentially since like
the mid 80s so we started this in like
the early to mid 2000s and we got over
300 comedians everything from you know
kind of the top regular working comics
in the club's all the way down to kind
of beginning open mic errs just to kind
of have the Solidarity throughout the
ranks and we petitioned all of the clubs
for a raise and we wound up getting it
raised you know spot pay on the weekends
was like $50 since the 80s in the clubs
and we got that raised at that point to
75 to 85 was kind of a ceiling and now
it's up as high as I think 125 so you
know it was successful in that a it
initiated that dialogue that you know
kind of opened the channels between the
comedian's and the clubs and it's been
an ongoing thing certain clubs are a
little better about kind of revisiting
it the cellar is one of the better clubs
they kind of set the standard but it
kind of opened up that channel of
dialogue so it's been successful and did
Tom shaloo begin to understand the value
of solidarity and well that was so funny
because this was before Tom became like
a Fox News contributor and all this
stuff Tom Apple
was just a you know another club
comedian who I knew leaned to the right
but yeah I didn't you always kept it
very close to the vest back in those
days if I remember literally vest two
because he's always wearing like a vest
and a bowtie and stuff but yeah he he
didn't yeah he did he played close to
the vest and you know if you engaged in
a political conversation with him
you could glean that he was right
leaning but yeah it's he's kind of
leaned much further than I that I knew
he was I don't know how somebody goes
through that experience and then doesn't
appreciate the value of like of
unionization in solidarity when it
literally has a material impact on you
well yeah I think Tom probably does
realize that yeah I don't know it's it's
probably just one of those complicated
things that couldn't couldn't really be
cleared up in a sound bite but yeah I I
mean I find Tom to be funny interesting
we differ politically and I probably
haven't talked to him in you know
probably like four or five years you
don't have to justify it to me - no I'm
not justifying I find it just as
intriguing as you doing and as odd as
you do I always tried to get him on to
debate when I realized he wouldn't do it
I stopped banging him perfect on trying
to do that but now but but read I got
cancelled didn't it like I never saw
that show but I was aware that he was
hosting it but it got cancelled I think
a long time ago somebody told me but I
don't know how long yeah it was on for
awhile and a lot of comedians were doing
it but yeah I never I never went on I
just I don't like to kind of oh no I
wouldn't I would never gone but he was
hosting it for a while yeah yeah yeah it
was his show for probably a couple years
Wow I had no idea I had no idea did not
yeah but she was credit he was he was
one of the the linchpins of you know our
organization getting getting a raise for
comedians so let me just ask you this
about you know you you you had a piece
that went a little bit viral in terms of
louis c.k and you know i
and I wouldn't say I'm a close friend
but I'm I'm a friend of Louise I see it
maybe once or twice a year and I'm
curious and your perspective on this
like it the other day Sarah Silverman
came out I guess arguably in his defense
on the Howard Stern Show and said that
he had consensually masturbated in front
of her multiple times just any more
recent thoughts well I mean most of most
of what I thought about Louie and that
situation is in the clip you know people
can find that on on YouTube
I did a sat at the cellar and I actually
did that set and I should tell people
who were aren't aware the cellar is
where Louie has now done I guess two
spots that he dropped in and did you
didn't address his this situation but he
he basically just tried out new material
yeah yeah so he returned to the cellar
and then there was an article in The New
York Times saying that he was back on a
Tuesday I believe and I was at the
cellar that night that Tuesday that the
Times article came out and I was just
coincidentally happened to be there that
that whole week so it was kind of on my
mind on a lot of comics mind it was in
the news a lot that he had returned
after nine months of being away and kind
of just did a drop-in and and you know
went on stage so yeah I I spoke about it
on stage and you know like I said the
set kind of covers how how I feel about
it you know the main thing that I
thought was that it wasn't being given
the gravity that it deserved to kind of
just show up to work unannounced and
just do a drop in you know like I felt
as though you know when is the last
thing he said was I'm gonna go away and
I'm gonna listen and I'm gonna you know
reflect on this
however he phrased it and then to kind
of just show up and bump other comedians
you know and also I just felt as though
casual I mean the idea of it being
casual when you come back nothing's
changed yeah right but nothing's changed
I can still just show up unannounced and
and you know like dictate the terms of
my return
like with theirs you know to me I found
it curious that there's no discussion on
the part of the club the club just has
the same policy like Annie yeah whenever
you want to whenever you want you could
have come back the day after you could
have come back the week after so yeah
and I certainly wasn't alone maybe I was
alone in voicing it on stage or publicly
but in my conversations with comedians
there was a lot of kind of concern about
about him coming back like that and and
also the club received a lot of heat for
it you know the problem that I had two
was that the people that were receiving
heat were essentially everyone but Louie
you know because he kind of just dropped
in dropped out and then everyone else
was left to kind of speak for him you
know that's the weird part I mean I we
should probably explain this a little
bit because I think some of like the the
the the gaps it is traditional at comedy
clubs that people love of Louis stature
and not even I mean Louis had you know
it's a fairly unique you know in the
stratosphere I mean there's you know
maybe maybe a half a dozen dozen
comedians who are you know in his sort
of level and there's and even in
comedians who are you know sort of like
the next level below can stop in in a
comedy club at any time and basically
get up in the next slot unless it's like
a serious you know unless like the the
headliners on right like on during the
weekday it's it's a free-for-all and
that happens all the time you get you
know and yeah the celebrity drop in is
kind of a standard in fact that's a big
part of the comedy sellers allure and
their reputation is that you never know
who's going to stop in at any moment
people literally never know like that it
literally is you know it would have been
you know pre his his his controversy he
could show up at any time and people
would be like psyched that he's there
and so the comedy club nobody at the
comedy club there had been no policy
nobody anticipated that he wouldn't have
had a more official return and and I
think that is like the part that I think
people are just not aware of they're
they're debating whether or not it's
fair for him to stay away or this and
that but it's also sort of like the
mechanism like because there's a lot of
people I would imagine at the door like
what are we supposed to do that's
exactly right yeah yeah yeah I think it
put a lot of people in kind of a
difficult position where they had to
make snap judgments it really shouldn't
be on the the comedian who's emceeing
that night or even the person who's
managing the club that night I think you
know it's even tough to put it on the
owner in some way because of the nature
of these of that relationship well I
don't I don't know that it is that tough
I mean you know it's part of owning a
business and it's part of you know you
have to make a lot of decisions right so
yeah so I think you know I'm and I'm
friends with Nome and I voiced my
concerns to him both in person and and
through email and again to his credit
you know I go on the stage at the cellar
and I and I say whatever I want which is
which is again why you know I think part
of what made that clip the dynamic of
what made the clip interesting was that
I was saying it on stage at the cellar
so you know but I don't think you can
paint it with one brush and also you
know the thing that I was saying in the
in the clip is it was more of a macro
discussion about the me to movement
about misogyny patriarchy powerful men
acting without consequence
I talked about Cosby I talked about
Trump and I talked about Louie because
unfortunately he made himself part of
that macro discussion right well folks
can go to Ted Alexandro dot-com and you
can pay what you want right is that the
what are you doing with a senior class
oh no not with this one this one my last
two specials are pay what you want there
on my on my website this one I released
through all things comedy which is Bill
burr and Al madrigals company comedian
owned company and to this point they've
been a podcast network they have Bill
burrs podcast and things like 50 others
but this is the first special that
they're distributing and this is kind of
their first foray into that terrain so
yeah you can get it at ATC specials comm
and there's a there's an option to buy
it there's an option to stream it but
it's on ATC specials comm all right and
where where are you performing where are
you doing your your stuff when I'm in
New York I'm at the Comedy Cellar
primarily you can see all my dates on
Ted Alexandro comm and you'll also see
the dates that I'm doing with Jim and
you'll see my own headline dates but
when I'm in New York primarily at the
Comedy Cellar
all right Ted thanks so much I
appreciate it my pleasure thank you Sam
all right all right folks that is the
that is the free show for the day ladies
and gentlemen we will now be heading
into the fun half of the program wherein
we will hear more about the incredible
dangers that the Republicans are
speaking of that is amassing on our
border well wait a second let's let's
talk about this do we have so we know
something about the MOG a bomb or do we
know anything more than what you sent me
this guy that he says our seoc it's
ms-13 and it's in the name apparently
this guy was busy on twitter do we have
the tweet
oh they took down his Twitter Oh we'll
give it to him at the ones that he sent
to me yeah let's see that so and Brendan
too right yeah Brendan's tagged and one
apparently Brendan and Jamie were part
of this guy's ire his some of these get
a bit violent and graphic by the way
yeah we might not want to show the
images so so this guy on Twitter his
Twitter feed is down he what I don't
want to scroll up too much because if
somebody was taking issue with she
interpreted as you defending Nancy
Pelosi and whenever this was and so Jim
was just explaining like it's not
necessarily that you're defending Pelosi
it's that there's not a whole lot of
options when it comes to replace in here
that sort of thing right I said you were
making a fairly narrower point than what
she thought you were doing yeah wait
about me yeah it was like a pretty
unrelated conversation about Nancy
Pelosi and this guy just somehow found
like found on to it and he you tweeted a
bunch of different things at it this is
one of the least graphic ones but it's
basically implying that like gonna die
in a swamp this is sort of inscrutable
he's clearly kind of out there and then
he like just screenshots like that right
like and here is one of a poll one of
the more graphic ones over well one of
them he said we have a real special
airboat tour lined up for you see you
real soon
I don't show that Jesus Christ what a
lunatic yeah but my favorite one that he
said to me I mean not favorite cuz
they're all horrible but he said in
response to the same thread anti Phi
you're next and he spelled it why oh you
are as if it's not bad enough that I'm
being threatened by a crazy person on
Twitter he's also gonna butcher the
English language and the includes like
pictures of somebody that like looks
like you got bitten to death by a snake
or something that's really so what
and did you remember this like how did
you remember getting this stuff or was
it just you filtered out um actually
there was a screenshot of one of his
tweets to me at the header of The Daily
Beast article on him and I was like oh
that's good good to know I guess cuz
like I get tweeted at constantly by
crazy people who think I'm like the
president of an tyfa or whatever so yeah
there you go well I mean you shouldn't
put in your bio as president of the
anti-fog I mean that is the CEO I will
say I have executive office I have
scaled back my trolling of replies and
like the MOG of people because I don't
want any of this static because they're
insane and deeply deeply and it's so
casting right right like remember that I
mean we all forget already but that
newsroom that was shot up like a few
months ago and then everyone's like well
it this person had a long-running grudge
with the newsroom you can't really blame
it on Trump
it doesn't matter Trump's rhetoric is
increasing the pressure for this sort of
stuff so like anybody who has a
grievance with a newsroom and this guy I
mean very explicitly on the Mogga train
but like they'll they feel action action
eyes to do it um not for nothing I you
guys probably don't remember this but
there was a guy in Denver named Alan
Berg who was a left-wing radio show host
who was killed who was it the killed him
no it was it was like one like I don't
know saw like a the a proto prototype of
sovereign citizen type of person so you
know there is um there is you know
there's it's not without precedent to
have some concern and you know we try
and maintain some security around here
and but II that's problem agon and up
right now so all right we could take a
break oh I should also say folks
unrelated that Ted Alexandro special was
directed
by none other than matthew film guy and
i was remiss in not saying that and I
apologize I apologize so think of all
the eBay traffic you just cost him I
cost him a lot of eBay traffic do we
have a Jimmy reefer cake guy today ask
the moms test the moms that's just a
Cavanaugh drop Michaels doing his own
Cavanaugh drop it would felt appropriate
but do we have a jimmy refigure oh we
really need to just taking a break from
Jimmy reefer cake just a reminder his
anti-semitic screed on Twitter why I
never get kind of barely out of meltdown
loud we do like he had like a like a
hippie mag obamas style meltdown yeah
like to bridge a divide between somebody
on Twitter he said he liked Indian food
you know I forget it was something it
was something like it was something like
Western at particularly Judaism which
you know yeah which I happen to agree
with but I just kidding well it looks
like this might have addressed it this
one's called whatever he's just a panic
well this song's called be your own
religion well playing it better for weed
all right hold on for one side you're
not you're hurting the brand let me do
some community folks this show exists
because of your support you can support
this program by becoming a member by
going to join the majority report calm
when you go to join the majority report
calm and you spend the pennies a day to
support this programming you are not
only supporting this show this free show
but we give you extra content every day
so join the majority report calm also
don't forget just coffee co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off the today is
Friday other days are not Friday
some of those are Tuesdays and on
Tuesday it's the Michael Brooks show
Michael I know you're gonna be talking
about next Tuesday what is that well the
Brazilian race well we did a
Tuesday was the lead-up to Brazilian
race so we'll probably touch on some of
that on Tuesday guests are big wise and
we are talking about MBA and some other
sports related stuff than Harvey K's
back in studio talking about Thomas
Paine in the Democratic Party he live in
New York no he was in Wisconsin
what is visiting New York a lot he visit
well he is failing her okay and then I I
will end on Sunday the illicit history
that's coming out for patrons is with
Julian brave noise cat who's an
indigenous peoples'
activist and policy analyst at 350.org
and we talked about different
conceptions of property in indigenous
traditions and the policy implications
for eco rights in places ranging from
New Zealand to India and it's a
fascinating conversation and I'd also
check out I'll mention the YouTube
channel this time again because it's
sort of ramping up as well
patreon.com slash TPMS and jamie i'm
these i'm this week's episode of the
anti fada we talked to Sean Makana
editor-in-chief of an exciting new
magazine called commune about the
project of leftist political Eddy and
what niche they hope to fill then we
talked to commie and contributor Andy
battle about the political economy of
mass transit and why the New York City
subways are falling apart from there we
branch out into a deep dive on the
movement of people and things and how
transportation infrastructure is really
over determined right now by the
necessities of capital accumulation and
we always like to end on a call to
action so lastly we try to envision what
transportation would look like if it
were designed for human needs instead of
exchange value and what kind of direct
action tactics we're going to need to
move us closer to that goal and we just
released a bonus episode this morning
for all of our patrons where we flesh
out some of these utopian visions for
the future transit including socialist
planning mutual aid and using Jurassic
Park style super science to implement an
overcoming of Guiteau boards conception
of pseudo-cyclical time under capitalism
and its
that type of left populism that would
have gotten the mag a bomber to support
Bernie if Hillary Clinton had embraced
those policies I like I like it
word gets it on the chin though I
literally just got threatened by this
guy months ago
these have been arrested though okay
it's okay we should say aye
I initially I initially referred to him
as say czar say ik but I guess that is
his nickname
he's also goes oh he says our Altieri
say yeah okay good ms-13 ms-13 and Matt
on literary hangover
yep literary hangover a Pequot War I'm
gonna put the YouTube video out it's a
history of it so if you don't like
fiction you don't need to feel like
you're I'm alienating you it's just a
straight history of the Pequot War and
mystic Massacre so check it out there
you go we got a tea quick break
heading to the fun half of the program
right after we play this Jimmy Dore song
entitled yeah well it looks like he has
a new collaborator called ten-foot man
and this this dump site Jimmy Riva cake
oh geez I wasn't paying attention he
said we have a jimmy dore song Jimmy
sorry folks I was I was still reading
about say ik all right go ahead
yeah it's called your own religion your
own religion Jimmy reefer cake
[Music]
John's day away
[Music]
don't ask for trouble to say that the US
should allow the killing of children and
civilians just because they want to
mount that cow sucking on the tea all
the Saudi Arabian army fleet their armor
is comfy because they buy that crap of
us we run our economy by sacrificing so
then maybe our leaders need to be
smoking up true from outer space cuz
that stuff please when that branch is a
style growing that strain of it remains
you can throw you
[Music]
see ISM rage numbers a brand on fan hits
of heroism
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
the truth
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
there you go this very expensive the
only thing that I like about Jimmy
research capability in Seoul to realize
that explain him enter in Pink Floyd
runtime people in check it's it's a very
expansive sound for Jimmy Rave cake
alright quick break adding to the fun
half
[Music]
you
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report let's go right to the phones call
from a 509 area code who's this where
are you calling from
hey Sam yeah Reagan Ronald Reagan how
are you today sir good hey um it's about
a year ago I called and I recommended a
slow but aggressive phase-out of cliff
schecter is that right and yeah I don't
want to take all the credit a lot of
people are saying I deserve the credit I
don't know if that's true it could be a
coincidence that what I suggested
happened but I want to talk about Jimmy
rooster cake yes well I mean with all
due respect you know I've been listening
to the show a long time somehow he's
earned this slot in your heart and you
know I think everyone some well it's
time to revisit old relationships and
and agreements however informal and just
reassess you no no I know what you're
saying I will say this there's there's
there's two things one is I should say
like Jimmy has elongated the length of
songs a little bit beyond originally
this was one minute songs and now you
know it's like regularly like two two
and a half minutes and I feel bad about
cutting them off Midway but we will
revert to that practice but it was
basically what it was if you'll recall I
know you know this Ronald Reagan because
of your longtime listenership initially
this was not Jimmy reefer cakes slot per
se it was people who would send in music
at the end of the week so we had the
screaming majority was you remember
those guys and we also had one or two
other submissions from shoot his name
keeps me now but one really good one
Pottersville I can't remember who it was
it did it but I don't think he has time
to do it as much because he had a kid of
course and that ruined everything and
you know you know you know how that goes
so you know it's one of those things
where somebody could step up and send in
more songs I just feel like Jimmy hey
Donald hypocrisy and right Jimmy hates
hypocrisy and and in a way for you to
rail against Jimmy door and then to play
a Jimmy reefer cake song when they are
of the same ilk makes you if you think
about it kind of the ultimate hypocrite
and so if anybody should want to
withdraw their own name from the show it
seems like it would be Jimmy reefer cake
to avoid the his participation in the
hypocrisy that's happening that's an
interesting argument I don't know if
Jimmy that's going to resonate with
Jimmy but I think I think of you if he's
gonna have any type of integrity and
constancy and his and his belief and I
mean that's his core brand initiative
that is his core brand proposition no
hypocrisy
and also I'm a Jews question imperiously
gathered goddess in some ways Jimmy Dore
should be playing Jimmy reefa cake so I
you know I if I recall correctly there
was a period of time where reefer cake
very publicly and it's just the omit I
guess the the amount of sort of back
stabs that you're willing to take from
the sky is astounding to me Sam I
believe there was a period of time and I
could not exactly deep cuts no it's it
sort of they're definitely like I guess
like sort of like a butter knife that's
been shaken Bach
yeah but it is cut move and if I recall
correctly about a year ago Jimmy reefer
cake was making
multiple attempts jimmy dore i think i
think all of our enemies in the
stupidest fear on youtube jimmy doors to
Hollywood yeah jimmy door jimmy doors
like hey I'll take you stupid box but
I'm not gonna play your songs
which obviously makes me smarter we have
Ronald Reagan on we have Ronald Reagan
on the phone so it's worth asking about
this pivoting from the Jim arif cake
thing into into this Ronald Reagan you
okay I just say one more thing yes can I
say one more thing
sure quickly I live in Central
Washington I'm surrounded by pot shops
and I will say Jimmy River cake shows do
keep me stone-cold sober so alright
that's one thing all right so having the
reverse effect of what I think he's
trying to accomplish Ronald Reagan you
are an immigration lawyer and so you
would have particular insight into the
huge danger that that the the women and
children and men who are in Mexico a
thousand miles away from the border
walking towards us represent to this
country right this is a clip of
Secretary Nielsen of the Department of
Homeland Security she is being asked by
who is it on Fox News here is it Martha
McAllen Martha McCallum I think it's
Cobra the Sylvester Stallone is Cobra
the end of the glasses they are wearing
the Ray Bans and they're both there it's
almost like they're interviewing each
other themselves but be that as it may
Martha McGowan is the premiere
journalist at Fox or she builds herself
I think is that myself our Guatemalan
scary yes indeed self there are two
2,500 people mostly families walking
because they don't have the resources to
to come in another safe way through
Mexico presumably headed to the United
States although we don't know how many
of them are all
ultimately but let's assume all of them
are and they're it's not exactly a
surprise attack right because we have
over a month's worth of notice that
they're walking towards it is enough but
then that's what Reagan said could
happen right this is the Sandinistas
were just you know a five week walk away
from our southern border well
fortunately it appears like Department
of Homeland Security is prepared for
this let's listen to this exchange there
any scenario under which if people
forced their way across the border they
could be shot at we do not have any
intention right now to shoot at people
they will be apprehended however but I
also take my officer and agent their own
personal safety extraordinarily
seriously they do have the ability of
course to defend themselves so if shot
at they would shoot back now I just I
think we'd have to work through that but
I want to make it very clear we will
absolutely not tolerate violence against
Border Patrol in this situation these
are dedicated men and women risking
their lives every day I will not
tolerate Mexicans or anybody else acting
in a violent way towards our men and
women on the border has there been any
any notion that these people are armed
or interested in actually shooting at
American border agents as a way of
busting through the border with their
kids I I like that they thought it was a
question that needed to be asked like
what would American law enforcement
dealer shot at by a brown person right
like as if we have any doubt what would
happen um no and you know there I think
there was a nice Twitter account that
tweeted out that there were some people
in the crowd with gang ties which first
of all if you already know that it
should be super easy to keep them out of
the country if you've already been able
to run background checks and and just
out like stuff out who who has criminal
history then it's going to be super easy
by the time they get to the border to
just not let those people in let me ask
you this yeah if we
thought that word Island if we thought
there were violent gang members in that
Caravan and we could take them off the
violent playing field for five or six
weeks because they were taking they were
doing a walkathon essentially would not
be great I mean to like to have like all
of these gang members sidelined for a
month because they're walking through
Mexico on a walk about seems to me to be
quite advantageous to everybody involved
they went from violence to being human
rights protestors right it sounds like a
good evolution this is d-dear
it seems like the worst way to try and
sneak into the country like in a giant
group that's on the news every day so
yeah it actually makes the job a lot
easier for Border Patrol I mean
basically what I think will probably end
up happening what happens in like
Tijuana is we've actually given over a
lot of the power to the Mexican
government to basically create like a
waiting list they give out certain
numbers of people who can come and and
present themselves and there's actually
a lawsuit on that right now and my guess
is they'll try and get the Mexican
government to basically implement some
sort of lottery system or a waiting list
and the people will get to Tijuana or
wherever they're going and they'll just
sort of languish there while we let in
you know ten people a day for interviews
but yeah I mean I had court yesterday in
Seattle I tweeted about this and and
there was a lady from Guatemala and her
two little girls and they didn't speak
Spanish they speak a dialect and and the
judge asked if she spoke Spanish and she
like couldn't answer that question and
so he kept asking her more questions in
Spanish anyway that it was yeah this is
an immigration court for you but you
know I sat there and just watched these
two little girls who were scared and
like didn't really know what was going
on and to think about the
journey of this woman and what she's
probably been through and and you know
it's to and then to imagine living a
life where these people were you felt
threatened by these people in any way
it's really sad but you know there's
mechanisms in place to to interview
these people and see who's at risk of
persecution and and it's something we've
been doing for years and it hasn't
caused any major crises or catastrophes
so it's weird that it's on the news but
you know this election is all about
caravanning and Kavanagh
that's what Trump said the other day so
appreciate the phone call Ron Reagan but
now the bomb is distracting I also will
make a prediction that 15 minutes after
the election will be the last time you
hear about the caravan on Network News
this is sort of like the same same thing
to happen with Ebola meanwhile President
Trump addressed where was he for the
c-span talk President Trump was at the
young black entrepreneurs meeting or
addressed them in in Washington DC is
this or is this said and he made a
heartfelt call for unity at this White
House event and then well he just
slipped up and then well the people in
the audience started yelling Soros and
lock him up every citizen benefits when
we stop foreign countries from cheating
our workers that's what they've been
doing you know they called Louis posit
okay so let me just tell you what my
assessment is what happened here he had
a prepared speech that he was giving to
an entrepreneurial group the young black
entrepreneurial group I would be willing
to bet we can't tell from this camera
shot but I'd be willing to bet if we
were to look at the audience the
percentage
of young black people in that audience
would be under 35% at this young black
entrepreneurial event and he went
off-script he was supposed to be talking
about economic innovation and about
entrepreneurs and about challenges from
overseas and he went off-script
and because it worked so well for him in
Wisconsin he just want a little taste of
that again take it from the top
every citizen benefits when we stop
foreign countries from cheating our
workers that's what they've been doing
you know they call globalists they like
they like the globe
I like the globe - I like the globe -
but we have to take care of our people
we have to globalist yes oh you
unbelievable that was the call for unity
I like you're a famous Trump supporter
sent 12 bombs to members of the
opposition I like Jews but we gotta take
care of our own people
oh not just the opposition party but
also Soros the guy who was sure to lock
them up I like that we don't need to we
sent a bomb to send him a pipe bomb
they'll have up unbelievable that's a
2020 slogan and then they got this guy
who looks like you should be in the
caravan and they're saying he's a fan of
mine tim has 13 don't believe it folks
oh he's from the Philippines I think the
salty air yeah well whatever this people
Philippines day and you don't know that
his family was from the Philippines I
think I think via Honduras folks the
making the caravan the most dangerous
issue facing Americans is an
all-hands-on-deck project so so much so
that they've even asked for Gorka who I
don't know where he's living but he's
it's not in the gym I can tell you that
frogs sorry
it's exactly the kind of you but I like
sorry I'm sorry I just noticed it's just
that it's always interesting to me to
see how when people get on TV quite a
bit and there was a story in The Times
about this
I think people start getting on TV quite
a bit all of a sudden that if they drop
like 10 20 pounds and they start
dressing well and then sometimes like
when you can tell like when they're out
of the public eye they start to maybe
sit at home and like snack too much the
calls are incoming and they have more
Crisco and so here he is you've heard
martha McAllen sort of imply that maybe
these people are armed you've heard
other people imply that they're invading
the country but Gorka takes it one step
further and I frankly I don't know where
they're getting the demographic research
on this but I guess you could guess you
can eyeball it you can type all this
yeah one of the things the Romans had to
do often with a with an invading force
that was five weeks out and prepared to
apply for asylum my face is literally
facial recognition software and we are
when you look at the fact that this is
80 percent of the caravan are military
age males that's a potential national
security threat and at the end of the
day that logic doesn't bear weight
because there's seven billion people in
the world a lot of them are poor so
where do we stop do we do we open the
borders and let everybody then America
ceases to exist Eve
it's a good point yes of course a couple
of good points I love the idea like
military age military age the military
age the Gateway pundit had some tweets
up and look for it here they keep
calling
they keep describing the men in the
caravan as virile it's it's like very
19th century sort of like there's a lot
of good workers who are going to be able
to contribute to social security for
Jack
these are some of the most strapping
young bucks horde of migrants the horde
of migrants are mainly military agent V
remains males this is an invasion hmm
thousands of military age viral veera
mostly Honduran males breached the
Guatemala border gate over the weekend
they didn't breach or storm the Mexican
border bridge they walk across it now
that's all Mexican authorities
ultimately let the caravan through this
is what's going to happen in America
they're gonna have they're going to uh
Wow he's one day my wife is giving me an
allowance from her family's trust fund
then next she's with a viewer I'll water
Malin I see the very reason why one has
a Ford Mustang c7 is it still a mystery
to you where the term cut comes from
I've had to I've had to upgrade to an
iroc-z to get my virility up and let me
tell you something even with that iroc-z
the Jim is the not the only thing that
I'm not getting to if you know what I'm
saying to call Bill O'Reilly so we can
be first on market with some virility
pills we've got the jaws of life to
expand the size of my Mustang side door
so I get it I'm not kidding I'm next dr.
Janet not getting booked next week fine
redhead haagen-dazs it is good hannity
could Sean use me later
no no I will be every couple anchovy
pizza please with extra cheese garlic
breadsticks as well as leader office
let's go to the phones
you call them from a 266 area code who's
this we're calling from hello
yes we're about to put all the boys all
right well now who is this where are you
calling from
at six matthew calling from London sir
I'm not going to try and do an
impression but I
I always just appreciate the pajama boys
insult because it's so ridiculous and
just doesn't mean anything um three
things that we can get them for you guys
um
I was just wondering do you guys think
that steven crowder is going to
eventually ask Alexa what transvestite
ism is his vast item is like it is you
know ask Alexa what is a transvestite Oh
a transvestite oh I don't know I mean
really the question that steven crowder
should ask his alexa is do I have the
fortitude to debate Sam cedar after Sam
cedar announced that he specifically
avoided going to politican so he
wouldn't have to debate me no you are
not courageous enough to face a
middle-age jew who likes facts and
figures you are a coward I mean that's
the question that Steve Crowder has to
ask himself why is to look Saddam and
frankly it's the question that fans of
Steve Crowder have to ask themselves
look this is someone that you've tuned
in you've watched even crowder you've
you've put so many of your tiny brain
your brain eggs in his basket as it were
and he's not protecting them he's
basically he's letting you down it's
embarrassing for Crowder fans to steven
crowder act this way change my new Sam
Schneider is practicing the art of war
there you are on Crowder yes um I wanted
to ask you guys and the avoiding
compulsory thing Sam what's your
thoughts on a mixed-member proportional
representation maybe for the House of
Representatives or for some kind of
mixed member proportional representation
system I'm not sure I follow what you
mean mix member like some from large
some from districts yes so the way
Germany runs it is is an like let's say
that the votes were 60% Democrats 40%
Republicans but the seats are all like
like most of the geographic seats are
won by Republicans but the population is
60% Democrats then what they do is yeah
I see yeah I think they do that in they
certainly do that with like electoral
votes let's put it this way I think
Maine and Nebraska in this country do
that with electoral votes and I think it
makes more sense to do that with our
electoral votes in this country than I
do
Congress I think Congress what should
happen is we should have independent a
mechanism to do districts that are that
are at least in some respect competitive
and we don't have it's such a high
percentage of what they call wasted
votes and until we get those in every
state then I think Democrats should
gerrymander in a way that it gives them
more power I think like you know we have
a Senate which already does that on some
level okay yes I don't want to band on
too much but like what the two things
you want obviously from a democracy is I
guess one that is proportional so if
people vote say 55 percent of Democrats
then Democrats should have roughly 55
percent of seats then obviously the
problem is also the need local
representation so that you know senator
from Texas is actually fears the voter
of Texas and looks after their interests
you know rather than maybe doing what's
good for the country but could hurt
Texas or or what's good for the party
but could hurt Texas if you see my point
and think the cool thing about
mixed-member select in South Africa it's
all party lists and it's proportional
but because it's party lists DMP if he
is the party and the leaders of the
party and not like the local people they
good I get it if you what I'm saying I'm
arguing to you that that we have that in
this country on some level between the
Senate and the house right we have
people who are elected statewide in this
in this country
the the the problem that we have is that
we have a Senate that was set up to be
rather undemocratic
and despite the fact that we made a
provision I can't remember what
amendment it is now off the time I had
that that had direct election for the
Senate we still have small pot small you
know minimally populated states that
have an outsized amount of power in the
Senate and that's sort of what your
problematic for us but appreciate I
understand that it last one could you
guys recommend any good starter books or
reading on feminism oh that's a good
question
what what about feminism would you like
to learn well I'm just a I guess just
something that's comprehensive and not
too deep in Ontario ISM I guess I'm
recovering patriarchy slash current
patriarchy and I'm a father and stuff
but and that's become pretty clear to me
that patriarchy or chauvinism is its
current form toxic needs to be reformed
and I don't know agree with all
feminists thought but maybe what I need
to do is actually understand some of the
theory behind it before I make up my
mind you know on how I'm a value 18
certain people I mean that's a good
question there's so many sort of like
different that be there's so many books
that were important depending on the
wave of feminism that we're talking
about on some level I mean I look I
think I think there is I haven't read it
yet but I've heard very good things
about about Rebecca tracers most recent
book I mean it depends on you know
there's no class consciousness in that
maybe I'm not sure if but there's what
do you want to know the history of
feminism or like the theory and their
sermon there are so many different kinds
of feminism like are you coming from a
leftist perspective or more of a liberal
one yeah I mean I would say that I'm
sort of classical liberal now I'm sort
of like center
center-left but what would be considered
center-left in the UK would be
considered kind of far left in the US so
they say I'm coming from a center-left
perspective hmm well I mean I'm I'm
really into Marxist feminism and I think
that that is really important as a base
for understanding where patriarchy comes
from if you want to read about a social
reproduction theory Nancy Fraser has
done some very good work on it TT
Bhattacharya we had her on our show
because it's I think it's really
important not to frame women's
oppression as this trans historical
thing that has always existed because
that is not true
it right it hasn't it you know I've
taken a lot of time but if you don't
mind me sharing something just make a
really good point I'll share a link to
you guys on Twitter because I know I am
but there's a military historian called
Gwyn died who's done some excellent
stuff I think I sent a link to one of
you guys but he's done or he did a
really good documentary in the mid-90s I
covered globalization but also went into
patriarchy and how it's not natural that
originally agricultural villages would
have been a matriarchy it's all proven
from like the grave burial styles and
the religious symbols or being fertility
and female and that at some point it the
switch was flipped men took control and
to God in pro that God king basically
became a thing I was oh now Julian
basically well if you're interested in
that particular process I just started
reading Caliban and the witch by Silvia
Federici the full title is Calvin and
the witch
women the body and primitive
accumulation and it shows how early
capitalism coincided with witch hunts in
witch burnings in a very direct way and
formed like primitive accumulation
basically means like oh why do some
people have to work for a wage and other
people own the places people go to work
is it just because the bosses are like
better and smarter no like somewhere
down the line someone started playing by
some new rules and took some that
wasn't theirs and as it turns out that
extends to women's bodies
of course they'll be better to be the
first but yeah good a nice thing about
winter is you whether you guys disagree
with me no I think you'd all agree that
it it's good to have a different angle
to look at things whether you agree with
an angle or not looking at a problem
from a different angle can often say
like okay well I don't agree with
everything but there's 5% of what this
person says is really a value to me yeah
maybe it changes how I think or it gives
me another tool to talk to somebody else
about it even if they don't agree with
say my theory reading of it just another
angle we can get on board with the final
destination it is um say but thank you
very much your thanks I really
appreciate it right Thank You Matthew
let's go to the phones I would say like
I don't know I mean I think like if you
want like a 101 tour like Angela Davis
and Betty Friedan type of stuff like
would be good starts
it seems to me bell hooks take a class
at a local Community College I'm sure
you could get all those in an intro
course Josh in Chicago is this you Josh
847 yes how did you get because I'm such
an alpha male I there's a couple of no
mastered it was not because you have to
now - we can the promise you believe me
what's on your mind Josh yeah I know
first thing two things today first
actually is it's casual Friday and
people are recommending it's the day
where people recommend stuff I want to
recommend the movie 22 July that's on
Netflix right now it's a a docudrama
about the Norwegian attacks in 2011 in
Oslo and sure people remember that okay
but uh and also potential guest the
director Paul Greengrass there's some
interesting stuff about globalism and
the rise of our right-wing Matt and I
would be very excited about that Paul
and grass why could you like the Bourne
Identity
we would like the Bourne Identity that's
a cool movie I saw I saw the 22nd of
July I didn't think it was such
I mean I don't think it was a good movie
to be honest but I think that um the the
thing that's relevant is that Anders
Breivik this terrorist his courtroom
speeches are essentially like Bannen
speeches I mean yeah I could see a
prototype of everything we're dealing
with in this terrorist attack in Norway
why are you trying to inhibit Bannen
speech oh no I know I what else you got
Josh and the other thing is I want to
play John from San Antonio for a second
I talk about Bernie running for
president I warn as it's still my clear
number two but I'm starting to feel like
I'm not okay I'm not sure how great of a
candidate she actually is considering
all the things we've gotten if she once
again stepped in it in regards to her
Native American heritage by saying that
she did it because of uh you know for
transparency reasons but I also think
that I'm not sure how capable of leading
a movement she is that we need to
actually sustain for example life on
Earth I mean I'm the opinion we really
need you abolish capitalism and I think
Bernie is at least leading a movement
unities not a capitalist or even if he's
not necessarily a socialist he's leading
a movement that is directly criticizing
capitalism and I'm just like not I think
for me Bernie is so the clear number one
and also on foreign policy foreign
policy either race is born but it's good
but this is not incoherent but John from
San Antonio would not be talking about
the 2020 elections ten days out from the
midterm he probably wouldn't be talking
about abolishing capitalism either John
from San Antonio would be saying
watching Elizabeth Warren campaign is
like watching a preschooler try to play
at the US Open okay she's not good at it
I have a just appreciate the call boom
Thanks and I agree with you let's go to
a
two-one-zero area code because I think I
have Malcolm McLaren right here
good afternoon so it's John from San
Antonio Oh John from San Antonio how are
you Amy marshall mcluhan
what did I say good okay yeah I voted
yesterday and I didn't wait an hour in
line but you know and me and then do it
was the longest I've ever had to wait
but in the end it was you know
satisfying so I was happy about that
yeah I've been talking about the
Wisconsin first District race for many
months between Justice Democrat Randy
Bryce and he's running against Bryan
style and the in that district which is
currently represented by retiring Paul
Ryan you interviewed a bryce for ring of
fire bernie sandy Sanders rallied with
him on Monday in Kenosha in the latest
poll by change research he was leading
style of 45:44 just two weeks after
finding style up by two and a half
points in the earlier october poll found
that Bryce said yet to consolidate
Democrats of Democratic support eight
percent were still undecided three
percent compared to three percent of
Republicans two weeks later the story
has slipped the number of undecided
Democrats is down to five percent while
Republicans supported their candidate is
wavering considerably twelve percent of
the Republicans are now undecided and
another six percent support Bryce well
that's a pretty good showing up yeah
definitely I mean it's just one poll and
the poll isn't that that great but I
mean it was the poll that the the
organization that did predicted Gilliam
was going to win though so I mean has
something going so that that race is
number 57 on my most livable district
and it shows the potential of Democrats
uh winning up to 45 to 50 seats 538
currently has them winning 39 seats in
their current classic mode so people
should be aware
hang on hear that John you're basically
saying that under the John from San
Antonio formula you're making a bolder
prediction than 538 and you're basically
putting your flag in the in the sand
saying I want credit for this if it
turns out to be in the fifties
well not necessarily
I'm saying that there's so many races
that lean Democratic that it could come
to that total I mean you know basically
like I was talking on my call on Tuesday
out of the 26 seats that I have is toss
up basically 538 has them winning almost
all of them to where if you just look at
polling they're only gonna win about
half of them so they're already on the
edge but I mean if you look like you
know 44 to let's say 65 you know they
could win when it's some of those races
like like I was just talking about with
the Bryce race camp in the jar' race I
mean like Williams was just up in
Montana and a poll that just came out
today I mean they're all of these races
they're super tight and they have
democratic opportunities what do you
think what do you think in Texas John I
mean it feels to me like bet O'Rourke is
now starting to close a little bit is
that do I have the right sense of that
yeah yeah but I mean it's still it's
still you know four points
he pulls within four points and when we
within five then went within six so he's
closing slightly but I mean it's still
you know slightly above the margin of
error and I mean that's an absolutely
you know must-win I mean the best
scenario is I mean I think everybody
thinks hide camps races is completely
gone and also in Missouri that race is
also going to be extremely difficult to
win even though it's still a toss-up
race there's been a lot of Republican
pollsters that kind of can skew the
polls on that so it's hard to say then
you got to win in Arizona and Nevada and
then you got to pick up one more race
either in Tennessee or in Texas and so I
think that's why it's only at about a 15
percent raise and my hope is actually
more in Bray
and because you know I think that the
really bad polling that he got was when
he went against the the Cavanaugh
nomination and there's been one since
then where he was back near close to
being even so so anyway so on the the
other hand if the Republicans do better
than expect it we may not know the
winner of the house until you know three
weeks after the election because of all
of the the mail-in ballots in California
there's six races that are super tight
in California and then there's the
Washington's eighth district and so
that's going to be a really bad night if
the whole country is like looking at
these races and like you know counting
numbers you know I guess it's going to
be I don't similar to two thousand you
know to some degree you know I mean I
don't think that's going to happen but
in a bad night you know that could
happen and so all right well do you have
any comments go ahead yeah do you have
any comments or questions about this and
you know I don't know if I want to talk
about some governor's races if I can all
right yeah just quickly I'm just curious
what you uh what you think are the most
likely Democratic pickups in the
governor race well I think gillum's race
that's definitely a didn't pick up you
know he's been polling consistently
above the margin of error I think he has
a five-point lead and I think that he's
definitely going to win that Gretchen
Whitmer in Michigan Janet Mills in Maine
and at Pritzker in Illinois and a good
thing about Maine is that they only need
to flip one state Senate seat to get the
trifecta
you know House Senate and the
governorship and so I think that's going
to happen and also with the pritzker
race in Illinois that's that's also
going to be a trifecta so so and then
also in Wisconsin twenty eavers I think
is going to win Fred Hubbell in Iowa
even in Kansas I think Laura Kelly has a
good chance of beating Coe Bach
and even in South Dakota if people
remember the Ronald Reagan he mentioned
when he did his his famous mockery of me
that you mentioned Kristi Noem and she's
running for a veneer no to him so so in
other words the final joke is on Ronald
Reagan because even even his impression
of you may have gotten a long shot well
Reagan's a method actor so if you want
to do a proper John impersonation you
need to get the numbers right John I'm
sorry if I misrepresented you before did
you hear what I said I just want to make
sure that I was being truthful yeah I
mean okay this is
that's not something I ever really
wanted to talk about I mean I I just
believe in the you know the heavily
heavily reformed capitalism I believe
that you know like this show I think is
basically a capitalist show I mean you
know that's how you make your money and
you know the arts which I've supported
all my life and it's and that's why I
moved to New York City and probably why
I moved back to New York City soon and I
think you don't have a hard time yeah I
think the arts are gonna be great when
once we transition from capitalism
socialism will you come visit the studio
John come to the yearning thanks all
right appreciate the call John do you
think globalization do you think Sam's a
globalists let's go to the phone call
from a 2:03 echoed who's that would like
to do all right John hello Sam
yes hello hello hello can you hear me we
can hear you who's this where you come
from
hi I'm Nick from New Jersey and I am
calling because uh you uh went over a
story last week on Thursday our wasn't
you it was Michael and it was a it was
about I think it was ABC who did
some coverage of identity Europa this
like and the right group yeah it was
really weird like why they would give
any any coverage to these people but I
actually have some cursory experience
with them because of the right-wing
gaming culture I they're they're a part
of this like gaming community on a
minecraft server at least one of them
was and there was a rolling stone
article I think it was about I mean see
all right well people can find it but go
ahead make a make the point it's uh yeah
so I mean it I don't know I just think
it's really weird that these guys a lot
of these guys came from the one
minecraft server called flip crab
anyways that's uh that's why I wanted to
call about very strange but appreciate
the diesel I mean you know we got a
keyboard man and was Vanna Gannon was
pretty adroit about using those gaming
platforms let's romp I mean they're you
know
Melo's Yan innopolis that's where he
came from
Aoyama dabba-doo well that was the whole
right the gamergate Cobb from a 2:03
area code who's this where he callin
from 2:03 that was a ghost come from a
707 area code who's this we come from I
just wanted to give you an update on the
sonoma city council race we've had it's
actually kind of interesting we've got a
ton of money spent in this race and had
like three anonymous mailers and a and a
website attacking one of our candidates
for going to Burning Man and wearing
some amount of scantily clad clothing
which is to be expected at Burning Man
we've also had I'm running in the race
and I've been a class for being a
welfare candidate and supporting rent
control and there was an article that
came out for that this mailer that came
out said that red
are coming after homeowners and that
they're going to be if I'm elected that
$100,000 in home value be wiped away and
this is a town of basically ten thousand
people super super small town and it's
just amazing that these kind of tactics
are being used all over you know even
the claw pounds in that country Wow well
when's the race yeah alright never ever
six is the day so it's gonna be here it
looks good I think there's a good chance
and that's and it's been a lot of fun
there's think I'm one of the same if you
guys want to go after steven crowder
please do and you guys got to start
tweeting at him because I want that to
happen so bad
all right well help us out with that
appreciate the call Logan Alexa does a
 mean we should bring it in Alexa
and do that yes Colin from an 865 area
code who's this where you come from
gotta be quick will race through some i
hi hello hello I'm calling in go for
hitbad by I'm sorry
gotta kill of leave a piece out called
from 1/8 1/4 area code who's this where
he calling from Kansas Jeff from Kansas
hello yeah Jeff from Kansas which I'm
here but soon your mind gotta be quick
yeah I was wondering sort of become sort
of a unhealthy news junkie since 2016 in
a lot of ways I'm just and I was
wondering what yeah I was wondering what
you all do to sort of I don't want to
say like maintain hope but like avoid
sinking into hopelessness bourbon is
helpful God is pretty good right right I
engage in probably futile activism
around the goal of transitioning to
socialism before the human race dies out
I meditate and also
yeah I don't hang out with friends go
outside take a run listen to Dipset yeah
enjoy life world was always gonna end
yeah I mean I I honestly I think like
you it's it's it's hard I mean I think
you need to be able to keep like you
need to figure out some type of balance
of keeping it at arm's length and and
but also you know remaining engaged it's
very difficult I mean I found it really
difficult during the Bush years frankly
because things were much more isolated
in many respects if you were concerned
about this stuff I mean the only
encouraging thing I can tell you is that
the there's a lot of people who share
your perspective on what's going on and
that is almost necessarily hopeful right
it's you know right and and that's the
only thing I can tell you is that
there's the thing that was so difficult
during the Bush years was feeling so
isolated and being the only person you
felt like half the time that actually
cared that we were actively killing tens
of thousands if not hundreds of
thousands ultimately was hundreds of
thousands I'm yeah you pays and like to
other people basically I mean Hayes was
a pretty young guy at the time but there
was not there was no particularly when
we started Air America there was no
other identifiable left-wing outlet in
the country I mean maybe Phil Donahue
whose politics were you know what we
would consider today to be pretty
mainstream liberal mouths you Chris
Hayes or nothing but sellouts Cowtown is
established with many of the Democratic
Party
that's what while you submit to the
corporates that it's more comfortable
once you get to be a sellout here's my
vision but how's about this house about
Donald Trump jr. Bowl scenario they
become president right then all of a
sudden you can't put a pretty face
on capitalism anymore and then it
accelerates and then people vote for
Jill Stein appreciate the call Jeff
hanging on yeah don't forget to do that
care out all right called for
the callers sick oh wow it's a
confident six seven eight area code who
is this yeah hi I'm from Georgia and I
would like to talk with you about that
proposal you sent me let's see blaming
the voter how the American people have
failed us and how to fix that with
revolutionary tourism I'm sorry did I
send that to you
don't try to commodify other people's
jokes into weak phone calls we
appreciate the support Charles try again
later thank you goodbye
wow that's kind of a I don't know that's
amazing
wait job Charles I'm sorry I got
distracted for a second again I'm sorry
what what I sent it to you did you say
Oh a bit
Charles come on man we don't have time
for this I just said oh I don't know
Clinton to make it a little bit lighter
by Charles to the show about how to
maybe deal with the Senate because you
later read it and give him your thoughts
come on don't ever call again called
from an h-60 area code who's this got to
be quick quick quick
eight six zero eight six Oh going once h
6o going twice
eight six zero good day hi haba Jordy
report I have a half-baked idea related
to a joke posed to you know remember
calm for the floor
area code who's this got to be quick
who's this hello who's this where you
come from
[Laughter]
can you hear me yes I can hear you 4:08
thankful for a week I'm from San Jose I
was uh what's your name video do you
guys what's your name hey I was watching
some videos you guys had about IQ
debates and uh not while not a apologist
I I think there's a middle position that
I'd like to talk to you guys more about
but if we are short on time then I'd
like to call another time what wits
just give me one second stop stop stop
what what's your middle position so I do
think differences exist but I don't
think that's justification for any sort
of superiority you think you think
differences between races exist in terms
of IQ I think in terms of IQ yes but do
you think King measures anything that is
real yeah I would argue that that is
true that's correct yeah based upon what
are you asking based on what studies or
uh I'm asking you waste upon what do you
think the IQ measures aside from what
you get on this IQ score I mean I know
it called intelligence quotient but
that's a made-up name right it wasn't
just with the name that somebody gave to
that test well it I mean yeah and in the
way that things are made up in the way
that names are mix are I'm a little
nervous I'm a little shaky on my words
but and in the same way that child's
names are made up but I would say it's
an accurate name and it has a predictive
validity to it do you think that it's
possible the the fact that it's
predictive has a function is a is a
function of the fact that society is
structured in a
certain way and that the the test only
measures to what extent you might be
successful in a society that is
structured in a certain way in other
words that's where I think the walkers
are mixed I think it's both I would say
that the system there is systemic
oppression or or bias for I guess whites
in this case if you want to if you want
to go to the main controversy but I
would say that the test also does
measure differences between say Asians
and I mean as I saw your videos you say
Jews but I would say the systemic
oppression is there but but don't you
think that the I mean like like for
instance if I set up a a the world of
athletes we're gonna measure athleticism
based upon how well you get a small ball
that is dimpled with a metal stick and I
ask a bunch of questions about one's
aptitude about that it will be
predictive of of that right like I mean
it is there's a certain arbitrariness
that is then considered to be some type
of absolute and the idea that attack
yeah I think developed with the context
of a certain culture would predict the
success of people would be predictive of
success within that culture only tells
you that it's measuring what what the
society has structured as being
important in some fashion and obviously
it's being structured by the people who
have power okay I would I would agree
that that's a possibility and I would
say that that's a strong argument yeah
but I I would I would also say that
there's not enough research on the
subject right now well when there's more
research
good actually I'm a claims are being bar
hold on when there's more research and
you can actually make an argument rather
than a series of assertions and telling
me that my argument is strong then I
would take the next step of actually
publicly arguing it but you can't call
in and say it's ultimately my feeling
that this thing is right in some way and
have no way of establishing it like yes
it may be predictive but I can also tell
you what's more predictive about success
what's your zip code what's your area
code rather and if your area code is one
FET is wealthy I can tell you with a
fairly good with a fairly good record I
can predict the trajectory of the vast
majority of people who live within that
area code and that is my IQ test I hate
the area code you live in how many books
did your parents have I hate the caller
for two reasons first I don't support
hockey rice science and two we were
supposed to leave 15 minutes ago
I hate you saying oh it's Friday Friday
we know all right we're gonna read some
I am nobody else calling about that
please don't do it please
can't help it oh this is an interesting
thing this is pretty telling
even Newt Gingrich understands what the
Cavanaugh fight was about and now as he
sees most of his opportunities waning he
knows that he's got to give a little bit
if he wants to continue to be
interviewed by The Washington Post has
there ever been like a former politician
who's been more interviewed than this
guy who served for a couple years in the
house honestly and was kicked out by his
own party Newt Gingrich continues to
tantalize and partly because he will
actually occasionally like let the you
know open the blouse a little bit let
the whatever they say whatever that is
and and here it is where he's talking
about the Cavanaugh nomination and why
it was Republicans were so adamant to
have Brett Kavanaugh in particularly the
White House this is a billionaire who
has fought lawsuits his entire career
closet for one second the question was
do you think Donald Trump is going to be
able to withstand the potential
Democratic investigations and perhaps
indictments that could follow or legal
challenges that could follow the
midterms with the Moller investigation
this is a billionaire who has fought
lawsuits his entire career and he's
never noticed them he doesn't care
that's why he has lawyers so they can
come at him for 100 levels he'll just
hire 100 lawyers and saying oh call me
when it's over I got to go do other
things I'll see I'm going to you know
China or I'm regulars campaign play golf
but I don't think he has any fear of the
Democrats ability to investigate but
he's been raising that fear out there
because he wants everyone to go vote and
what about if they subpoena is tax
returns then no we trapped into
appealing to the Supreme Court and we'll
see whether or not the Cavanaugh fight
was worth it Oh what did he just say
that out loud there you go folks
he's also arguably the creator of our
modern politics which is another reason
people pay attention to him I mean he
set the template for everything you see
today I mean along with obviously Reagan
and Nixon and so on and so forth but
Gingrich I think is kind of like an
under Canadian he's an MVP of fascism in
America join the term feminazi for one
Bob but all those not terribly
tough to not terribly easy to
distinguish alright let's go to some of
these IMS and then we'll get out of here
these patents Sam stay after crowd or
tweet him do more videos what I think
would be incredibly effective is to go
to a university where Crowder is doing
to change my mind segment and debate him
they announce uh where they're going in
advance have Brendon uh filming upload
you should just follow him everywhere
and I love Sarah Palin hey Sam your
argument with Jamie last week I totally
agree with you jamie is going to get us
Trump 2020 or Rick Scott 2024 there's a
lot of votes out there maybe the left
should start like a left-wing sovereign
citizens movement to appeal to the
racist voters serious calculus the fact
that the Trump is trying to push this
narrative middle-eastern people
infiltrating the caravan is proof that
the center-left and independents
acknowledged the humanity of people
fleeing the problems in Central America
I'm a sovereign citizen it's like your
own safe space
Gabe firmly from Chicago in this new
cycle where people are talking about
false flags can we take a moment to
mediate on how much more obnoxious it
would be if Alex Jones hadn't faded in
obscurity it's true right it's amazing
what deep LAT forming somebody will do
Brendan for co-host I keep imagining
Trump taking a talk in a cell phone
knowingly being monitored by the Chinese
crow barring his thoughts on Chinese
food into the conversation and and the
service is terrible
senator pug Adam Schiff came and spoke
in my Union last night was overall
positive he gave a speech in which she
mentioned that Democrats need to be on
top of automatic voter registration
making voting a national holiday
national redistricting etc which was
good to hear I asked him a question I
asked him about other Democrats
contemplating court packing and term
limits he said it would be hard to do
that but Democrats need to be better
about the courts sort of a non-answer
answer thank you
recover bras I'm from Brazil my father
was in prison and tortured during the
dictatorship of 64 my brother and I grew
up to an enormous amount of anguish
which we are both still trying to sort
out in our personal lives
I recommend therapy for everybody
incidentally but a couple of years ago
more or less my brother decided to turn
right conservative it's been extremely
painful to see him support bolas Naro
but he seems to be convinced that our
father was tortured by people who
learned torture techniques from the
Communists meaning he was tortured by
the ones whom he was trying to defend
basically explained he bases a lot of
this on videos of Yuri bez men of a KGB
defector he seems to ignore that torture
existed before communism seems to ignore
that my father was fighting as a
resistance not as an offensive to impose
communism I don't think he's a fervent
fervent fan of jordan peterson but he
does admire him i have no idea how to
convince him otherwise when i give my
point of view he calls me simplistic i
have no idea what's happening but
something's not right we cannot have
cool-headed conversations it's too
personal for both of us any ideas from
your welcome when confronted with bowls
and arrows clearly advocating for
torture he mentions that Carlos Magilla
wrote a book as a guerrilla fighter
which also advocates for violence and we
have a street with his name and calls
this a double standard on the part of
leftist I'm extremely confused and tired
I have no idea to change my back he's 36
he's been a leftist basically all his
life this turn happened maximum two
years ago and it's mind-boggling to me I
I don't I'm it's outside of the role my
comprehension but it's obviously I mean
the thing that can kept coming up with a
Jordan Peterson conference and it's
dissatisfying for people but there might
there might be some answers I think in
terms of how information is presented
but like this stuff is emotional so
whatever was going on with him is
obviously highly psychological emotional
distress and I don't think it has I mean
you literally just had a democratic
government that you know from the left
that govern Brazil without torturing
people for over 10 years
so it's insane good luck yeah I'm really
sorry to hear that by the way I mean
first and foremost that's awful Fame
Darwin Sam Alan Berg was killed by
members of the order and offshoot of
Aryan Nations in Idaho
fact one of his two murderers David Lane
coined the famous fourteen words you may
have heard of Zoda Sam I love you but
the degree to which you are closed off
to Jamie's perspective and dismissive
over comments is rubbing me the wrong
way the tension between you guys
sometimes makes it hard to listen to the
show also any social historian will tell
you that race as an economic category
defined by skin color is a modern
institution that grew up alongside
capitalism and the modern nation-state
in all of these institutions were Co
constitutive man I said I don't think
that anybody is arguing that what I was
arguing is the idea of of I don't know
if you would call it
racism but the idea that I can take that
person's stuff because they belong to a
group that's less than me
without a doubt precedes capitalism some
real quick because I want to go and it's
the end of the show but Europeans were
barbarians up until the Enlightenment
they didn't need a justification for
oppressing people are taking their
things they did it because they could
only once you had the concept of natural
rights did you then need some sort of
justification for what you were doing to
other people and that's where race
science came from originally but it's uh
I have a longer version of the answer
but I'm gonna save it for another day
okay another side it sounds like Twitter
facilitates violence any c-suite level
member of that company arrested yet can
we start talking about it and talking
the as seriously as it is I mean I
think you know human interaction
promotes violence on some level not all
but some measure of it the right wing
made a critical error with the Nielson
interview it kind of hard to keep
cloning their program secret when they
have clones interview each other and the
only thing to do is try and
differentiate the two is to put a vest
on one of them Ryan from California Alan
Berg was murdered by white nationalist
terrorist group the order that's just
great sweet cowlick self commissioned
officer can you play the Varni you have
a good day bro every time you get off
the phone with Benjamin
and you I'm not convinced the deads
Cruz's father wasn't somehow involved
Magda bomber bronze plan still hoping to
see an example for a path for
perpetrators of sexual misconduct to
take towards sincere be a behavior form
that allows them to access their old
career Louise just returning just to
ignore it is disappointing indeed
pornucopia looks like Donald Trump's
creepy kidnapper van was also a
bomb-making Factory maybe the right has
finally found their pedophile ring it
was under the noses the entire time jizz
gars lay Sam how many times did louis
c.k ask you to watch him touch himself
and how many times you say yeah i want
to see that versus gross let's go get a
pizza
well Gleeson Charley Kirk doesn't want
money taken from him to pay for somebody
else's school but he was fine with
taking other people's money to pay for
his school when he almost went to West
Point Christo hey Sam non-political
thought here you may recall that we both
have high school bound children I assume
you're like me in the throws of the New
York City school open house season yes
indeed in fact I saw a couple of folks
last night curious how it's going for
you for Milo my son has up to five
visual arts auditions to look forward to
in early December it's gonna be
stressful beyond belief yes she's got
one this weekend or next weekend it's
hard secular sickness you should play
some music from public domain in the
breaks a lot of good classical out there
in the public domain no Valley Sam where
does Kanye fall in the minstrel scale
new human last week the Guardian runs a
big profile and Coulter asking if we
should listen to her about the left last
this week Coulter spreads the false flag
narrative that bombs are a liberal
tactic all right two more JJ cool hey
Sam G heard of Jenny Jenks Tucker debate
I did not he plays right into Tucker's
nonsense seemingly a way to be
cooperative but to an audience it
appears to lend them credibility anyway
I think your style is far better you say
something born to do thank you and the
final I am of the day
[Applause]
the average human walking speed is 3.1
miles per hour if there's a thousand
miles left to go and they all walk Sun
to Sun down for 15 hours then they would
only get there by election day yes it
won't be till well after that all right
folks
see you on Monday in that's it goes
through that guy to get
I'm gonna get the
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
gonna kick
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
oh the option well you don't get paid
for the rubber bands
break my love sweet ride
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
