[Music]
let's go to the phones calling from a
707 area code who's this where you come
from
seven eight yes hey Sam it's Joe from
California
Jeff from California what's on your mind
Joe Joe Joe from California what is on
your mind so thank you um longtime
listener big fan on first-time caller
so I have a little bit of a problem on
my hands last year I spent Christmas
with my little brother
and very quickly managed to convince him
that Bernie Sanders was the best option
for 2020 and recently sorry I'm a little
nervous
recently we're trying to convert my
other brother and the problem is he like
he basically he works for charter
schools in Brooklyn and so he's really
you know up to the teeth in the
establishment BS and so what I'm asking
you is how would you approach someone
who has a brain and is a very smart
person but has kind of gone the other
way
Rishi who did your brother support just
give me a sense of like how far how far
gone is okay so so so I mean obviously
he's supported Hillary in 2016 and the
last time I talked to my little brother
was after the debate and he said and I
asked him you know did he say anything
about Bernie and my little brother said
that he quote said Bernie is just a mess
well better but who does important who
does he support do you know no I know I
think he I think he supports qumola
pretty strongly
well he's not Abidin levels of of
problem I know I don't think so I don't
think that he's going to vote for that I
mean I don't nothing like what was say
to someone like that I think that that
ilk of folk is not necessarily going to
be how Bernie wins if he wins the
primary frankly I'd be more concerned if
he was a Biden supporter I mean on some
level strategically speaking maybe him
being a crack amla supporter is good
maybe you just say like what about
Booker you should think about Booker
like Booker really lows
all I'm saying is like you got two
choices you can you can try and convert
him to Bernie or maybe you could take
him off the board a little bit and so
maybe you should turn him on to Cory
Booker try to like sidelight and made to
some other losing candidate that's what
I'm suggesting
yes like say to him like one who you
know who really is great with charter
schools Cory Booker boy look into him
cuz I don't know about come on can I ask
you a question is he like a teacher or
more of a boss or administrator so he
started out as a teacher and you know I
should say that like you know my little
brother's gay and like I helped start
the GSA in my high school I'm so like we
don't we don't agree on anything except
for the fact that we both you know are
like socially liberal you know I'm
saying like right like like I'm instead
of comedian he doesn't like my jokes
because he thinks that they're not look
enough but he but he used to be a
teacher and now he's an administrator so
now
now he is like a recruiter his class
position might make this a little more
difficult I was conducting why I'm
calling you
yeah I gotta say take him off the board
push it into Booker's camp I think I'm
with Sam on this so can I say one thing
that they like you've actually you've
actually sort of inspired me in a way
that you've given me a new strategy
which is the primary like you said
take him off the board in the primary
and then hopefully I can yeah general
you're gonna have a much better argument
with him Trump vs. Bernie then you will
try to peel him off so I would just say
take him off the board take him off the
board for now for now all right Sam all
right then I'll call him again thanks
for taking my call then get sake how you
two there you go now so anybody as
Brendan points out behind us anybody who
is in New York it doesn't matter if they
don't vote for Bernie over Trump like
brain is gonna win New York right in New
York right
