with Sam is always safer in the hands of
the people then
conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous we must guard against
the acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex dama chard a
report with sam cedar it is Monday July
8th 2019 my name is Sam cedar this the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
[Music]
billionaire Jeffrey Epstein indicted for
sex trafficking as many elites hold
their collective breaths meanwhile
Department of Justice changes lawyers in
the census case as career attorneys Falk
speaking of attorneys the grand a grand
jury investigating Trump buddy and GOP
fundraiser Eliot Brody Iran passes the
nuclear threshold Cuomo signs a bill to
release Trump's taxes to Congress UN
Human Rights chief appalled by the us
treatment of migrants Justin Amash
appalled at the GOP bolts the party
still nuts on most things
and Customs and Border Protection
turns out knew about that Facebook group
almost since the day it was launched in
[Music]
Brazil Glenn Greenwald targeted by a
bolson ro Nancy Pelosi finally does
something sadly its to attack the source
of energy in the Democratic Party in the
Queens da race serve a surrogate to
[Music]
relive the AOC fight against Crowley
Katz pulls ahead of Caban because of
dubious ballot affidavit
disqualifications Joe Crowley still has
friends and queens folks a while joe
biden's sort of apologizes for praising
segregationists
Tom Styer steyr is jumping into the race
because why not
and lastly Amazon workers in Minnesota
plan a prime day strike all this and
more on today's program welcome ladies
and gentlemen we're all back here after
an extended break Jamie however
apparently has run into problems leaving
the border of the communist camp that
she is in and we're not unclear where it
is which went to commie camp and the
indoctrination I guess has not ended she
is continuing she'll be back I think by
Wednesday or Thursday hope that you had
a good weekend and a good holiday of
course we were not here on Friday though
I would encourage you and it will be
relevant to the conversation we have
about
Nancy Pelosi today to check out Alex
Perrine he had some very good points on
on this front and we will get there in
just a moment I want to remind you of a
couple of things one it's your support
that makes this show possible you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report calm when you do we give
you an ad-free version of the show and
we give you an extended version twice
the amount of content join the majority
report dot-com it's your support that
makes this show possible of course just
coffee dot co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get 10% off and as we noted in the
pre-roll of today's podcast or will we
are launching a new show it's just gonna
be very quick not even maybe five
minutes a day maybe but it's gonna give
you the the top headlines a little bit
of depth tiny bit of depth barely any
depth of a couple of top stories but a
couple of headlines every morning so
we're altum Utley aiming I think for
about 8:30 in the morning to get it out
the door but it may start a little bit
later than that and you will hear a new
voice that you have not heard on this
show and I think you'll enjoy her voice
but more on that in the coming days she
will be we're going to trade off the
sort of the main responsibilities for
the show depending on whether I'm with
my kids or not that's basically the way
we're gonna do that so check that out
enjoy it it will be in the majority
report feed for at least several weeks
and we will give you an update of when
we move it to its own feed but you won't
have to do anything other than listen to
it and it'll pop up on your feed whether
it's a members or the
like feed and as the a.m. quickie that's
what we've decided to call it subject
subject to change cry but there it is a
him quickie tie there you go that will
pop up so let's just start with
obviously Donald Trump had his 4th of
July celebration and God spoke and
poured rain on everybody
there was no flooding although one could
have anticipated that thanks ok the tank
I against the tanks were ok I didn't
wanna be honest with you I I didn't
watch it I and pay much attention to it
at all obviously a Donald Trump screwed
up in his speech we may get to that but
also what he did and what happened this
week is that the American women's soccer
team a won the World Cup who they beaten
that it was the Netherlands the
Netherlands and this has been a source
of some controversy because the team I
don't is she the team captain yeah
Rapinoe is she the team captain and
she's been pretty vocal about having no
interest in going to the White House and
critiquing Trump and Donald Trump
apparently a couple of days ago said you
know do your job and win maybe shouldn't
talk so much
and so they won and then they continue
talking and sarkar has been one of those
sports around the world that has been
very much associated with politics
maybe because it's an international
sport I'm not sure we don't we don't
infuse politics and with as many things
in this country although sports are
certainly becoming far more political
and I think it was stories
of maybe people who had a fandom in the
Spanish Civil War for soccer teams I
think it was or maybe the fascists later
I can't I can't quite remember the story
that inspired me to you know put a black
mark through my Patriots hats and since
they did not go to the White House I was
able to take those those pieces of tape
off and but here is a guy from Fox News
going down I guess this must have been
on Sunday thinking he was going to cover
oh no no he's in France right with a
bunch of probably expat Americans maybe
not watching the final game of the World
Cup as the u.s. women's team wins I
guess their record fourth title I didn't
realize that and Fox gets a real sort of
man or woman on the street perspective
on how Trump is doing in Europe has just
been made art thou we are here in a
sports bar de Leon France let's do it
we're in a sports bar we were going to
be outside we're going to be looking at
spreads over the football game there
that's the classic soccer chant of F
Trump I think is what they're saying you
can really see how sports fans hate it
when you politicize their sports right
they really hate it I think they were
also yelling Fox sucks I think there is
half of them were going Fox sucks and
the other one we're going F trump that's
versatile those dovetail really nicely
yeah it is it's a nice message huh so
there it is you feel the heat and that's
why the shocker
will never be big in this country it's
never be big let's get into this briefly
I mean at this point to the extent that
this is a political story it has to do
with a billionaire and we know that
billionaires are a policy failure
definitionally and while it doesn't have
necessarily the sort of the broad
implications there certainly a a
microcosm I mean this is a guy who has
been above the law and in 2008 Jeffrey
Epstein was convicted or yeah I guess
convicted of of prostitution right but
it was a plea bargain you could please
he pled guilty to two state prostitution
charges and he served 13 months in
prison he was supposedly facing federal
charges and this is because of him
paying women who are underage girls he
had to register as a sex offender
he paid restitution to the victims but
he escaped federal prosecution
he had made a deal with the US attorney
down there a guy named Alexander Acosta
sounds familiar
he sounds familiar because he's now the
Secretary of Labor is that right in the
Trump administration and in some time I
guess at the beginning of the year maybe
the end of last year the Miami Herald
did an investigation of how that case
was being handled by Acosta and
essentially it found out that the
victims were not made aware of this plea
deal which is the obligation of the
prosecutor - do you need the victims to
sign off on a plea deal the herald
investigation basically characterized
Epstein is getting the deal of a
lifetime from Acosta
there were 36 underage victims according
to this federal investigation the
agreement short-circuited the FBI probe
it also granted immunity to any
co-conspirators in the case so that
nobody could come back and testify
against him in February of this year a
federal judge in Florida ruled that
Acosta by not informing these victims of
this plea deal broke the law I don't
know what the implications of that well
I guess based upon that report US
attorney in the Southern District of New
York started looking into this because
at one point I imagine Epstein in his
offenses touched New York and as of
today they indicted him on and it was
still getting sort of the
the details but he was indicted for sex
trafficking essentially he would engage
in a predatory pattern in which he would
bring underage girls into a room to
so-called perform massages in eff scenes
New York mansion the girls were
instructed by him or apparently yes like
surrogates like old girlfriends and
friends or something like that who would
tell the girls to this in the knit you
know naked and to engage in sex acts the
indictment also implicates some of
Epstein's employees apparently some of
these employees would make sure that if
he's going from Florida to New York that
he would have you know a bevy of
of minors available to him I mean this
is pretty sick stuff and he's been able
to get away with this for maybe decades
because of people like Acosta and for
people like apparently there was a GQ
piece in which these rumors were going
to be talked about and Graydon Carter
struck them from the peace I think in
the late 90s you know an editor can make
that determination based upon you know
how much evidence you have it's a
difficult charge if you don't have
enough evidence I don't have a sense of
how much evidence was there but it
certainly the writer
she had enough she does not blame
Graydon Carter but someone like this is
untouchable because who they surround
themselves with in terms of friends alan
dershowitz is one of the people who's
being accused by some of these victims
there's some reason to believe that
donald trump maybe has been accused by
these victims you'll recall that there
was a lawsuit against him brought in
california that was thrown out because
it was filed improperly but there was
some rumor before the election that this
then thirteen year old girl was going to
bring it we'll see Epstein had a
relationship with the Clintons as well
he loaned them use of his plane I
suspect if Acosta was aware of any
implications regarding the Clintons we
might already have found that out at one
point but who knows but it but it just
goes to show you the I mean what he's
able to get away with here and has been
able to get away with for so long but
for a reporter at the Miami Herald
essentially really digging into this in
an era right where there's a increased
sensitivity to the idea of powerful men
getting away with stuff but for that
this guy would have gotten away with
some of the most heinous things that you
can do in our society because he's a
billionaire you don't brush up against
the US attorney with these kind of
charges and get away with it for any
other casual reasons is because the
power that comes with a billionaire so
you could imagine what billionaires can
get away with in this country that don't
involve what society considers literally
to be the worst thing that you can do
child rape multiple child rape like an
operation to commit child rape so it
just gives you a sense of the the
problems with this type of with the
problem with this type of of
consolidated power and money so we'll
see what happens with this guy there's a
lot of people I think are pretty upset
you know my understanding is that
Dershowitz wrote a letter to the
Pulitzer committee saying listing all
these reasons why VAT New York that
excuse me that Miami Herald piece should
not get the Pulitzer because it had been
nominated
there was a 2002 quote from Trump that
Epstein likes beautiful women as much as
I do and many of them are on the younger
side direct quote I never met him don't
know yes no right and I mean I I think
it's also worth you know the flight logs
of Epstein's plane and this is you know
making distinctions that is you pointed
out with Dershowitz and Trump it's it's
it's there's a higher level scrutiny but
there's no implication that Larry
Summers or Steven Pinker anybody like
that or involved in this sort of thing
but these are all people also like Naomi
Campbell who have been on this guy's
plane and it's just also this new Daily
Beast piece about all of the money that
he's given to various organizations at
Harvard various nonprofits it's just
really important to dig into how
somebody can just
insulate themselves even as you say I
mean this is not like oh he's a
billionaire he gets away with I don't
know drunk driving right like this is as
you say nothing worse and he's insulated
deeply into a lot of parts of society
yeah I mean and it's indicative of a bit
of a larger problem right but this is
this is basically how if you were doing
the metaphor in the theater production
this is what you would do this is the
way you would express this much larger
societal problem without having to
tackle all those things I would read
this Gawker piece from 2015 flight logs
put Clinton Dershowitz on pedophile
billionaires sex jet which is there you
know that's a Gawker headline but it
gets into the detail of these flight
logs and I think it's worth knowing
about so we will be following that
obviously to the extent that it has
implications on on society like I you
know broadly speaking I don't like to
follow criminal trials I just you know I
mean maybe personally but not not not in
terms of news I mean that stuff I just
have never I don't know why I'm allergic
to that but I don't find it that because
you shouldn't I mean at least in my
opinion you shouldn't necessarily have
in the dog and the fight of a conviction
frankly as a journalist or a commentator
yeah I mean I think and it's sort of
what's going to happen with the court is
going to happen and there's not a lot of
politics involved in that the politics
that are going to be involved in it are
really on how he got to this point and
who gets implicated beyond it and that's
basically it
we need to talk about what's going on at
the border the and this is
you know like this has been since day
one of this administration it was quite
clear that immigrants and would-be
immigrants and specifically specifically
from Central America in particular but
also you know foe places like the
Caribbean in in Africa and Syria I guess
refugees we're going to be the ones who
pay the price the most for the Trump
administration but this is the way that
all oppressive regimes start they go
towards the weakest members of society
the ones who have the least political
power the gypsies the Jews the
homosexuals I mean that's sort of like
the way that these things go the
immigrants and so in many respects
they're the Canaries in the coal mine
but really they're also just like
they're the people in the coal mine to a
the human the UN Human Rights what do
they call I want to say reckon raconteur
but I'm not a hundred percent sure with
a epaulette repertoire the Bosch allay
what is it nope Ashley Michelle Bachelet
her name
it is the Michelle Bachelet she's the
Human Rights chief I guess they call it
that you used to have a different name
for is appalled according to her office
Monday at the notion as she says as a
pediatrician but also as a mother and a
former head of state I'm deeply shocked
that children are forced to sleep on the
floor in an overcrowded facilities
without access to adequate health care
or food with
poor sanitation conditions in a
statement released by the UN New York
Times on Saturday had an extended look
at the migrant detention center
so-called migrant detention center in a
Clint Texas apparently after
interviewing dozens of people the the
men and women who worked there were
grappling with the stuff of nightmares
outbreaks of scabies shingles and
chickenpox were spreading among the
hundreds of children who being held in
cramped cells agents said the stench of
the children's dirty clothing was so
strong it spread to the agents own
clothing people in town would scrunch
their noses when they left work the
children cried constantly one girl
seemed likely enough to try to kill
herself that the agents made her sleep
on a cot in front of them so they could
watch her as they were processing new
arrivals some Border Patrol agents spoke
about how dehumanizing it was they
mentioned that the Border Patrol leaders
including Aaron Hall the outspoken chief
patrol agent of the agency's El Paso
sector have disputed descriptions of
degrading conditions inside Clint and
other migrant detention sites around El
Paso but a review of the operations of
the Clint station near El Paso's eastern
edge show that the agency's leadership
knew for months that some children had
no beds to sleep on no way to clean
themselves and sometimes went hungry its
own agents had raised the alarm and
found themselves having to accommodate
even more arrivals the piece goes on
from there there's some very
heartbreaking stories of individual kids
and their parents
you should check it out it's disgusting
and I don't know that it's really
frankly anything other than the plan
that the Trump administration has here
is Donald Trump claiming he's seen this
places and they're great but here's the
thing when people come in illegally and
then it's crowded and I've seen some of
those places and they are run
beautifully they're clean they're good
they do a great job covering that know
they do a great job they're crowded
because the Democrats will not give us
any relief from these look folks we have
loopholes that are so bad
we have asylum that's so bad so these
places are many of them not all of them
but many of them they're incredible
they're really well run I'll tell you
what and I said it yesterday border
patrol did not train to be doctors and
nurses and
that's not what they trained to be they
tend to be Border Patrol and that's what
they're doing and they're doing a
phenomenal job because of the country
because we're doing so well as the
country we never we've never done this
well yeah there we go
I mean we don't need to hear more so
this is where we're at
bad enough should be Pete for people to
abandon the Republican Party but it
won't be it won't be that's just I mean
I mean while the FBI and ice apparently
are using States driver's license
databases and going through using facial
recognition software without any
knowledge or consent obviously if people
thank you Silicon Valley for that yeah I
could be Palantir specifically
Beauregard listen right it's unclear
what they're looking for in those things
I guess maybe they just scan through to
try and find out individuals I've heard
stuff about the DEA doing this stuff to
a while back I'm not sure what ice has
to do with it but there you go
and then lastly you recall the other day
we talked about the story that
ProPublica broke about a facebook group
where former Customs and Border
Protection officers current ones some
supervisors anyways they have been able
to identify all of them but 9,500 people
who refer to themselves as all being
part of the family
20,000 Customs and Border Protection
officers in the country and all sorts
are
things being put up there acts of
violence towards immigrants depictions
of aoc basically being sexually
assaulted by the president claims of
threats to assault Cascio Cortez
complete disregard for the life of the
immigrants who have died but just a
horrific talk about a red flag Exhibit A
and why this organization is so putrid
but with that said could be a few bad
apples right you can't can't blame the
organization for a few bad apples that
are just joining these groups it's not
like the organization knew about it and
condoned it although it's exactly like
that
exactly customs and uh things from the
Washington Post a Politico excuse me
Customs and Border Protection officials
have been aware for up to three years
that a secret Facebook group for current
and former Border Patrol agents was
posting offensive messages far longer
than previously reported
we should tell you that the group was
established thirty years ago border
patrol leadership knew about photos
posted to the group as far back as 2016
when agents reported them it's according
to a current homeland security official
the images several of which were
provided to Politico show agents
engaging in conduct that includes stim
is simulating sex acts and taking
selfies while defecating former DHS
officials said he was aware of the
Facebook group during the past year
neither official knew of any serious
punishment ever leveled at members of
the Facebook group
that's called condoning it folks that's
called condoning it top Homeland
Security Department officials including
DHS Secretary Kevin McLean and border
patrol chief Carla Provost announced
these posters we can pledge to hold any
culpable agents accountable
[Music]
this is an organization that you got to
start over you don't build it in this
fashion but this remember these this is
an outfit basically that has been
weaponized and militarized only for 50
well 17 years 2002 right after September
11th its weaponized from the beginning
it's focused on war on terrorism but the
point is is like 17 years later did this
thing which was corrosive from the
beginning it is now
woven into the fabric of this agency
you've got to get rid of it
total housecleaning total bring it back
and hopefully in the context of what we
heard from the presidential candidates
the other day bring it back as an agency
that's dedicated towards assuring the
safety of Americans rather than the
policing of potential immigrants so it's
one thing to say like yeah let me see
your passport it's now that around
people up put them in steel hangars
essentially lastly an update on a story
that Ronald Reagan told us I don't know
a couple months ago that and I was he
saying that I that one of his clients
was involved I can't remember but I
think so former ice chief counsel this
is it this is a this is an attorney and
a officer of the court as they call him
gets four years in prison for stealing
immigrants identities I'm sure we're
gonna hear a lot about that as we talk
about like all the dangers that come
from immigrants they tempt people into
crime exactly he was an officer of the
court and then he got tempted into crime
I mean it's a really great tragedy well
it's like you think about you know Trump
can't hire lawyers that don't see him
just on the face of them corrupt but
it's not just a trump problem Isis chief
counsel with Steve occurrence identities
I mean Isis is a structurally
unacceptable organization so horrific
about the mission of this agency that it
is like this is the type of people who
are who are joining it and it doesn't
need to exist like when we talk about
policing organ is it like police right
one of the reasons I don't go for those
sort of like yeah man just like get rid
of the cop stuff is because like look
anything short of a complete utopia in
fact actually almost certainly in a
utopia you're gonna need something that
functionally corresponds to police the
question is is radically changing the
police but this is an organization that
does not need to exist there is nothing
even with a border and as you said it
checks people's passports it does
whatever we still have a border
there's nothing structurally necessary
about this thing existing period but I
mean how would you steal immigrants
identity rights well I'm actually you
know for a fact you could you know I'm
sure just by checking people's passports
and stuff you could get relevant info
right that's true I think you could
still do ID theft just not child toilet
drink right just a photocopy machine
look of a baby out with the bath that
don't forget that that's one of the
early episodes of narcos when they fly
to Colombia they didn't get detained
they just took photocopies of the
passport and send it to the cartel again
I think if Colombia could figure that
out in the late 80s United States and
2019 can as well all right lastly let's
and the first half of the show with a
clip of
all Trump and his July 4th oh really
quick I'm sorry did you get the I am oh
yes big news and yeah presidential race
wall well all's well all's well that
ends well well I guess I guess I'll well
drop he took his one moment in the
national spotlight to make diaper jokes
and make Joe Biden seem sympathetic but
they're constantly telling him that he
was gonna dice respect to swallow yeah
it's better than Hickenlooper did you
know Hickenlooper is still there they
can't looper is Hickenlooper is totally
the guy in the movie that seems kind of
sedate and bland but you're like oh that
guy's a psycho like everybody's gonna
drop out all of this gonna everybody's
gonna quit his campaign he's good but I
don't care oh fly around drinking frack
water and ranting about socialism is a
that guy's deranged guys who don't
necessarily have a future in politics or
the ones that they're just gonna hit run
for Senate yeah no problem
this is self-created oblivion all right
so a Donald Trump was out giving a
speech on July 4th people were annoyed
that the parks department had to spend
millions of dollars to accommodate tanks
on trailers I guess or I don't know
platforms so ridiculous and stupid and
apparently people got soaked there and
didn't enjoy themselves which is great
and here's Donald Trump I I mean again
this is one of those situations where if
you are living in a repressive regime
and you were a cameraman you you would
you would be like how can I send a
message without having being held to it
right like this is why it's satire
exists and here it is an image of Donald
Trump with like on a rain streaked
Plexiglas
I guess he I don't know if they claimed
I don't even know how they describe this
if they claimed that there was a
malfunction with the teleprompter but
here's Donald Trump talking about the
Revolutionary War and making some pretty
bad anachronism yeah I guess so
it R and the ramparts it took over the
airports it did everything it had to do
we talked earlier they can t need to
lead into that a little bit more yeah go
back a little bit earlier okay it R and
the ramparts it took over the airports
it did everything it had to do and at
Fort McHenry under the Rockets red glare
it had nothing but victory and when Dawn
came their Star Spangled Banner
waved defiant I just to remind you he's
talking about the Revolutionary War now
one of the major military failures of
George Washington was to expend so much
resources in building airports at a time
where we did not have airplanes there
was a very controversial choice but that
was one of the earliest like politics
there Jefferson was fiercely opposed to
Benedict Arnold oh yeah like build it
we're gonna future-proof are we turns
out instead of being a traitor Benedict
Arnold was just an early Silicon Valley
guy so I'm just future envisioning in
June of 1775 the Continental Congress
created a unified army out of the
revolutionary forces encamped around
Boston and New York and named after the
great George Washington
commander-in-chief the Continental Army
suffered a bitter winter of Valley fog
she did found glory after George
Washington or the they may
George Washington the George
Washington's mill name was army oh yes
it's the waters of the Delaware and
seized victory from Cornwallis of
Yorktown our army man the ant
it ran the ramparts it took over the
airports it did everything it had it
wait come back back
wait what did he swallow something like
it's possible that there was a
malfunction in the in the teleprompter
which makes us even worse because it
means like he literally had no idea what
words were coming out of its mouth like
he didn't even know what century he was
talking about go back just a little bit
more I mean just a little bit just yeah
right there teased victory from
Cornwallis of Yorktown
it ran the answers yeah
looked at our army man the air it ran
the ramparts it took over the airports
it did everything it had to do and at
Fort McHenry think it had under the
Rockets red glare it had nothing but
victory and when Darby can grow their
star-spangled banner waved defiant at
shiloh Antietam and Gettysburg our
soldiers gave the last full measure of
devotion for the true unity of our
nation and the freedom of all Americans
simply gettin has got the adderall the
trenches an Army sergeant named Alvin
York faced an inferno of m/v fire and
refused to retreat he said I won't leap
and refused them be fire and refused to
retreat he said I won't leave I won't
stop he shot his rifle 18 times killing
18 of the enemy when they fixed bayonets
and charged he killed seven
or the entire German machine-gun
battalion surrendered because of one man
Alvin York a generation later the army
returned to Europe and embarked upon a
great crusade with knives and rifles in
hand the rangers scale the cliffs of
Normandy the 101st airborne lept into
the danger from above illuminated only
by enemy flares explosions and burning
aircraft they threw back the Nazi Empire
with lightening of their own from the
turrets of Sherman tanks yes I mean he
as far as he's concerned he could still
be in in the 18th century where's the
MacArthur Park yeah and then the guys
that came and he told the British we
liked the Queen very much already to
have our own country now did you see
that meme I sent you know it's worth
putting up just for the full and
maturity of it why not and I have no
problem with this how many was it was it
it was won by land two by C and 3 by air
was exactly three by air it's a British
Airways Boeing it just goes to show you
Hana who say it just goes to show you
that you can overcome these things even
if you're completely outgunned in
technology could you imagine we we what
we were I mean we were such brutal
ruthless marilla's that we actually
defeated that we should when they had a
fully equipped air force we should get
the point about how the how unimportant
air superiority is yeah all right we're
gonna take a break head into the fun
half just reminder join the majority
report calm your support makes this show
possible
we in the fun after today we're going to
be talking about a lot about what's
going on basically in the 2020 race a
lot of polls they're all over the place
to a certain extent oh we didn't even
get to Pelosi stuff which we
talk about I mean and just you know
briefly I'll just say this before we get
into the fun half there there's just two
aspects of this that I sort of mitigate
my my critique of of Pelosi one is the
real possibility that Chuck Schumer is
such a disaster that Pelosi really can't
do much about it but if that is the case
which i think is could very well be the
case and these things aren't mutually
exclusive there's also no reason for
Pelosi to be doing what she's doing you
know there's a there's a quality to this
of like welcome to the dollhouse kid
gets picked on at school and then goes
home and kicks the dog type of situation
and the the other aspect of this is
terms of and I tweeted this on the
yesterday is that copping to being
supportive of her as the majority leader
ultimately the Speaker of the House
because of the absence of any other
legit candidates now Seth Moulton I mean
but Tim Ryan it here's this it is hard
to imagine a worse situation than we
have now like I don't see any plan
doesn't matter what her skill set is if
they're not doing anything if Nancy
Pelosi is not going to do anything
she's not gonna impeach or if she's
afraid to impeach because of Chuck
Schumer
because he won't deliver anybody if she
can't get a bill that provides money to
Customs and Border Protection that
provides also oversight some type of
reporting some type of access for
members of Congress if she can't get
that or Chuck Schumer has made it
impossible to get that which i think is
also true right
he released everybody in the Senate then
whether it's her failure or Chuck
Schumer's failure the bottom line is it
makes having her there
irrelevant any of the positives that you
could argue came from having Pelosi in
that position are irrelevant and they
are particularly irrelevant and in fact
I would say begin to argue for the other
side when she goes out of her way to
attack the left of the party or at the
very least the youth of the party or the
energy of the party I mean I don't know
that AO sees positions on this stuff
have been to the left I don't know if
it's a left position to say we should
impeach I don't know if it's a left
position to say hey we need oversight
for this agency that we're gonna give
these billions of dollars to but it's
certainly a more aggressive one and she
is afraid of that or is whatever the
problem is but where's the value in
having Nancy Pelosi there if she's not
gonna do anything mr. house bowing
something right she's attacking the left
well but my point is is if she's
attacking the left in doing some other
stuff that is good then well thinking at
least you can be this is really her
mission right she's chosen to go to war
with one force primarily it hears that
and III don't this is her electoral
strategy
it seems like a pretty piss-poor one to
me because between aoc Fionna Presley
Ilan Omar to Lib that's who you need to
come out in terms of voters in 2020 if
you're gonna win young women of color
you need those people to come out in
2020 in droves if you're gonna win and I
don't know if she's just lost a step or
whatever it is but it ain't working
we'll talk a little more about that in
the fun half as well as maybe we can put
together a swan song for Erick's wall
well hmm so sorry your old Russia your
old your super old all right six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty Oh
today is Monday tomorrow is Tuesday
Michael what's happening at you we have
interview with somebody calling us
anonymously I believe from the occupied
Western Sahara which is one of the more
sort of complicated political and
basically the only other occupation in
the world besides Israel Palestine is
Morocco occupying this piece of land and
the Western is Sahara and there's a lot
of movement building there that's
interesting and worth talking about so
we're gonna go have that conversation
then Emma biglan joins us in studio we
have a whole bunch to talk about
including of course this viral video she
did with this Cuban Trump supporter as
well as Iran Iran has started enriching
what's the play out of that and a whole
bunch more this past weekend we did an
illicit history of the creation of the
bureaucracy of the military-industrial
complex with Daniel bessner
and also I would say tickets are
starting to move fast now as we get to
the last several weeks before the
Chicago live show you can get your
tickets on the majority dot F M homepage
patreon.com/scishow on YouTube Matt a
literary hangover there's a new
nonfiction episode of literary hangover
up on Rutger Brickman's utopia for
realists we talked about his ubi why
Yang's ubi is trash his open borders
persuasiveness which I think he's really
good at messaging and also how he had
steven pinker blurb his book and said
like that it's very good and then how he
bashes Steve Pinker as an optimist sort
of whiner in interviews so I like that
about Rutger so yeah I'm a fan of Recker
Bergman and I sort of position that as
the debate between the sort of Keynesian
reformists and the Marxist
revolutionaries and I think that's
actually if we had a an actual
battlefield of ideas that wasn't overly
influenced by power and stuff that would
be where we were arguing so I think it's
an interesting book for that sort of
argument me and my friend Chris have
that all right quick break seeing the
fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean you
should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you alright but dude dude
dude dude
dude dude you want to smoke this joint
yes do you feel like you are a dinosaur
good exactly I'm happy now so
win-win it's a win-win-win hell yeah now
listen to me two three four five times
eight four seven nine oh six five oh one
four five seven eight 56:27 1/2 5/8
three point nine billion
Wow he's the ultimate math nerd don't
you see everybody's taking their dumb
juice dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my first post-coital
seafood I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars come here not
they accuse me you all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber lassic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to I see some people
with such America
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly let's play this clip of Eglin
going to the Trump rally was this a
trump rally in Florida or I guess a
during the Democratic debates I think
are somewhere around there and there may
have been some protesters outside it it
reminds me of the time where I went to
that 8:12
I think it was 8:12 or 912 Glenn Beck
rally and the Washington Memorial I'm
people we got to dig into that stuff and
maybe pull some of that stuff because
it's still equally as relevant it is
always a little bit sort of let's say
uncomfortable but difficult to sort of
wrap your head around when you talk to
some of these people they have a total
confidence in what they're saying you
know it's not like when you go on the
man of the street like who's the vice
president and people like I have no idea
or you know there is I have no idea who
it is there is a level of confidence to
this ignorance that is impressive here
is M of England with a trump supporter I
believe maybe this is outside the debate
she's wearing a press badge and I have a
feeling that's what it was last week but
here it is do you think Joe Biden is a
socialist yes how would you define
socialism
I'd be fine socially when you bring down
your own country your own race because
he's not black and cuz I mean bringing
him down to black people's I mean you're
saying no he's saying that the white
people he doesn't look at yourself in
the mirror that's what I look at hey you
talk about the white people and look at
you know she actually some no I don't
like it I'll do exactly why I don't like
him he's gotta be eagle he thinks he's
better than God your truck before we get
off the race stuff uh does she saying
Joe is too like woke I think yes she is
she is saying that he is being too hard
on white people and then I think she
does make the very astute and I think
very defensible accusation that Joe
Biden is too arrogant I think that's uh
can I just say I just want to give
credit where credit is due here she's
giving a remarkably similar people ask
me what kind of socialist I am this
woman is pretty closely tracking my take
down my own country and race core
mission your trunk Trump said you could
shoot someone in the middle of Fifth
Avenue and get away with it no that's
fake I swear to god you can watch your
nose fake news okay do you wanna watch
the video they say I have the most loyal
people did you ever see that where I
could stand in the middle of Fifth
Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn't
lose any voters okay it's like
incredible any of the Democrats to any
of them appeal to you liars all liars
that be no kyo keeps growing okay and
then you yourself won't have a country
you yourself Ohama country keep
believing all these liars and you
yourself will be out of your country
socialism doesn't work wherever it goes
why is Joe Biden a socialist
why is your by non-associative he
because he saw what about the money
I mean socialism is about know the thing
is that Joe Biden is all about the money
it's all about the power the money
that's why Trump's a billionaire yes and
so is Joe Biden yes Trump went bankrupt
four times how many people do that don't
start all over again after bankruptcy
you know the Democratic Party really
needs to appeal to people like this I
there honestly like the the the only I
mean the the valuable inside I guess you
gain from that is just like there is a
certain percentage of the population
where it's just like forget about it yes
totally forget about it's just not
happening it's my people it's a good
opportunity to reread about what Castro
did after he took power Oh in getting
rid of maybe maybe could lead it read it
with a little bit more sympathy a little
bit more thoughtfulness about where he
was coming from it's tough stuff
it was tough stuff and it was a tough
deal all right we got a caller called
from a 303 area code who's this where he
called from hey my name is Matt calling
from Longmont Colorado Matt what's on
your mind
uh you know I officially left the
Republican Party in 2015 and it's since
become a progressive so I still have
some friends with opposing views to my
own I was talking with the right-wing
conservative friend of mine about
immigration and the camps the other day
and he's
said those kids are in cages until they
can be sent home so I asked when are
they going to be sent home
why have they already sent some of the
parents home without them and ultimately
if Obama was able to deport record
numbers of people during his
administration then why don't we just
use the exact same methods and deport
these folks instead of separating
families and stockpiling them in need
overcrowded cells and cages it ended up
being one of those rare moments where I
managed to stump this guy but I'm
curious what do you guys think about
that if they aren't going to grant
amnesty or a pathway to citizenship then
why not at least support them
immediately or am I just oversimplifying
it well I mean to a certain extent to a
certain extent you're you're
oversimplifying it insofar as like you
need to process these people you need to
give them you can't just deport them
right off and the problem is is that the
Trump administration put out the word
that they were gonna close the borders
and so people are trying to get in under
the wire he used to be the case that you
would allow these families to stay
together and then stay with other
friends or family who would come and
they would be able to keep track of
where they were and about 80 to 95
percent of these people would come back
for their hearings in an orderly fashion
from a logistic standpoint I'm not I'm
not a hundred percent sure why the Trump
administration couldn't do what the
Obama administration does but they don't
want to because they actually are using
this as a policy to deter people from
coming and it's it's it's clearly not
working but let me ask you a question
what was it that in 2015 that made you
turn from a Republican to a progressive
the candidates alone so I say officially
because I had been
I voted for Obama twice before that I
voted for George W Bush and and I always
regretted that I I just was I didn't see
the light at the time I have now and
when I was looking at those candidates
in 2016 for the Republican Party
especially Donald Trump I was appalled
and I had my doubts and frustrations
with the Democratic Party but I thought
that they were still a fighting chance
over there so I switched sides I'm
technically a Democrat but I call myself
a progressive because I can't really
relate to those folks 100% right
interesting well I appreciate the call
I'll try and get an answer for you on
that
you know like on exactly
if the Trump administration could do
what Obama did and if they don't why
yeah cuz otherwise it just feels like a
political stunt like they're just doing
it so that they can like you said deter
people from coming over here but you
know what cost
well I think that's what they're doing
and I don't think they care about the
cost but I appreciate the call okay
thank you let's go to a 509 area code
who's this where you come from if then
this is Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan just
a man I wanted to speak to
oh cool um did you hear that last caller
yeah well what what what is that what
what is that why is it the Trump admit
why is there this problem at the border
I mean was my assessment of it correct
why couldn't Trump deport I'm not saying
he should but actually argue he should
not but why couldn't he deport at the
rate that Obama did particularly his
first term um well I think that they
probably tried I'm not sure exactly why
the numbers weren't quite up to snuff
Obama's numbers were really from the
the overuse or the expanded use of a
process called expedited removal at the
border where if people are detained
within a certain distance of a port of
entry they can be expeditiously removed
and that can count as a deportation
whereas in the past a lot of those
people were returned under what's called
voluntary return so basically you know
they take their picture they sign a form
and then they return them without any
legal consequence so under anyway so
under certain circumstances Border
Patrol can just expeditiously order
somebody deported without a judge or
anything
now if more people are requesting asylum
and and saying I'm afraid to go back
then that means they can't just
immediately be deported they have to
have an interview with an asylum officer
there's a whole process but you know I
think what what is going on now is that
under the Obama administration people
were fairly aggressively paroled they're
allowed to come in and Border Patrol
would put them in removal proceedings
where they would you know get the chance
to go before a judge and present in an
asylum claim and in some cases you know
you would even see people who didn't
express a fear they were apprehended at
the border and Border Patrol paroled him
and place him in removal proceedings and
you know I would talk to these people
and they'd say well you know I just came
here to work I'm not afraid to go back
but now I have a deportation hearing and
I think in some cases Border Patrol was
doing that as a sort of release valve
because maybe they didn't have capacity
for somebody or the you know the middle
of the night and it was their shift was
almost over you know prosecutorial
discretion is basically what it comes to
right and and they you know they were
telling the officer you look you know my
brother lives in Yakima and you know
they called the brother and the brother
said yeah I'm here and and so rather
than detain them and and whatever they
would just parole them sometimes so but
I mean basically what's happening
you know quite explicitly I think it's
not like we're reading a lot into this
is they're trying to act as a deterrent
and the only way you can really do that
when people are fleeing from opponent
gang violence and like complete chaos is
to like out cartel the cartels and so
you have to be you know if you wake up
in the morning and there's like heads on
your front porch or your neighbor's
house is on fire and their bodies are
strung up on the overpass or whatever
you're gonna flee and the only way you'd
be deterred from fleeing is if what's on
the other side is even worse right and
so this is sort of like the only way
we're going to be successful is if the
images coming out and the stories coming
out are are even more brutal and more
disgusting and more violent than what
people have to face if they stay so yeah
I mean it's on the one hand complicated
on the other hand not that complicated
we could just not torture you know it
the these conditions are terrible and
it's expensive you could just put them
in a Holiday Inn or her you know a lot
of the people being detained have
families that they could easily be
released to there's all kinds of
alternatives to detention including
things that I'm not a fan of like ankle
monitoring and regular check-ins and you
know with the local ice offices which is
what people have been doing really since
2014 or even earlier and it's been
successful but this goes back to even
earlier when Jeff Sessions issued this
decision matter of a B where he said
well domestic violence or gang violence
is is not a grounds for protection or
under our Asylum laws and so they
started even before all of this by
trying to
cut off the legal mechanisms that people
could could use to get protection and
it's not like everyone who is a victim
of a gang or domestic violence was being
granted asylum anyways it was already
really hard even if you've been battered
or whatever the circumstances but you
know this is just purely about not
wanting brown people here I think one of
the the ironies is or the tragedies I
don't know this is like American history
101 but at the same time we've got these
people in cages I'm in an agricultural
district and our congressman is trying
to get an expansion of the guest worker
program because we have it like a major
labor shortage yep and so we have people
in cages who want to do jobs and jobs
that need doing and you know these
things can connect somehow somebody was
telling me on the Cape
up in Massachusetts a lot of these Cape
Town's and I imagine this is probably
happening of the coast of Maine I
imagine it's happening at all these sort
of like summer destinations there was a
lot of Eastern Europeans who used to
work there I mean years ago used to be
Irish but a lot of Eastern Europeans and
they can no longer get visas and you
know so on some level that's at least
slightly encouraging in so far is that
they're being they're not just reserving
their I are just for brown people but
they're making it much more difficult
for for for immigrants you know to come
even just in seasonal work it's pretty
stunning yeah and the the guy who they
just I guess he's the acting director of
USCIS which is the sort of legal you
know family based or affirmative types
of immigration relief so if you're
applying for your
your wife or whatever you know he's in
charge of this part of immigration and
he is going on with the crazy thing is
he's going on fox news and acting as a
mouthpiece for ice and talking about
deporting people and all this stuff when
this is a part of the agency which has
always very traditionally been about you
know we're here to sort of help people
actually get their papers and you know
not that they're not that they're super
helpful but the people that they put in
charge of this agency are also like
deportation hogs which means if you are
filing for your wife or your parent or
something and you've got all your ducks
in a row instead of having like a fairly
you know friendly adjudicator who's
there to sort of make sure everything's
in order
they're now ratcheting things up and and
really looking for reasons to deny
applications or to ask for more evidence
and everything is sort of grinding to a
slow halt so everything is terrible I
wanted to real quick talk about that
Seattle case of the the chief council
guy who was stealing immigrants
identities that that story kind of
starts a few years earlier when one of
their trial attorneys Jonathan love got
convicted for forging documents in a
case from seven years earlier and he
forged this document which basically
blocked somebody in removal proceedings
from qualifying for relief to stay in
the country and so the guy was deported
and luckily the case was reviewed by
another attorney who realized this form
that was supposedly signed by the
respondent the immigrant is an ice form
that predates ice like this form can't
have existed and it was filed in court
by this this trial attorney Jonathan
love and and his boss was this chief
counsel Rafael Sanchez who was just
convicted sentenced to four years
and at the time you know advocates were
saying hey there should really be like
an audit of this guy's cases because
what are the odds that in this one case
seven years ago he forged this document
and it was like it was a really
run-of-the-mill case it wasn't like he
was trying to not that there would ever
be an excuse to forge a document but it
wasn't somebody who he felt like had
gotten away with a rape or something
like that it was just a regular guy who
he wanted to port it and and the chief
counsel Rafael Sanchez his boss was like
no everything's fine
this is a one-time thing and then a
couple years later it comes out that
Rafael Sanchez it wasn't just like I'm
going to use a couple Social Security
numbers of immigrants and removal
proceedings he was like fabricating IDs
using their photos off their green cards
and making a fake Washington state
driver's licenses checking their credit
scores so he's going through these
people and removal proceedings and
trying to decide like where to exercise
prosecutorial discretion and like on the
side checking their credit score to see
you know what kind of credit card he
could get in their name oh my yeah and
and so one of my friends a colleague
he's a big boy a guy and he's tried to
FOIA all the communication between you
know these two individuals or you know
other members of that office and he's
been totally stonewalled of course and
so you know there's just no
accountability and it's a it's a rotten
rotten agency for sure and now on top of
all that the Justice Department is now
instructing the immigration judges that
they will now be doing this from like
remotely with videos and no interpreters
which that should be pretty that should
make things run pretty smoothly right do
you have any questions I don't follow
you a question thank you for coming
right so there
these you know preliminary hearings
where you go and you sort of give them
in you know advisories and and you take
applications and things like that and
apparently they want to just have like a
video recording of somebody saying
you're in removal proceedings and here
you're here are your rights but not have
interpreters there so that the
respondent can actually communicate with
the court which is you know if you're
represented if you're able to come up
with the money to hire a lawyer or
you're being represented pro bono you
should have a lawyer who's able to
communicate with you but a lot of people
can't afford it and so the immigration
judge essentially has to act as you know
as an advocate in some ways of the
respondent and by informing them of
things asking them certain questions
making sure they've you know screened
them for potential relief and that sort
of thing and when you take the
interpreter out of the the equation you
know we're just at a point we're one
step away from like let's just not even
have a court so yeah it's pretty crazy
but you know this is a it's been going
on for a while and and it's good that
people are paying attention and
hopefully we can start to hear some
actual like proposals and solutions from
these candidates who are running so yeah
thanks for taking my call appreciate the
call let's take one more call here call
from a two one zero at this
some twin us two-one-zero who's this
good afternoon Sam this is John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio how are
you what's going on yeah
don't okay do you see my tweet on
Wednesday that mentioned your prediction
about Biden would be in third place and
polling by September I don't know if I
did or not to be honest with you thank
you okay the original tweet by a change
research had you know warned leading the
poll at 22% Harris at 21 Biden at 18
Bernie at 17 so my comment was just well
done my friend so I'd like to see Biden
yeah I'd like to see Biden you know in
in third and an average of polls that
would be great so I like the fact that
you are mentioning clustering more than
most pundits and the absence of Bernie
becoming the clear front-runner
clustering is the next best thing but
all the front-runner campaign are
acutely aware that they have to win 15%
in each individual House District and in
Texas it's by in each state senatorial
district to get delegates in that
district in Iowa 70% of all of the
delegates are chosen that way and with
the other 30% chosen by state totals I
agree with Michaels analysis after my
call when he emphasized it's still super
early and it's important to focus on the
issues in Bernie campaign has the most
committed grassroots organizers in the
race and that's a definite advantage for
him so one of the producers clip the
call and he put it up on on Saturday and
as 48 thousand hits and you've commented
to me before about ignoring YouTube
comments but I'm truly amazed at all the
completely uninformed Bernie supporters
you haven't done any research and give
opinions that aren't fact based at all
and so you know as is you know regular
listeners know I've been a Bernie fan
for decades I promoted him on this show
more than any regular caller in 2000
16n and this year and I've encouraged a
support for justice Democrats in our
revolution candidates in 2016 and 18 a
support candidate to a progressive even
if they only have a small chance of
winning so I'm giving an honest
assessment of you know Bernie's campaign
seven months you know before that before
Iowa so when I brought up what Bernie
needs to win more support you started
talking about how Bernie needs to talk
more about how people need to make
sacrifice and I don't think that's
really necessary there there are many
health plans out there that garner you
know the tension the jayapala
medicare-for-all plan just hundred and
fifteen co-sponsors in the house
Bernie's plan for Medicare for all
Medicare for America which which still
has let's private insurers exist and the
employer provides gold quality health
care but puts everybody in the ACA in
Medicare for America as well as every
newborn child and gives employees the
option to choose and there's a whole
slew of buy-in plans which only give to
buy an option for a few individuals such
as people between 55 and 65 one way a
Bernie's plan is better than Medicare
for for America is the actual cost of
the plan right now every working
American pays 1.45 of their salary to
Medicare and that total will be
increased to four percent with no
deductibles co-payments and everybody
will have dental vision in audiology
care and in Medicare for America's plan
and each individual household will pay
nine point six nine percent of their
monthly income so some current Medicare
beneficiaries will play either a
Medicare's premium how it's currently
calculated or in MFA's whatever is
higher so they'll actually whatever is
lower so if your salary is below the
federal poverty levels you receive
subsidies and you don't pay a premium or
deductible but you know under MFA you
still have to pay a deductible
individuals 300
fifty dollars five hundred dollars for a
family maximum attic cause pocket will
be three thousand five hundred for an
individual five thousand for a family
employers will pay eight percent for
every employee enrolled in MFA in
Bernie's plan I'll be 7.5 and in MFA
Medicare Advantage will still be in
place MFA is paid for by Sun setting the
Republican tax bill imposing a five
percent surcharge on adjusted gross
income tax over five hundred thousand it
also has taxes on tobacco alcohol sugary
drinks and make states pay for pay a fee
if did they paid under Medicaid if
states refused to pay that fee they will
lose their funding which is exactly what
the Supreme Court struck down in the 72
margin with Kagan and Breyer supporting
the Conservatives this has kept the red
states from implementing Medicaid
expansion so any bill that should not
rely on that any kind of funding from
red states at all so anyway Bernie
Bernie plan depends more on nine
different taxes on the rich and do you
think Bernie should compare the
differences between his version of
Medicare for all and the other no no I
mean I listen I think therein may be in
the proper context but but broadly
speaking I just don't think there are
people who are supportive of you know
Medicare for America versus Medicare for
all because they've dug in to the
granularity or are interested in the
granularity of these proposals I just
don't you know I mean I think you know I
think maybe this makes sense if Bernie
goes in and talks to the New York Times
you know op-ed team or something I I
think you have to have broader themes
and I think the idea is not so much that
Bernie has to you know frame it in the
context of sacrifice but I think it has
to be framed in the context of that that
FD
whereas they say it'll cost nothing and
you know it's just gonna show up and
that's just not the case he's just got a
cell and and you know there was a really
good piece
Isaac schockner is that how you
pronounce his name in The New Yorker
interviewed Dave Wasserman who is from
the the cook I'm sure you know who he is
John the cook and you know his
assessment he's not terribly impressed
with the with all the candidates on the
Democratic side I'm I think that was
more of a subjective analysis than is
more sort of like math based ones but
his day to suggest that people don't
care about ideology they don't care
about per se right they're not gonna
make a they're not gonna vote for a
Democrat because he's too far left or
she's too far left or he's too far right
or she's too far right it is there are
other elements that activate people now
it's quite possible that ideology
informs how you present yourself to the
voters like I think the ability to go to
the voters and saying like we're gonna
aim for the moon we're gonna aim for the
moon we're gonna try and get it because
you deserve a trip to the moon or we all
need to live on the moon or that's where
the only atmosphere is on the moon and
somebody goes like ah you know what
maybe we're gonna make it to a satellite
that's orbiting around maybe we're gonna
try and do that because you know you
know like somebody who has to can't
provide a full-throated endorsement or a
call for something has a problem I mean
in some respects that's why Joe Biden's
strength is that he's not he's not
interested in providing any of this now
I have a question for you when he can
speak full throated ly about his lack of
agenda because there doesn't seem to be
any sort of hedging
now when he's hedging right when it
comes out and he apologizes for
embracing segregationists in the way
that he does then he starts to look weak
even though that's something that I feel
like that should be your normal position
even though he's coming he makes him
look weak and it makes it undercuts his
sales pitch what kind of questions are
they asking when they determined that
they had somebody doesn't care about
ideology like specifically what what are
they saying did they say do you care
about an ideological candidate because I
would assume if they said it like that
and certainly nobody would most people
would say no to that phrasing no I think
it's just that there's no evidence that
in in campaigns the ideology of the
candidate no I understand what I'm a
troll what's the evidences well I don't
think it's just polling I think it's
just like looking you know creating as
some type of matrix as to what the
ideology is what would be in the matrix
i I mean I don't I think we should I
think we should interrogate that a
little bit more I mean I'm not I agree
with you I don't think that people are
sitting there you know reading policy
briefs by any stretch of the imagination
but I I don't know necessarily that we
can make such a kind of hard and fast
distinction particularly in some
candidates cases like Sanders and in
some respects Warren where I don't know
that you could separate their type of
appeal from if you look at ideologic
flooring joists candidates are for like
Buddha judge know I understand a second
I understand this actually starts an
indication that people don't that are
willing to go from one well I aspire in
Buddha judges case there's definitely
people anecdotally that are under the
impression that he's actually quite
progressive so that's a that to me is a
is a that's a flawed example but I I'm
just curious because it's something
we're saying a lot I want to know how
we're actually measuring yes beyond the
second choice yeah I mean I can I I can
give you you know hundreds of him exit
polls it's a just the opposite let me
give you one just from Iowa in in 2016
Clinton and Sanders people who
considered themselves very liberal 28%
of the electorate
sandurz up by 19 points somewhat liberal
Clinton up by 6
moderate Clinton up by 23 I mean this
this happens all over this is continuous
see I mean you look at you know why
don't black women vote for Republicans
you know why do younger voters vote for
the most progressive candidates in the
Bernie mold I mean there's there's just
so much overwhelming evidence about this
and this is this is kind of what I you
know study also and so I I really
disagree with that analysis and I'm
actually pretty shocked they Wasserman
saying that and that you know I don't
really think he's I mean he's good he
does a lot of research but I mean I
disagreed with him on many occasions
also on I mean I think that there is a
big difference between paying 4% of your
salary and paying nine point seven
percent of your salary I mean that is
you know that's what is it about a
hundred and fifteen percent higher I
mean that is that is an incredible
difference and that is a very tangible
issue that Bernie can say you know I
think that he'll receive criticism from
a lot of health care experts and saying
you know this hasn't been fleshed out
enough but I mean you know because
there's actually the Medicare for
America is actually a bill you know that
it's you know hopefully will I mean III
don't agree with this I mean I'm just
saying you don't want to state I'm for
Medicare for all but I'm just I'm just
saying that we have to compare these
plans and we because they really have
people haven't been doing this it's just
people are just tinkering around the
edges of these plans this is just you
know starting and we need to talk about
this more because there are distinct
differences and the fact that Bernie
puts so much emphasis on taxing the rich
should also be there and you know it's
ridiculous like advance when I was
talking about you know they've already
the Supreme Court has already said that
you can't you can't take away coverage
you know they don't comply so why
they even putting that in the bill it's
it's it's stupid Supreme Court's already
ruled on it and you know that there's
all these thin taxes people don't like
those either especially on sugary drinks
I mean you know it's it's you don't have
everybody paying into it either I mean
it's great that people have the option
you know everybody has the option to get
in you know but I just think that the
medicare-for-all should be talked about
let's talk about the details and let's
explain how this is better for everybody
I think the the end of the conversation
is just simply like you're gonna pay
more in taxes and you're gonna pay
nothing at the point of service and you
just keep saying that over and over it
again to people because you know to
compare it to
Delaney's plan it's just like what like
who like what people have not already
made their mind up who would even know
what you're talking about
well I mean I see your point but I mean
the only really two viable plans where
people have the option of going into
Medicare for all are the Medicare for
America's land and Bernie's planning in
the judge argue the the the thing to get
people to buy into Medicare for all at
the end of the day is not they're
looking at these percentages read you
know it is just simply the idea of like
the concept having people understand the
concept and believe that it is doable
like that it is achievable like in the
same way of like you know it's like
arguing to people before we ever sent
anybody into space like going to the
moon is really not that much more of a
significant you know reaching the moon
is not that much more of a significant
investment the the the you know versus
you know just putting a rocket into a
space station let's say like you've just
gotta argue at the concept and get
people to understand and be able to
accept that what is being proposed is
not that route
and it's not like you know we're growing
wings it is that it can be done and I
think for them to go into the weeds on
that plant I just don't know what voters
are out there going like I'm waiting to
see the you know the the differentials
in these two plans I just don't I just I
just don't think there's a lot it simple
make it simple so you're gonna pay a
hundred and fifteen percent more under
Medicare for all then you'll play in
Bernie's plan that's that's very simple
you're gonna pay much more money you
know almost ten percent of your salary
is going to be going to pay anything
here I think I think Bernie's saying
you're gonna pay more for less in his
proposal because because it's gonna lack
the efficiencies that Medicare for all I
think you could say that but I mean
that's that took me four seconds to say
all right all right what about what
about Bernie is you know the fact that
he's going away from the large you know
gatherings you know the stadiums and
everything and going to a more intimate
setting is that is that beneficial to
his candidacy or not I don't know I mean
I look the media coverage for Bernie has
been pretty anemic as it is and so I
think that maybe the idea is right now
for the campaign is we need people who
are gonna go out and like we need an
army right like I would rather have ten
supporters who are gonna work 18-hour
days for me then a hundred who might
just you know sign a petition and I
think that's I think that's the theory
right by going into smaller more
intimate settings you're developing a
deeper connection with people I think I
mean that's I think that's the theory
right not that
theory but you're also you know you're
not getting as much publicity because
you don't have these huge events you
know people people relate to that and
he's also you're not talking about his
agenda you know more because it's all
you know one-on-one take a selfie of me
you know I mean I think he's doing it
because you know he thinks that you know
people already knows his agenda which
which more or less they do to a certain
extent but I just I'm not sure if that's
a really good I don't know if it is or
not either I go and I can't make that
assessment but I but I will say this
that Bernie knows that he has the money
to stay in the race until the end there
are only like I don't know how many
candidates can actually make that claim
can can reasonably look at the money
they have and make that claim mean a
Buddha judge might be able to cuz I
don't even know how much of a sort of a
ground game the guy is establishing I
don't know how much money he's spending
there and I could evaporate that money
could evaporate exactly doc corporate
money it's all corporate money you're
right and but there maybe he here's the
thing he can hang in there because it's
all gravy for him right even he was just
showing up and he's there it's all gravy
for him he was mayor two months ago and
it's the third or fourth largest town
yeah in Indiana so but I was I pissed
like Warren for candidates like Biden
Harris Booker bateau the prospect of not
having money is real and so you may need
to do certain things that have a certain
appeal that may not help you as much
down the long run right like more media
might be helpful for battle right now
because he desperately needs to convince
his donors not to abandon ship and you
know it could be as easy as like look
you saw me on TV a bunch of times I did
I feel like there's momentum here
to check where as Bernie doesn't need to
do that and so they can play around with
what they think is going to be most
effective short term and not have to
worry as much about the long term or
vice versa rather I should say and and
so that's easily build up that ground
crew I agree especially right now of
people who were just gonna go
door-to-door
he is the advantage of doing that in
other words and I don't know if that's
the right decision necessarily but he
doesn't have to do a show for anybody at
this point cuz he knows that that money
is gonna come in they can count on the
they can look at what's already liked in
the monthly contributions and they can
get an assessment of where the money's
gonna come in and whatnot so and
everybody who gave only twenty seven
bucks or whatever it is this time around
they know they can go back to multiple
times so that that goes into the
calculation appreciate the call John
alright thank you
look at that Wasserman think you're so
on Delaney so cute
John Delaney he's still in the race it's
all well has dropped out Delaney still
in the race why no he is mad he's mad
I believe that that Bernie has hijacked
the good name of Medicare to provide
more than Medicare for people this is a
very weird construct but it's his way of
basically trying to signal to
right-wingers now on one hand you got to
applaud Face the Nation for having all
the candidates on on the other hand it's
like well I don't know if you can have
this dude on why not Mary Ann Phillips I
mean what Marion Phillips I have not
familiar with her I mean I would
definitely say that Marianne Williamson
should be married double their time
Ron Delaney she's a much more innovative
candidate is your signature issue as I
know and in the last debate you said
Medicare for all is good policy and it's
not good politics but more than eight of
the candidates of the twenty four twenty
five now support this our voters just
being misled by your fellow Democratic
candidate yeah I think they're wrong I
mean look at so many of the candidates
senator Warren so many of these people
have outsourced their health care plan
to Bernie Sanders right because this is
Bernie Sanders's plan and it will take
private insurance away from more than
half of the country and they will reject
that if we run on that it knows it'll
also reduce quality and access in our
health care system because Medicare
doesn't reimburse sufficiently positive
now understand Medicare for all is a
little bit of a misnomer it really is
Medicaid for all and reimbursement rates
may very well stay the same I don't know
under Bernie's policies to be honest
with you we do know that there'll be a
far less expense involved in
administrative costs and dealing with
insurance companies
broadly speaking but also can cost Snead
to be controlled so is Delaney just
going to wave a magic wand and get costs
to be control I mean if medic medical
providers are paid the same amount of
money across the board as they are today
how do you control costs quality and
access in our health care system because
Medicare doesn't reimburse sufficiently
to keep all the hospitals or providers
the debate stage when you raise this
though I understand that it does seem
popular at least with people who vote in
primary but here's the thing Medicare
for all's our great slogan they've
hijacked the good name of Medicare and
applied it to a law that will cause
upheaval in our health care system and I
I was the first person to actually talk
about this now we're seeing the debate
change on this issue as people start to
realize my plan which is called better
care is a universal health care plan
every single American gets health care
as a basic right
citizenship for free but I preserve
options if people want to opt out and
keep their private insurance they can if
they want to buy supplemental plans they
can it's a much better way to create a
universal health care system
non-citizens non-citizens are not
covered by my better care plan but under
my immigration reform they will have
legal status why they while they wait on
a path to citizenship which would allow
them the Denby covers with you if you
take immigration and health care
together you kind of see how we can
start solving now when he says that
everybody gets health insurance for free
under his better care program but the
risk pool is still going to be split up
between private and public what what
magic wand is he going to be able to use
to make this thing work he's lying he's
lying it's not true he can't do it and
this is when I say like Bernie Sanders
has to go out there and I don't know if
I would say sacrifices right way but
he's got to tell the American public the
truth the truth is this the only way it
can work insurance is not outlawed in
his bill private insurance but you need
to be in Medicare there will be a market
for supplemental insurance and it will
be even under Bernie's plan bigger than
cosmetic you might unlikely that you
would need it possible that you would
want it if you have enough money to go
with your first sinks but the fact of
the matter is you need to have a
single-payer to drive down costs to
eliminate the bureaucracies that are
involved and just like I mean in my
house right now I have a file this big
of like bills from my kids
doctor pediatric doctors and the bills
like range from like 25 bucks to 75
it's like multiple ones of them I gotta
call them I gotta get pay each one of
them at a different location
I've got dental things I'm waiting for
the money that we spent on the dentist
to come back from the the insurance
company I mean it is such a massive pain
in the ass as a human being but also
from the standpoint of productivity it's
like I can't believe I could spend all
my time on this it's unbelievable
it's unbelievable that this is our
system it is just bizarre
there is nothing else that is even
remotely as bureaucratic is this I've
gone in and I've got my driver's license
I've sold cars where you got I've got
them registered at the DMV I've
registered to vote I've I've filed deeds
or whatever it is none of that is even
comes you remotely close to what you got
to deal with the health insurance
companies private insurers it's nuts
it's nuts
so Delaney's just out-and-out lying and
uh you know if you're gonna invite
somebody on you're gonna ask them this
question you've done the homework people
booed you also do the homework on what
the plan is
right I mean come on give me a break
ridiculous
so as part of the July 4th celebrations
in in Washington DC the proud boys and
the alt-right had a some type of rally
right was it who was it you know put me
who who had the the official who was the
rally Odom and free speech org now as
you know when the framers sat down with
the Constitution the First Amendment was
the right of your ability to associate
with others and to speak freely without
government intervention at the airport
all runt and uh medicines music the if
you read into the First Amendment
amendment one section D also apparently
talks about your right to put whatever
profile you want on your dating app
without it in any way being encumbered
and that's what this guy at the demand
free speech rally wanted to inform us
all that his tinder profile rights had
been abridged history completely banned
from Teeter because my picture my
picture of myself in my dress blues
uniform what's reported for being
offensive and in promoting violence
I get that picture taken down so you
know that I replace it with a picture of
me
throws I got a bad dog dead so I open up
a new email account before cookie Lori
can delete it I put up a new email
account I got a picture with Donald
Trump at Trump Tower last week no
profile picture please won't let goes
don't freaking reporting all that stuff
they don't know how were to get a swipe
right on them anyway so I don't even
know why they're bothering no sounds
like he's from South Shore right it sort
of sounded like he was like Tom Perez at
first yeah they better be from tinder
because of how awfully everybody deity
it's horrible it's and they
would do they're not gonna swipe right
on you I'm not gonna swipe right on you
they don't give a so peril your
leisure activities are apparently at
this July 4th celebration there were
some people who I think we're burning a
flag and protests on both sides
you had the proud boys there and they
got into a physical altercation because
that's what the essence of the proud
boys is apparently and they got into a
physical altercation with some of these
other protesters the some of the proud
boys were arrested they were then
released I think is that what this is is
this guy coming out of the police
department I know this is just from Fort
Fisher yeah ok yeah so this is just
around in this proud boys just walking
around I guess after that and just to
give you a sense of where the police
department lays on this somebody who
have videotaped the the what is it this
is called news what is it news Ford
Fisher's what is his is at Ford Fisher
I'm pulling up his bio what does the
naiton news is it news and and to news
to share is news to share yep and a 10
to s reports
and here's the proud boys getting a fist
bump from the cops nice
he's going down thanking him for the
service so who knows how much they know
beyond him saying that with a Mogga hat
on right I don't know I think I mean to
me though you're right who knows but we
can make some pretty grounded
speculation and that I mean it's a
conversation for another day but I'm
starting to have a lot more wariness and
skepticism of some of the sort of like
tactics with groups like the proud boys
I actually think can be pretty easily
marginalized but the relationship with
the cops and this infiltration of these
ideas into law enforcement FBI Homeland
Security that is a major major major
threat
all right so Joe Biden is out there he
was he issuing an apology I guess is
that what that what is this one they
would probably call it a Clarence this
isn't his apology this is he's asked by
a woman what he plans to do about the
hoard after Kavanagh yeah so here is Joe
Biden apparently Joe Biden doesn't need
any plans for anything at least that's
their that's the idea that they have so
here's a Joe Biden being asked by a
voter what's the plan
to deal with the fact that Mitch
McConnell had kept open a seat
basically robbed Joe Biden's supposed
administration of a seat on the Supreme
Court he wasn't aware of this here we go
and I was at the and to watch somebody
it was morally unqualified and also
unfit be elevated to a lifetime position
in the course was absolutely devastating
and concerned everything about
immigration through a really diverse
concern yes and I know
I'm not going to attack the courts
and/or determinative academically
that's the plan there's a lot of
vacancies so he's not even going to
start with a plan to put term limits on
he's not even going to start with as a
negotiating point to pack the court I
also don't think that we should pack the
court but term limits I think are
preferable I mean there's other ways in
which you could do that D with rotation
either but two-thirds of the Senate
could do this in the house and a
president I don't know if we're gonna
get that but what's the back-up plan
there is none Joe Biden just wants to
talk about how he wrote all this crap
with his own hands why is he talk about
the bankruptcy bill if he's that excited
about it or the full bill the entire
criminal justice bill of 1994 it's
unclear I mean I I don't know if you'd
need an amendment to term limit on the
Supreme Court if you were to allow the
justices to return to another federal
court and that is that suggestion by
Matt for do we add on the other day
if they rotate through if there are term
limits to the judiciary is lifetime
versus where in the federal judiciary
they serve I I don't I don't know but it
would be an interesting test here is Joe
Biden suggesting that his there's
nothing to come out about his background
because he was vetted as Obama's vice
president except for things like his
role in bussing or maybe that was a plus
for an african-american the first
african-american president to have a guy
who had just a little bit of smell
around him of a guy who would be
sympathetic to segregationist let's say
maybe that was a plus somehow has
something to do with before 2008 as if
my opponents want to believe I served
from 1972 to 2008 and then to goddess
the next eight years they don't want to
talk much about my time as vice
president nine states it was the honor
of my lifetime to serve with the man who
I believe is a great president historic
figure and most important to me a close
friend
I was vetted I was vetted by he and 10
serious lawyers he appointed to go back
and to look at every single thing in my
background from finances to anything I
had done everything and he selected me
I'll take his judgment about my record
my character my ability to handle a job
over anyone elses
I bet you he would get back to the brand
brother
that's exactly he should be doing he got
some rest you got some new talking
points or like you know we're gonna do
Joe is we're gonna modify praising
segregationists I'm gonna talk about
your buddy Barack still waiting on that
an endorsement though right well I mean
I think this ounce is an endorsement
enough if he keeps letting me invoke him
like this I would not be surprised if
Obama supports Joe Biden that shouldn't
really shot a surprise anybody how could
he not yeah I know yeah I mean precisely
I mean you know it's part of like the
complexity of discussing Obama and
disaggregating between just the
historical importance of Obama even his
just like personal appeal as a candidate
and politician but his politics if
you're on the left or not your politics
but even if you put aside his politics
well like how could have are yes how
could he force his vice presidential
candidate sure Anna and I and my point
about the politics is that he would feel
perfectly fine and doing so sure I mean
of anything in fact if you read some of
the accounts of the Obama administration
Biden is at least stylistically on the
on the on a more populist end of certain
conversations a-square Sam if any
immigrants die in these facilities the
Mad King will be out there using the
same lie about the facilities are great
this is disgraceful I think well we're
paying by the in humanity need to be
also concerned about the politics and
how it seems the Democrats are losing
this battle to with the miss leadership
of a Schumer of Schumer Pelosi what is
your sense of the politics of this
giving the stance the Democrats took on
the recent appropriation bill some days
it's hard to tune into this national
nightmare and the banality of evil well
that's the point if you vote for this
stuff how do you how do you get out
there and argue against it how do you
say that what Trump is doing is uniquely
bad and then go in and say like yeah
fine we're gonna vote for your proposals
it's just it sends mixed messages to the
electorate and nothing gets out it just
it just turns into this miasma of
there's no difference it's
real problem it's a real problem
new human Trump's historical speech
style fits well with the harsh noise
wall genre clear Mesmer's bow influence
parameter the dunning-kruger effect in
full force great concept secret identity
politics it was the nine twelve project
Glenn Beck wanted us to remember how we
felt the day after 9/11 that's right it
was also great it was like not too good
like anywhere on like a spectrum of like
terrified to in totally irrational
bloodlust which I guess makes sense
we were unified yeah who we Andrew
kay Bailey Hutchinson notice how
conservatives point to Obama when people
complain about kids in cages but don't
really say it's a bad thing they're
gonna do the same deflection with
Clinton regarding Epstein given their
fascination with painting their
opposition in opposition as pedophiles
is the reason they're they aren't really
hammering bill's ties on that because
they've got much worse against against
more of their team I don't know we'll
find out Greg from Oklahoma I started
watching Sex in the City last week I'm
now on season two the show is amazing
just proves my point that the late 90s
and early 2000s were the best era ever
everyone's a prison abolition until one
person licks someone bought ice cream in
a store I don't understand a girl lick
licked ice cream in a viral video and
apparently like food tampering comes
with a 20-year they're trying to throw
the book at it so she Brosius this is so
America the people like Wall Street
executives will never go to jail these
ice agents will never go to jail but
will some viral video thing this is
funny Greg Kessler missed the critique
of burning is fact-checking piece
Bernie claimed that many people working
two jobs just to survive this ignores
that suicide rates are rising among poor
people so many of the people aren't even
surviving their two jobs three more
Pinocchio's for Bernie that sounds like
the perfect Kessler fact check right
there
feels like a dinosaur just finished
reading the mismeasure of man
even Jay Gould thought it would be a
good book to shout out to any younger
listeners viewers mic like myself who
may not have heard of it before it's
getting more relevant in this IDW
stained moment of rehashing genetic
determinism in regards to intelligence
we've been talking about that actually
in this office do you want to mention
that article uh I was just gonna say
I've been slowly working my way through
the audio book of that and if you're a
leftist with any sort of interest in
science you need that's a definite must
read book and there's a must read in
Jacobin it's called re-measuring Stephen
Jay Gould because there was a piece I'll
try to keep this really concise but it's
important there is a piece in 2011 in
the New York Times that basically
claimed that do Gould not only got
things wrong but kind of like
maliciously got things wrong and that
article has been used from everybody
from quill let that's obsessed with
publishing content like this I've seen
Harris and you know dismiss Gould as
dishonest and it turns out in fact that
not only the the latest iteration of
that research has sort of reasserted
Gould and questioned that article and
the author of that article
Nicholas rade wrote a book in 2011
called troubled inheritance which was so
on the spectrum of this kind of like
racialized trash science that even some
of the scientists that he cited were
like that's not like we're absolutely
not taking it that far in terms of what
you're claiming that we're saying in
your pop science so not only is
mismeasured a great book there's been a
politicized campaign against Stephen Jay
Gould legacy I will say I just finished
the last rewrite of the Harris chapter
in my book and I'm happy that we were
able to get in through the edits some of
the Stephen Jay Gould stuff it's really
important yeah and I think if I'm not
wrong the thing that Gould that they
said Gould got wrong was his analysis of
the way they were measuring skulls yes
yeah so I mean literally this is it's
just phrenology it literally caliper
stuff like literally goes into how guys
would try to like dry pumpkin seeds so
they can put him inside of a skull to
measure the inside like yes yeah and
this is the lineage of basically a lot
of the IDW guys whose
that like that book was the mismeasure
of minds was a horrible you know a
perversion of science and charles murray
is actually a scientist right
dirty dirty hey Sam Michael lots of talk
on how do we stop the supposed to border
crisis but in your opinions how big a
factor is the drug war on the scale of
not really big - really big I'm not sure
I mean the drug war is obviously I mean
if if you want to not totally sure what
what he means by that but I mean there's
one way of looking at this whole crisis
and in Europe - of basically like if we
didn't back a coup against Manuel's Ally
in 2009 would we have the same scale of
crisis I do not think so
is a real progress happen I think what
he means is like how much is the drug
war driving people out of these
countries and majors you can't separate
US foreign policy from any of these
things or European foreign policy for
that matter and I think like again
there's there should be like nothing
controversial about the idea that on one
hand we should have an open humane
process for getting people in the
country because we want people in the
country and also that in fact if you
didn't turn most countries into
unlivable hell holes people would
probably like generally to stay close by
where they grew up communist dog
comrades whenever the d-triple-c in the
DSC called asking for money I tell them
it's a big waste of my money keeping
Nancy and Chuck as leaders is that wrong
no no well done
not wrong at all rumor can you
Commission Emma someone from your crew
to do some man-on-the-street stuff like
this these are always great I have no
idea why anybody would do especially at
this point do anything other than donate
to specific candidates I have no idea
why you do otherwise
maybe I should do man-on-the-street
stuff be fun action angel yeah I'm 35
years old I never cared about politics
I'm still seeing the disturbing
enthusiasm for Trump in 2015 then seeing
Bernie Sanders is a counter that
Bernie's integrity and brutal honesty is
what finally encouraged me to vote
having something to vote for Dems need
to go in that direction that's exactly
the brutal
honesty is what I think he's really
gotta lean into more caramel an great
show as usual but ancients are bringing
back that's yeah I gotta just
room I gotta figure out how to oh oh oh
yeah yeah yeah maybe
we've been I've actually had some
conversation that but we'll see rom-com
II won the race is cruel to you these
concentration camps is important for the
GOP base but I think the bigger
motivation for the oligarchs controlling
the levers of power simple greed there
another cash cow for private prison
owners billionaires are always looking
for new ways to leech off our tax
dollars guys like John Kelly help them
out and get board seats indeed let's go
to uh calm from an eight six six area
code I'm not sure how much more time
we're gonna have ladies and gentlemen
for calls there 866 no no eight eight
six hey Sam this is the first from
Taiwan Chris from Taiwan what's on your
mind Chris well I I think our party
needs a new leadership I think we need
to get rid of Nancy Pelosi for some of
the reasons you discussed before but I'm
not I'm not sure how we do that so
there's a guy running against him
running against her excuse me in the
primary shaheed guitar is his name he
seems like a good candidate that I'm
gonna donate to him I think everyone
should you know donate to him and
support him but like let's be honest I
mean he's almost certainly gonna lose
like they think if he cracked 40% that
would be that would be huge you know and
so the only other way to get rid of her
is like within the caucus but the last
time she had a challenge it was from the
right right you know and I'm not
interested I'm not interested in that
right I won't complicate this a little
bit though yeah but ok so sure sure
there's a way superficially and I not
maybe not really but let me like just go
with me on this for a second in some
ways you could say that Chuck Schumer is
slightly to the left of Harry Reid right
Harry Reid was person
opposed to abortion he had some areas
where I mean with the exceptional with
the strong exception of Social Security
Medicare though Schumer has said that he
would not cut those as well as far as I
understand and my point being is and I
don't know I certainly don't think Seth
Moulton is the answer he's awful and I
don't know about Tim Ryan they're all
either go yeah but I think I got to
start looking not just that if you could
put somebody in place who is technically
to her right who was into seriously
taking on Trump that would absolutely be
a net improvement so I don't think it
can just be as simple as who's slightly
more or less you know this or that there
has to be some type of attitudinal and
dispositional change and as you saw on
the reed case Reid is not a means got
some strong populist instincts but he
was not like a man of the left but he
was but also he was willing to change
that was the other thing that happened
in Grimm's book which is a really
interesting difference Pelosi looks at
this new energy and dismisses it and
Reid looked at some of the new energy
when he was in charge and recognized he
had to harness it so some of these
things are just dispositional and
stylistic and and have to do with
conflict versus where somebody wait
politically with that said I I did there
was no certainly no candidates that I
found terribly appealing but I think you
know going forward maybe Pelosi has you
know made some commitment of stepping
down and in two years I don't know but I
would say supporting folks like these
this freshman crop of Congress people is
super important building the strength
and the power of the left in the caucus
it's really the only thing you can do
and so that someone emerges from that
crew and says I'm ready to to take over
that means you know help with
fundraising the ability to deliver
dollars is basically the way that Steny
Hoyer you know is the number two in the
Democratic leadership because he could
go around and collect favors from people
and
that's the only way that I think you can
impact that that decision I do think we
should put some energy behind shaheed
boots no I I think you know I mean I
can't do anything but help and for what
it's worth if you put him in range of
anything where at the very least Pelosi
needed to reconstruct um from right
right that would put that would put
pressure on her at the very least the
his candidacy could put pressure on her
to change her you know change her her
tactics
I mean arguably arguably but we'll see
but I they have their twitter or
whatever it really is unbelievable how
out of touch she seems so this happened
on the Joe Rogan show I guess the other
day folks look apparently Dave Rubens
going through a tough time right now but
and whenever there's you know like look
I don't care about Dave Rubin the person
I don't he could be a very nice guy he
could be a very complicated guy he could
be a very simple guy he could be a deep
thinker he could be a shallow thinker
that is wholly irrelevant to me what is
relevant is he's out there with a
massive platform he's writing a book
apparently it's been it's been in the
works for quite a while he purposely or
on purposely consciously or
unconsciously disseminates
misinformation and makes what I think is
a very disingenuous argument about the
left about the right about what
constitutes the center he works for
turning-points USA
he works for has worked for various
libertarian outfits
he is a right-wing spokesperson he may
personally you know be against the death
penalty and be reluctantly pro-choice be
reluctantly pro-choice although
apparently that's changing tough these
days we heard one at one point he was
simultaneously for a single-payer health
insurance and shrinking the size of
government
now that is impossible and I don't know
why he held those two positions until he
was called out on it but apparently this
is very disturbing to some people out
there that we are trying to hold Dave
Rubin to account here is a Joe Rogan and
Eric Weinstein who is a member of I mean
I know the member like considered one of
the charter nanda intellectual dark web
I believe that there are sophisticated
players who are engaged in trying to
either boost our signal or start to
alter the signal somebody will be up
somebody will be down and then there's
like really weird dynamics I think that
there's a very strange thing going on
not with Dave Rubin but with the crowd
of people that is just trying to eat
Dave Rubin and blind him and confuse him
mmm
and as you know there's this guy Sam
cedar who do you think he's a Russian I
hope he is well I don't know I don't
think he's Russian but I do think that
his his I think he has a grassroots
following I don't think this is
inauthentic that just loves to dark
harass what a dunk drag I hate this
language I just get hung 'king I like
the work done
oh really yeah that's fun no I'm not I'm
not a fan no no no because it's just it
cheapens all converse oh you got dunked
on you got dragged
just like oh this is that thing in third
grade that I never figured out well they
found out that he won't engage them and
so they think it's cute to just
constantly on them and they also
think it's cute to take anything that he
says and interpret it in the worst
possible way possible pause it for one
second now understand I mean it's not
cute it's not we don't do this for
cuteness
it'll be very explicit as to why I think
it's important that we do this and that
is because when the New York Times and
goes and gives dave rubin and frankly
all of the members of the IDW some type
of legitimacy when reporters go in and
uncritically report or do features on
dave rubin i think when we started this
project there was a lot of that it
further promotes the dissemination of
this type of misinformation right-wing
propaganda and also this the whole
premise of the IDW it seems to me which
is in some way liking just cry clouded
by the notion that this is an
intellectual that it's intellectual and
that it's dark web both those things are
not true the dark web planted thing is
obviously ridiculous they these are
people who are on the literally the
biggest platforms that exist online
these are people who have been featured
in magazines in the biggest newspapers
in the country these are people who have
more access to the web and to everything
else to the light than anything and then
the fact that this is intellectual and
intellectual pursuit is also ridiculous
there is no soundness I mean this Eric
Weiss team is a obviously a very smart
guy but Joe Rogan is about to explain to
us right now
the guy who has been the conduit for so
much of it apparently according to him
it's not I don't care if Dave Rubin is
dumb or smart it doesn't matter to me
it's irrelevant but when whatever comes
out of his mouth hits our body politic
it's bad and I want to stop that and I
want to stop that insofar as well I want
to stop him actually talking about it I
want to make sure that the way that it's
received by people in the way that it's
mediated to people in the same way Dave
Rubin has what's his face stefan
molyneux and says we're both centrists
he is mediating in midwifing stefan
molyneux in mainstreaming him and in the
same way that he does that unencumbered
I don't want that to happen with Dave
Rubens BS and so we're trying to
intervene to the extent that we can
but here's Joe Rogan making I guess what
what is some type of an excuse for Dave
Rubin and not think of it as him just
being a guy who's trying to talk about
things on the fly and maybe isn't even
prepared about the subject at hand like
one of the things it comes up on this
show like you know we were talking
before we were gonna go on there we were
and talk about Mike come on let's just
talk yeah and so when you do that come
on let's just talk thing yeah you never
know what the is gonna come up and
you might have a piss poorly formed idea
of what a subject is if you just I
ramble yeah that's what I've done in my
two previous well no here's not but it
seems you know posit so we do about
three hours every day on this show maybe
two and a half really is more accurate
and yes I will cop to reading and
preparing for what just what the day's
news is and with I'm interviewing
somebody I will read their work and I
will read about their work and I will
read interviews that they've done and
when we come in I look at look at I have
very extensive notes
about what we're gonna do today don't be
able to see but to say I can get on a
platform that has a half a million or a
million or two million subscribers to do
things that I know that ten thousand or
fifty thousand or a hundred thousand or
200,000 or 300,000 or half a million or
a million people are gonna watch and say
I wasn't prepared and I just was like
bullshitting that's not a defense he
said he wanted to talk about calipers in
people's brain says okay I didn't read
that I was dealing demographic comedy
that's not a defense
that's not a defense if you invite a
guest on to your program if it happens
once maybe that you don't have a clue as
to what they're gonna talk about but you
know you having them on because they're
there's a lot of attention around them
you should find out what that attentions
about yeah it's not like dave rubin
talks to these people about like their
iOS cat rips or like yeah that is one of
the Raynaud's shows is different but
here's the thing I would say what Joe is
doing for Dave and what they're all
doing collectively right now was
encapsulated in a phrase from a
different time the time that means a lot
to Sam which is the soft bigotry of low
expectations well indeed I I have higher
expectations for people with these
platforms well you can do a little guest
prep my authors you do a little
desperate it's irresponsible taste it's
incredibly irresponsible now I don't
know if it's fair to take Rogen's word
for it that that Dave Rubin just doesn't
know what's going on half the time but
if that that's certainly not a defense
but let's let's hear there's there's
more speculation as to what we're doing
idea of what a subject is just our
ramble yeah what does what I've done in
my two previous well no here's not but
it seems you know it's easy to think
that you did that
but with Dave you know there's enough
moments where he's misstepped where they
just feel like okay we got a wounded
antelope yeah they try to pick him off
and you know I think there was probably
a move to do Shapiro and there was a
period where you were seemingly in the
crosshairs but you're hard to kill and
you know I have no doubt that I was in
the crosshairs
I wasn't even noticing see that's the
that's the benefit of not paying
attention and this is something that
I've been pretty rigorous about over the
last like six months all the years you
Sam Harris and Dave Rubin have all given
me versions of this advice and I worry
about it because I'm not large enough
yet that I've been the target of a
steady campaign but what happens is you
see people's feedback loops interrupted
I mean it's not a feedback loop that's
being interrupted
it's the feedback loop it's that's what
the feedback is see I mean this is the
thing is that for the IDW the idea of
people coming back with criticism that
has already been acknowledged as
grassroots that is an interruption of a
feedback loop but no that is a feedback
loop there are people out there a lot of
people who don't like what you're saying
and they're not preventing you from
saying it exactly just going to try and
somehow maybe a make it not so lucrative
or be make the criticism as prominent as
the message just be clear is exactly in
which is frankly exactly I mean it goes
without saying but it needs to be said
this is exactly how you've built your
whole brand which is making a giant
melodrama about people who are often
facing infinitely more serious
circumstances than getting dunked on on
Twitter I'm sorry Brett I know you don't
like that word I mean it's it's the
melodramas word even just the notion of
using the word kill in this context as
part of like the idea of of literally
just having robust criticism campaigns
on social media I would never in a
million years say that Dave Rubin should
be removed from any platform
I would never even say that a college
campus should cancel him if he wants to
get paid by TP USA to travel across the
country and not be able to answer
college students questions and get money
for it and he wants to do you know a
million right wing uh you know classical
liberal pockets that's cool but we're
gonna say exactly who he is and what
exactly what he's doing
and if you have a problem with that you
have a problem with infant or Anand
right of the Enlightenment and open
intellectual culture that's literally
what it is yes there are people who just
don't like to be criticized and they do
not have the look we're not talking
about some dude who's like a barista at
a Starbucks right we're not talking
about some guy who's an insurance agent
somewhere this is someone who has who is
trying to make themselves a public
figure or is a public figure and it's
not even to someone who's like I'm just
the host of a of uh you know price is
right why are you coming after me about
you know this is someone who's literally
got a show that is to promote political
ideas and the idea that that somehow
this should be above reproach or that
people shouldn't use you know humorous
critique as a methodology in which to
garner attention because the idea that
this message is going to go on
contestant sorry not gonna do it that's
not gonna happen that's not gonna happen
and neither is our message I mean what
it's just incredibly inner feedback
talking about the whole point of the
origin of the brand of this freak out
was in fact saying that people are
snowflakes people can't have their ideas
interrogated cool let's interrogate
ideas I'm down oh yeah that's yeah
that's what we're doing that's see one
of those feedback loops interrupted yeah
I know what it is the line people hoops
interrupt the reason why Dave Rubin will
not engage is supposedly is I can't read
his mind supposedly because of a video
that Michael did that we entitled they
Reuben is stupid when I was aware of
that video and that Dave was upset about
it we pulled the video down and I
publicly apologized to him and still
that's a problem but I will also remind
you that on two separate occasions one
with Josh Harkin I think from in these
times maybe it was her mother Jones and
one would the New York Times reporter
who wrote the recent thing about the
radicalization of ruse right Reuben
claim that these people libeled him
libeled him legal term and then he
invited them on so he will not invite me
on because we called him stupid and then
apologized for it and took the video
down but he will invite people on who if
supposedly in his mind libeled him that
doesn't seem to make any sense so that's
that well that's hot just that next time
Brett mentioned my own show and book
 I have to say that my brain
is still in recovery mode from taking in
so many high-level important ideas a
[Laughter]
drop has never died also Ben Shapiro
still a Antelope yeah oh yeah yeah yeah
oh yeah ben shapiro is not he was
actually an antelope the other antelopes
would try to set him up to get picked
off they were like um we get this guy
out of here so lastly Justin Amash has
left the Republican Party and the
question is is he hoping to siphon votes
off of and from whom in the presidential
election he is not a member of the
Republican Party maybe he will run as a
for the Libertarian Party I don't know
it's unclear to me who he would take
votes from at this point
to be honest with you but here he is
with Jake Tapper the only Republican to
come out at the time in favor of
appeasement claims that behind closed
doors Republicans are actually good
people what about the possibility of
you're running for president as a
libertarian or some under some under
some other ticket I asked you about that
a four or five months ago and you didn't
rule it out is it possible you would run
for president I still wouldn't rule
anything like that out I believe that I
have to use my skills my public
influence where it serves the country
best and I believe I have to defend the
Constitution which in whichever way
works best and if that means doing
something else then I do that but I feel
confident about running in my district I
feel a close tie to my community I feel
I care a lot about my community I want
to represent them in Congress when do
you think you'll make a decision about a
possible presidential run well it's it's
something people talk about all the time
it's not something that's right on my
radar right now so I couldn't tell you I
mean I suspect that he's probably gonna
look at the polling and see if he would
take votes away from Trump or he would
take votes away from the Democratic
nominee there is there some procedural
thing that he can't run as a Republican
well he's if he's just worried if he
just resigned from the party
I imagine he could but I'm saying it
would have been I mean just thinking
through it myself like just challenge
Trump as a Republican not to this
independent that way more oh well then
you're only in the primary and not in
the general so all right folks I'm sorry
we're not gonna have more time for calls
we're already ten minutes in we will be
bit back tomorrow and well let me read
three more items five more ions Mellon
apathy back in oh nine I had gone from
city cop to federal agent was in Evo
training with three Hispanic eisah agent
trainees the instructor teaching Evo I
don't know what that is evasive I don't
know
was a legacy Border Patrol guy pre
while we were taking a break for them to
get the vehicles ready the instructor
started talking the new ice agents about
his time in the Border Patrol he
referred to the immigrants as wets it
took me a while to figure out what was
short for wetbacks once I figured out I
was salty as f because I knew if anybody
worked with the called a civilian an
n-word I would have handed their asses
it right at them but they didn't say a
word just kept it moving laughing at
this dude so after training I pulled the
ice guys aside and I was like what the
what the is up with this guy
calling people wet and they were like f
it that's what they are
that blew my mind that's the
culture emergency vehicle operation in
her bangs is mmm true or not it appears
to be true based on military spending so
I even talked about raising taxes on the
middle class isn't it time to be honest
with the people for example the
individual mandate would simply pay go
bollocks we may not be able to tax
billionaires as much as we want but we
need to gain power and stability for the
working class we need to learn mmt tax
the billionaire's well first off I think
mmt is it's an accurate theory I don't
know if you want to expend political
capital on trying to trying to sell that
in the context of an election I think
over time you do that the mandate I
don't think was pay-go
I think it was basically saying we need
everybody in the risk pool to lower
costs it wasn't money necessarily paid
out by the government to lower costs for
everybody within the insurance pools
Gregor hey Sam need to change a handle
on a hammer is a wood file the best tool
for getting the fit right yeah our
sandpaper I mean it depends solasko
is there a difference between private
insurance versus private health care in
terms of abolishing one of them can you
still pay a doctor instead of a
middleman yeah you're not getting rid of
private health care you're getting rid
of the insurance that covers the health
care that
and burn ARA i'm just am I using
exchange-based coverage and still I I
never really know if they're gonna screw
me out of coverage when I need it
with Medicare Medicaid tight plan apart
from the tax versus premiums discussion
I feel like I wouldn't be in terror of
being screwed if I needed serious
coverage in deed and the final I am of
the day bad oh I know we haven't always
seen eye to eye Sam but can I count on
your support in the primary I think we
have a really good shot at winning see
you tomorrow
[Music]
but I know some
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option where you don't get
paid
rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
