so David this week Amazon announced that
its HQ - sweepstakes had finished and it
turns out that the there were two cities
that won the supposed Mega Millions tell
us which two cities won those well Long
Island City New York come on down you're
the proud recipient of an Amazon
facility and also that I guess was
called Crystal City but that Amazon
decided to rename national landing as as
part of the deal and and the fact that
they seemingly got to rebrand an entire
city in Northern Virginia kind of speaks
to the all-encompassing nature of these
deals and and and and the kind of almost
anti-democratic measures and and and
pieces of it that are contained therein
I want to you know being in in in New
York knowing Long Island City I want to
focus on that but but just for a moment
like you know what the idea that a
company would get the naming rights to a
city in this day and age seems to be
insane and almost make the case as to
what is problematic about Amazon
specifically in terms of its size of a
company and it's in its power I you know
presumably there was no vote to change
the name of the city by the citizens at
all was there yeah I mean that certainly
is crazy
I mean what's crazy to me as sort of the
base case here is there is no universe
in which Amazon is not going to have a
presence in New York City metro region
and the Washington DC Metro reason
indeed before making this announcement
Washington
New York already contained the largest
concentration of Amazon employees
outside of Seattle and the Bay Area
so the there there was no need to offer
you know a penny in in a subsidy to
bring Amazon into Washington or New York
where they have a vested interest in
being Washington because Amazon has tons
of government contracts particularly
with the Pentagon which is right next
door in Crystal City or national landing
or ever the whatever you want to call it
and and New York because Amazon is is
heavily investing in its media and
advertising businesses in New York is a
major Center for both so why would any
city or state give money to Amazon to
locate where they already have to be and
let's add to that a little bit too
because Amazon in Seattle has been under
a tremendous amount of scrutiny because
of its size relative to Seattle they
were responsible for rolling back
essentially by more or less threatening
the City Council getting them to roll
back a tax that had been levied upon
them and other large employers but my
understanding is that they have no
interest in you know community building
in terms of a city they don't want to be
have that level of responsibility than
when at that level of scrutiny which
just adds to the the argument that in
many respects Amazon needed Washington
DC and New York more than New York and
Washington DC needed Amazon right now
the best way to look at it is that New
York City has a monopoly on New York
City there is no other New York train
that Amazon can play off in order to
engage in a bidding war similar with
Washington DC they those places are what
they are
and they are attractive to a company
like Amazon on their own merits and so
it is just needless to try to lure a
company like Amazon with what I mean
when we break it down we're talking
about created good jobs first which is
really the best organization on these
economic development subsidies we're
talking about 4.6 billion dollars that's
going to go to Amazon over a number of
years from these these two headquarters
okay so let's alright so they're getting
four point six billion dollars let's
focus a little bit on New York because
you know I know I am I have a quite
aware of Long Island City I'm quite
aware of how expensive the entire not
just you know a Manhattan but you know
it is it is in these sort of like
ever-increasing Cohen centric circles in
which people are getting pushed out
because it's so expensive to live in New
York City Long Island City is not some
type of like you know desert as it were
this is not we're not talking about far
empty farmland here the Long Island City
was you know maybe underdeveloped twenty
years ago but this is a place that you
know and and was one of the last places
that people were going to get some some
relief for the incredibly expensive New
York City real estate that's over so
what is theoretically I mean from the
perspective of somebody who might
support this deal why would you do it I
mean just put yourself in their shoes
for a moment we're giving Amazon in New
York State City something like 1.6
billion dollars at a minimum it appears
in terms of benefits to lay it down the
real numbers okay we should do and we
should say that in the history of all
these types of deals the numbers
basically run in two different
directions the number that the city or
the state ends up give
goes up and the number that they get
back in economic activity goes down
that's basically what happens like six
to eight months after this thing is
signed
that's the somebody's gonna write that
story right and it's gonna keep going
that way
but let's just assume taking at face
value a couple of billion dollars that
we're giving this trillion dollar
company to put themselves in the place
that they wanted to go to do what they
were already going to do which is expand
right I mean maybe you could argue if
New York didn't do it they'd bite the
bullet and go to some other city but
maybe they wouldn't but even if they
would what is the benefit to New York
City well the claim benefit is that you
you bring in a large employer and you
get tax revenue off of that and get
economic activity that way it should be
said that most of the benefits that
Amazon is going to get from New York for
this deal are available to pretty much
to any large employer they are known as
as of right deals they are they include
programs that are available to other
large employers like the Excelsior
program which is this this per job
essentially cash payout that is given
there's something called a reap program
which is for relocation assistance that
is given to any company's employees or
it's given to the company itself they're
there if you add all of these up I don't
think it was the idea of any legislator
that came up with these individual
programs that they would be combined
into one mega deal that would afford you
know one company to get 2.8 billion
dollars at least out of it but that's
what we're seeing now defenders of the
deal would say well the the deal will
pay off right it will over time the tax
revenue that comes in will outweigh the
money that's going out but but I feel
like that just looks at things the wrong
way what is well Debbie wait a second
let's take a break
because this is really the crux of the
argument those those programs existed
theoretically I as a small business guy
in New York City I could apply to the
Excelsior program but the way I think
you've you you really this is the place
for us to take a break because the idea
of aggregating all of these programs
together in many respects defeats the
point of these programs but we got to
take a quick break we'll be right back
talking to David day in about the Amazon
sweepstakes where they sell lottery
tickets and they win we'll be right back
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
