[Music]
all right let's let's go through I mean
I think you know we know from it from a
numbers perspective like what the damage
is here and I think hopefully through
little talk a couple of these these
judges to get a sense of what the the
sort of the legal implications are of
these folks on these courts I mean I the
they all are uniquely horrible in in
their own ways so it's hard to sort of
pick one but let's just start with Don
Willett first off he is on the Fifth
Circuit Court of Appeals just explain
for folks the the circuit court system
and the relative importance of the
various circuit courts right so there
are twelve circuit courts they each have
the each oversee the law in a different
region of the country
right so if you've heard about the Ninth
Circuit which I'm sure you have because
of the Muslim man and all this kind of
stuff like that oversees California
Oregon and Washington right the second
circuit where I live overseas New York
the fifth circuit is the Texas Louisiana
and those are those people I'm a big
reason why the law is different
depending on what state you are in is
not just because of your state courts
your state courts are handling you know
your criminal justice issues you know
manslaughter and arson and that kind of
stuff and some kind of civil law but the
the circuit courts oversee federal law
as it is applied into these different
different regions the circuit courts are
why it is harder to have access to an
abortion in Texas than it is in New York
it's not because of a Texas Court versus
a New York Court it's because of the
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals versus
the Second Circuit Court of Appeals
these courts of appeals are the run
right below the Supreme Court and just
from a statistical standpoint just to
emphasize how important they are the
Supreme Court last year the one that we
all care about or least we know we're
supposed to care about they heard
seventy cases last year out of seven
cases that were appealed for Supreme
Court review and denied and that doesn't
even get into the thousands of cases
that were never even appealed to the
Supreme Court so for a lot of the law
that you experience in your kind of day
to day life that law the final arbiter
on that law is often the circuit courts
of appeals and these circuit courts take
on distinct characteristics in part
because and this is less relevant in the
age of McConnell but it used to be the
home senators from these states right
which which make up any given circuit
would recommend the judges and could
prevent and block judges by withholding
what was known as a blue slip McConnell
has done away with that Patrick Leahy is
sitting there probably pining to
reinstitute it in the event that he
takes over the Senate because that's
just the way the Democrats roll they
completely forsake any sense of power
but be that as it may is that why the
characteristics and then also there is a
the nature of the cases that come up in
those circuits is a function of sort of
the at the people from there I mean why
is there such a why is it it's so
reliable that the Fifth Circuit will
give us you know the the cases that
would harm a woman's right to choose for
instance as opposed to the the Second
Circuit right so you're right on both
points am the and you're absolutely
right that Patrick Leahy and Dianne
Feinstein and Chuck Schumer are
somewhere being like oh I missed the
blue slips where did they go like the
the way that it used to work was that if
you were in the senators from the region
of the circuit that you were nominated
from had what was called a blue slip
which was like a quiet way of telling
the president yeah I don't like that guy
so if you want to say like hey Ellie
massage should be a justice on the
Second Circuit a judge on the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals Chris and
Gillibrand could just flip a little blue
something like no we're not going with
that crazy guy and then I wouldn't be
nominated right like that's how it was
supposed to work McConnell said to heck
with all that he's not made in federal
society judges that he wants and he has
the power you can't stop it right so
they've completely done away with the
blue slips
which is one of the reasons why some of
these particularly radical conservatives
are on the court now and they weren't on
before as I kind of explained in my
piece but the other reason why you get
these very kind of distinct legal
traditions in each circuit is that each
circuit itself is you know supposed to
be respectful of its own circuit present
precedent as well as Supreme Court
precedent in whatever so like the law
kind of builds up over time in these
places and then the third thing is as
you say you know the reason why a
woman's right to choose is being kind of
attacked in the fifth circuit and not in
the ninth circuit is because Louisiana
is trying to pass laws ending abortion
whereas California is not right right so
if so if you have if you have a law on
the book thing nobody can have an
abortion in Louisiana that's going to
end up in front of this in the funds
that circuit you know California isn't
passing that kind of stuff and so they
don't have to rule on that kind of law
they don't have to make precedent on
that kind of law and the system just
kind of reinforces itself so Don well it
on the fifth day of a pill yes tell us
about Don will it so I look first of all
damn look the hardest part about writing
this piece was picking just seventh
right because well like I said like I
say if you write a follow-up we'll have
you back
I highlighted on Willa because he is
famous in legal circles because he used
to have a Twitter account and and you
know it's very very rare for a judge to
have any social media present president
uh sorry exposure much less as as well
regarded as Willits was and his Twitter
account is now fine it's like dad jokes
and here's a here's some cornbread
shaped like Texas and all this kind of
you know ha Oh shucks humor laced in
there with some seriously anti-lgbt
anti-trans rhetoric right and that
that's his thing I like to say that
people generally in real life are nicer
than they are on Twitter but will it is
the opposite he goes to Twitter to look
nice but then when he gets to
work that's where all of these kind of
mean streaks come out of him his issue
he's very anti marriage rights to the
point that when he was now on the state
court not on the circuit court in Texas
even after the same-sex marriage case
went through he did everything he could
to delay the implementation of same-sex
marriage in Texas she's basically the
Kristin Davis woman from Kentucky only
in a robe as opposed to a mere clerk
right on LGBT rights he's against he is
against women's rights he's a strong
supporter of the Second Amendment that's
another thing that I try to tell
especially young people about why they
should care about the course young
people think that like the reason why we
don't have reasonable gun regulations
because the NRA is so powerful and
elected officials are afraid of the NRA
that's partially the reason but the
other reason is that if you try to pass
significant gun legislation courts will
knock what will knock those laws down
because they have people like Don wood
on them who believe that the Second
Amendment is like pretty much the only
individual right that matters so alright
and and we should save james dobson of
Focus on the Family he doesn't seem to
be in the news as much these days once
called him the most conservative judge
in the country which is I don't know
it's like well I mean it's I guess it's
Texas and it seemed to have worked tell
us also about will it in in well I will
so what can and maybe this is good to
set this because you know certainly a
lot of these judges would be interested
like what can a judge like this do to
implicate marriage equality right it's
the law of the land we have already you
know or bridge fell versus Hodges it
exists and the Supreme Court has ruled
on this what can be done by Circuit
Judges to begin to unravel this
of course you know premise on the idea
that someone brings these cases in there
that are already calculated to give the
judge an opening to do these things but
what can I do like what can they like
what what you know it isn't it resolved
now no and here's the thing right if you
think of if you think about marriage I
think about marriage equality this way
all the Supreme Court has said is that
if you go to your justice of the peace
and asked for a marriage license to
marry a person of your same sex you
cannot be denied that's all it is and
that's great that's amazing that's
serious progress but it's also pretty
limited right there all these other kind
of attenuated Benyus benefits of
marriage that conservatives can still
try to stop for instance on same-sex
benefits is something that John Woollett
has been very against throughout his
entire career refusing to give you know
death penalty benefits to people who are
married in a same-sex couple we think
that we're going to get some we think
that's probably also now settled but
there are other issues right let's say
okay if I'm my wife and I are married
and if we wanted to adopt a child we
could but if my wife was named Chris as
opposed to Christine then and I wanted
to go a job doctor Tom well then guess
what Don will it has actually written
opinions about this would say that gay
people are not allowed to adopt children
right um even if they're in a married
committed relationship right so there
are all of these and that doesn't even
get into the fact that like okay the
Supreme Court says that I can be married
I can have the same sex marriage can I
get a cake at my wedding can I get a
floral arrangement up in here probably
not according to these conservative
judge judges so while yes the the basic
right to get a marriage license is now
relatively secured we think there was a
lot there are a lot of benefits to being
married that these conservatives can
still try to deny the LGBTQ community
okay let's talk about Collins V minuchin
because we'll it was involved in this
what is that what's the relevance of
that case okay so as I'm sure many
people have heard Donald Trump gets
pissed off at his Director of the
Federal Reserve
word from time to time right he wants
interest rates to be low because he
thinks that helps the economy the Fed is
supposed to be a nonpartisan
non-political entity and it's supposed
to like monitor our you know our money
and make sure that inflation doesn't get
too high and all these other things and
if this and Donald Trump wants to put
political pressure on the head of the
Fed to do what Donald Trump wants
technically doll shop should not be able
to fire the head of the Fed that's the
whole point of having an independent
agency but in a Collins versus Venusian
will it was part of a decision that that
that explained a very minor agency a
fair housing administrative head um
basically Trump had fired him and there
was a lawsuit and the willit court said
that it was okay for Trump to fire this
very minor agency head but the way they
explain the agency may that agency sound
suspiciously like the Federal Reserve
Board so what they're doing and you were
just talking about why is why is
president why why are different circuits
different like what will it was doing
there is setting precedent so that if
Trump
fires the head of the Federal Reserve
the Fifth Circuit can then just point to
this decision that they themselves wrote
and say like oh we're not we're not
being crazy we're just following our own
guidelines about who Trump can fire and
who he can't fire and this is totally in
keeping with precedent that we just made
up last week that's the problem with the
case like ecology ammunition it's it's
again the conservatives are not dumb
right they know what they're doing doing
their bit basically like setting up a
paper trail so that they can justify
overturning well-established law in the
future this is a dynamic I think people
really have to understand because
there's a strong argument that we're
seeing this on the Supreme Court in a
whole host of areas not the least of
which the you know the questions of of
what rights or what ability I guess
agencies have to actually you know take
a broad mandate from Congress and put it
into effect so that the the EPA can
decide that hey this new
material that's developed that's being
burned and put into the air is actually
a pollutant we're going to go after that
we don't need Congress to do the
research on this and then tell us
specifically go after this one
particular pollutant and and again when
I talk to young people about climate
change if you care about climate change
your problem is not which Democratic
candidate supports the green New Deal
and which one doesn't your problem is
that conservatives have been stacking
the courts with these deregulatory
judges and when they say deregulatory
you think that videos talking about lazy
fair capitalism no they're talking about
removing the ability to force
corporations to do things that we need
them to do for environmental purposes
right that's the whole point of this
deregulation gambit by the conservatives
and so if you don't control the courts
then guess what you can't get a green
new deal because you can't get the
regulation necessary to control carbon
emissions or mercury leaking or methane
tanks like you can't get those
regulations in place if you have all
these judges who say that regulation is
basically unconstitutional right I mean
this is I mean to me this is like the
the area where it's really the most
dangerous because at one point the you
know social mores will catch up and
they'll get or though they're
overwhelmed the judiciary but I just
don't think there's enough
sophistication frankly amongst the
general public that understands that
these are courts that are going after
the structure of our government they are
they are they are inhibiting Nevermind
specific regulations like you say
they're inhibiting the the the mechanism
in which to create these regulations and
that's what's so so disturbing let's go
to the sixth cursor Circuit Court of
Appeals
Chad Reed ler and and I gotta say maybe
this is an important time to say this to
everyone you've picked out here but for
one is someone well maybe one it's 53
but the rest are in their late 40s I
mean this is all folks sort of like
vaguely in who came up of age in their
in their teens in their college years
during the Reagan era and the it seems
to me there's not a mistake I mean like
you're getting the youngest people
possible and put them into lifetime
positions and they're gonna be I mean
these are people who I don't know I mean
I think you know like a I'm trying to
think of some young conservative is
going to have the opportunity to appoint
to the Supreme Court and when they're
president you know twenty years out from
now yep yep yep and again like I say
these people have been bred they are was
born this way they were bred this way
they were incubated this way they were
taught to be this way and now they are
being unleashed on the rest of us so
when you talk about it when you talk
about shot wheeler 47 I believe um he I
Pro I highlighted him to do two things
one everybody wants to fight about
immigration right now everybody wants to
fight everybody's low these children in
cages don't know what we're going to do
Chad Reed ler is the guy that wants to
put them in the cages and now instead of
being a mere political advocate he is a
judge which will which he will have the
power to say no we actually don't have
to treat children humanely if they come
here from another country we actually
don't have to give them toothpaste we
actually don't have to give them showers
not by you know costs usually speaking
they have no rights
that's what Chad Reed ler is able to do
now in his position on the district on
the circuit court the other reason why I
brought him up is that he is a
punishment for Democrats who did not
take back the Senate in 2018 yes midterm
Blueway we won the house oh great I love
it awesome we didn't take that the
Senate in fact we lost seats in the
Senate Chad Reed ler was nominated by
Trump before the midterms when the
Republicans only had a one vote majority
in the Senate he was denied appointment
because he's also happens to be against
the ACA and has written all these kinds
of briefs of trying to rollback
pre-existing conditions and all this
kind of stuff so he didn't have Susan
Collins's vote Susan Collins will vote
for an alleged attempted rapist but she
won't vote for somebody who openly is
against Obamacare right so she didn't
have Susan Collins
vote so he couldn't get through before
the midterms but after the midterms when
Republicans picked up seats in the
Senate
despite the blue wave Trump is Reno
minute and trouble ecologist like let's
roll it back and this time he passed 52
votes because they still lost Collins
right Chad realer is what happened when
Democrats do not focus on the Senate and
instead have their eyes
Starly fixated on the presidential
nomination right I put them in there
specifically to say that all of these
kind of interchangeable centrist white
Democrats who think that the only thing
they can do with their lives is run for
president man go back home to your state
to your purple states and help us take
back the Senate because if you don't
take back the Senate you cannot stop you
cannot either get your own judges as
Barack Obama approved or you cannot stop
Trump judges as Miss McConnell and we I
mean there's there's two more things to
know do well one is just building on
that point
a crappy Senator in Texas say or in
Alabama or in Alabama for that matter
means a great deal in this context
because like you say one vote one
abandoned one one one member of the the
Republicans abandons this guy and he
doesn't get in I don't care if Doug
Jones you know is up there voting on
crappy stuff half the time if he's
keeping out judges like this that's a
good thing for for the even the far left
who might want programs that you know
that are more humane and and whatnot he
was Attorney General Jeff Sessions
right-hand man in the Civil Division a
department justice so whenever they were
asking is it okay to separate children
from their families he was the one
saying yeah yup yep and he didn't have
to do that there are other people in in
this is not a case of just following
orders right there were other people in
the Department of Justice who refused to
make these arguments there are other
people who have resigned there are other
people who have quit
dad realer volunteered for the
assignment right so you make the point
about you know the the Doug Jones and
joe Manchin's I mean a grape I've said
here on line the past we can have I have
had to hear liberals uh true Amy McGrath
under the bus who's running against
Mitch McConnell are you kidding me are
you kidding me if Amy McGrath can beat
Mitch McConnell that would be the most
important senatorial victory that we
have had since I don't know since
Jefferson dancin Stephen Douglas lost
his seat to Abraham Lincoln
alright we actually Douglas won that
election uh that's right no I don't
think our or something like taking out a
Mitch McConnell is so important and if
it takes a conservative Democrat to do
it in Kentucky fine fine we can live
with that I want to hear if liberals
want to want to want to get on liberals
who are not progressive enough go go to
California and deal with Dianne
Feinstein who's the Minority Leader on
the Senate Judiciary Committee who does
nothing
when these conservative justices show up
if you want to liberals want to get on
other liberals for not being progressive
enough go to New York where Chuck
Schumer is the Minority Leader for the
Democratic Party and does nothing
when these judges come up I want to
endorse everything you just said Amy
McGrath voted with the Republicans five
percent of the time it would be still
the greatest victory we could hope for
in getting rid of McConnell I mean in
terms of acts are like material benefits
to templates on that yes society
everybody
