but I mean this is just we're in these
sort of like this is a weird time for
politics right now it is because the
government is shut down the the pain
that is being caused by this government
shutdown is not clear to most people
unless you know a federal worker and the
damage that it's doing to this country
is is not obvious it's like one of those
kidney punches right like it starts to
cause problems like two or three weeks
later and that's what we're going
through now we're the implications of
this I had a piece the other day from
the I don't know the Norman paper in
Oklahoma or something talking about how
the local services for battered women
and women and children who are victims
of domestic violence they were starting
to have to lay off support staff to help
of folks like this and so it is always
people at the margins who feel this pain
first and we go about our daily daily
lives don't necessarily aren't
necessarily aware of it and it won't be
until we get another couple of weeks
where the TSA and maybe the the air
traffic controllers start to say like
you know what I'm sick I can't come in
to work today where we start we will
start to hear about it I mark my words
on this when plane travel starts to be
constrained we will hear a lot more
about it because that's when wealthy
people start to be aware of this stuff
and if someone god forbid somebody gets
super sick from a lack of sort of the
the
consistent FDA inspections I mean
they're apparently going to be putting
inspectors on and deemed them as
necessary workers for the most high-risk
foods but broadly speaking you know the
reason why you do consistent investing
you know investigations and and scrutiny
of the food system even in the low risk
foods is that sometimes something
happens but but mark my words when the
plane travel starts to be impinged
that's when you'll start to hear about
it more and I imagine a local level you
know if you live in Iowa or you live in
Kansas you're reading about the farmers
you're starting to have problems
I would imagine like everybody's got a
story around this around the country but
in terms of it being a national story of
course these things are all regional
that's the whole point of it it won't be
until you get something like plane
travel because that becomes a literally
a way that the nation is connected and
wealthy people experience it directly I
mean you'd hear about it if refund
checks are late that you'll also hear
about but so but in the meantime we're
you know it ends up being a culture war
and we end up seeing freak shows like
the president the United States and look
I don't care that the president the
United States loves fast food great and
I don't care about a football team that
thought they you know got excited about
going to visit the White House and they
basically end up going through the
drive-thru I mean that seems like a drag
but Castle house yeah but I don't care
really about that but this is a freak
show I mean I'm sorry we're looking at
this golden candelabra and these big
macs or whatever it is stacked up on
these curta pounders on these sir
trays and Donald Trump is sitting there
like beaming with pride and I mean this
is I don't I don't even know I don't
even know what this party frigging rules
what he finally gets to fulfill his
destiny as a burger Somali yay you you
watch like things like the you know for
people who watch Game of Thrones they
had this thing on the Mad King was a
storyline and you're just like how does
stuff like that happen and then to be
living it nuggets does the Mad King have
 now what's your favorite thing
here mr. president
pausing for one second I'm also like
others in the table very legal very cool
there were some moves that Anthony Adam
Rock had on the president's show that I
felt were like character caricatures of
of Trump and Trump with his pivoting
here sort of just like swiveling back
and forth as if his neck is like doesn't
have the ability to smooth he moves his
whole body like there I keep seeing more
and more of Anthony Adam Eric in the
president like I feel like the president
is becoming the caricature do you prefer
McDonald's or Wendy's that's a tough
question
[Music]
game against Alabama and they were all
here they're right outside the room and
I think we're gonna let you see them but
I'll bet you as much food as we have
their pizzas we have 300 hamburgers many
many french fries many french fries
probably too many to count
reason we did this is because of the
shutdown we want to make sure that
everything is right so we sent out we
got this and we have some and I will say
the Republicans are really really
sticking together we have to should have
happened 30 years ago 20 years ago 10
years ago and it's gonna happen now
gonna happen now thank you very much
everybody enjoy the slop that we have
presented to you of course
oh yeah where else could you go though
like it my by the obvious analog is is
is Obama shutting down the government to
like expel European immigrants and then
inviting like some like African soccer
teams over for like tahini it's like we
got the but we got to Puli
we've got grape leaves we got pumice I
tell you what we should have gotten rid
of people from Norway a long time ago 30
years ago 20 years ago ten years ago but
we're gonna do it Democrats are sticking
together even the devils and what do you
like better Yemeni food or Iranian food
it's all good love it all
well cups for Muslim countries great
that's weird just wait till he appoints
the Hamburglar to the Supreme Court yeah
exactly here is all great food so I'll
great these guys the players come in and
you can hear one of them say I thought
this was a joke because they showed up
and someone clearly said look guys we've
got a ton of fast food for you and
they're all like we can come all the way
- no way
I guess we did
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I got three burgers that I could only
get if I had about twelve dollars and
went down the street and got into the
drive-thru here is Anthony Adam Eric an
emetic as the as Donald Trump where'd it
go did you get it yeah why would Trump
ever joke about that like this is his
favorite stuff right here it's finally
it's time to shine now the best thing
about Wendy's isn't square you get more
burger you want to get down and dirty
it's a Burger King that's whenever when
that's when mama's not home to watch
Mama's not home he's just a little baby
that's oh no I'm not
[Music]
that should've come with a warning today
was the day Donald Trump became
president indeed not to bowl a we got
hummus we got Lemna folks
