[Music]
ladies and gentlemen I certainly
understand the feeling of not wanting
people to touch me or to to get too
close I am I like to you know I know I
come off as a very friendly warm and
open person but I in person actually I
really prefer to just have people not
get too carried away when they meet me
and in that respect I totally understand
what's going on with the Pope as he is
welcoming Pope visitors what do you I
don't know what you call these people
pilgrims or I guess people coming to see
the Pope and they're all trying to kiss
his ring he doesn't want them to and
somebody's not getting the message here
it is
they're trying to cut away there you go
oh no sorry
[Music]
no thank you
nope there you go oh nice to meet you
sir just let go all right dad don't go
for the end
I've afraid to get Nicole yeah good
coming right in watch out okay good to
see you nice try hey sorry no not you
either
wow we're all just gonna keep doing this
and pretend like that is the strangest
thing I think I've ever seen in my
entire life aa dozen people walking up
to the Pope trying to kiss his ring him
pulling his hand back and I guess the
idea is that he does not want to be seen
as some type of eminence
or otherworldly and he's new atheist
Pope he's new atheist Pope you really
should need to make it less of a regal
royal position there's a lot of like
politics of this but what I think hasn't
he seen the Godfather though I mean
that's what so but I think what I think
though that I think that it's both that
that's his political move but I think
that also if people didn't go for that
move that would also be a faux pas it's
like oh I think you're gonna make like
you're trying yeah with somebody and
you're like go for your wallet right yes
you get the credit like that the fake
the fake wallet but you have to pretend
oh you're gonna split the check even
though we know it like what happened
there was a couple of people who really
look like they were just gonna go for it
anyways and they were like yeah I'm
gonna get that ring exactly yeah they
were very they didn't realize that there
was some political choreography going on
hope chasers
