[Music]
Donald Trump
remember when Donald Trump was running
for president and he said what's the
best but what the art of the deal is the
second best book ever written what's the
first one and so it was like the barbel
he's like that's right the Bible to
Corinth in he's super into 2 Corinthians
so this is and by and Sassie Trump had
an amazing Donald Trump Bible rundown
he's back out of today on Bloomberg
politics
you mentioned the Bible you've been
talking about how it's your favorite
book and you said I think last night in
Iowa some people are surprised that you
say that I'm wondering what one or two
of your most favored Bible verses are I
wouldn't want to get into it because to
me that's very personal you know what I
talked about that so I don't want to get
into it I don't want to get it it means
a lot to you that you think about ersite
the Bible means a lot to me but I don't
want to get into specifics yeah
even to cite a verse you know like I
don't want to do this probably equal I
think the whole Bible is an incredible
joke very much so they always hold up
the art of the deal I say my second
favorite book of all time but I just
think the Bible is just something very
special
oh you like the Bible name three of
their songs funny
that's privileges people they they're
very seldom to pull you from their holy
books cuz it's private
what does HUD do that's private and we
want to get into the details of that I
would just say that it's very important
and it's great and I love it love it
it's very it's a very special agency I
like the bit with Jesus and the bit with
God yeah I mean but that's why you like
both in a certain sense yeah it's like
that's father one and - yeah it's like
it's when you really think about a guy
father one and to exist as a whole so
it's crazy to pick one which better do
you think the interviewer knew what he
was doing those Halperin I think
he did because normally he wouldn't ask
questions like that but I think he's got
a like I think he wants to basically get
some shine definitely know they knew
what they were doing Colorado
