[Music]
all right now um like to welcome to the
programs Tom's caca Skokie let's go good
let's go Tom welcome we just push your
microphone just down a little bit like
yeah yeah you can you can do all right
tom is the new political editor over at
Slate slate.com I guess we call it right
yeah Slate Magazine anymore
you had a piece at the beginning of the
week which captured a dynamic that I
think explains even a lot more than even
what it would what it was specific about
I think and it's basically that there
are there's there seems to be sort of
like Cohen centric circles that are
going on here that are not terribly
different in and I let me just preface
this by saying that there was a moment I
think it was after Donald Trump had in
between the center-back rally and his
initial tweets about Ilhan Omar where
Bill Bar came out I think we did a video
on it maybe we you can find it Bill bar
came out and basically said exactly what
Donald Trump had said but just set it in
the way that was more polite in some way
but every sentiment was there mm-hmm and
it was a little bit more generalized and
it was a little bit more arm's length
but it was basically him reiterating
this thing and you made a point of an
earpiece this week that well you started
with the story of of Ronald Reagan and
the message he left to Nixon first why
don't you talk about that because it's
quite obvious what Tucker Carlson is
doing right - I think to most people
what Donald Trump is doing to the extent
that anybody's going to really sort of
absorb it if they don't absorb it from
those guys they're not going to get
what's going
but there's another dynamic going on you
started with the the story of of Regan
calling Nixon to say that those monkeys
from Africa he surprised that they can
wear shoes at the UN right and then you
know and that's obvious and mostly the
way that this story went over was about
how Regan had said this incredibly
racist thing but there was a little
point in the story that really struck me
which was but then what happened was
that Nixon turned around and Nixon
believed that Reagan was speaking for
you know a political faction that had to
be listened to you know it was important
that everyone in the Nixon
administration be aware of what Reagan's
people were feeling right Reagan was
like the the Avatar of the deeper heart
or right and so Nixon started calling up
officials and telling them hey I got a
call from Reagan and he said this stuff
and we need to be aware and we need to
not you know we need to make it clear
that we don't fully support the UN and
we want to like back off and signal that
this message has been received and so he
calls up a the was it the Secretary of
State that he was calling him yeah I
think I have the transcript in front of
me what but he calls him up and he says
you know I just got off the phone with
Reagan and so forth and so on because
like Nixon has this really weird the
same way that you know did Joe Biden
says anyway Nixon is like none so forth
and so on on everything but like you
know and then he says I just got off the
phone with Reagan and he was the only
sad guy I saw these cannibals on TV you
know and Reagan didn't say cannibals I
mean he said monkeys which is terrible
in its own right but somehow this
incredibly racist other term cannibals
had just appeared and Nixon was saying
it and they were chuckling over it but
it wasn't something Nixon said right
Nixon was saying that Reagan had said
even though Reagan hadn't said it but
this imaginary Reagan the imaginary
Reagan who represented the silent
majority had used the word cannibals and
so it just sort of was incepted right it
just came out of out of nowhere with
nobody responsible for it it there was
right this orphaned like orphaned bit of
racism
yeah just like clinging the ether
precipitated out of the saturated
solution of racism was the sudden
crystal that hadn't
in there before and and so you likened
that dynamic to a dynamic that we see it
feels like every day and the times later
in the week before after you hit written
this piece as if to say like to slate
like good higher um had a headline that
says Donald Trump calls for racial unity
I was out what the headline was and
Trump urges unity versus racism yes
although the one that really jumped out
of me was the one the day before where
it was like a bewildered nation
confronts the shootings because like
who's who's bewildered right like the
bizarre thing about I actually thought
that those two headlines back-to-back
captured something really weird about
the way that The Times constructs the
world right which is the that in its
news writing it has this scrupulous
extremely narrow and blinded concept of
objectivity basically objectivity
consisting of things that people will
tell them and like sides of an argument
that someone will officially stake out
right so in news reporting terms right
Trump did sit grudgingly in front of a
teleprompter and call for unity with a
complete lack of emotion or interest
until they could get back to Twitter and
start yelling about how the Democrats
were the enemy right so that was a fact
and so as an objective fact at the time
it's like what we it's not wrong for us
to say that the president called for
unity so and that's the sort of thing
that they are dedicated to building
their news stories out of right these
like extremely narrow journalists
journalistically objective like fact
units that are assembled into what the
news is
but what's bizarre about that is that
then on top of it what represents the
higher calling to The Times is to run
news analysis pieces and to issue these
first draft of history verdicts about
what's going on in completely abstract
like epistemologically indefensible
terms so all of a sudden The Times is
telling us that the nation is bewildered
like like a spokesperson for the nation
called up the time right and was like we
want we want
register that with that as a country
where bewildered right there able to
sort of just look at the fact that Trump
said these things without doing any
analysis or context but then be in it
because supposedly they have this rigid
set of of mores and methodologies but
then the next day they essentially
diagnose what the the entire nation is
feeling without Riley and who was
bewildered right were you bewildered no
I mean nobody was bewildered everyone
was like Oh two more of these right this
happened again and then you know you saw
the manifest and you're like oh right
immigrant invasion I've heard that I've
heard people talking about the immigrant
invasion I guess this guy was listening
to the same people like there was a I
mean it was terrible but it was shocking
that it happened but it like there was
nothing really confusing about it
unfortunately it was rather
straightforward six months ago I don't
know when it was when we would play
clips of Laura Ingraham and Tucker
Carlson saying invasion we were just
sitting here going like how do people
hear this and not take up arms like how
does I mean I I'm convinced that we said
specifically like there's gonna be
somebody who's on the margins who's
gonna hear this stuff and it's gonna act
on it because how could you not yeah as
an invasion you're being told exactly
and so this the bewilderment and then it
goes a little bit further with some of
their their opinion writers you talk
about Bret Stevens who had and this is
it
it also reminds me of the dynamic that
at one point people were maybe 10 or 15
years ago the back in the blog blogger
age that for a while there was an attack
on the journalistic construction of some
people say mm-hmm which was sort of a
way of the speaker to and and I will
concede that I am guilty of this to the
extent that like I'll go on shows and
when I want to
TV on cable news and what I want to make
it sound like hey this is not just me
speaking I'll say my audience right and
I don't really know what my audience is
thinking cuz I'm not in touch with all
you know the tens of thousands of people
who listen to the show they don't I hear
from some right I'm taking a guess but
it gives me some authority at least I'm
blaming the audience I'm not making it
like Sun but here is Bret Stevens and
let me just read what he wrote and then
you can you can talk about he wrote is
this is after the Democratic the the
first democratic debate right what
conclusions should ordinary people draw
about Democrats what Democrats stand for
other than a thunderous repudiation of
Donald Trump and how they see America
other than as a land of unscrupulous
profit ears and helpless victims here's
what a party that makes too many
Americans feel like strangers in their
own country a party that puts more of
its faith and invest more of its efforts
in them instead of us they speak Spanish
we don't they're not US citizens or
legal residents we are they broke the
rules to get in this country we didn't
and mm-hmm people criticized him and he
said that he said you speak Spanish when
he said we don't speak Spanish he didn't
mean himself no no he was I mean he he
was a child in Mexico City with his
international businessman father right
so like he didn't mean he didn't god
forbid he just meant some other people
who felt that way and I guess the
question is like to what extent does
Bret Stevens hanging around with these
people that he knows this yeah my sense
is that he does not put in a lot of time
well there's you get a lot of that
ventriloquism going on right these these
people are very eager you know you see
Patrick Ruffini all over Twitter right
the Republican consultant dude who's
always like yeah I think it's like
Twitter bio now is about how like
calling attention to the differences
between the coastal elites and real
Americans is my jam or something and
it's like
you know what you know you don't know
you you are a coastal elite you're all
like there they have no particular
insight here but the point is he's
carrying this message without having to
own it yeah he was super offended when
people were like hey that's an
incredibly racist thing you wrote you
know cuz it's not his racism that's like
cannibals are just like it just appeared
because he was talking about what the
what the real people believe well this
is I mean there's you know there's some
parallel on some level to like when
comedians or people comedic aliy sort of
do a parody of but that party we should
say is a critique it is not an
endorsement and it's not neutral well
it's not a parody but like he is
supposedly carrying the the message of
people who supposedly the people who
read him can't hear but he can hear them
but even if he has a certain amount of
like dog whistle well I mean I guess
that's really just what it comes down to
I mean I guess like if he could show up
with evidence that there is I don't know
there was nine million people who
watched the debate ten million people or
11 million people that's saying he just
showed up like I have solid polling
results from a million people who say
exactly this right is that does it
become more valid then I mean I would
want to know who wrote the poll right
but but you know but nobody ever does
that it's that's sort of like a it's a
bizarre counterfactual when you think
about it it is like it's this is all
based on like atmospherics it's all
based on the theory that that the that
the silent majority is out there and is
real and it's gonna come smash stuff if
you if they're provoked by seeing too
much diversity or whatever and it you
know the one particular piece of his
ventriloquism in that column which is
amazing so he I think he turned around
and he has a column right now that he's
vlogging about you know where he's
denouncing Trump xenophobia and he's
saying like absolutely there's a direct
link between the terrible language our
president you
you know the carnage and like yes that's
true
you know glad you're saying it but like
you wrote a column expressing this whole
strangers in our country thing right
people feel like strangers in their own
country you know Andrew Sullivan in New
York Magazine did the same I feel like a
strange no I feel sorry again
he loves diversity but clearly people
feel like strangers in their country
right and you know though that's
verbatim you can chase straight up the
line to Tucker right doctor doing a
segments on people who feel like
strangers in their country and like why
why do they feel like strangers in their
country when Tucker and Laura Ingram are
talking about it because they are aware
I mean they're not even necessarily
encountering them where they live but
they are aware that there are people in
their country who don't look like them
and that's freaking them out right right
I mean this is like the the story of the
the folks living in like Minnesota and
they're afraid that the caravan is going
to come and take their vacation home
they're gonna occupy their vacation home
in Minnesota right and the other thing
about this right is that it you know all
these when you're talking about the the
people who feel threatened by diversity
what you're doing is you're making the
entire conversation be about an intra
white people discussion right the thing
about diversity is diversity is people
when you have like Ross Douthat at the
Times writing about how social cohesion
decreased since 1965 what he's saying is
that the people who arrived in the
United States after 1965 after the you
know near-total bans on Asian
immigration were lifted to him are not
they're somehow lesser then then the
regular Americans regular Americans have
valid feelings when they object to the
presence of these other people who are
residents and our citizens and live in
this country as much as anyone else does
like that's you know it's this
fundamental decision to continue to
treat the white America as the natural
default at a time when you know it's the
white Americans who are do it who are
practicing real ethnic identity politics
right
exclusion of other things I'd also argue
that there may have been other things in
1965 that may have also decreased their
socially works like the fact that we
allowed black people to vote I mean that
we Brian a country and the whole white
people said like with you know like
we're gonna allow black people to vote
now and that's gonna break things up a
little bit for us yeah idea that that
the country was was stable and cohesive
from like you know the Great Depression
through you know through 1965 is a hell
of a story to tell
right exactly I mean if you're the story
to tell on yourself that's the story
right well it's really I mean this is
what it's all about it's like I'm gonna
draw some lines within the country and
say that's the country right and it's
like in and I'm going to choose a
demographic and say that's the baseline
of normalcy and anything that deviates
from that is abnormal in some fashion or
is in some way different and it has to
be justified and has to be perceived
from the point of view of of my assumed
homogeneous real America right there was
a you know there's a Times reporter who
he keeps embarrassing himself on Twitter
so much of the actually got in trouble
for it oh I thought yeah the guy who
said I was those are Midwest values
right so like he he ended up following
this chain of thought where first it was
people were saying well actually you
know representative Omar is yeah we
remind people because I'm not sure I
know right we talked about that over the
over the week it was part here there's
the whole this whole business of like
whether these these Congress people
represent you know we're were an affront
to America right by their the squad was
yeah and this you know and and so people
were going to have to like these people
represent districts in the Midwest
Midwestern voters support them they are
you know there's the mythic Midwest is
in fact a place that support these
people and so this guy who's a reporter
for The Times gets on Twitter and it ya
hear that's not the real me so it came
for
there it is well each say who is uh from
the Justice Democrats right
he was remarking on something that you
know a lot of people have noticed that
we were supposed to take advice from
Claire McCaskill on how to win in the
Midwest
even though she her experience has been
that she did not win in the Midwest
right now I think that there is a lot of
valuable lessons that come from losing
but the lessons that she's promoting are
the ones that she lost on so I don't
think she's actually gained any lessons
anyways
so while he'd said free stuff from the
government does not play well in the
Midwest says Claire McCaskill one
rasheed Lib and Ilan Omar are from the
Midwest and to Medicare and Social
Security are both technically free stuff
and they play very well and then
Jonathan Weitzman from The New York
Times and like you know it's one thing I
think for if like you're sitting in your
what looking at Twitter and you're going
like this guy it's another where you're
like I've got to jump in here right like
I mean the impetus to do that is like
you have to have a tremendous amount of
self-assuredness and you've got a bone
to pick here and he goes saying that to
live and Omar are from the Midwest is
like saying lloyd doggett Democrat from
Austin is from Texas or John Lewis from
Atlanta is from the deep south come on
you know it's hard to know which part of
that sentence is the most offensive but
I kind of think you got a land on John
Lewis not representing the deep so I
think that's probably I think I think
the the son of sharecroppers who got his
skull busted in the civil rights
movement is generally understood to
represent the deep south his experience
of the deep south is necessarily I mean
this is the thing that people have to
understand here with this type of
construction and it's the same thing
with what you talked about with Bret
Stevens here a rostov hour or Sullivan
is that they're not just representing
what they think is in
in ideology they are also enforcing
their enforcing this notion of where the
norms are right that defines something
greater than what these people believe
they defined what is the baseline it's
like you know someone saying like well I
voted for Barack Obama I have two non
normal presidents in a row you can't
have another woman there it's like it's
not just reiterating that this these
people did not want to vote for a black
person in a woman because they wanted a
white male but it's also saying that the
white male is what is normal and not
even normal like normative right and
this is and you know again it's like
this particular example gets super
pernicious right because I mean yeah
like obviously like John Lewis embodies
the deep south and rather than being
excluded from but this idea right that
Atlanta is not real deep south politics
you know that there there there was just
a an election down in Georgia and a lot
of people got kicked off the voting
rolls right and what animates these
efforts I mean yes it's naked
partisanship of course like on a phone a
functional level all the voter purges
and stuff are you know that the
Republicans are just pursuing strategies
that they think you know will get them
more votes but you know they do believe
something behind it right they but what
they believe is that they believe that
other people's votes shouldn't count
that their voters are the real voters
that if they put the screws to urban
precincts if they like kick black voters
off the rolls all they're doing is
they're making sure that the people
whose votes really should count don't
get drowned out by the other people
whose votes are worth less or mean less
or are not part of the actual mainstream
right right and so if you say that that
John Lewis is not the deep south you are
completely reinforcing the ideology
behind the vote suppression right you're
saying the experience of black people in
the deep south who have been there and
can tie their roots to that that area
for as long as anyone
is just fundamentally worth less and the
thing is this guy doesn't even think
it's an opinion he doesn't think right I
mean the times people are supposed to be
circumspect about what they well that's
getting out he thinks this is like a
right-wing op-ed writer or something no
he's a political he's a political editor
he's a guy he said to him this is
analysis this is like just a sort of an
objective account of what he sees on the
American scene and it's particularly
sort of striking when you think that
like you know like I mean I'm trying to
get into his head and trying to assess
like by what even being the the most
generous interpretation of what this guy
thinks is like I just paint with really
broad brushes and all I'm talking about
in the political forces that are dead
that that have and and do define these
regions and and and that's what he's
thinking in his head but that also
ignores the fact that like if there
wasn't that voter purge it's very likely
that stacey abrams would have been the
governor there right it's hard to
imagine him saying like changing his
notion of the deep south based upon
those facts to Matisse tunning he's just
basically adding a little bit to the
scales in his general analysis because
he's talking about white people right
yeah and it's you know the whole sort of
the way that that American politics and
American political discourse are haunted
by the specter of 72 you know is all
about this belief that this voting bloc
this you know that people that Reagan
represented you know the people that
he's conjuring as the real deep south
you know the people that that Bret
Stevens imagines saying it's us against
them that this block is too powerful to
be defied
right that it has to you have to reach
an accommodation with
that with however many people do think
like that because if you don't then
you're gonna be defeated by the will of
the people right it's like they're gonna
they're gonna get angry because you've
provoked them and that's you know I mean
so that one of the things the Ross
Douthat wrote you know there's an
earlier comer who was arguing or I think
he made that that social cohesion
argument when he was saying that the
Democrats needed to be willing to
bargain with Stephen Miller on
immigration you know and he's like you
have to have to recognize that that all
the previous immigration negotiations
have gone on between Republican review
between Republicans who support
immigration and Democrats are support
immigration and you have to recognize
that thirty percent of the population
doesn't support immigration you have to
incorporate their views into your
politics and it's just but there's not
you can't average out xenophobia and
Anan xenophobia to reach like an
acceptable policy middle right if thirty
it's horrible the thirty percent of
American I feel this way but you can't
like drive away it's Ryanair immigrants
it's by an air you're either right and
so and also you know I mean what other
examples do we have where we like stop
the train hold on we only have sixty six
percent on board we right like if
anything else if you have those kind of
numbers on one side of a question the
questions has got to go away right like
that's not but instead you know their
views have to be you know do you have to
defer to that you have to make room for
discussions about ooh about what
diversity in America is too much and a
piece that I didn't get into in a piece
and that I regret not getting into the
peace was the Atlantic doing the whole
cover story by David Fromm right right
like if if liberals don't enforce
immigration then then fascists well well
but why are the only two options so the
point is that they're liberals because
they're not interested in bringing about
any portion of the fascist agenda right
and this again this was on the cover of
the Atlantic and this was an absolutely
and like another one of these pieces
it's just venture eloquent
for this well I mean it's ventriloquist
and again Jeffrey come this way they
it's their hand up the ass that is that
it's bun you know this week this week
you know Jeffrey Goldberg is doing lots
of tweets about the Atlantic's
high-minded moral coverage of like what
an atrocity Trump brought off but look
you ran a piece that was about how
people who feel threatened by
immigration must be heard and must be
incorporated and how we have to
acknowledge that immigration went too
far after 1965 like that was your cover
story on your magazine like right very
nice that now you're upset but like and
this and we should be clear and I say
that the the from the from construction
is very similar to that Sam Harris
construction of if if people on the the
center-left
don't get out in front and criticize
Muslims you're just gonna leave it to
the fascists to do that yeah and they're
gonna do it in a way that's going to be
rude where we could do it in a way
that's polite I guess is the idea but
the the and we should say that there's
also it's one thing to say there is
thirty percent of the country that have
complaints that in some instances may be
a function of economic in in many of
those instances is more of a social
complaint that they are having trouble
getting used to the fact that they are
not centered in our in our society
anymore and so we should acknowledge
that and maybe I don't know
send muffin baskets to people or or you
know let's do a proposal that says like
you know let's put more money into their
communities you know into everybody's
communities let's say so that everybody
can feel like you know they're important
in some fact I mean it's like it's not
it the idea is that we need to keep
their dissatisfaction alive by
recognizing it legitimizing it as
opposed to sort of acknowledging it may
exist it's bad if society wants to get
rid of it there may be ways that we can
work on getting rid of it but from a
political standpoint that
it's not incumbent upon us to do that I
mean it's interview raised 72 is the
specter because that's when we can and
basically went to Nixon and said here's
the strategy right polarize the country
because we got the bigger half and I
think today it's quite clear electoral
politics oral college politics aside
they're polarizing the country they
don't have the bigger half right they
are using voter suppression they are
gonna use all sorts of tactics I mean
literal voter suppression and then sort
of like rhetorical voter suppression as
a way to try and get under the the I
mean I don't think that there's anybody
out there who thinks that Donald Trump
can win the popular vote but it's really
just a question of can they run the
electoral college a game again in some
in some fashion and we also see not only
are these guys basically saying that
this ideology this this is the
xenophobia and racism the adherents of
this are worth seven fifths of anybody
else in the country we see that
reflected in like literally we see that
reflected in the way that gerrymandering
has altered the votes like in a place
like Wisconsin where Democrats win 54%
of the vote and end up with 65% in
Republicans end up with 65% of the seats
right there there's a there psychically
trying to do on some level what is
happening with the gerrymandering yeah I
mean again I think that like that's the
you know that they want a justification
for it and so you know you have to when
you're when you're tilting the field in
one direction you know you have to tell
yourself that that's the direction that
the field ought to be tilted that
there's like some underlying you know
moral reason that that the side that
you're helping to win deserves to win
and you know you have to construct that
reason without you know in the absence
of having a majority of people on your
side which is usually how we
traditionally sorted out like which side
has the better client
it's almost like they don't even realize
they're cheerleading they're just sort
of they have not examined their own but
like this is it all like I just a level
of self delusion that like someone like
Bret Stevens must have when they write
this or this guy Wiseman what does it
follow that that that thing cuz it was
pretty funny right like if people went
after him and he just kept trying to
justifying yeah would you call that
smarm I you know yes that unwillingness
to acknowledge one's own ideology yeah
and the you know and the idea that
you're that you're calling for respect
to these people right that it's yeah
