[Music]
so as Elizabeth Warren has a wealth tax
Bernie Sanders has a bigger wealth tax
Elizabeth Warren wants to fair the game
up a bit she still says she's a
capitalist to her bones which might be
reassuring to a certain segment of
voters but any scenario where even the
most modest improvement of the lot of
working people is going to make Stuart
Varney throw up his green juice smoothie
Elizabeth Warren has been gaining ground
in many polls she is now right behind
Joe Biden and the gap is narrowing
she bashes the rich and she bashes
capitalism too far left activists that's
good
she doesn't bash cash she does not mess
capital she identifies as a capitalist
even though as far as I know she doesn't
she's not technically a capitalist she
wants to make capitalism better yeah
she's a capitalist reformer they love
her wealth tax
they love the revolution she demands for
corporate America so let's look at those
policies what impact would they really
have okay her wealth tax would have cut
the net worth of the 15 richest
Americans in half Jeff Bezos and Bill
Gates would have had hundreds of
billions of dollars confiscated now some
people think that's just fine they don't
need all that here's what I think should
be more should be far more going to be
infinitely more but I will clap for a
base
so okay keep it going
yeah frankly they should both be
proposing caps on how much wealth it
right there should be a limit as to how
much one person can suck out to begin
with but okay they don't need all that
money it's not fair sant√© Warren is
playing to the jealousy factor all
thousand in politics and always ugly
truth is accumulated private capital is
the engine of growth and innovation for
the future confiscate it and we all
suffer then more importantly there is
her accountable capitalism Act and this
is a real threat to everybody's money
would force all big companies to take a
lot of their profit away from
shareholders and it would be given to
the workforce the community customers
the local and global environment and
community and societal factors whatever
that is forced to dance to a socialist
drumbeat forget about investing in
stocks for your retirement the profits
that support stock prices would have
been diverted seventy-three percent of
the value of all stocks today is held by
people over fifty five stocks are your
retirement vehicle Warren would ruin
your retirement the bottom line is this
socialists don't redistribute wealth
they destroy it
mm-hmm Wow I mean it's just incredible
like how crackpot like these guys are so
insane that somebody's saying like she's
not even talking about like this is not
New Deal's ambition she's literally
saying like I mean basically Warren is
proposing a policy set that if American
politics wasn't so utterly corrupted and
hollowed out in the last couple of
decades this is what you would have done
the whole time you would have said we're
gonna trade we're gonna you know we're
gonna kind of transition the economy
it's not gonna be good for a lot of the
sectors of the workforce but what we're
gonna do is we're gonna incorporate some
of the Germans so stakeholder models
we're going
have regulation that's fit to purpose
that parallels the modern economy like
I'm in no way diminishing what she's
putting on the table to saying like like
what Bernie's offering really is a
fundamental disjunction in terms of
distribution power and democracy that's
why I support him
Warren's politics are like if we weren't
so insanely cravenly corrupt we would
have been doing all of these things
every step of the way
it would have just be would have got and
then smart people like Elizabeth Warren
could have gone to a Clinton
administration and been like well you
know what you probably shouldn't do this
with derivatives and you still need
bankruptcy protections and Bill Clinton
would be like all right that sounds
about right we need to be fit to purpose
instead of like well I hear that but I
also hear this amazing party
that Robert Rubens hosting if we can
only say that people can account future
pretend profits as current profits yeah
well they're gonna say this stuff no
matter what the policies are as long as
this person is to the left of center
they said the exact same stuff about
Obama
they said it about Obama it's not even
Sue's not the left of center so that
fact I don't think that we should be
afraid of socialistic policies on the
left because they're going to call them
that no matter what they are you know
even noted right-wing cyborg Pete Buddha
judge has made the same point if we're
at the point where they have to justify
or argue for shareholders getting
profits over workers I think we're at a
pretty good place I think we're doing
pretty well with it's just like money
back for the community sure what about
people whose shareholders I mean he
tries to paint shareholders as workers
and you know they they play to their
audience they scare old people lose
their retirements going to be ruined
when in fact the thing that's actually
going to ruin your retirement is if they
privatize Social Security if we don't
get single-payer health care if you
don't have long-term care
that's what's gonna ruin your retirement
well it's 100 percent right but it's
also interesting that like this is the
other big advantage of ambitious
universal programs and at least some
structural programs because it's easier
to lie and fear monger like there's
be some people in the audience they'll
believe any lie that you tell about
Venezuela or what other whatever group
they're demonizing and lying about but
that's a little bit higher likelihood of
like well I agree with you about all
that but I'm on Social Security and
actually maybe this wall street has not
been so great for my personal retirement
like when you're starting to BS about
people's actual like stuff they might
have actual interaction with all these
fantasies about you're talking about a
different ballgame and I think a harder
lie to pull off all right final call
