as you know the government is probably
going to shut down I'm not sure I guess
it's at midnight tonight the house
capitulated to Donald Trump Paul Ryan
just riding off into the sunset slinking
over his horse I guess passed a five
billion dollar expenditure for to build
the wall or what we're saying the
slanted wall the slanted wall and of
course it we have every reason to
believe this will not pass the Senate
and even if they were to get 50 votes
there's a good chance that the Democrats
would filibuster it in fact I think
there's every chance the Democrats would
filibuster it then there's a chance that
Mitch McConnell could nuke the
filibuster personally I say nuke the
filibuster let's just do this let's let
democracy dictate what happens in the
Senate going forward the filibuster has
prevented a lot of progressive forward
leaning legislation for years it
inhibited the the ability for Democrats
back in the late 70s and the early 80s
to strengthen unions over time the lack
of a filibuster will I think help
progressive causes the green new deal
will appreciate it I'm sure I there's
gonna be a lot of stuff that hopefully
president Bernie Sanders like will I
wish you hang me war or someone like
that like this can't copy this style
anyways the point being there's every
reason to believe that the government is
going to shut down and it's hard to
imagine when it's gonna reopen and we'll
talk more about that later but for now
there's an alternate plan to build the
wall and it involves a GoFundMe and
literally 200,000 really really gullible
people who have contributed over 12
million dollars of a 1 billion dollar
goal but here is something I want to
tell you about GoFundMe even if they
don't reach that 1 billion dollar goal
the guy who set up the GoFundMe gets to
keep the money raised sweep now I guess
he could contribute it all to the US
government itself to build you know I
guess you know 12 million let's say he
raises 20 million you know you could
build like like 1% of the wall maybe
probably less but we could do that old
right wing talking point you want the
wall you want your tax dollars go why
don't you just write the federal
government cheque right we're gonna see
how that works
build the wall yeah why don't you do it
instead of trying to coerce other people
like Brian Cole Phi J I think is his
name he is an Iraq war veteran he is a
triple amputee yeah I mean so this guy
has definitely suffered and it'll be
interesting to see what he's gonna do
with his money but he appeared on Laura
Ingraham show and has a very very
expansive view of the Constitution let's
say Haitian our country we need security
we're a lot a nation of laws we need to
enforce these laws we can't have people
coming across our border who are
unchecked that we don't know who they
are I mean we could have another
terrorist attack tomorrow it doesn't
take many people the stage an attack we
need to know who's coming
that border and we need to keep it in
check and this like I said this this
walls in our Constitution we need to
have the wall and maybe the walls in our
Constitution where in the Constitution
well you know I mean it just it's part
of our nation it's part of our lives
renting our sovereignty nation's laws
Trump wall is not in the Constitution
yeah it's the vibe of it yeah Trump like
Trump was mad in the kanto effective
it's not exactly in the gutter but our
sovereignty big beautiful I don't
understand how we have been so have we
not been a sovereign country for the
past 200 years technically no and
certainly everybody picked up on that
slight inconsistency that like we I mean
if how is it that we managed to maintain
our sovereignty this entire time and
we've waged multiple Wars that was
because we've been able to do this
despite the fact that we haven't had a
wall Eleanor Roosevelt gave our
sovereignty away
it's the UN it's the UN and but no the
Constitution does not call for a wall
and I don't even know the the
Constitution does not call for us
maintaining our sovereignty by keeping
undocumented immigrants out semantics
Amata there you go
what was her problem she's worried I'm
just such a genuinely unpleasant person
that she even has to trip up a guy in
there I tell you what I think it is I
think she realized like holy crap this
guy's gonna make more money this year
than I am you know a word that doesn't
show up in the Constitution border boom
mat control-f it's gonna be super
interesting I here's my prediction that
guy may go to prison definitely gonna
get sued and he could be the guy who
brings down go for GoFundMe because he's
going to raise another five or ten
million dollars and Zucco fun means
fault I Got News for you
he ain't gonna give that all to the US
government
should be this I gotta get paid I gotta
get paid I gotta take the normal 75% fee
for administration purpose consultation
clearly these people have never tried
donating to a Kickstarter campaign this
is pretty impressive
well Kickstarter it's the sort of thing
where if the project doesn't reach its
goal you get your money back so I think
some people might be donating to this
assuming it's that dinette right because
it says 1 billion dollars like oh we're
never gonna get like like they're
raising a lot of money but at the pace
that they're going they'd still it's
still about 400 days away keeping up
this just saying you get to 1 billion to
get to a billion so billions only 1/5 of
what Trump wants right build the wall
and that's not even enough
yeah but they should definitely give
their money to it like I don't know why
you guys are being negative I'll tell
you why I'm being negative out sorry I'm
thinking about is how did we not think
of this yeah
fair enough well yeah but you're worried
about going to prison and I will tell
you this I will also bet make this bet
there's five other ones out there that
are probably doing like in the 10s and
20s 30 thousands and so we may get in on
that we'll keep you updated we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back to
Ben Dixon of the Ben Dixon show
