now that we're talking about the vote
you know what's really annoying to
people like I don't know old man Lou
Dobbs and and whatnot is when they can't
go on air and give a definitive answer
as to who won an election if it's super
close now we didn't see them complain
about this in in in past elections just
this one because it turns out that we
just had a midterm that had 49% of
voters it's not enough should be should
be closer to like 95% but it is the
highest turnout rate for a midterm in a
hundred and four years in this country
by far the highest number of voters
hundred fifteen million voters but in
terms of percentage the highest
percentage in a hundred and four years
this is where the libertarian pundit
comes in and goes that's why we need to
control our population to get it back
down to where it was 100 five years ago
so we can get midterm participation up
but with that said many people voted
absentee many people voted early because
of course of Republican shenanigans that
want to make sure they were eligible to
vote they wanted people we're excited to
vote that's a problem what I'll explain
listen to Lou Dobbs
this is a bit of a departure but not too
much the idea of early voting right that
has overtaken much of the country
extends election day across weeks and
weeks and pods are left it does not
extend election day over weeks and weeks
because that would mean you would start
on Election Day and it would go much
further
no Election Day ends at the exact same
time that it has always ended folks it's
not a Tuesday that lasts three weeks now
no it's not a Tuesday that lasts until
December like if you love democracy
wouldn't you want it to last as long as
possible
well you need a result at one point but
you should count all the ballots that's
all we're talking
it's a republic not a democracy but boy
that was a great plate and and we're
left with this situation where election
day is no longer election day and it
sounds like and looks like and feels
like a recipe for immense fraud on the
part of the well that's it's it's coming
I mean I think there's a lot of fraud
that goes on already and I think more
and more are coming as time goes on
there comes in the caravan now for this
this makes no sense either have a vote
or don't have a vote well why not have
voter ID for crying out loud
wait wait a second voter ID now is going
to affect absentee balloting it's gonna
slow it down actually it's when was
don't have a vote on the table this is
apparently this is like this is like you
know you're about four or five days out
from Thanksgiving you just have like a
real smattering you're left over so
you're just gonna throw it all into a
pot and cook it let's answer the
question I'm all for that
you know I also think to a certain
extent in these national elections
the federal government has a role not to
take over the Tory know what just just
to the sense of the law enforcement side
of it what have you wait a second the
federal government has a role in
elections just on the law enforcement
side like a little calmed down I mean by
not letting black people vote there is a
way to ensure federal law enforcement to
get involved that means you passed a
standard a standard on a federal level
you're gonna have the federal election
police force come in and have to learn
the rules from 50 different states is
that the idea and you know you you the
Civil Rights Act has always had people
in there making sure that people's
rights aren't being violated but there's
a lot of other people who don't fall on
the civil rights yeah that's a great
point man that's a great point we need a
white we need a white can vote act well
you know what let's I let's reach across
the aisle and have federal standards for
the vote so that we don't see any of
this mish-mosh that being said I'd like
to take us on a little trip to down
memory lane which Sam I'm I'm assuming
you probably know about this
I don't forget this is from the New York
Times report June 15th 1994 Edie Rollins
who we just saw on that clip who also
looked pretty crusty and said at that
point as well offers an apology to black
ministers in person like a sinner to the
altar at Rollins returned New Jersey to
taste seeking forgiveness from black
ministers he once boasted that he bought
the Republican campaign consultant stood
before the black ministers council
church basement here and apologized for
claiming last November that he helped
governor christine Todd Whitman win
election by suppressing black voter
turnout mf'er I want more eye state at
the time Ross Perot or something no this
was 94 at this is just a governor's race
at the time mr. Rollins told reporters
that wit hand and pain had paid black
ministers doing not to encourage their
Congress to vote for governor Jim Florio
he quickly recanted and a federal
inquiry found no evidence of sudden
whoops payments my behavior was
inexcusable and I do come here with a
dream sense of remorse he said his voice
his voice steady his hands slightly
trembling I regret what I said it wasn't
true how did it go today well I did the
whole hand trembling thing that worked
