so David I want to get to your story in
the American prospect of about the FTC
because we've seen a couple of instances
in the past couple of weeks where the
the FTC Federal Trade Commission has
been I don't know anemic or I don't even
know what to call it I don't know if
there's an adjective in terms of of what
their what they're doing but before we
do I want to stay on the piece that you
wrote about Democrats missing one huge
huge element that needs to be addressed
in the context of health health care
reform in this country and that is we
hear a lot about you know dealing with
the insurance companies but you've made
the point that the primary problem with
health care in this country is its cost
certainly the bureaucracy involved is
also annoying but the cost is is the big
element and that the main driver of
costs of health care in this country are
the the the providers the doctors and
the hospitals and the hospitals in
particular or Hospital groups that are
beginning to become heavily concentrated
and therefore in some respects are
hoping to make themselves immune from
the buying power that would come with a
single-payer system so that they could
basically say like you you may have a
monopoly over your buying powers a
monopsony but we have a monopoly over
providing care so you know that
restaurant you know Memorial South we
own it we own Memorial North so if you
want to go get some health care you got
to come to us so what if if you were
running for president David Daein what
proposal would you include alongside
your single-payer health care to to
address that or or is it more just
making the public more aware of it or is
it both I think it's both we have to
break up the concentrations of power in
this medical industry the medical
industrial complex
from 1998 to 2018 there were over 1,600
hospital mergers most of them that
weren't even looked at because they fall
under the threshold whereby uh the
antitrust authorities have to look at
them I would eliminate that particularly
in health care and uh look seriously at
breaking up these concentrations of
power surprise billing should be banned
it's it's ridiculous that somebody who
is in no position to to shop around to
find somebody in their network gets hit
with these surprise bills the uninsured
should not be charged ten times the cost
of care that that insured people are
prices should be transparent which is
something actually the Trump
administration is trying to do to a
small degree and the hospital industry
is squealing about it there and I mean
that's another danger here you have you
have Trump getting to the left of
Democrats on health care with that
particular provision looking for
transparency in prices at hospitals
which you pretty much can't get right
now so there are policies that can be
taken but I think the awareness is is is
just as important and as I said you know
I get it
doctors are the people that heal you
insurer's of the companies that hassle
you and and and try to restrict your
care it's an easier villain to depict
the hot the insurance industry or the
drug companies than it is hospitals and
doctors but that that approach has not
worked historically in health care but
the the power of the hospital industry
the power of the medical industry has
has prevailed by and large and so we
need a different approach and we need a
set of policies that would actually
limit that power so that a future
reformed the healthcare system can
actually be effective I mean so from a
rhetorical standpoint we got to make the
point to that that I guess what you're
saying is that hospitals are price
gouging
because they can without
and when I'm trying to set themselves up
to price gouge even when there's a
single-payer all right well look we only
have about four minutes left so I want
to get to this story about the FTC
there's really a couple of them but a
week or two ago saw that Facebook got a
huge fine and then I realized they don't
care and all they cared about was just
making sure that Mark Zuckerberg I
didn't have to testify and so there's
more to that story it's ridiculous
it's completely ridiculous the the the
director of the division of enforcement
the Associate Director I should say a
guy named James comb who put this
settlement together admitted during the
the public announcement of this fine
which was five billion dollars that the
FTC got more money that they would not
have otherwise in exchange for not going
further for not forcing Zuckerberg to
testify for dropping the case
now I Sam I believe that we have a name
for that and it's the name is bribe
you're basically having Facebook say we
will give you more money if you in this
case and the FTC saying yes and
announcing it publicly that this is what
they did
I'm shocked that this isn't a bigger
scandal I mean you can't just go it well
the I get I mean there's something wrong
with the FTC that they want they don't
want to investigate you know why don't
we have congressional hearings on this
well I mean we are having hearings about
big tech right through the House
Judiciary but I think the FTC itself
needs to be scrutinized and in fact this
week or in the past several days they a
progressive group called demand progress
has called on the FTC to investigate the
FTC uh and and and let me explain why so
uh that there the other big settlement
that that the federal
a commission made was with Equifax we
know had a data breach 147 million
people had their personal information
exposed to all and they did this
settlement that that the top-line figure
was seven hundred million dollars one of
the things in the settlement they said
was well you have two choices if you
were affected by this you were one of
147 million you can go to this website
you can either get this ten year credit
monitoring service or we'll give you 125
dollars you pay you pick right after the
first week of this website being up and
the claims coming in the FTC changed
their mind and said well we only had 31
million dollars earmarked for cash
payments and to many of you are asking
for the hundred and twenty-five dollars
so really you should you should go for
the ten year track reddit modern is much
better now what that actually is is is
deceptive advertising I mean the FTC
came out said here you can take 125
bucks and then they change that a week
later the agency that has jurisdiction
over deceptive advertising is the FTC so
this is an agency that doesn't even
really treat the victims of things under
their control any better than the
crooked telemarketers who they're
supposed to bust and demand progress
said that you know they put this thing
at failed trade commission com where you
can demand that the the FTC investigate
the STC issue immediate cease and desist
order to itself and prohibit itself from
making future to set this statement well
people can check that out I'm going to
go there right now David Dan always a
pleasure
