folks we talked about bado Roarke on the
show I mean the the Senate I'm gonna say
this now I think there's a I think there
is a decent chance an underestimated
chance and maybe because it wouldn't
have relevance from applicant but that
we end up with a 50/50 Senate and Mike
Pence ends up breaking a bunch of ties
for for for all sorts of things coming
out of the Senate but if we don't if the
Democrats end up taking the Senate it's
gonna be because baito Rourke wins that
I'm quite convinced of that it's
possible that that win could come from
Tennessee with Britain Britain but I I
think it's more likely that if the
Democrats end up taking the Senate
they're gonna lose Heitkamp seat but
they're gonna pick up Arizona they're
gonna pick up Nevada and they're gonna
win in Texas and here is a woman who who
was interviewed after voting for bet out
Roarke in El Paso Texas and she seems to
be heavily invested for since everything
that Ahnold Trump isn't tell me what it
means to you to see Beto who's sort of a
favorite son around here I mean we're in
his neighborhood a few blocks away out
here representing El Paso representing
you hoping to represent the whole state
what is it meant for you to see that
what he's been saying and what he's been
doing on the national stage well I give
him a lot of credit for for standing up
and saying what he thinks and for being
willing to represent so many people who
have our like-minded
it means a lot we're just so proud so
proud it feel like if you see him win
this race tonight everything just
everything we want him to win and we'll
be watching the TV tonight with him
you'll be some place in the city but
it'll be just so much it'll mean that by
gosh we all have a still have a chance
to have a decent country and decent
values with decent relationships with
other people thank you so much Pamela I
really appreciate it thank you how I
can't wait for conservative media to be
making fun of that old lady she sounds
triggered right what a snowflake but
there it is I mean there's a lot of
enthusiasm down there and the thing to
watch again is that figure what
percentage of the electorate in Texas
this is also true like in places like
Florida and Georgia what percent of the
electorate is the youth vote what
percent is the Latino vote if those
numbers go up if they represent a
greater share of the entire electorate
in those states then good things will
happen from a democratic perspective
don't they have a ton of voter
suppression down there though in Texas
they have in Florida it's certainly in
Georgia yes like I would love to be
wrong about this but Texas is a horror
place I feel like it's gonna be a
squeaker for Cruz but I hope that I'm
wrong cuz Cruz is terrible
yeah I think you know statistically
speaking it appears that Beto is down
like five or six percentage points but
it's a it's tough to know it's I mean
it's tough to know what the electorate
is gonna look like and if you know if
the youth share is double that it normal
is the share and the Latino share is you
know near double or 35% more than it
normally is it's very hard to imagine
that the pollsters predicted that
because you need to predict that what
the makeup of of the electorate will be
to get a genuine assessment as to who's
gonna win it's also just interesting
even if Beto doesn't win just to notice
like even in red states quote-unquote a
huge part of the population are just
like that woman and they've been waiting
for somebody to come and articulate like
a view of politics that they might
actually be excited about and it's I
know that's what's I think to me
affecting about that clip
