all right here is a moment of gravity
our president at Andrews Air Force Base
he was heading to this campaign rally in
Indianapolis on Saturday and remember he
was very concerned about his hair that
day right we we heard the whole story
about how he almost blew off the the
rally not because of the shooting in
Pittsburgh but because he was having a
bad hair day and we've all been there
folks you're running to your car or
you're running into the subway
you've got your umbrella what are you
gonna do we're how are you gonna shut
the umbrella and get into the car
without without getting your hair wet if
it is you know sort of paste it onto
your head in some fashion what do you do
in that situation Matt well I've
mastered the art of quickly withdrawing
the umbrella and shaking it off a few
times so I mean it's something you have
to prepare for mentally before you get
into the subway stop okay and it's
because you don't have a valet well
known behind you to hold the umbrella
well unfortunately for president Donald
Trump he did not have a valet either so
he did the next best thing here he goes
walking up the stairs looks around
realizes I can't fit this umbrella in
the thing okay I'll just I get it
he's in and then just life
let go of the umbrella he didn't like
the people like people litter yeah do
you know is that like he did it like he
ever walked behind somebody on the
street and they're like they just sort
of like casually dropped their like
candy wrapper on the ground you're just
like are you serious yeah there's a
combination of like trying to do it
surreptitiously but also being like if
somebody sees me just know I'm I am
doing this exactly play thank you should
one more attack we let's go of it it's
really sort of he they sort of like you
know he just goes up there like a I'm
here the umbrella I'm gonna like I'm
just gonna ease let go just like oh did
it slide out of my hand this is the sort
of clip that when Adam Curtis has his
researchers go through BBC archives yes
metaphorical footage oh this is perfect
Nine Inch Nails song is gonna play over
it it's going to be very haunting
unbelievable let's go to the phone
