[Music]
there's a great new report in The
American Prospect that actually
implicates some of the dirty dealings
between Democratic officials in Puerto
Rico as part of the backdoor - Tom
Perez's election as DNC chair and I want
to say you know III want to hold myself
accountable when I make you know I don't
think look I hundred percent supported
keith ellison but i think i also said at
the time like hey this is kind of like
the establishment picking a sort of
liberal member of it this isn't the
worst thing in the world we need to
support keith and one that position is
actually way less tenable than it is two
years ago because frankly we're already
in a different moment the party has
quote-unquote moved left so now the
argument is about what does this
actually look like in terms of power
restructuring and again that's another
distinction that separates Bernie
Sanders from the rest of the field but
Tom Perez specifically as a public
spokesperson as a fundraiser as a
strategist has just been comically
subpar and the path to which he got into
that position was so disgusting to
justifying nothing he's a plant he is a
plant any incredible mediocrity and so
he's confronted by some kids from the
sunrise movement who've been doing
excellent work on centering the climate
crisis and their question is is like why
is the Democratic National Committee not
going to have a climate specific debate
I mean climate change is literally the
question about the basic ability to
inhabit planet Earth as human beings
seems like it should probably be on the
docket and of course not only are they
not going to have one but there's very
draconian rules now about having
independent debates of the DNC so he's
confronted by a great young activist and
here is Tom Perez and as you can imagine
he handled this really well week and a
half ago
governor Inslee called and said I would
like to have a climate only debate and I
said what I just said to you governor we
are going to have a more robust in
granular discussion of climate in the
course of our debate sis's season than
ever before but to change the rules
because the candidate who has made this
his signature issue wants us now you
know four months later by the way when
we announced our rules nobody complained
everybody said I get the rules of
engagement and I understand why governor
Inslee wants to do this and I understand
the importance of the issue but to
change the rules now and say we're going
to do it differently after we had all
agreed on the terms of engagement then I
need to go back to a number of
organizations who said I want debate on
my issue and my issue only and we don't
have enough debates to do that know you
could do that we're gonna do climate
changing not yours there you go right so
if you understand the impact that the
climate price is going to have it isn't
a single issue it's going to affect
literally every single aspect of our
lives the air we breathe our homes with
15 candidates which i think is almost
half it's not just Ensley it's not
preferential treatment for him if you
hold a climate change debate and I would
say that the rolls are very thin defense
for against the climate crisis it's
going to affect very real so right and
now the I mean look it is a very fun
when you have the juxtaposition of like
her facts are right the moral case is
right the she's I don't know how old she
is but she's already far more articulate
and strong a speaker than Tom Perez and
just I mean we'll get back to him but I
really do want to just I'm sorry I have
to you know just I'll be a blunt
instrument on this segment let it sink
in that he will not support a forum on
arguably outside of nukes which isn't
even on the table I mean my god every
single presidential election I think
should probably have an arms control
forum for God's sake but an issue
that is literally existential and his
argument is rules I mean this is this is
uh you know we can't treat you at the
hospital for a you know gunshot wound
because somebody didn't fill out a form
correctly type of stuff and I'm sorry
this idea that he would have to go back
to activist and and disappoint them by
saying like they're not gonna be able to
dedicate the time to him that's not
going to be a surprise to those
activists like they'll be used to the
Democrats being like yeah we're not
gonna yeah I think they'll be I think a
bit wait a second at least in this case
you're actually blowing us off for not a
formal obvious oh you're doing the thing
always do oh thanks yeah at least in
this case you might be doing it for
something that actually matters and
there's 12 debates scheduled like or not
scheduled yet but they're supposed to be
twelve debates by at the end of April
twenty twenty you can't fit one in
that's climate based and we should also
point out that that provision they have
which says you can't do our debates if
you do any independent debates
absolutely a single issue crisis is very
real and that is why at the end of the
day I urge you to judge us I always say
when the end of the day you and also the
the hand movements that he clearly got
he said some coach or even just watched
his own YouTube videos I bet he still
watches the Republicans don't give a
 about your video yeah his one
moment which even then was only sort of
look basically ironically funny
crisis is very real and that is why at
the end of the day I urge you to judge
us on whether I kept my word that we are
going to have a broader and more robust
debate on climate than ever before week
there are debates where you there wasn't
a question about climate change in the
debates last time so it's a pretty low
bar yes you carve out a section of the
debate and it's on issue a or issue B we
will be doing that throughout the course
of the wild debate season there are a
number of different ways to make sure
that we meet the North Star principle
you and I
you know North which is our and it
changes real it's it's an issue that was
not discussed adequately in the past
we're not going to allow that to happen
again and we're going to do it in a way
that make sure that we are respecting
the gravity of the issue Jesus
you already aren't I mean unless the
rest of that clip is so also we're gonna
expropriate fossil fuel company yeah
right it's like how about yeah you know
what I will trade a debate for the
complete nationalization and criminal
prosecution of the leadership class of
all the major fossil fuel companies
that's I'll trade you for that Tom
that's so frustrating like our no stop
principal that climate change is really
yeah Tom we know climate change is real
the problem is what is the Democratic
Party gonna do about that yeah I mean
this is incredible like this is like a
if climate change is real every single
national leader of the Democratic Party
from the 1990s has said climate change
is real I mean I don't even know like
that's not even saying some like vague
cafe targets or something Tom Tom Perez
is a disaster and we should keep and it
doesn't matter you know what if it
benefits jay Inslee and I've heard you
know jay Inslee has been my sort of like
you know him and Gravelle have been my
kind of like favorite you know 0%
candidates but I've heard that his
record as governor and Washington
doesn't necessarily match up to his
rhetoric and so that's worth I mean
frankly I don't know if it's worth
exploring now because he's not a factor
in the race but the truth of the matter
is is like if he's opportunistically
promoting that we need to Center the
climate crisis good
that opportunism should be rewarded I
mean could you it yes so childhood logic
I'm sorry Brielle just gets you one
second but like just the idea that
you're like oh we can't talk about the
most important issue facing humankind
because one guys using it to his
political advantage
it's very opportunistic to take on
something that will save the human race
right right what yeah look I mean if you
look at right exactly and if look if jay
Inslee is sitting there like you
I frankly don't give a about polar
bears in fact I think if we would just
let Peters he'll figure it out we could
do a climate change but I want to run as
a boring middle-aged white governor and
the only path to do that is to reach out
to these lunatic kids that think that
somehow they will be able to breathe in
the future if that is jay Inslee secret
monologue well then actually he would be
a far more sort of interesting public
character that he seems to be but then
great
so what precisely the opposite of a sam
Harris argument right now intentions are
irrelevant to this conversation have a
climate debate and just you know
tweeting a very respectful and nice way
but say hey Tom do you think you're
doing a good job hey Tom would you clear
to revise your answer to the young
activists about why we don't have a
climate debate hey Tom do you think we
could fit in a thirteenth debate on the
most urgent issue facing the planet hey
Tom can you like audit a class at Brown
about running a political party because
the Lord knows I hope you're not
teaching it
