[Music]
the bottom line is is that Democrats not
just need to win the presidency they
need to win the Senate and they need to
win it not just because you got to be
able to give a Democratic president the
ability to get judges pass through the
Senate but also from a structural
standpoint if they don't win it now they
have a very very hard time to win it in
the future which makes things like beto
or Roarke running for president and
Bullock from Montana who just jumped in
running for president and Hickenlooper
from Colorado running for president if
you do not know the names Hickenlooper
or you only recognize it because it's a
funny sounding name or you vaguely
recognize the name Bullock it's because
they're not going to win the presidency
but in Montana and in Colorado those two
could have possibly challenged
effectively their states senator winning
those seats for Democrats crucial
crucial seats Texas is another one
how primed is Texas to flip in terms of
the Senate race I don't know let's ask
better o'rourke because apparently how
close they came in Texas in 2018 is the
foundation of how he's going to win the
presidency of the United States
everyone's important everyone counts and
at the end of the day more votes than
any Democrat has ever received in the
history of the state of Texas young
voter turnout up 500% won independence
for the first time in in decades and
half a million Republicans in Texas all
joined that movement so a movement
comprised not just an expanded
Democratic electorate but a movement
comprised of Democrats independents and
Republicans alike and now for the first
time in at least my adult lifetime maybe
since 1976 Texas and it's 38 electoral
college votes have been unlocked they
are in contention and and we will have a
seat at the table so this is him talking
you know a pushing beto 2.0 apparently
they're relaunching and I'm sorry at one
point if we're to believe the soaring
rhetoric about helping our country but
country first I was destined to do this
if you're a candidate of destiny is it
your destiny or the country's destiny
like I mean the the unbelievable
narcissism of people who want to purport
to tell us that they're just so
compelled to public service that they
have to do this and then using the Texas
miracle as the if that if the 10 if
Texas was a miracle
then how about you dig deep and run for
Senate even though it may not be the job
you want I mean honestly it really is
like I don't know how we're supposed to
take seriously a candidate and I'm not
just talking about battle Roarke I'm
also talking about Hickenlooper and I'm
talking about Bullock and and others
frankly if it's too much of a self
sacrifice for you to run for the Senate
but you think that it's that you're
compelled to help the country by running
for the president you're full crap I
mean honestly it's pathetic
it's disgusting because a Republican
Senate is in in 2020 is gonna be
devastating
gonna continue to be devastating for the
country regardless of who's president it
was for the good of my high school that
I lobbied so hard to be prom king yeah
well you really gave yourself for that
in that campaign
