another thing that you're voting on in
these midterms and something that
absolutely will be make-or-break with
Democrats taking the house in addition
to Mitch McConnell gearing up to slash
Medicare Medicaid and Social Security
is of course protecting people
pre-existing conditions and I think it
should go without saying that of course
you know if you know that ultimately we
need single-payer universal government
health care in this country that you
never risk people's lives on the road
and protecting people pre-existing
conditions i I know personally of people
whose lives have been saved as well as
significant amounts of money and
Republicans are out aggressively lying
about this and the lead liar Donald
Trump put out this tweet yesterday that
of course like so many things he says I
mean this just doesn't this contains
literally no truth I know very funny I
know how to reassure them I know how to
reassure them this is definitely this is
this is definitely the fascist big lie
category Donald Trump tweets out
yesterday Republicans would totally
protect people pre-existing conditions
Democrats will that exclamation point
the Republican now what I mean is will
protect them from migrant hordes coming
over the border exactly there's all
sorts of the first people that the
people from the Middle East in Mexico
want to attack people with pre-existing
conditions and Democrats and Venezuela
funding it so this is a complete lie on
every level
I'll just take three levels one level is
of course the repeal that Graham Cassidy
as one example that the Republicans
tried to put a muscle through last year
would have in addition to devastating
Medicaid cuts jeopardized people
pre-existing conditions or created
higher premiums and worse insurance
options that's the sort of goes back to
what they were trying to do last year
when they were trying to devastate tens
of millions of American people's lives
more recently there is an insane utterly
without merit Republican Attorney
General backed lawsuit
that Jeff Sessions Justice Department is
not defending in court even though it is
US law and the court case on the mandate
is is laughable and you still have
Republicans including Republicans from
states that are literally supporting
this lawsuit suggesting that they will
protect pre-existing conditions it's of
course a complete lie and I just want to
read briefly now from a Democratic
analyst analysis that came out of the
House Oversight Committee if a Trump and
this is reported on the hill if a trump
administration back lawsuit against
Obama care succeeds more than fifteen
million people could either lose their
health coverage or face premium pre
premium increases as a result of their
pre-existing conditions gender or age
according to a new report released by
congressional Democrats on Wednesday the
report released by the Democratic staff
on the house alvaro House Oversight
Committee serves as a counterpoint to
claims by report
by Republicans heading into the midterms
that they will protect people
pre-existing conditions the Trump
administration is supporting a federal
lawsuit brought by twenty GOP state's
attorneys that seeks to overturn
Obamacare's protections for people with
pre-existing conditions in his letter
informing Congress of this decision not
to defend Obamacare in court attorney
general Jeff Sessions said he was acting
with approval the president states he
did not offer any alternative
protections for individuals with
pre-existing conditions so make no
mistake this court case as well as their
legislative agenda for the future and
we're just banking on frankly at this
court case is that this case is so
flimsy so naked Lee ideological that the
courts are gonna have to you know ignore
it essentially but no make no mistake
there kind of comeback not only for
people with pre-existing conditions but
for the what puny remains of the social
safety net and these are the two three
poles of Jess sessions as Attorney
General he's pissing Trump off because
he's not being aggressive enough in
shielding Donald Trump from criminal
investigations then he's working with
Trump and the Republicans to gut health
care and then the
rest of his agenda is a savage and
systemic attack on civil rights and
giving the door the green light for
police departments to commit greater
acts of racism brutality and abuse
across the country and that and those
are all vital reasons why these
elections matter immensely and people
need to get out and vote for Democrats
across the board in the midterms no
 no nonsense
