the majority rum or good
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any lazy
they are unanimous we must guard against
the acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex dama chard a
report with sam cedar it is Thursday
July 11th 2019 my name is Sam cedar this
is the five-time award-winning majority
report we are broadcasting live not
steps or I should say not only steps
from the industrial averaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America but
also in the birthplace of America
Philadelphia is there is it the
birthplace but close enough close to the
birthplace of America Philadelphia
Pennsylvania in the Philadelphia
Pennsylvania Convention Center in
downtown Philadelphia its Netroots
nation 2019 ladies and gentlemen and I
am here live today I will be talking to
an array of individuals and going over
stories and going out for drinks
commingling with the Netroots as it were
exciting stuff here in Philadelphia not
going over some of the top stories we
will we will get to those to a certain
extent nothing
massive although Trump has claimed that
he can order the citizenship question
added to the census via executive order
it is unclear how he can do that in
light of the fact the Supreme Court said
you can't
but we will remain to be seen what what
happens is will undoubtedly create some
type of constitutional crisis and
console you'll know crisises are good
and easy to win there that maybe it
could very well be frankly I mean that
is I believe so part of the part of what
I would say is you know part of the
problem what's happening in Congress is
that they could very well be super easy
to win for Donald Trump maybe too easy
and maybe maybe we'll see but watch out
if he tries to have a constitutional
crisis on the Do Not Call Registry law
if you I will go to the mat no one wants
to hear about fake saint kitts vacations
after 8 p.m.
mr. president I will fight you say if
you're going to have a constitutional
crisis make sure you do it be not a
dinnertime because people don't want to
be bothered he didn't want to be
bothered for a constitutional crisis it
was the all-star game just the other
night and you want to interrupt
hardworking Americans in Massapequa how
dare you but we will obviously be
tracking that citizenship question
yesterday I'm sure Michael touched on
the fact that the Supreme Court said to
the Justice Department lawyers on the
census question sorry no you cannot exit
this case you can't come in and lie to
us and then say we're gonna go away oh
that's in the light so what we're gonna
do is imagine the other lawyers the
other lawyers you go in your colleagues
lied to us yeah no we haven't seen him
for like two weeks
they've been big they were on vacation
and I'm in a different department so I
don't
see them from and the EPA is changing
transparency rules around the Freedom of
Information Act this of course is so
that you cannot see how degraded our
Environmental Protection has become and
two days ago we mentioned this in the
Fifth Circuit and this feels like deja
vu all over to me frankly the Fifth
Circuit of Appeals in New Orleans
three-judge Bank two of the judges
appointed by Republican presidents won
Trump won Bush George Walker Bush I
should say GW the case is been brought
by I think about a 16 maybe 18 States
led by Republicans and the case is that
when the Republicans got rid of the
mandate what they did is they basically
said there was going to be no penalties
for the mandate it's going to be a
toothless mandate and they did this
through reconciliation recall that
reconciliation allows for a simple
majority it prevents any type of like
parliamentary procedures you could use
to gum up the works but it can only
impact things that impact the budget in
terms of dollars so all they could do
because they could not get it together
they could not find the you know
Congress essentially the way you would
articulate as Congress did not want to
repeal the affordable care act they were
only able to basically make the mandate
toothless these states went to court and
said well now that you have a toothless
mandate
it makes the law unconstitutional
because there's no way to enforce the
mandate and as the mandate is not really
a mandate anymore the rest of the state
the the the law must be repealed because
this was come congrat
congressional intent was to end the law
now of course Congress didn't end the
law their intent was not to do that and
we know they didn't do it because they
didn't do it
there may have been people in Congress
who wanted to there may be people in
Congress today Republicans who want to
repeal the law but because they don't
have the votes they can't do it that's
the way you judge congressional intent
and below that it would have to be you
know what is the intent of an Allah you
know if there's questions are about
Allah they passed and theoretically you
could look at some of the transcripts
but that's not as holding as to what
they they talked about in passing it so
no one took this case seriously because
it's joke it's an absolute joke but it
appears in the and the in the court
proceedings that at least two of these
judges did take it seriously and I just
remember being out from the Supreme
Court for a couple of days interviewing
all sorts of of constitutional
professors and lawyers and saying like
oh there's no way you know talking about
the Affordable Care Act that was in
front of the Supreme Court and I
remember all of them to a person said
and there's one other provision about
their arguing that you can't force
people to expand Medicaid if they're
gonna participate in the Medicaid
program and to be honest with you that
just seems like a joke there's no way
this court could possibly find that
and that's literally what they did so
there is no ridiculousness that is too
great for these Republican appointed
judges let me do a couple of ad reads
and then I'm going to introduce our
first guest that we have here and then
we'll get to some of the sound I know
that we got sound there but as you know
folks it can be hard to sit down and
find the time to read I know this but
there's an app that will change that for
you it's called blink it's blankets is
the only app that takes the best key
takeaways the need to know information
from thousands of non-fiction books and
condenses them down to just 15 minutes
for you to read or listen to these are
the these are the monarch notes that we
used to have his kid crib notes Linkous
is made for busy people like you or me
frankly we want to get to the main
points quickly without reading the
entire book and with its audio feature
blankets makes it easy to finish a book
during your commute on your lunch break
while you exercise in fact 10 million
people are using blankets right now it
has a massive and growing library from
self-help to business to help in history
books folks I have told you time and
time again I have no time to read
outside of the stuff I have to read for
this program and with blankets I can get
to those things that I you know like I
mentioned before I'm a Tim Ferriss fan I
listened to the 4-hour workweek I
listened to it in less than four hours I
listened to it in 15 minutes I went Tim
I've out Tim Ferriss Tim Ferriss I hope
there's a ton of books like that there's
you know the power of habits by that
charles duggan guy ten reasons why
you're wrong about the world and why
things are better than you think by von
Hans Rosling fire and fury zon here
inside the trip White House by Michael
Wolfe I got to check that one out
no it just makes it easy there's you
know some of these things frankly you
know when you're talking about with all
due respect to Tim Ferriss I don't need
to read the sinew I want just the I want
the bullet points I want the takeaways
right that's not being mean
Matt why are you laughing I'm not
laughing I don't want to see you Tim I
want to know I want the 4-hour workweek
in a 30 hour work day that does not make
sense I know I'm missing right now for a
limited time blinkie's has a special
offer for just our audience go to blink
Escom slash majority start your 7-day
free trial that's blinking spelled bli
NK is t.com slash majority to start your
free 7-day trial blink is calm slash
majority and also when I'm when I'm on
the road folks it used to be I'd have to
carry my hand toothbrush and I never
felt like I'm not getting my teeth clean
you know I'm living in an era right now
where I am totally dentally hygienic
sensitive packing your toiletries you
know how at IKEA beads always involves a
delegate game of stacking in space
hacking that's why I quip electric
toothbrushes work just as well at home
as they do on the go the compact and
wireless design tucks easily into the
corner of your carry-on plus travel
ready cover acts as a stand mounts to
hotel mirrors and protects your brush
from sandy swimsuits and luggage
slip-ups
better yet the three month battery life
will last you through a season filled
with weekends away and brush heads are
automatically delivered on a dentist
recommended schedule for just five bucks
so you'll always have fresh bristles
there making it easier than ever to keep
up with you wake up and wind down
routine when you're out of the office
you know why I love quip it's it's I no
longer have this massive monster on the
corner of my very tiny sink it's super
easy to travel with it
I have told you before my sister calls
me now multiple times her dentist is
thanking her from me giving her equip
that more is why I love quip and why I'm
taking it right here to Philadelphia I
have my quip with me not I left it at
the hotel
quit starts for just 25 bucks and if you
go to get quip dot-com slash majority
right now you can get your first refill
pack for free
that's your first refill pack for free
at get GE t qu IP dot-com / majority get
quip comm / majority all right joining
me right now is the host of the Dean
Obeidallah show on the Sirius satellite
network Dean welcome to the program Sam
great to see you once a year we see each
other at Netroots I think that's
basically it although I think next year
it'll be too because I'll probably see
you at the the DNC as well perhaps if
they allow me to go to DNC it's at the
Sirius XM but hopefully I would they
will I think I will why wouldn't they do
that it works with just budgetary it's a
big company there's a lot of budget
issues but I have my choices I'll be the
DNC and I think I will be yeah I think
you should be I'm gonna be a ridiculous
it didn't but that aside why would
budgets matter I'm looking here at a
news story let's see wait a second let
me just go back in here because I read
something the other day Dean you've been
on radio now for I don't know what five
years no no well Sirius XM I've been
full-time for two years and a month
doing three hours a night before there
was doing one hour a day okay and you're
also a daily beast contributors alright
so I noticed this about a month ago and
everybody in the office started making
plans daily piece contributor wins 4.1
million dollars from a neo-nazi that's
right that's what you're gonna now
that's the best way to make money as far
as I'm concerned and let me just ask you
right now let's just get this let's just
clear the air
can I have a loan let me talk butler /
valet money he can lend misty he jokes
around in our Rolls Royce now that's
made of Nazi money that it's really
funny they sent me obviously
Sam knows here winning a judgment
against an individual and collecting a
judgment of 4.1 million dollars is a lot
more challenging to different things and
vastly different things and that's the
world as a lawyer that that's what
happens but the whole idea the lawsuit
was a send a message to these neo-nazis
that they can't just smear right well we
tell the story tell the story what
happens in May of 2017 three months
before Charlottesville I wrote an
article with daily be saying why will
Donald Trump not say why won't Trump say
the words white supremacists terrorism
and what happened was they were already
have three or four incidences in the
first four or five months of his
presidency were white sub profess white
supremacist had killed Americans and my
whole point was Trump you demanded we
say radical Islamic era that's all you
kept saying if you don't say you can't
solve it at home yes right so mice
simply used his argument why won't you
say the words white supremacists
terrorism I didn't attack the daily
stormer or Andrew England who runs the
dailies from that article I talk about
Trump and white supremacy and the
involvement of it under Trump before and
this before Sharla's though going dude
there's something percolating here and
chump you gotta do something about it
well the people that daily stormer were
so incensed and Andrew England
specifically who runs a daily storm if
you don't know the daily storm or you're
lucky but its name at the dare stormer
which is one of Hitler's favorite
tabloids right it was a way of reaching
out to the masses it's been around for
years of daily storm or it is the go to
number one website least at the time of
neo-nazis white supremacist they go
there they exchange ideas Groupon
Groupon coupons whatever they do you
know great deals on artwork whatever
they were all until you know that's what
they're all about so they were so
outraged I wrote this article attacking
Donald Trump and that's their beloved
they fabricated tweets saying I was
involved in a bombing in Manchester
England at the area on a grand concert
we owned a fabric or a fabricated tweets
it looked like real tweets they were my
tweets they wiped out the words they
even added more retweets and likes than
I usually get which is kind of nice it's
kind of weird they did that
and they put things like I I'm the
mastermind of the bombing an area of the
area on a ground concert and 22 are dead
and I did this for Allah and thank all
of you're dead and I'm now with my Omar
or the Muslims in the Brotherhood in
Syria and this kind of stuff so they
wrote all the stuff so first I see it
I'm like is this on my Twitter feed but
it was just in an article they had
written and so I went and looked at the
in the article made it look like they
had really I had really tweeted this
stuff and they wrote an article
seriously about these tweet saying Dean
is a terrorist self professed terrorist
he killed these people go confront him
but they also talked about my article
saying and look what a traitor he is and
all this stuff he's attacking white
people because I think they thought I
was white I'm not really sure they know
I was Muslim so they were kind of
confused by the whole thing
so that's what led to death threats
against me and that led to the lawsuit
me fiying hiring lawyers who did it pro
bono but big law firm Latham and Watkins
in a law firm in Chicago in Ohio were
injuring lives based the challenge' law
firm and we sued them over a year and a
half and at this judgment wow that's
pretty cool you know it's 2019 I'm
fighting Nazis alright Sam this is who
we are in America so all right so what
happens with that like does this guy you
have to send you ten percent of his
income I get a cut I get Nazi money
coming out of the Union right are you
now are you now like I'm in business are
you know how basically over the daily
storm we're going like we've got a he
said guys we've got to pick this up in
terms of getting advertising for this
stuff used to do live reads for my show
first of all this brought to you by that
Muslim that we despised at Sirius XM
listen to his show and curse him out
every day get 10% off right difference
come members it off right now so no we
had an expert who testified in the
create a proof hearing he didn't show up
his father we subpoenaed his father so
we suppose his father about his father
was involved giving the money and all
this stuff so tracing the assets we had
an edge protesta fire but the injury
England's Bitcoin accounts these the
experts can actually find when you have
bitcoin accounts and what's in it and
stuff like that
oh like a bank account so we're trying
to see
we can seize that and whatever money I
get I'm not keeping the Nazi money I'm
gonna give it the groups that fight
Nazis like SPLC and the ADL and Muslim
advocates are representing me in this
case and you know group said they hate
you know a lot of people they hate I'm
gonna give the money to you
come on we're gonna get it if I got four
million dollars may be able to keep a
little a feel it personally right and
also maybe the tourist contributor is
going this Dean Obeidallah is Muslim
guys taking all the money we give to him
let's not give him any money so we try
to strangle his money supply because
he's right so you could garnish anything
like the original judgment in a
corporate judgment Wow so he can file
for bankruptcy of course and get a
discharge but that's up to him good for
you this company and was it scary while
you were going through this I mean
whether it was there ever a time where
you're like I'm all nervous about this
in the beginning I was because the daily
rumors on a run in the mill website it's
not armchair neo-nazis Dylan roof was a
leader right a guy who came to Newark
named James Jackson who killed a black
man to start a race war in March 2017
when I wrote about that article was a
reader there's a guy who killed a member
of parliament England you might recall
it but where the brakes of vote was a
reader so these are really extreme I'm
not gonna say mentally ill people
because Dylan roof was not mentally
incompetent they are sane white
supremacist or dangerous so I was
concerned I mean I had immediately had
to contact Sirius XM security and The
Daily Beast security earlier because
finding me is harder but finding where I
I might go into work is much easier
right worried that some crazy person
I shouldn't say crazy they're not there
they're sane white supremacist they're
Nazis and would come to my workplace so
I had alerted security there it gets we
get a hit death threats and hate mail
and you start worrying about I get a few
letters that were no return address you
don't open them right if you start
getting worried about that kind of SEP
so it changes your daily life on a
certain level interesting well that is
uh quite the drama the story of today
we're in the J I imagine you've been
telling that story quite a bit I did
tell her a lot and I'm happy to share it
because I'm hoping that it inspires
people to keep standing up
because I could have just forgotten
about it or or don't mention it hope
they don't come after me or something
but I would rather you stand up my whole
point is stand up and go to court we use
the courses we sue them we get a
judgment we take their money that's the
most American thing we do you can do I
think I'm celebrating America at its
finest
I'm getting lawyers suing you're taking
your money so I'm hoping we can deter
fundraising for the Daily storm for the
future oh well good for you
all right well let's talk a little bit
about Netroots nation sure you've been
coming to this for quiet no actions my
first year oh that's only my second year
I came because Sirius XM sent us here I
was very happy to come here to cover
this and meet a lot of progressive
activists some who were too hesitant to
talk I'm trying to do man on the street
thing I took like five people only one
would talk to me on radio Mike you're an
activist you're here but you wanna talk
about the issue have concerned to you so
it's kind of weird boys a lot energy
here yeah there is it seems like a lot
even more maybe then there was like I
said they expect more 3,500 people and
of course we've got half a dozen
candidates that are going to be here I
think on the Elizabeth Warren is going
to be here Kristen Gillibrand Julian
Castro jay Inslee then sherrod Brown is
gonna be here jeff merkley barbara Lee
Camilla jeyapaul will be here Jana
Presley Alana Omar Rasheeda Talib Deb
Halland
Eleanor Holmes Norton out Padilla then
there's some Secretary of State's Keith
I like the actor I mean to me I really
more interested in talking to activists
the elected officials know you you you
interview them I interview and that's
sort of normal they call Elaine but I
want to talk to the grassroots people
and see about there is often a
disconnect between this grassroots and I
don't wanna say lead dismissive approach
our ative way but the elite our party
and I think on impeachment you're seeing
it completely oh my god
so clearly where Nancy Pelosi is
building a more i or when people call my
show and they're angry at her as much of
they're angry at any republican at this
point
yeah it's remarkable what's going on
yeah it's nothing what's your sense I
mean why I mean I think that's
I sort of feel like that's going to be
the theme of most of my conversations
today because there really does seem to
be not just a reluctance to impeach
which I can understand the rationale for
that argument it's not an irrational
argument I think it's a bad one at this
point
and it gets worse every day but there
also seems to be just like a complete
allergy to finding anything out that's
wrong with the Trump ministration like
why don't you go for his taxes why
aren't you denouncing a costume I mean
what what what what's it gonna take
like Trump's tone when they're doing
traditional oversight they'll serve a
subpoena after first cordially trying to
invite them over which I guess I get the
way they do that for legally they lay
the groundwork for a lawsuit no Trump
says no to everything
everything's don't know you can't even
talk to testimony earlier this week that
they had over 200 objections to the
assistant Donna McGann you're getting
nothing decent an impeachment hearing
they did that that would be on national
TV and all of America would see the
Trump lawyers objecting 200 times
what do you make of Nancy Pelosi now
wanting to do any of this this is
ridiculous to me do the impeachment
inquiry it's simply that the Judiciary
Committee is formally votes and you have
the hearings and you have them over six
or eight months America would focus on
that they'd be calling on Pietschmann
inquiry at the end you know chairman
Adler and others can say here's our
foundings we have to do articles in
Pietschmann or here's our findings and
you know what it doesn't rise that but
not doing a Pietschmann inquiry to me is
unforgivable
and she's essentially putting her
speakership on the line for this because
if he were to win in 2020 and we don't
do she's got she's got to go oh you
gotta go you gotta go you gotta go
anyway yes I mean come on this is
ridiculous
what else anything else you've been a
health care thing I just wrote about it
for the Beast and we covered it
yesterday that you know that you have
trumpet
lying at his June kickoff in Orlando
last month saying I'm going to protect
prices and conditions meanwhile since
March his administration has been
federal appeals court arguing and they
wrote a brief in May which I went
through arguing to strike down the
entire ec3 part of it including copies
your freezing conditions no no joke
everything AC preconditions no more
coverage gone we just and we always just
mentioned that I know that was the case
of the Fifth Circuit that it appears
they're going to rule in a way that
everyone thought would be insane right
there's a rule and then you go to
sporting you hope for the best up there
there's Chief Justice Roberts and you
know there's two or three appointees and
that the Court of Appeals or GOP
appointees and the reporting is they
were very very questioning and not at
all on board with the idea of taking
away this mandate and not jeopardizing
the rest of the law because that
regulation severability right I mean
that's really what it would centers
around the ability to sever the mandate
from the rest and they're arguing that
it's not was not not intended to be
severed even though Congress
specifically had a crack at taking out
the whole law they didn't want to right
and the only thing that they were wanted
to do in terms of voting for it was the
get rid of the penalty for Amanda and to
remind people again this was all a trump
GOP contrived crisis because in the
cemetry thousand seventeen when they
voted for that tax cut this was embedded
in that and there are articles we could
look back at the time and I covered on
my show people warning them if you get
away you get rid of the mandate you're
going to destabilize the ACA and it
might destroy the whole scheme they
didn't care was about taxing up for the
donor base so they didn't care they took
that away so they created this crisis
and now for GOP appoint the judges are
the one-two punch is 28 G's and a
governor who a Republican fighting to
bring it down and now the judges are the
third punch and look like they're going
to do the job of getting rid of the ACA
for us completely nuts
all right well Dean Abba does I know you
got to go get your together
nice seeing you today
alright beautifu hi thanks alright folks
we're gonna take a quick break and play
an interview that I did with David daen
just moments ago we'll have other guests
as we sort of like look around the
beginning of the conference so in part
we're just throwing out a net seeing who
we can catch come and buy us as we're
sitting here in one part of the
conference but let's Matt are you good -
okay why don't you run that now
continuing our coverage here at Netroots
Netroots nation 2019 in Philadelphia
Pennsylvania
joining me is someone who I spoke to I
think at the very first wasn't called
Netroots nation at the time it was
called yearly COEs and that was in Las
Vegas that was up in a sky booth yes the
majority report was deal that there was
was the only radio row there was no
other radio there as far as I know
saying you are looking live we were
looking and of course it was that it's
in the evening and it was well that was
back in the day
David day and welcome back to the
program it's always a pleasure there's a
lot of stuff going on here I want to get
into the meta Netroots thing in a bit
but there's two things I want to talk to
you about and one that is an article
that is in the american prospect of
which you are the executive editor now
right prospect org and the other is
something that's going to be taking
place and I should just say we're
pre-taping this at almost 11 o'clock in
the morning because at noon there is a
protest and this is something that
Netroots has adopted in the past I think
like half a dozen years yeah they get
involved in the communities that they're
in there is
an issue around the corner from here
yeah involving a hospital you were
telling me a little bit of it last night
when I was doing my pre research a
tireless worker at a bar always always
always
hustling for you it's it's the like the
conversations at the bars I should say
you know surrounding Netroots is
probably some like the highest level
nerd than the nerdiest conversations
you'll ever hear at a bar um a great way
to scare away other people but yes okay
so there's a hospital this involves a
hedge funder and it's almost like well I
want to say it's a metaphor but it's
actually not even it's like it's just it
love sort of what's happening all across
the country we have a piece it's in it's
it's our feature story today at Prospect
org by Mike elk whose labor reporter
about this hospital it's called hanaman
University Hospital it's it's just steps
from here in Philadelphia and it's a
hundred and seventy one years old and
two years ago it was bought by a private
equity firm a guy named Joel Friedman
and it's paladin Health Care's the sort
of holding company that he use to
purchase this thing two years ago this
is a hospital that serves a very
low-income community over half of the
patients are on Medicaid another chunk
are on Medicare two-thirds of the
patients are black or Latino it serves a
very low-income community and there is
no reason for a private equity firm
that's for-profit to buy a hospital that
serves such a low-income community there
are lower reimbursement rates it's not a
money-making enterprise to be a
low-income serving Hospital usually if a
private equity firm or a for-profit firm
is gonna buy a hospital they're gonna
partner it with suburban hospitals ones
that can you know outpatient clinics
something that can earn them a lot of
money to keep you know sort of sub cross
subsidize the low-income hospital keep
it going paladin's entire portfolio
is urban low-income serving hospitals
that they have Howard University
Hospital in Washington DC they have for
low-income hospitals in the Los Angeles
and they have Hahnemann in Philadelphia
and these all these low-income hospitals
and here's the clue right you are are
again like these urban centers in big
cities big cities are gentrifying that
are improving the areas surrounding the
hospital so
newsflash here's what comes next so two
years after buying this hospital powered
and put Hahnemann into bankruptcy but
only the hospital not the underlying
real estate which is this very lucrative
real estate in what is called a gateway
community for gentrification and he is
selling the real estate to the highest
bidder it is very likely that what will
be built there are luxury condos or or
you know really lucrative a housing and
real estate to develop that and get rid
of this hospital that which has been
there for almost 200 years something
like this happened to st. Vincent's in
in in in New York City half a dozen
years ago but wait a second so let me
just walk me through how this works out
he buys the hospital it comes with the
property obviously and he puts no money
into the hospital invest in any
resources for the hospital he sets up
another entity LLC or an S corporate
whatever it is he sells the property
from the first entity which is the
hospitals in the process of doing this
but yes he splits you basically split
the company from the real estate and we
see this all the time and the hospital
pays a lease rent right it's called a
sale-leaseback
and we saw it with the marsh grocery
chain we saw it with Sears Sears did a
sale-leaseback deal where they put the
real estate into a separate entity and
then had the company we spoke about that
basically had a side business right
she's like oh I'm going to
the real estate owner for the Sears
company and I'm gonna built the hell out
of the company because I don't have as
much engine in the company as I do in
the real estate and the Sears properties
that he bought split off we're in very
lucrative areas like the one in
California and Los Angeles is in
downtown Santa Monica an incredibly
lucrative piece of real estate and
they're they they actually closed the
facility and it's it's you know Edward
Lampert's decision to close a Sears
right so he closes the facility
the real estate then goes into the hands
of this Serra tidge this extra company
and then they can develop it and so
they're developing that property by in
Santa Monica but this is a similar play
but it's the kind of the first time I
know st. Vincent's is similar but this
is the first time they a private equity
firm the first time that our experts
could figure out that a private equity
firm has sold off the real estate of a
hospital and if it works this is gonna
be a model not just for this guys stuff
in DC in LA but other firms will get the
message that oh I can buy an urban
hospital in a gentrifying area and then
sell it off after a few years for the
real estate and make billions of dollars
this is a really important story because
of what this signifies as a private
equity model to put profit over the
health of millions of Americans and then
I guess presumably they're going to be
looking for any other type of like major
institutional buildings that in
occasional facility or you know rules
and so that creates pressure to sort of
probably close some inner by the way the
2017 tax law that Trump passed is
actually you know the deductibility of
interest which is why private equity
uses this debt load model where they put
debt onto a company because because that
interest on the debt is deductible from
taxes it's a tax advantage so they in
the tax bill they limited the
deductibility of interest which
which cuts against private equity's
model however there's an exception for
real estate in that and big surprise
Trump puts an exception for real estate
in this model of deducting interest so
there is an incentive for private equity
firms to do these real estate plays now
in the tax code embedded in the tax code
and so there's even more reason not just
that it's lucrative but it's also a
great tax break for them alright and
folks can read more about this and that
you can read more about this in the
prospect in sort of as we speak I guess
okay there is a rally going on there
with members of net rotation and the
union of nurses that is fighting this
Bernie Sanders campaign has latched on
to this as an example of putting greed
and profits over health care
I believe Nina Turner will be there at
this rally and I've heard rumblings that
Bernie might show up as well so yeah
there's there's there's sort of an
action that's going on today around this
I'm gonna go down there and cover it
yeah I think we may actually send
Brandon down to with a video camera
maybe you can get a little bit of what's
going on there but and this is and the
idea I mean you know sort of turning
towards Netroots the idea for these type
of things is to draw attention to when
we were in Detroit which was six seven
years ago maybe maybe five years ago is
about the water she it was about the
water and that helped I think bring a
lot of attention and narrator in Arizona
they did a tour of one of Joe Arpaio's
camps I believe and so this you know
having a mass of activists just show up
at an event in a city you know any size
city but you know particularly one
that's not like a New York or in LA or
Chicago that makes news and then things
start to loosen up a little already been
an extremely controversial issue in
Philadelphia yet but there's there's you
know some sense that it's it's they're
fighting a losing battle but you know
bringing national attention to this I
think can help in possibly at least
delaying or for stalling this there are
other hospitals in the area there's
almost kind of a cluster of hospitals
around here but they're all
oversubscribed they already are full to
the gills right and you got hundreds of
patients thousands of patient visits
over the course of a year that now have
nowhere really to go and this is a very
low-income community that is served by
this hospital and I and I should say the
other you know part of that story
is that this is another example of
Sanders campaign going in I don't know
how it works frankly how well it works
and what implications it's going to have
for his candidacy but I mean I don't
think that we've seen a candidacy that
seems so focused on leveraging the value
they get as a candidate and the the
attention the attention they get in
leveraging that for things like Walmart
workers for something like this I have a
feeling there's been a half a dozen
other thing there has they've been using
their email lists it's a great model
it's really interesting and it speaks to
their whole not me us kind of frame this
year and you know they have sent out
warnings to communities around ice raids
using their email using their email
lists I was told last night that the
Sanders campaign has sent over 50
million texts already the entire 2016
campaign they sent around 80 million Wow
and we're a year out you know the end of
the campaign they are you know using it
as an organizing opportunity maybe even
to their detriment because you know I
mean campaigns are supposed to be
focused on getting a guy elected but
they are building a different model
right and if it's you know I think
they're defining success differently
you know they're defining success as can
we get improvements for these
communities while we have this spotlight
on us through the presidential campaign
the
the analog to me is sort of the social
justice unionism where you know we saw
like within the context of the Chicago
strikes and this happens a lot with
teachers unions where because they
already have such an intimate
relationship with a bigger part of the
community their students and they're in
the teachers I mean the parents they get
more involved in a wider range of issues
I mean frankly it would be great if all
of the campaign's were engaging in this
type of stuff using the media attention
they get right and and and ugly I mean
to the extent that they do a normal
campaign would put out a press release
saying I support right you know these
workers or even show up at a picket line
I mean we saw Biden do that we saw
Warren do that at the stop and shop up
in New England yeah but this takes it a
step further I mean this is real
organizing that's going on and and and
leveraging your your your most dedicated
volunteers and supporters to come out
and and and get engaged in issues and
policies well when I had Bernie on the
show a couple of weeks ago I had asked
like you know specifically thinking
about Obama for America which was an
organization that wasn't that was
organizing and mobilizing wasn't doing
necessarily this type of work but
everybody presumed it would right and
and he just shut it down and I asked
Bernie specifically like is this stuff
gonna is this campaign contingent right
and it was an emphatic no but so yeah
this is an interesting sort of twist and
it's going to be interesting to see how
that you know what the implications are
of that absolutely what I'd also like to
see and I'll probably have this
conversation with other people because I
want to get to some other things with
you is these candidates use that their
attention to implicate what's going on
in Congress because there's some real
problems I think that we're having right
now with Pelosi and Schumer but that may
be for another time yeah because I want
to talk to you also about
this story about Amazon yeah you've got
running in the prospect what tell us
about sure so I wrote a story yesterday
at the prospect about Amazon and and
specifically about this issue of forced
arbitration which I'm sure you've talked
about on the show these are the clauses
in consumer or employment contracts that
essentially block the courthouse door
they force people who have disputes into
an a private secret arbitration process
where the the company who uses this
process all the time and might have the
same arbiter it hasn't seen involve
conflict that they did with the rating
agencies with boys model they work more
for the companies than they work for you
as an individual and also you as an
individual if you have a dispute with a
as a customer you know for $50.00 over
getting ripped off on something you're
gonna pay a lawyer to go to this
privates process you can't do class
actions and and so I talked about in the
context of something that doesn't get
talked about a lot which is Amazon's
marketplace this is the third party
sellers that are on Amazon there are
over 2.5 million people on Amazon
selling their goods and sometimes it's
their own brands that they've come up
with sometimes they buy a bunch of stuff
at a discount store then resell it on
Amazon and all of them must sign this
arbitration clause as part of their
agreement of selling on Amazon and in an
employment context this is the largest
class the largest entity of people who
have signed an arbitration agreement
signed away their right to sue Amazon
for over any dispute and this creates
this weird Byzantine private government
basically that Amazon uses to govern its
marketplace and I talked about this in
detail in the piece but just as a short
version basically Amazon has has terms
and conditions that change all the time
you have you have to abide by them they
can suspend you at any time for any
reason you get an email in the middle of
the night you say your account suspended
you know it can be as much as one bad
review that you get from a customer it's
a very customer is always right kind of
place and if you are suspended you
obviously can't sue you you can go to
arbitration but that's a long shot
there's this weird appeals process that
Amazon has outsourced all the appeals
deciders to low-wage countries like
India or Costa Rica or wherever and the
people who read these appeals have to
read 17 of them an hour
so they're basically spending three
minutes on your appeal which is your
livelihood because when you're suspended
you can't sell anything right any money
that hasn't been remitted to you from
prior sales Amazon keeps Amazon keeps
your inventory Amazon can sell your
inventory if it's commingled with other
inventories that's like a a widget
that's the same as other people's widget
they can just sell your stuff you have
to pay to get your inventory back no
it's crazy it's absolutely crazy and the
Amazon Marketplace is a complete Wild
West where people write fake reviews
they have counterfeits all over the
place there are all these ways that that
rivals try to scheme do dirty tricks to
get you off of the marketplace and
Amazon is in charge of all of that and
you can't you know the laws the the
arbitration clause prevents you from
seeking article 1 courts to resolve any
of these disputes years ago we had an
Amazon link at one point they were
starting to shut down links like ours
the way that we were using it apparently
okay we got our shut down
I had a check from them for I don't know
was fifteen hundred bucks right went to
cash it bounced Wow
they had shut it down even they'd issue
a jack
this is indicative it seems to me of all
these major tech companies where they
don't want to have to hire human beings
right so they're gonna do it as much as
they can without they also don't want
liability so like they don't want to
proactively do anything they if you give
a complaint to them they'll they'll
clean it up but they don't want to have
to say well we intervened here
why didn't you intervene here and then
you your your your liability is
increased and of course the arbitration
clause just amps that up another level
because then they're insulated from any
kind of court lawsuits and they go
through this private secret process
where the law isn't really applied
uniformly it's it's a case-by-case basis
and I got to go in a couple minutes but
just to put a point on this like we
talked about the this arbitration thing
and there's some some working through
companies like Google just ended its
arbitration clause for sexual harassment
cases other workers are organizing
around these arbitration clauses but
this is a different animal these are 2.5
million people who are essentially in
competition with one another selling on
Amazon's marketplace and their rights
are being completely stripped by this
arbitration clause and they live in fear
essentially that Amazon's are no
recourse right can shut them down with
no recourse and so this I think is a
good way to talk about arbitration and
what it can really do to people I will
bring that up when we get to Vegas when
we talk to some of these tort lawyers
because they have a real problem with
with this with this type of Absolution
all right I know you only get two
minutes left
yes Netroots nation give me your two
minutes summary of how it's evolved now
it's early its early on is really going
here but what I've been told is that
this is the largest net roots nation
ever no 3,500 people will be at this
this weekend's event it's brought some
of us who's been here a while and then
sort of drifted away and this is my
first year back after two years who had
that conversation with with a with a
dozen people why do you
that is well it's in an election year
and I think you know having the
presidentials although there are only
going to be four candidates there right
i understanding so having them here i
think is part of it and part of it is
that it's easier to get here on the
Acela right it's part of it but i don't
know i for me this is my hometown I
wanted to come back for that reason
partially but also reconnecting with
this community which is you know bigger
it's more diverse it's got a bigger
issue sort of space right and I think it
is it does remain let me bounce
withholding credibility is an important
conference even though there are sort of
I think more distinct flavors of the
left the roots of this was built in
opposition to George Bush yes and I
think after a year or two now because I
felt like this was happening last year
was the first time I was back in five or
six years ago that the being in the
opposition party right being on the out
there's something that happens and you
know things there's a big there's a
thrust that everybody can sign on to
even if you have disparate agendas with
it and it's true that you know people
talk about like the one good thing about
Trump is he's activated this you know
people on the Left
people just on the broad left you know
left-of-centre to you know think about
themselves as activists and engage in
these issues in a broader way and you
know networks is certainly a part of
that always has been a part of that and
now you're seeing you know people from
the center people from you know the
institutional machinery get really you
know militant about these issues and so
I think Trump has has brought that to
the fore he did in 2018 we'll see what
happens in 2020 I think a lot of that is
being defined right now
by what is happening in Congress and
maybe we can talk about that another
and and sort of demobilizing the left in
some ways but you know that it's still
strong at least in a residual way right
here and we'll see how that goes David
and prospect org folks go and get a
subscription now please please do thank
you alright thanks the right ticket I I
have no doubt that our next guest who is
on my god Sean McCauley will be joining
us in a bit
very excited to but in the meantime it's
a lot of people don't know the ins and
outs of Rabia Dave waggles here with
some production tips
he's the political correspondent for
watching pose yeah there's they're a
bunch of us I'm the one who writes the
campaign newsletter the trailer trailer
yes I read that quite a bit actually
faux CIA was sign up and of course he
also back in the studio wanted me there
whispering about the CIA yeah we never
say it out loud
oh no I'm more into the NSA now that's
that's my global domination agenda yeah
that of my master tell him that I say
he's a he's a sellout michael
brooks says you're a sellout he was
upset that you've left the CIA for the
NSA that's right
so you're here in town and I want to
talk about I want to get super meta now
this obviously you're covering the
campaign we will undoubtedly get tips
from you or I should say dispatches from
you in the coming weeks and months but
again people should sign up for the
trailer they can do that over the
Washington Post site right and there if
you follow me on Twitter the pin tweet
gives you the link
yeah and but you've been coming to these
off and on for a decade yeah I wouldn't
say I didn't go to the 2006 one I wish I
had which is the first I have been
coming since 2007 I think I skipped
three or four of them but I've been to
most of them so there's 14 I think I've
been to eight of them yeah I think
that's more or less where I've been at -
although I was there in 2006 with the
the first radio thing I don't need to
type that too much the panels were
really big that year I saw they were
there remember there was like a plane I
don't remember cuz I wasn't there I saw
a video of the plane scandal panel was
like 12 people yes he's putting Joe will
there was yes well that was also a very
interesting era in terms of the the peak
power in some ways it seems to me of the
Netroots like Marcos who at that time I
think was yearly Coast was getting
invited to Washington to Democrats yeah
it's hard to imagine that now no so part
of it is victory right I mean the Howard
sorry Harry Reid's office became sort of
the daily Co Senate office because he
had fashioned cure he had our he had
like a team that was trained up on on
the net roots and didn't deliver
everything people wanted but basically
there I mean so much of the early net
roots was we got to get Bush out of
office that eventually happened right if
I think for people so so victim it's I
think it's a constant you get really
meadows it counts a question of is it
worth keeping this institution around
forever if the purpose isn't there and
never it's now is there is daily coast
is still going strong right there's a
mine on mate group blogs but basically
there's probably more words written by
Netroots attendees than ever because
everyone here is an activist and they're
on Twitter and they're on everyone seems
to have set up in I mean there there's a
lot more organizations here
than there are you know and that that
trend has been happening for four or
five years interesting this year I get
the sense that because because there is
I mean despite the fact it's sort of
like a wide range of the politics from
the center to the left here having a
president in opposition yeah sort of
changes the tenor of what's going on
here yeah I think it does it's easy to
imagine what it would have been like it
had Hillary Clinton become president
there was a lot of organized that went
on under Obama that was going to
continue but probably in a different
direction probably with less intensity
frankly would have had I think a similar
amount of left-wing organizing but not
as much liberal like resistance mom
organizing there wouldn't been
resistance I grass you wouldn't have as
many people coming on off silence and
some people I've met here actually
looking is that they're gonna be right
next to me which is good radio here
really it's their first time they're
called indivisible or they were involved
in swinging like a local state rep race
and they heard about this so it's it's
been refueled by a different kind of
movie but I think the movements actually
less left-wing than it would have been
had Trump lost the election because
there's so many more I guess the
Internet term message to my head is
normies have come into the movement yeah
right well I mean but the odd thing is
is that my sense during those years when
Obama was here is that to the extent
that things were co-opted a little bit
there was also people weren't as
comfortable with people agitating
against Obama yeah and I mean that's the
weird thing about the politics here like
it would be varied in stitute support
here I wouldn't call you know now like
you have you were at the Socialists
conference less institutional the but
there is crossover because you get
someone like AOC yeah who she was here
last year I believe she's not here this
year but the fighting partisan quality
that seems to be associated with the
more democratic socialists which back in
the Netroots day was just simply like
fight yeah like be like I think there
seems to be near unanimity here that
Nancy Pelosi is dropping the ball and
fashion you had more conversation so far
her than I have I've heard I guess when
people are in doubt they just focus on
2020 but there was a sense that he need
to do is just stop the Trump agenda I
think people who wanted his legislative
agenda be stopped are pretty happy but
you can be happy about something they
need realize the other problem you have
which is so I noticed I've seen this in
the left for years because impeaching
Trump would mean Frances president carry
on the agenda without the baggage I
think that was much impeachment momentum
but it's more not picking every fight
you can not making everything a slog for
Trump I think it's more that than more
than getting in my office I think it's
something they're allowed to roll how
come they do this thing and we hear
about it for two days and we don't hear
about again because and I'm the way I'm
using now is like the crowd and never it
says we had to watch Republicans make
Benghazi a thing for three years how
computers are dropping everything
exactly yeah or just like in letting and
not engaging like the idea that you have
no comment yeah on Alex Acosta seriously
yeah like what like what the you don't
want the taxes you could get them from
New York Richard Neal but you're going
to take the taxes the debt the New York
thing I think is in progress right the
New York tax case is like is actually
kind of moving I'm not moving slower no
but but Cuomo signed a bill that said
that Richard Neal could have Donald
Trump's New York state taxes yeah and
Neil said I don't want them yeah why ya
know it
I haven't again has many conversations
here I think once I once I mill around
more that's gonna be the anger it's
because it's a
Pelosi says she wants Trump to lose and
everyone here wants Trump to lose and
there's confusion about what her what
her path is because it seems to be as
somebody who's look her life is making
sure that 30 guys in Trump distance were
reelected her life is haste around those
guys the those districts are actually
more conservative than what you need to
do win the presidency and also she
doesn't seem to be shifting the terms of
debate in a way that the new members of
the House had been I mean I think ever
of the squad that we talked about of
Ayanna Presley received Lee bill and
Omar after Alexander cups of Cortes who
all of whom were pretty different he's
the only one who's never served and left
office for now three of them are here
and I don't the fights they have picked
up the ideas they have got people
disgust I think I've been more exciting
than what what blows he's done when
Pelosi has done sent this please left
it's something that the left demanded
five years ago they thought it was too
crazy right like $15 minimum wage for
things like that well you know you look
at some of Mike Katey Porter yeah who on
paper should be one of those Democrats
that Nancy Pelosi is worried about right
I mean she's in you would know this
better than I would but she seems to me
to be in a more or less like purple
district yes and that a businessman
could come running who was like maybe
somewhat arm's length from joy from
Donald Trump but on board with probably
the entire agenda just not how rude
Donald Trump is and she should be in
trouble yet she's outraged just about
every other can like how does not why
why is she so unique in Nancy Pelosi's
mind that that the recipe for Katie
Porter who came out for impeachment
doesn't work for the rest of those
vulnerable Democrats the thing is a lot
of them are raising a ton of money a lot
of the front line members as they call
the majority makers actually have raised
a ton of money I mean I think I noticed
that one of the Republican recruits
raised $500,000 people said they put it
on the on the board but it was Tom
Malinowski who you've not heard a ton
about since he got elected in New Jersey
who's you know I he came out for
impeachment but in kind of sorrowful way
he's been raising half a million dollars
a quarter so all these guys been raising
money the idea that they're going to
lose it's just they're the perpetual
hand-wringing I think is what frustrates
people here right it is this that before
Democrats take any action the sense is
that they imagine how they're gonna lose
they don't imagine the win and it's it's
very Starkey compared to trump who picks
and loses a ton of fights but he picks
them and through the picking of them has
excited his voters enough that Democrats
complete the loop are always worried
about right right there they're not
worried about them the only hit the hell
only hesitation I think might be legit
is it turns out that and Republicans
emphasize this too because they had
interest in doing that so that if you
make can backfire there was some
backfire from the Brett Kavanaugh thing
and I'm not sure if moved any Senate
vote any Senate vote Senate race votes
but it did excite Republicans more it
turns out but terms that Republicans are
excited if they fight about if they
fight for things right and they're
Democrat responses well they're excited
if we fight for things so we're not
going to let us just play dead we're
going to come over aside by not fighting
as much yeah alright so let me go
through the list the people who are here
and we'll get your this is getting a
little meta but it's interesting to see
particularly in the context of a of a
presidential election and in terms of of
just where where who needs these people
and and what they're looking for
Elizabeth Warren is going to be here
she's had longtime supported in Netroots
Kristin Gillibrand is going to be here
Julian Castro jay Inslee then that's it
you have sherrod Brown jeff merkley
barbara Lee Pramila jeyapaul Ayanna
Presley Ilan Omar proceeded to lead and
Deb Holland
Eleanor Holmes Norton and that's it for
electeds at least you know federal
positions what do you make of like I
don't know numbers 10 through 20 on the
debate stage is not being here well I
know that the organizers here didn't
want to invite everybody on the debate
stages and they don't want to get too
personal but there are people who might
have gotten the OK reception here or as
Taylor to speech that did pretty well
here and they're like we don't want to
look it's a presidential forum it's not
a debate we need to give everybody like
30 minutes do we really want to make
this a 7-hour thing there there has been
some surprise so bill bradley didn't I
mean uphill Bradley excuse me de Blasio
did not get an invite going to Iowans
dead but with you know even with that in
mind like I think they're surprised that
Booker and Harris did not adjust their
schedules to be here it's not that hard
to get to Philadelphia I mean do you
want to fly out as soon as you're done
you can you can come anywhere and buy
and they were both here last year and
they were both that's the era thing
there but here last year Joe Biden was
here as vice president Bernie was here
as a candidate for president people
judge has never been here but would have
gotten a fine reception and most of
those people decide not to come of the
people if you look at the fundraising
which is now the bet it is a pretty good
yardstick especially because grassroots
fundraising has kept people and keep
that contention the fundraising of the
top 5 candidates one is here which is
Warren and so from a media perspective I
think we'll see more people on Saturday
I think but it the average cattle call
put on by Planned Parenthood gets 19
people in this guy four which is strange
it's here like the Leno and they're all
here and they're all like part of the
coalition wants to hear from the
candidates what do you think that's
about
I mean is is it that people perceive the
candidates perceive a danger in coming
here yeah
there are not many events like this
where there's a risk of being booed
I've even seen evil take Viet forums
where they're not getting a great
reception but there's nothing that would
be used again look there's nothing that
would become a TV clip of them getting
heckled and there's frustration with how
Netroots does not I mean there's the
reason it doesn't sense everything off
but it doesn't prevent people from kind
of busting in and saying how annoyed
they are right I mean we had that last
year not last year but twenty fifteen or
twenty twelve fifteen you had Bernie
also twenty-two and I was trying to
think of what the cause was and I don't
remember it was it was the very end of
the conference like really the very like
10 minutes from breaking from breaking
down the conference and there was a
protest of some kind I think it was just
generally not enough discussion about
black people's issues which is come up
several times that came up in st. Louis
that came up in New Orleans that this
was New Orleans so it was frustration
that there wasn't much and people were
confused they're like we that was half
the cops right numeira New Orleans is
here activists are part of it but if
you're a candidate you don't want your
guy to get to look bad on stage I don't
think there's any way Biden could have
come here and not look bad
I feel like Joe Biden is the only person
who could come here with a guaranteed
conference wide would be I think sort of
impatient with him let's get it that way
everybody else I feel like there would
be different there would be you know no
there would be no unanimity but there
wouldn't be I think like sort of a
general hostility maybe I'm projecting
that but that's the sense I get no I
think that's right and he didn't come in
2007 when they did the first candidate
for him so he's only been here in the
the vehicle of a vice president whose
time - how great the administration was
doing that's like that's the only time
he's been here before
Bernie has never I wasn't never gotten
over it and it's like it's doing but he
he's never fully embraced in that route
since coming here 2015 having protested
it interrupt him right which is again
strange he's had that happen before he
just kind of rolls with it but here he
took it personally and he doesn't like
that Marcos's
moderating
they don't say that if you ask the
campaign they say that there's a
sensitive reason they can't discuss
what's not here but you know be at he
would have gotten a fine reception I
think even the people who think that he
cost Hillary something wouldn't
demonstrate at all and if there's a
battery if there's a man reception who
cares right the stirring about once your
president even though all the problems
lie on you there's a whole security
force designed to make sure no one ever
gets to protest you near you hear
they're still you're still in the mix
and it could be approached you could be
protested and the fear people have about
looking I guess looking weak is strange
to me because that's part of the job and
the results of the Bernie heckling in
2015 was that he upped his engagement
with black lives matter the result of
Harry being his benefit yeah the result
of Harry Reid being interrupted in 2010
was no pressure put for marriage
equality I'm air quality was sort of
like the yeah that was where we first
saw the the intensity of the the
pressure there in fact it's marriage
equality I think Don't Ask Don't Tell at
that point too yep yeah well Dave waggle
it's always a pleasure I know there's a
lot of people around here or looking to
protest you yeah and they're waiting for
you to get up and and you know as well
and operatives as usual it's there's
there's so many cross currents you get
caught in but I will catch up with you
later
everybody was good to be on the show I
always appreciate it thank you so much
thank you every but he can't hear
you I wish you could hear me I know okay
and coming yes we're live right now
okay it's one all right well Jared yeah
we had to talk to Jack Oh grab another
chair we get another chair oh we live
like right now yes people can hear me
talking yes they can I got some problems
with Philly bike-share program although
you can't I know you can't get signed up
on to sign up for the Philly bike share
program very upset why is that I don't
it's like they want an address in
Philadelphia and I'm like I don't live
in can't you just make one up I suppose
I was thinking about using the Airbnb
address but what if that is like the
only time the address can be used and
the Airbnb Coast can get a bike chair
well I think that's part of the price
you pay if you part of the price you pay
if you're gonna be here be beat oh hold
on one second here let me get you I'm
sorry let me see your your okay julienne
noise cat also from data for progress
Julie I was just saying that this is why
the data for progress screen new deal
also has a public option for bike shares
programming yes okay now all right as is
that serious yeah oh all right
I'm sure sir part of the greeny deal
okay okay you know me emissions we
create with our cars you know what else
is bothering you deal I mean eating fake
meat to own conservatives that's right
every every beyond burger or impossible
burger you bite your teeth into you are
owning Donald Trump that they hate that
they do look it's we turn me into a
culture war it benefits us more
conservatives can't eat any more meat
humanely and progresses we could eat a
ton more fake mate all right let's do it
no this is I'm serious no I know you're
being serious yeah let me just properly
introduce you okay
Jesus God are you having Eric Levites on
- I don't know you always have them on
it's like constant
man it's like Shawn you know Sam has me
on so much more than more than you well
I mean he's he's he certainly follows
all the protocols Shawn McElwee of data
for progress and Julian noise cat data
for progress just for folks who don't
know before we get into the green New
Deal stuff sure etc etc just tell us
what data for progress is data for
progress is a think-tank for the next
generation of the Democratic Party fair
enough and you guys do a lot of data
yeah for progress for progress and you
show it up in all sorts of different
places these days so good so what is
this called Green New Deal thing alleged
alien take that Julian so the green New
Deal is a progressive climate policy
that aims to take on the twin crises of
climate and inequality that's the
elevator pitch it's about fighting
climate change and creating millions of
green jobs in the process we just go
down some of the bullet points of the
green new deal for people yeah sure I
mean so the the broad stroke is that the
green New Deal is a policy framework
that aims to take on a lot it's sort of
a policy built for this maximalist era
of politics that we find ourselves in it
addresses issues of economic and racial
injustice so for example there's a long
history of pipelines power plants toxic
waste dumps being sited in communities
of color the green New Deal aims to take
that on we also live obviously in an era
where unions are at one of their weakest
points in American history that last
time I checked it's about 6% of the
private sector is unionized the green
New Deal is a climate policy that aims
to empower unions and revive the labor
movement as a central part of our
functioning democracy it addresses of
course carbon pollution and greenhouse
gases but it also talks about Co
pollutants so not just the the things
that are heating the planet but also the
things that are giving
are our children asthma you know
polluting water all these sorts of
things and it also sort of aims to
create a more holistic vision for what
climate legislation and policy might
look like you know it includes things
like vision for for healthcare a vision
for job provisions it understands that
the way in which people experience
climate change is not by the amount of
carbon or parts per million in the
atmosphere or even the share of
renewables on the grid but in the
quality of their neighborhoods the jobs
that they're able to you know apply for
you know the schools that their kids go
to you know the sort of services that
they're able to you know get in in in
their communities it's all those sorts
of things so the the the legislation is
a recognition of the totality of our
life that is impacted by climate change
and it is also implicitly or I guess
explicitly saying that to address
climate change is going to take a lot
more than just cutting our emissions
because the amount that we have to cut
in terms of our emissions and what we're
gonna have to do to adapt to the
problems that were already baked into
the cake as it were are gonna require
like a reform across the board of our
existence it requires direct government
intervention in the economy you know we
have to fundamentally reekin sexualize
where we live how we live how we're
building buildings how are building
apartments how we're building
transportation like all that is
fundamentally has to change if we want
to address climate change and we also
have to ensure that people aren't left
behind when we build this new economy
and that's why green jobs and making
sure everyone has a job is such a
central part of climate change and
something we haven't talked enough about
and progressives haven't talked enough
about and Democrats haven't talked
enough about
so when you go out what is data for
progress do in terms of like bringing
this about me do you go out and do
polling that shows are you out there
trying to drive support for it I mean
what what what businesses of yours sure
so we do a lot of polling on the green
New Deal and we've done a lot of polling
sort of explaining sort of where the
green new deal is face having most
support and we found union members
really supportive but also the struggles
the Green Deal is having we've found in
our polling that most people hear
negative things from the media about the
green New Deal and this is not just Fox
people listening to any news source are
hearing more negative messaging about
the renew deal than they're hearing
positive messaging so we're identifying
those problems and then we're also
working for solutions we want to start
we have a lot of reports out there like
what a green New Deal can look like and
how do we have a green new deal that
includes racial justice and how does a
green new deal address transportation
and housing and we also work with
candidates to urge them to have more
ambitious platforms on the green New
Deal we talk with candidates like Inslee
and Warren and Sanders and push them to
have the most ambitious policies that
they can and show them polling and data
that having a more ambitious policy will
not hurt them but it'll actually benefit
them in the in the elections when you
say that it's not just Fox like how does
is it the hosts at MSNBC or CNN that are
saying you know like tripoli saying
green new deal with some measure
derision or is it simply that like
they're repeating the fact that nancy
pollute pelosi says the green new deal
is whatever some type of twitter
festival we've identified as our core
struggle is the sam cedar majority
report that is really where people are
getting the most negative messaging no I
think it is absolutely the fact that
Schumer and Pelosi and large swaths of
the Democratic establishment have
decided to treat this with disdain and
so Republicans know they're supposed to
hate it but Democrats are being told by
leadership that this is something that
they should look into and see if they
have support
I would say also though that the I mean
there's a lot of studies on the lack of
coverage of climate change particularly
from cable news
so Media Matters for example did a study
a few months back of climate coverage on
all of the nightly sort of cable
programming and the sunday sunday shows
and they found that in 2018 actually
coverage of climate change like
decreased so I think it's both the sort
of disparaging comments you know Pelosi
going and calling the green new deal of
the green dream but also sort of an
inbuilt
bias against climate change coverage
from a lot of the major media networks
so the way you deal with that is just
get the major players who are amenable
in the Democratic Party to talk about it
to talk about it more or do you try and
find marginally you know marginal people
who may adopt it and may like who who
you targeting in particular it's just
like when you say warm plus Warren
Inslee and and Sanders or is it are
you've talked with Harris as well we'd
like to see written in Harris actually
mentioned the green new deal on the
debates I mean first off we'd like to
see more candidates specifically the
mentioning the green new deal we'd also
like to see more candidates adopting a
economic and inequality frame when
they're talking about climate change and
that is a victory for the Green New Deal
if we're sort of starting to talk about
racial justice we're trying to talk
about economic inequality when we talk
about climate change and we'd like to
see this discussed in democratic
primaries we have many members dan
Lipinski of the house is notable who do
not support the green new deal and they
are facing challengers like we renew
them in who do support the green new
deal and we are gonna have you know the
green new deals on the ballot in these
Democratic primaries and I'm confident
that members of Congress who are not
square the green new deal will either
get on board or they will lose their
seats
do you have a list of primary challenges
that you're looking at that you think
that my audience should be looking at of
course
I think Newman absolutely front of mine
I think Ritchie Neal what he's been
doing in terms of slow rolling
investigations into Trump's tax cuts and
making deals with the shady turbo tax
industry
I think he should absolutely face a
primary I just he have a challenger yeah
he well soon that's when I would hit my
breaking news story but I don't have it
I think Adam oka deco in New York is
gonna run a stellar race I think Henry
Cuellar he's facing a challenger from
the Justice Democrats I think absolutely
he's one of the worst Democrats in the
country he endorsed George Bush and I
think that eliot engel who represents a
an incredibly diverse district he's at a
support of the iraq war he constantly
attacks aoc in ohan Omar he opposes the
Iran deal and he has just been
incredibly hawkish on all aspects of
foreign policy he's slow rolled attempts
to get the u.s. out of out of war with
Yemen and I think that I think he's
already facing a primary challenger also
from the Justice Democrats Jamal Doman
let me ask you this when when you see
what's going on with Nancy Pelosi and I
should also say I want to make it clear
Richard Neal's in the first District of
Massachusetts I am NOT eligible even if
I was to go back to Worcester
now Richard Neal was born in Worcester
so I don't why a rumor started I'm
all-in against Schumer in 2022 or so
people are hoping but is there a number
that when you look at let's say what
Nancy Pelosi is doing right now and the
best I'd be like the most generous
perspective I can have on Nancy Pelosi
right now is that
the cheese trying to protect you know
these purple districts even though Katie
Porter you know came out for impeachment
and she's doing great it seems she's
trying to protect these these districts
and they have more of a sway over her
her caucus right like the the problem
solvers have too much leverage whatever
it is somehow it feels like no matter
how many members of the progressive
caucus there are sure the four who are
not have more power is there a number
that we need to get to in terms of like
progressive strength in the caucus or is
it if you have one can they hold the the
thing I'd like to see us have the same
number of progressive Democrats that are
members of the squad as the tea party
has members and I think that you know we
should be open to primaries against any
Democrat because they shouldn't be
afraid to come back to the district and
tell voters what they've done I mean I
think Jerry Nadler is a great guy I
think he's been a great Democrat for a
long time
but you know he could today send a
letter to the National Archives
demanding that they release all the
documentation from Brett Kavanaugh his
time in the White House and he hasn't
done that and so you know I think the
fact that he's facing a primary
challenger who's putting out $300,000 in
the first quarter of the race is a good
thing I think that it's you got to put
the screws to these incumbents you have
to put pressure on them and if they are
not afraid of primaries then they will
only look to the front line Dems they're
only gonna look to those districts and
you know Josh got himer is gonna rule
the day but if we have real progressive
energy coming out of these cities and
coming out of these progressive
districts I think that there's no
question that we can start winning more
of these fights within the caucus okay
so if I hear you correctly and this is
interesting because I had not ever heard
anybody articulate it this way
by putting pressure even on your allies
you are giving them an excuse to get
tougher and I mean this is the squeaky
wheel gets the the oil and the problem
is the squeaky wheel has just been those
so called frontline damage the ones who
are in the purple districts but if
everybody needs some oil essentially
because they've all got to start to
squeak a little bit if Jerry Nadler has
to go back to Nancy Pelosi and say if I
don't do this I'm gonna lose and so if
you you know like why is my seat any
less valuable to you then so-and-so see
now that may not work be quite as
effective if Jerry Nadler x' challenger
is a guaranteed democratic seat on some
level right but Gerald now but Jerry
knowledge is gonna be like I don't care
if I'm as important to you Nancy Pelosi
I gotta make myself as important to my
voters so I got to start to bring them
stuff then this is gonna be one of those
stuff and that's the theory there
absolutely and you know it's not that
Jerry Nadler is of no use to Nancy
Pelosi I mean one of the under-told
stories of this cycle so far is that
these freshmen Democrats like AOC are
putting up huge numbers and fundraising
because they're exciting the base their
exciting small-dollar donors to give at
a time when fewer and fewer people are
interested in supporting you know these
these Blue Dogs people are excited about
candidates like AOC and that that
provides money to the party that's
interesting do you think that that
message is getting out I mean the
d-triple-c still blacklisting anyone who
works at the primary challenger but you
know at the same time it's not working
Murray Newman raised 150,000 in the same
quarter last year this year she put up
330 she's raising twice as much as she
did last cycle and that is in spite of
the fact that the d-triple-c is trying
to kneecap anyone who helps her
thrombosis may be out of a job soon I do
think that she
I think that this will look very bad for
her I think that she is putting a
Herculean effort to protect homophobes
bigots and anti choices of all stripes
and she's not gonna just lose her soul
she's gonna lose her career along with
it I love it I love that kind of talk to
me Sean McElwee yeah you know if it
wasn't for the fact that Eric Levitz
delivers those lines that much better
you'd be on come on what is he giving
you that I cannot provide just take it
easy take it easy
Sean McCauley Julien thank you so much
for joining us you coming to my happy
hour I will come to your happy hour
absolutely great well you got that star
appeal will you where is it tonight it's
tonight yeah Frankie Bradley's okay one
o'clock
sunrise is going to be the text we don't
know the lovely listeners your show can
come as well I assume no fascists are
listening no no fastest listening but I
won't remember where it's at so it's me
with the info where can people get more
information and data from progress in
support the think tank like did it have
like you can get do you have like having
a like an annotated version of the
Congress to Shenzhen see of all of our
wonderful memes on Twitter at data
progress you can go to data for progress
org and you can follow Julian noise
Scott J noise cat on Twitter and but I
mean don't you have like some type of
program where people can become like
it's like the Heritage Foundation like
you can buy our supporters are sort of
pay pigs we give them nothing they just
give us the money all right and that
allows the operation well think about
the whole Constitution thing I don't
think about it annotated Constitution I
like it will you will you submit some
annotations absolutely all right let's
do it
just write in the margin like you gotta
be kidding me about this
all right folks thank you again guys
absolutely
let me just turn down the levels here
it's getting a little bit a little bit
loud around here folks let me just also
since we've been a little bit meta
apologize we wanted to have a little bit
more of I I'm very happy with the guests
we've had I want to have a little bit
more of a diverse group of folks here
and variably you know some people cancel
or some people have scheduling
difficulties and it just worked out that
we've had basically just a series of
guys mostly white guys and I want to
apologize for that we're we're working
at tomorrow I think we'll be doing a
little bit better on that but the timing
of the the conference we got here last
night we got to do this show first thing
and just we just have not had the
opportunity to go around to the to the
wide range of people so it's been a lot
of people who I just heard from
beforehand and to the extent that I had
other people that just scheduling works
out in weird ways so I want to just
apologize upfront for that I should
probably do the to do this post roll now
what do you think which I mean or we
could wait until the end we have got
about let's do a little bit of sound you
might want to wait to the end I'm yeah
okay
David Dan who was with us a little bit
earlier and yes Brendan I would love a
coffee
I think Brendan can tell that I'm Oh
Brendan you can't hear I would love a
coffee
I'm fading fast so day and has already
filed on the private equity hospital
closure in Philadelphia do you have the
video all set yeah we've got we've got
we're getting photo bombed can you see
this in the background oh that's a
positive photo that's a good photo bomb
yeah come on it I don't know who this is
who is this another Mike okay see again
nice to meet you
oh hello we go I just you be in
here I just had to I just had to show up
and say hello and you know show the
Philly support I appreciate y'all
covering Philly issues with David and
did you go to the protest I didn't go to
the protest now I should have though
well we do we have video of the
pre-loading now oh it's downloading now
okay we've uploaded the protest in and
so have you been to any existing
firstnet routes so I'm not actually at
Netroots see I just work downtown and
this is open to everyone okay so yeah
geez where's your security detail let's
get ugly folks well I appreciate your
the left is best ball it is you know I
don't think I'm gonna take this back to
work with me so you know I'm just gonna
leave it here give a parting shot for
the for the fans there we go love you
all all right thanks Fran it was good to
great see it was cool everybody says hi
back in the studio
everybody said hi all right he's just
walking out yeah there he goes job is
done
his job is done walking into the sunset
that is the best kind of fan interaction
to get in they give you compliments and
then they see themselves and your day
literally walking out the door alright
well look what we'll show some of the
footage from the the the protest in a
moment in the meantime let's take a look
at at this one of the things that we had
a problem with Barack Obama and this has
come up in the context of his
dismantling the Obama for America it was
indicative of it and it it is consistent
with what David Dane was talking about
in terms of Bernie's campaign leveraging
the assets they have their email lists
the attention that they get for running
for president and using that for really
for projects that are not necessarily
beneficial to the at least short term
maybe not even in the mid term to a
presidential campaign and that is
exercising power and pressure here is
Bernie Sanders on a Rachel Maddow is
program last night talking about what
he's gonna do to deal with Mitch
McConnell and you know look this is a
very obvious question in some respects
but nobody has given a satisfying answer
answer to this and this is when we talk
about what Bernie Sanders brings to a to
the presidency that other candidates
don't or haven't articulated I think
this is really what it comes down to
because I think you know you have you
know someone like Elizabeth Warren who I
think is obviously put in a lot of work
to developing plans and
and has a notion of what she wants to do
when these plans are good but someone
like Mitch McConnell is gonna be a
roadblock to this and the question is is
how do you make Mitch McConnell scared
here's Bernie Sanders on Rachel Maddow
if he is still there
what would you put on his plate first
what would you what would be your first
legislative priority before I put
anything on his plate I would be in the
state of Kentucky holding a rally with
tens of thousands of people to say to
what is in fact one of the poorest
states in this country a real struggling
state in Kentucky that we need to raise
the minimum wage a state which is really
suffering for lack of health care we're
gonna rally the American people in
Kentucky we're gonna rally the American
people in Mississippi we're gonna rally
the people in South Carolina to demand
that their representatives I know this
is a radical idea actually do what the
American people want the point that I
make over and over again Rachael is the
ideas that I talked about our ideas that
the American people want they don't get
it because you got a Congress indebted
to wealthy campaign contributors and by
the way whether you call it
it's excellent yeah I mean the the point
being and you know this is this dynamic
came up during the fight for the
Affordable Care Act for the public
option and folks in the Democratic Party
wanted Barack Obama to go to Joe
Lieberman state and to put pressure on
Joe Lieberman and he would not do it and
there has been like an allergy on the
part of Democratic largely Democratic
electeds and to certain extent those who
are just trying to run for election to
use the the the almost like the bully
pulpit and and to you and the idea of
rallying and organizing and mobilizing
people to play an outside inside game is
really what it comes down to and it is
it's almost inexplicable as to why
that's been the case because at the end
of the day for the Democratic Party to
be effective it's the only way it can be
and we have had this problem since the
union movement basically fell apart and
our union density just dropped
dramatically over the past 30 40 years
by you know 25 percentage points
we've lost the outside game well that's
Stephanie Mudge research yeah yeah I
mean the outside game is gone and the
the the only way it comes back is if
organizations that are forming on their
own on the outside are empowered by
those on the inside yeah and and you
know it's it's good that Bernie's
talking about that and mean it because
it really is
the the missing element of all of this
and and just as Sean McElwee was telling
us about Jerry Nadler you know like you
you put a primary against Jerry Nadler
not because he's a bad Democrat but
because there's things on the table that
he could be doing for his district that
he's not doing for his district and by
primary Jerry Nadler what you're really
doing in some ways is empowering him
because you are forcing him to use or at
the very least you are the catalyst for
him to use his power within the the
caucus because he can go to Nancy Pelosi
Lee Nancy Pelosi and legitimately say
hey I need this I need this as much as
you think that person in the marginal
that frontline Democrat needs it I need
this because if I don't get it
I'm in trouble and I'm not going down to
save that purple district Congress
person seat and and that's the dynamic
that we have to get into here is later
in that interview Rachel Maddow has
Bernie Sanders on and discussing the
dynamic we have the worst wealth
inequality and income inequality that
we've had in almost 100 years and so
here is Bernie describing why that
dynamic has has occurred there is a
reason why in the last thirty years the
top 1% have seen an increase in their
wealth of 21 trillion dollars while
wealth has gone down from the bottom
half why 500,000 people are sleeping out
on the street why we are the only major
country not to guarantee health care to
all people or parental leave or sick and
medical leave there is a reason and the
reason is and what this campaign is
about is finally saying that if you want
real change we need a political
revolution and what does that mean
it means we are going to have to take on
Wall Street and the insurance companies
and the drug companies and the fossil
fuel industry and the
military-industrial complex and the
prison industrial complex in other words
we can talk about all the great things
we want to do but at the end of the day
to understand why we are where we are
where the middle class is shrinking
where 40 million people living in
poverty we have to understand the
political reality of America and the
power structure of America we are
prepared to take those guys on and
that's why I say unapologetically I am
Not Afraid of those people they want to
condemn me you know the billionaires
want to condemn me that I'm an
existential threat for the Democratic
Party so be it we're gonna take them on
yes yeah I mean that's it's spot on I
don't I mean I don't know what he's left
on the table there nothing our enemies
they really quit well of course that's
that brilliant new move of the anti
endorsement page that they have on the
Sanders website now with all of the most
dangerous people in the country like
Haim Saban who we were talking about
yesterday and Ken Langone and all these
other oligarchic predators saying that
they hate him basically and of course
that's the ultimate endorsement I just
want to say really briefly I know the
next guest is there but the fact that he
keeps naming the military-industrial
complex is another big distinction that
stands out in terms of how he's framing
it and the Obama comparison is so
revealing because you need this sort of
outside agitation even for doing you
know Heritage Foundation healthcare
policies so you might as well go for
actual serious reform yep all right
joining me now in the conference hall
which apparently anybody can walk into
and you don't even have to be a member
of the convention and so therefore
Brendan you better better be on guard
because certainly our next guest would
attract the attention of the wrong
people in many instances Jared Holt from
the people for American Way but I think
people associate you with the right-wing
watch
welcome to now just tell people who
don't know what it is you do at the
right-wing wat oh man I am I assume the
role of like a crazed hyper fan of
right-wing media and just consume all
the worst stuff as as aggressively as I
can and then sort of analyze it through
a progressive lens and offer criticism
of it and do also some reporting on
extremist movements on the right
so you basically make it possible for us
to make a living on YouTube is what it
is right maybe it's a side effect all
right but so do do you have like a set
like do you just graze or do you have
like everyday you've got to watch this
guy that woman and this guy and this
network or how's it work I mean when I
first started doing this work I it was
very sort of regimented but as I've you
know I've been doing this work for like
three four ish years now so I will look
at the news of the day and sort of
knowing the landscape of right-wing
hackery I will sort of think and
identify people that I think will have
something interesting to say or at least
like at the very least funny to say so
you're not you're not like I want to go
check out what Glenn Beck is going to
say today but there's nobody down in the
next cubicle or who's gonna be like hey
whoa whoa whoa yeah and that is mine no
no okay
all right so you have the Opera
anytime ok well that's good so alright
let's talk about this then since you are
the expert on these lunatics there's a
some some type of summit going on today
the social media summit yeah all right
what what is that what's what's what's
happening so the Trump administration is
inviting in group it's not really
specified exactly how large it is but we
do know some people who have said
they've been invited it's big players in
the pro Trump social media scene so you
have everyone from Bill Mitchell who
does like periscope broadcast a couple
hundred thousand people each night and
tells them that queueing on is like good
for the Trump movement right and then
you have this guy he goes by the handle
carpe Noctem and he makes if you stay
dumped him donc them it's it's like a
play on carpe Noctem but it's like seize
the donkey instead seize the donkey yeah
so and if you've seen the president
tweet out those like superimpose like
super cut videos like old movies with
like politician space and post on them
and stuff he makes those super daunting
are paid dokdo dokdo okay alright so
what i'm saying is we've got some pretty
serious people showing up to the White
House today my understanding is that
there's a lot of there's a lot of
controversy about about his about his
the people he invited like he's not
invited some of the most virulent
anti-semites and that's upsetting a part
of his base and then
there's other people are embarrassed
that Bill Mitchell is there right yeah
it's causing quite a bit of stir even
like among the pro Trump movement you
have websites like gab who feel like
they should be in the room but they're
not you have people like Laura Loomer
who's just losing her mind that she
wasn't invited
is she not swimming hey give it a week
I'm sure we'll see some blog first come
out just like a casebook how she sued
Facebook how much do Facebook like to
the tune of like millions of dollars and
what based what is the it's the same
stuff man it's like I got kicked off I
can't make a living now and also
Facebook publicly said some mean things
about me okay I mean it's a I like to
call them lawsuits because they're just
gonna get laughed out of court but okay
there you go
but yeah so you've got this summit going
on here in the White House and it's not
really gonna they're gonna let in press
pool to do a spray which for people who
don't know what that is that's like
anywhere from like a minute to three
minutes where press comes in they see
part of the meeting and you know they're
firing off the cameras getting a very
brief statement but for the most part
this meetings gonna be pretty secretive
which is not reassuring especially since
during the last election we saw social
media sort of gamed you know in favor of
this stuff but but what are these guys
like I presumably like what are they
going to say like look guys there's a
there's an account called you know
whatever is you know Joe Schmo and
retweet everything Joe Schmo says are
they going to go in there and they
basically saying cue non is real
obviously we can't let him I mean that's
this I mean we don't know I mean yeah we
don't know and unless you know one of
these folks that's been invited starts
talking a we have to assume they're
telling the truth and B it's just their
word against what nothing who would you
put alright so there they're going there
it's this weird crew of people and
really sadly devoid of any
full-on daily stormer people are gab
people like that which is real it's
upsetting to see that type of infighting
and really breaks your heart it does
break my heart what from your experience
who are the worst of the worst and and
you can define worst in any way you want
like when you but all like this sort of
the you're like a zookeeper in a way and
you're just you're going into the zoo
and seeing who's defecated on themselves
the most today oh yeah right I mean
that's the sort of like the metaphor of
what your job is and but you're
fortunately you don't have to clean it
up you just just take a picture right so
who is who is the worst who's the one
that defecates on themselves the most in
the zoo oh man I'll split into two like
most nefarious and then also just like
the saddest okay I think Vinnie Johnson
from he's at TV USA now disgraced
plagiarist and like his claim to fame
now as posting like Lindsey Graham
harambe memes or something like that but
we did that guy he's like a comedian
right Vinnie Johnson
Benny Johnson would you which guy was
that man I mean okay he does jokes yeah
he does jokes are TPS yeah real jokes
guy yeah but I just absolutely cringe
man it's a but as far as most nefarious
there's this guy he's existed in the
right for like the better part of a
decade is like this professional scam
artist he's very nefarious he has some
very close connections with some really
insidious parts of the right
his name's Ali Akbar he goes by Ali
Alexander now but he's kind of like the
the grease between the gears between
sort of the mainstream we love Trump and
that sort of as deep as it goes and then
also more nefarious figures like Chuck
Johnson or like white nationalist like
Nick Fuentes and sort of lubricating
that space in between interesting
I don't we don't those names do not come
up that much on their on our show I have
to say those guys yeah I mean their
names that if you're not deep in this
stuff they probably they're not
household names by any stretch and so
what so what are you what is your
mission I mean like went like like why
do you have to know who these guys are
what are like how is that helping well I
mean I think we're seeing like these
figures they are sort of outliers but
you know they're getting mainstreamed
into the GOP at large I mean the fact
that these guys half of who you know
nobody in this country walking down the
street if you stop them would know who
they are right are getting White House
invitations I think that's something you
know that should raise a red flag or at
least some eyebrows so we do what we do
to try to get ahead of the curve and
identify figures identify rhetoric
identify movements that we think have
potential to sort of get gripped on to
if we see trends moving that way and we
try to just get archives and chronicle
the activities of stuff like that that
way when these people do go to the White
House there's some material that we can
look back to to understand who these
figures are there's some context as to
what what's going on it's just it's just
reporting and this is deep reporting in
the sort of the I mean in many respects
like I just want to say thank you for
doing what you're doing and apologize
that you have to do what you do and
follow like how do you follow a guy like
Bennie Johnson or the the guy from TP
USA or how do you follow ollie off by
just the the there writing online or are
they showing up on like what are the
outlets that you look at like it's there
are there ones out there that we don't
like own or WorldNetDaily or so like
Gateway pundit WorldNetDaily human
events just relaunched with sort of the
pro Trump's spin on it so looking at the
it's funding these things it's the
million dollar question
unfortunately because these are like
private entities we don't have a clear
window into that but I'd imagine it's
probably the same cast of characters we
see everywhere else coke Mercer Wilkes
right those type of families who funds
the blaze like see our TV like who was
the funding behind that I think that's
Wilks brothers
I think they've donated a pretty large
sum to them if I remember correctly they
tend to be sort of turned on to anything
that has a religious bent to it and
blaze TV definitely has had that
religion Western civilization type
flavor to their content interesting well
where can people follow your work on a
regular basis uh whose follow me on
Twitter at Jared L Holt I'm chronically
online as are all the people I track so
you know crack a joke here and there
what's the burnout rate for this I don't
know I'm kind of amazed I haven't hit it
yet but until I do until I smash into
that wall at full force you know I'll
keep doing what I'm doing what were you
doing before this like did you just walk
into this like blind or were you doing
stuff that you were like oh this I'm set
up to do this you know I was doing
reporting in Arkansas that's where I'm
from and I got the wise idea that I was
going to freelance and cover some
campaign stuff in 2014 and I covered
when Mark Pryor was challenged by Tom
cotton and that really opened my eyes
pretty wide Tom cotton at the time ran a
campaign that was just entirely I'm a
vet I'm not Obama my opponent is Obama
and he just decimated mark Pryor in the
polls so dad and just a bunch of like
weird little stories from the campaign
trail got me into it media markets not
great in Arkansas as you know local
media just isn't doing very well in this
country and even national media is kind
of hurting right now
so I moved to DC I was too scared to
move to New York you know coming from
Arkansas but but uh yeah I started
writing about what I knew best which was
Republican politics conservative media
Jared Holt thanks so much in time I have
appreciated what your Twitter a handle
in the podcast description today people
can check it out all right thanks for
having me so we're anticipating Sarah
Nelson joining us she is the president
of the association of flight attendants
and I spoke to her on on Ring of Fire
a while back and really looking forward
to talking to her I still believe that
her work was crucial and her Union was
crucial in terms of ending the
government shutdown while back and she's
running a little bit late do we know
when Brendan Brendan do you know when
she's coming when she's coming Oh 2:05
all right good so let's just do another
clip of sound oh we have the footage for
correct yep okay all right so let's play
some footage of and and Brendan maybe
you could tell me what we're watching
here we have footage from the protests
that took place out in front of the
hospital in Philadelphia
it's Hanneman hospital one hundred and
seventy one-year-old Hospital in
Philadelphia it is been subject to
basically a private equity millionaire
coming in buying it stripping it of its
assets selling off the land is what he
wants to do so closing the hospital
making health care out of reach for a
lot of
people who live in Philadelphia
low-income people obviously a loss of
jobs and this is one of those situations
of what stays in Philadelphia does what
happens in Philadelphia it's not gonna
stay in Philadelphia this guy already
has hospitals in LA in Chicago other
major cities and David Dayton was
talking to us about it earlier convinced
that it's going to become a model and
once it goes from hospitals it's going
to go to other institutions and it's
really going to end up selling off
institutions and services that service
low-income areas around the country and
selling it off for gentrification and
for for uh for apartments and whatnot so
let's play this clip we've been playing
some b-roll but I think we're gonna play
the nurses using president giving her
opening speech oh okay we're gonna do
that oh she's walking in now okay so all
right yeah play a little bit of this
speech and we'll have Sarah Nelson on in
just a sec our Medicaid and they are
losing their access to health care this
is the national health crisis and right
now it's a local health crisis
the causes are many but the purpose of
helps that healthcare should be about
healing instead and it has become about
making money not just for the wealthy
hedge funds like American academic but
for insurance companies and drug
companies to the private equity firm
that bought this hospital 18 months ago
wants to sell up his ounces and make a
lot of money doing it
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
we need to stop them if they win this
will be a stain on our city that will be
everlasting
where will the where will this end what
hospital will be next and how many
people have to die before we stop this
from happening ever again so there she
is and she was at the at this hospital
she's coming over here
right now and that's the way it works
here folks so exactly
all right so joining me now here in the
Netroots nation 2019 Sarah Nelson she is
the International the internet the
international president the association
of flight attendants CWA afl-cio Sarah
welcome thank you very much so we just
heard a clip of you at a speech I guess
it was it was right around the corner in
front of the house yes
oh that wasn't her oh sorry there was a
different person who was not yet but I'm
sure given the opportunity would have
made that speech I was rallying around
the corner all right so you and I have
spoken some time ago in the wake of the
government shutdown let's just go back
over that because I'm convinced that you
and your union really were the linchpin
of closing or ending that government
shutdown that I guess now six months ago
and so just let me walk us through a
little bit of that just in what happened
because there was a real sense that when
airports shut down that's when lawmakers
would pay attention and I felt like your
Union gave that a little push well we
definitely were very clear about what we
were willing to do but the truth of the
matter is that whenever there's a
government shutdown there is a strain on
safety and security in aviation because
aviation works in partnership with our
federal partners and we had
almost two million people out of work
overnight who do jobs in the federal
government both directly and contractors
and we had almost a hundred thousand
people who were forced to come to work
as essential employees but they didn't
have the kind of back in thing that they
normally have these are people that
normally work in offices or actually
even behind secured fences and the
American public don't usually get to see
who they are and ever since the days of
Ronald Reagan we've been vilifying these
people as nameless faceless bureaucrats
and so it took time for the federal
unions to get the stories out there
about the real people who were being
affected there and our union was working
very closely with them but as days went
on and on the redundancies and safety
and security that keep us safe an
aviation started to stretch very very
thin and frankly we were very aware that
we were living in a country where we
were allowing a federal government to
force people to come to work without pay
people who were facing a second paycheck
that they were going to miss go through
incredible hardships and we knew that we
had some power at the airports because
all members of Congress fly and this is
the nexus of all of our communities
across the United States is the backbone
of the American economy and airports are
where you get a lot of attention so we
were working very closely with our
federal partners but frankly this was
about the safety and security of our own
members whose lives were in danger
during this time because we didn't have
the kinds of systems in place that it
takes to run a safe and secure aviation
system so you know in your retelling of
that 90% of what you're just talking
about had nothing to do with your Union
in particular right I mean you're
talking about members of other unions
and whatnot and I and that type of
solidarity it seems to me is is sort of
where the Union sort of Union life has
come from but it's also feels like
that's where it's got ahead if there's
going to be more power to unions and
more power these people broadly speaking
well look I want to be really clear that
this did directly affect our members and
we weren't going without a paycheck we
were still going to work but
we have to understand is that what we
were saying is if they can't do their
job we can't do our job and we're
connected and in this country we're
connected more than we ever think about
it you know if those planes don't take
off mail doesn't get delivered truckers
don't get to load the packages that get
the goods and services to the
communities that we depend on we don't
get the medicines to the hospitals for
the nurses to treat the patients this is
all connected and we have to understand
that more clearly so we have to stand up
for each other and and do that on
purpose but unions also need to do a
better job of helping union members
understand how we're connected and
building this labor movement because
when we get down to six percent in the
private sector and ten percent across
the board we just don't have the kind of
ability to communicate with people like
we did when we had 40 percent and we had
much more political power we had much
more say and there was much more
equality in this country you know we
could talk about which kind of system is
best whether it's a socialism or
capitalism but today we live in a
capitalist society and at least when we
had 40 percent of workers in this
country unionized there was a check on
that capitalism and it put that check on
any quality in place so that there was
more shared with everyone around the
nation as you look around with like you
know we had a series of teachers strikes
over the past year and or two and in
areas where you know there weren't
technically unions I guess but there
were associations of folks are there
models that you're seeing out there in
terms of the way unions should operate
that you are trying to emulate or
implementing or have been or what well I
think first of all what we're seeing is
we're seeing a lot of women step up in
leadership and this is something new and
what we have to understand is that
we can win if we understand our power
and take West Virginia for example you
know this was mostly women lead
profession but all across the state as
every single County was determining
whether or not they were going to go out
on strike and grappling with that the
bus drivers told the teachers you know
what we're not gonna bring the kids to
school we've got your back and so it
takes that kind of solidarity and an
understanding that what we're fighting
for is for the whole community
that's what unions have to do unions
have to make space for people who have
been marginalized in many cases these
are people who don't lead with ego who
have creativity and who are gonna fight
hard because we've had to fight hard our
whole lives just to get to where we are
so I think that you know what we're
modeling right now is that union
membership is really about the American
worker and it's not necessarily who you
might think comes from central casting
this is anyone who works for a living in
this country can be can join a union can
have power by joining a union and it
means that if you're going to join a
union then you care about your community
and so that that's what we really have
to be modeling here that's what happened
in West Virginia and the rest of the
state was with them because they
understood that there were kids were
suffering and their communities were
suffering because businesses don't want
to bring their business to a community
that doesn't have good schools it's all
connected and the more that we allow the
the bondholders and the special interest
to take and take and take more from the
American public and create this greater
inequality the more that we're going to
see that the rubber band is breaking all
across the country and you're gonna see
people rising up in response to that but
we're only going to be able to sustain
that if we also at the same time
understand how we can sustain it and
that is by building the labor movement
so I mean are you articulating as sort
of the what they call the social justice
unionism or
I mean is that or I think that as long
as we think that our issues are unique
and economic issues are not also social
justice issues then we're gonna lose and
we have to understand that the way that
we win is by bringing people together so
racism sexism these are issues that
unions have to take on because these
have been the tactics of the boss no one
is born racist no one's born sexist
these are these are tools that are used
to divide and keep a few people in power
when the rest of us really have all the
power that we need to have just by
sticking our hands in our pockets and
telling the boss no so what are you guys
doing like what do you do as an
institution now to sort of pursue that
when it's not you're not in a position
to sort of like you know you're not
striking but what are you doing in the
meantime what does a union do in that
beyond the servicing of what the members
need at any given corner well I think
that there has to be a constant
organizing in the workplace because the
the good news is that there's no
shortage of struggles for labor there's
no shortage of issues for the American
worker and so if you are constantly
organizing and understanding what
members care about and you are
identifying those issues and and being
very focused about what the order is
that you're going to take them on
because you can't take on everything all
at once
but if you're constantly assessing where
members are what they care about
organizing them around that issue and
working for a result unions can actually
get results very very quickly and that
will encourage more people to get
involved you know a lot of people are
talking about it because these teachers
have gotten results within what it
appears to be a couple days what you
don't see is all the organizing that
happened before that to determine what
the issues were what kind of structure
tests they were doing to determine how
many people would support that and how
they could sustain a strike so there's a
lot of work that goes on in in the
background but what we have to
understand is when you do that work you
don't have to wait for the next election
to get results and most Americans would
tell you you're not even going to get
results in another election you can take
on these issues right in the workplace
gets results quickly and get people
energized around the fact that they
actually have
power right where they live and right
where they work to make change de
private unions have a greater national
agenda that your that that your you're
looking for you know we're entering into
a a presidential year are you guys how
engaged in that are is your Union
well our union is it just actually
completed a census of our Union to
determine who our members are today what
they care about and how we can be more
intentional about reaching out to make
sure that we have leadership that
represents every constituency of our
union we're getting ready to report out
on the results of that census and take
action on it and the other thing that we
did you guys endorsed will you endorse a
candidate in the primary we are going to
continue to talk with candidates and if
the candidates meet a certain set of
metrics and get into our workplace and
we get a response from our members on
who that they support and it's very
clear then we will but it will be based
on the action and the input from our
members and not a decision that we make
with a board at a high level
I see so a certain amount of your
members hit a threshold that's when you
guys endorse that's right and we're
going to actively engage with the with
the candidates but you know they're
coming to us they're coming to us and
asking us for endorsement we are not
seeking that out and so if they want to
work with us and they want to
communicate with our members what
they're ready to do to address the
issues that matter to our members we're
going to communicate that back and if we
get to a majority then we will endorse
Sarah Nelson international president
Association of flight attendants
thanks so much you're attentive thank
you alright folks
all right let's uh
oh you know we should do is we should
probably take this time right now to of
course
listen to Seb Korca who apparently has
sub Gorka apparently still has a radio
show and he is still trying to deal with
hostel collars oh look it is par for the
course it's just it's it should go
without saying that when you do a radio
show when you do any type of
presentation you're going to get you
know sometimes hostile calls you got to
learn to be able to handle it not have
it not have yourself look completely
breakdown if you handle them red you can
turn them into YouTube content and make
more money on top of them it's true
there's no reason to be so to get so
upset about these things but Seb Gorka
just can't seem to do not have a
meltdown let's play this thing three
three four six seven five two best part
of the show is you Jason Idaho line
three hey mister Gorka thank you for
taking my call excited love your love
your voice on the radio it's the radio
is meant for you sir that's very kind
you've got you've got some pipes itself
oh that's nice big nothing compared to
you I feel like if you're having a
debate with some liberal you could just
start talking and they'd start shaking
in their food yeah they usually end up
as little puddles on the floor but
thanks for calling Jason well it's
you've got 60 seconds share your wisdom
well I I my favorite magazine just did a
little feature on you saying you were
the top journalist of this year and I
was really excited and I wasn't sure if
you were aware of that yet
what is this that you are talking off
it's called that magazine oh
you're one of those this is the
definition of a coward I love it how
they lie
I'll talk to Jason offline this is
Sebastian vodka oh he's dropped off what
does that mean
what does that mean Jason that you
dropped off dunno I think it does mean
your little girl you're a sad little
coward
but you know what it's a great metric
when they actually spend their time
listening to this fro what does it mean
I love it I love it so much you know
I'll tell you something I don't know if
the caller was in fact the little girl
but I can tell you that if my daughter
was to do something like that the pride
I would feel would be inexplicable
skills would be incredible no little
girl should be silently modulate her
voice like that she's realizing she
sounded like a like a like a like a like
a like a like an I don't know a 30 year
old man yeah I would love in the sketch
version though like nothing bothers you
in fact of course if some idiot calls up
and says like we're going to debate the
idea of having a water treatment
facilities you're like great let's take
45 minutes and talk about this nonsense
but if somebody called up they're just
like Sam you were rated best progressive
talker by a magazine I read like oh
really branded did you know about this
yeah magazine deal I'll you
[Laughter]
face you coward coward you coward
I can't say it was not in fact a girl
that was a pranking Gorka that's that's
it was actually Chris James a Canadian
comedian and host of not even a show
which is currently my favorite YouTube
show but as a mom keeps nailing Gorka
over and Gorka wants the opportunity to
to keep him on the line so he can
threaten him you know that's what it is
totally yes and what I mean I frankly
keeping him on the line and in hearing
what Gorka would say would also be worth
while it seems to me yeah well last time
if you remember he did the thing where
he talked about how he had this liberal
sister that thought Gorkhas had looked
like he had bad breath and like was a
bootlicker
and you remember though you know it
would be really funny actually I can't
go into the whole do you remember when
your Kickstarter sucks guys they did
this whole elaborate prank where they
had a fake facebook post where they said
that their cousin owns a restaurant and
their cousin hated Trump voters so what
they were doing is that when Trump
voters came in and ordered a meal they
were putting the chicken or whatever
like the the meat on the floor before
they cooked it it was like the most
nonsensical like it but of course it was
written as if like so hey I got an uncle
that works for this restaurant right he
was telling me about this thing they do
to Trump voters where they put the
chicken on the floor before they said
right and of course like Trump voters
who read this not considering like how
would the restaurant know you mean you
put it on the floor like what are you
talking about but instead they called
and they got these enraged phone calls
that I remember the best one was this
guy's like I'm gonna report you to like
you know to some Health Authority and
the guy's like oh yeah that that would
be super unhelpful if you did that
because I mean we try to run a
restaurant here but actually it would be
funny if they did that with Chris James
has some relation to the York exert
sucks guys they are switched together I
think on the go off Kings I might be
getting on but I think correlation there
well good stuff
let's do just a couple more Clips a
sound and then we will begin to wrap
things up this is pretty important there
are there's talk that the the Fed is
going to drop rates again soon
and part of this is I mean there's
there's varying concerns going both ways
one of the fears is that in the event
that there is another financial crash a
crash excuse me that there won't be room
for the federal interest rate to drop
more which eases things by providing
more money into the economy right now I
think the Fed rate is like two and a
quarter and there's pressure for the Fed
chair to drop it not the least of which
because Donald Trump needs a little
boost to the economy and going into an
election here is a clip of aoc talking
to
chairman Powell about the relationship
between Fed rates and employment as you
know the Fed has a dual mandate and one
of them is to actually promote
employment in the country in addition to
maintaining a lid on inflation that's a
dual mandate that they have far too
often they have erred on the side of
keeping inflation low because that is
very beneficial for people who have
who have loaned out money and inflation
would cut away at the value of the
interest that they're making on those
loans and so the inflation hawks very
much about protecting the interests of
banks and loners and whatnot
I mean placing across the board is not
necessarily good for workers but
presumably as inflation goes so do wages
so really the big losers in inflation
tend to be people who own a lot of up
debt essentially and/or have offered a
lot of credit here is aoc questioning
powell on the presumptions that the Fed
have been operating under for I don't
know decades like the mainstream
economic thought and I've been seeing
lately that economists are increasingly
worried that the idea of a Phillips
curve that links unemployment and
inflation is no longer describing what
is happening in today's economy have you
been considering on that what are your
thoughts on that very much so we spend a
great deal of time on that the
connection between slack in the economy
or the level of unemployment and
inflation was very strong if you go back
50 years and it's gotten weaker and
weaker and weaker to the point where
it's it's it's a faint heartbeat that
you can hear now it's still there you
can see it at state level data and
things like that
but I think we really have learned
though that the economy can sustain much
lower unemployment than we thought
without troubling levels of inflation
and I think we I would look at today's
level of unemployment as well within the
range of potential estimates of
plausible estimates of what the natural
rate of unemployment is all right
Matt you got a raise audio levels for me
I couldn't really hear that too much but
the but the gist of it essentially is
that this presumption that we've been
living under for decades now is no
longer operative and this idea that
inflation may run amok
unless rates are raised there by sort of
slowing down the economy and hurting the
the employment has been inoperative and
frankly the economics profession has yet
to figure out I think this dynamic and
it's one more reason to be skeptical
about economics as some type of science
as opposed to a almost a reverse
engineering of some political decisions
and surely there's some there's some
economic principles that are real but
too often
we're simply told this is the way
economics works in fact what we're
hearing is this is a political decision
we're making and it generally benefits
people with money right so it's nice to
see a aoc up there of course she has no
idea what she's talking about right no
how is that program on the right going
where they're making her out to be like
a elementary school kid anybody could
come up with that question I I'm
actually not only the point about the
stupidity of that meme on the right but
I'm reminded of one of the earlier
points that the staffers for aoc and I
think Rasheeda to live we're making that
not that they they just have a lot more
time to prepare because they're not fund
raising constantly right yeah that's
cheating right
all right let's play this last clip and
then we're gonna wrap things up we're
not gonna gain calls or Iams today we'll
try and get to some time - tomorrow I'll
tell you guys about my time at commie
camp tomorrow definitely oh yeah we may
have to do that we may have to do even
that made way we'll have to pump that to
tomorrow but we're gonna do that for an
hour tomorrow ben shapiro apparently has
to weigh in on what's going on as you
know the women's soccer team has won
their fits is it to 5th I thought was
the fourth right with the fourth their
fourth World Cup and the star Rapinoe I
don't even know her first name Megan
Megan Rapinoe in fact our own former
Booker Jess mably got like a picture
with for her kid anyways but
nevertheless Megan Rapinoe has been
outspoken in their critique of doll
Trump and outspoken in their desire to
be outspoken and apparently this is
really really bothering those on the
right here is Ben Shapiro
famed soccer critic you're saying
capitalism can actually increase your
pay and that's never gonna be a thing
that anyone on the left has instead we
all have to pretend that this is that
this is all normal and that it's not
divisive at all and that truly she's a
hero to everyone absolute absolute
silliness absolute silence and bad for
the country by the way even the stuff
that we take a break with you know
sporting is turned into this it's pretty
obnoxious and we're not talking about
1968 in the middle of the civil rights
movement with with us sprinters on the
u.s. national team at the Olympics
raising the black power fist because
American politics are polarized around
race in 68 we're not talking about that
we're talking about gay marriage is
legal across the United States by
Supreme Court dick tot Sheree what
rights in size 68 exactly
yeah if this was 1968 and any of those
athletes are raising the black power
sign at the Olympics he would have the
exact same thing this is the oldest game
in the world they play look I'm telling
you
whenever whoever is the next Democratic
president I don't care if it's Joe Biden
I don't care if it's Amy Klobuchar I
don't care if it's I don't care if it's
AOC or Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth
Warren or or you know PJs I'm man J it
doesn't matter they're all gonna say
that that person is a full-on commie
socialist and why can't they be
reasonable like Obama and also that
that's the that's their that's the way
they go back I'm gonna pretend like I
wouldn't have or didn't critique
Democratic figures in the past in the
exact same way and now you look at that
is so reasonable back then and now
they're they're just crazy but let's
let's continue he's he is upset that of
course the women's soccer team is
insisting upon getting paid a fair wage
for the same job that they do and it's
just such a shame for him that he can't
even watch can you watch soccer anymore
without it being politicized like these
people want their rights they want to be
able to get paid what other people get
paid well I can't you just play dance
monkey dance is what he's begging we're
not talking about that we're talking
about gay marriage is legal across the
United States by Supreme Court dick Todd
you're talking about Megan Rapinoe is
getting million dollar contracts
specifically because of her sexuality
and because she is a very very good
soccer player but let's not make any
mistake if you were a very good soccer
player and she were not a very outspoken
lesbian she would be getting fewer
contracts because she's seen as a
political figure she's sort of Colin
Kaepernick but with actual talent at her
sport so it's all of this is obnoxious
but we're supposed to pretend that
actually she's quite charming and
wonderful that it is not obnoxious to
live in the most to live in the best
time for women and best time for
lesbians and
best time for women's soccer in the
history of the world and in the best
country in the history of the world for
any of those things we're supposed to
pretend that actually she's a victim in
America's a terrible place so that she
can make more money presumably pretty
gross
pretty grounds I don't know that America
has ever been the best foresaw I don't
know that Colin Kapernick is an
outspoken lesbian ya know Colin
Kaepernick is an outspoken lesbian that
was actually was so his his argument is
that if she was a an outspoken straight
woman she wouldn't get as many contracts
I get probably actually if she was
running around saying straight power
no marriage equality yet actually
probably well that's right
that's just because we're like we have
culturally evolved right yes that would
actually be a problem Ben says something
early on where he's like she doesn't
want to be a role model to she's being a
role model to everybody he's like no
she's not she's not trying to be a role
model to like nasty little bigots like
yourself and she's trying to be a role
model for like people who want to see
this country progress yeah I don't even
know I mean she's I also just think like
I find it so there's something so
twerpish about both people who reject
sports because they have like some
attitude about athletics in general and
then people like Shapiro who are like
this is where we look this is where we
get our entertainment this is where we
tune out like this very like we're like
politics and sports have always been
connected what are you talking about
it's it's one of the biggest cultural
forces in our lives it overlaps with
politics everywhere there's soccer
violence across Europe there's clubs
that are associated with different
political teams its effects I mean even
the fist thing that he mentioned hurt
those guys careers for decades including
the Australian guy up there on stage she
was in solidarity with them couldn't he
had a totally destroyed career too I
mean what is he talking about yeah he
might want sports to be a realm that's
insulated from politics but guess what
facts don't care about your feelings Ben
that's right on top of what he also
doesn't care about facts being about
politics and sports commingling
because he just doesn't want politics
that disagree with his politics mingling
right like you know a lawsuit I'm like
what was uh what was John Rocker like I
mean like yeah like I'm sure he was not
out there criticizing Tim Tim oh oh my
god and and and how often like why do we
have to have religion go mingle with our
sports well he would you would say like
being pro-life isn't isn't a political
statement right right yeah here's the
thing
why is Russian religion but but here's
the fact is that politics is infused
with just about every single thing we do
in society and everything we do every
choice that we make every choice that is
made for us every context in which we
make those choices in some way is a
function of politics and the reason why
a guy like Shapiro wants you to didn't
want this to be denied and wants it to
be sort of like verb ought and to bring
up these issues is because they have
gotten away with subjugating various
people in the context of this stuff by
by just the front lawn defense has been
like don't make this political don't
make this about your I mean this is this
is the extension of the IDW to in some
ways right because this is what they're
saying is like look we resent the fact
that you now are asserting your right to
be offended by stuff that we've gotten
away with our whole lives in careers and
we resent the fact that we now have to
address this like you're taking us out
of our comfort zone and we have a right
to be comfortable because we've always
been comfortable and the fact that you
have actually been always uncomfortable
and are now finally in a position in
terms of society to be able to speak up
and say hey this is making me
uncomfortable like I don't like this
that is what they resent and and that is
the entire like sort of like a political
project of the IDW and it is
it's why they're just squawking so much
I mean that's just the bottom line I
mean they you know that that that's it
yeah a lot going on there but anyways a
great idea great ideas great ideas
alright folks that's all the time that
we have for this program I will be back
here in this space tomorrow
literally in this space in the Netroots
nation Hall in Philadelphia we'll have
more great folks to talk to and and I
won't forget the post roll in fact I
have it right before I go this episode
was brought to you by blanket the blinka
stap takes the key takeaways from
thousands of best-selling non-fiction
books and condenses them down into just
15 minutes for you to read or listen to
10 million people are using blankets
right now it has a massive and growing
library himself helped to business to
help and history books folks you don't
have time to read I'm sorry
it's not my fault it's just the reality
right now you can get 25 percent off
your first year at blink accom slash
majority that's blink esc' comm slash
majority check it out alright folks also
reminder your support makes this show
possible you can become a member I
joined the majority report calm I guess
it's a freebie free be free be free be
Thursday free be Thursday alright see
you tomorrow
to get to where I want
no son
I just got
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid for
the rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
the teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
