[Music]
with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday November 7th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
national political correspondent for The
Washington Post
Dave Wagler will be here too well maybe
not totally wrap up the midterm
elections we still have significant
amount of results to come in
but at the very least we can say the
Democrats have taken the house with at
least 222 members of Congress that
represents 29 flips there was one on the
Republican side there are still several
races not yet called meanwhile Democrats
lose in the Senate for Democratic seats
flip to Republicans one Democratic one
Republicans seat flips to Democrats
still waiting on at least two off the
top of my head well we could easily do
that math probably closer to three we
are waiting on but that will not
implicate the control of the Senate
meanwhile Democrats gained seven
governorships and flip six state houses
across the country big big news there
big wins and major gains for voting
rights in Florida in Michigan and
Maryland and Missouri we're seeing
redistricting changes so voting
suppression may have one may have
carried the day in a couple of states
last night but institutionally it lost
last night meanwhile California says
we're okay with that gas tax and New
York finally goes all blue and down down
ballot goes fully progressive meanwhile
Democrats prepare to issue subpoenas
from about more committees than you
could probably count to hanbok your
hands and feet millions to get Medicaid
both via referendum and some changes in
state houses and lastly the United
States Congress now has more women
representing Americans ever than any
other time in the history of the country
in additional additionally some first
Native American women Congress people
Muslim Congress people and Democratic
socialists people and the youngest of
all congressional can I guess Congress
people now from New York all this and
more on today's program let me just
start you know there was going into last
night's election there was a tremendous
emotional investment that and you know
this is I think this is typical human
nature right you
you create expectations you perceive
those expectations are going to be met
and then you develop greater
expectations which really is I think
essential to human to human ambition and
to human progress you don't you don't
sit on your laurels you know a year ago
if somebody had said oh the Democrats
are gonna take back the house or two
years ago some Democrats to take back
the house with a twenty nine vote swing
I think people would have said okay the
great will take it that's fantastic but
of course what happens is you develop
more and more ambitious ambitions and
bado Rourke in Texas a state that has
not elected a Democratic Senate or even
a Democrat statewide I think in over a
quarter century people thought has a
chance and and and he did have a chance
but it was an uphill battle in Florida
highly unlikely that Andrew Gilliam
would have been the nominee never mind
winning it would have been nice if Bill
Nelson had left the house a little bit
during this campaign apparently couldn't
be bothered that one I think you know
we'll talk to Dave Weigel if he has a
sense of that race but Stacey Abrams
also a longshot if you had said to me a
year and a half ago the next governor of
Georgia will be an african-american
woman I would have been like oh you're
wrong
and it's not over she may end up going
to a runoff
Andrew Gilliam the numbers are down to
like 15,000 last night late we got a
report from a voter in Florida who said
that the new
florida licenses did not scan from the
scanners at the election stations the
voting booths essentially and so he
anticipates there would have been a lot
of provisional ballots we don't know is
that is a lot 50,000 or is it like three
thousand we just don't know but but
assuming assuming for the moment that we
have not that Andrew Gilliam did not win
we still guys like Scott Walker bye-bye
Kris Kobach bye-bye
Colorado flips we saw governors in New
Mexico in Maine Illinois Michigan
I mean contemplate what what are the
states that Donald Trump won that he
shouldn't have won to win the election
Pennsylvania Wisconsin in Michigan and
if you don't think having a Democratic
governor in Wisconsin is not worth
eleven thousand votes in a presidential
election just in terms of resources I
don't think you know much about politics
with all due respect to whoever you are
that I just said that to so same in
Michigan 7,000 votes the resources that
come from a governorship never mind the
fact that would also passed in Michigan
was a wholesale election reform in terms
of voting you get I think registration
by mail let me let me get the list of
stuff here but I mean it's big stuff
really big reforms for Michigan and this
is a state that is practiced a certain
amount of
a certain amount of voter suppression as
well we could see things improve in
Wisconsin in that womb and that way let
me pull this out here in Maryland
same-day voter registration passes could
bring about 7% of the voting age
population in Maryland on to the rolls
according to to research Missouri and
Arkansas raise their minimum wages I
can't find all my list of all the things
in Michigan but we'll get there but
significant significant here it is
automatic voter registration same-day
registration post-election audits no
excuse absentee voting you don't have to
justify in New York you have to be out
of County straight ticket voting
protections for military and overseas
voters this is big election reform and
we've seen that across the country in
Florida 1.5 million people are going to
get the opportunity to vote Andrew
Gilliam is down by 15 or 10,000 votes
and I don't know I don't know how many
of those people felons are going to take
the opportunity to vote now that they've
got it and I don't know how many of them
are gonna vote Democratic but I would be
awful shocked at the end of the day if
that number didn't didn't constitute a
10 to 15 thousand votes wing so there's
a lot of stuff that happened yesterday
that was extremely positive and not the
least of which is the Democrats will
have the ability to both investigate
Donald Trump and what's going on at
these agencies they will have the
ability to slow the role of any type of
legislation obviously and
in these states you're gonna have the
ability to have some measure of control
over how redistricting happens and
having resources going into 2020 so it
would have been great if we were talking
about Governor Andrew Gilliam right now
it would be great if we were talking
about Governor Stacey Abrams or senator
bet O'Rourke or or frankly if we were
talking about the Democrats controlling
the Senate which I think you know
fortunately for everyone's emotions
nobody I think sort of embraced that in
the way that they embraced the
possibility of Andrew Gilliam and Stacey
Abrams and better O'Rourke and maybe 2/3
of those three or something to that
effect and the important thing now is
that all the new voters who were
activated the tremendous strength
exhibited by women in terms of coming
out and organizing that those people who
have entered into not just voting but
activism around politics not get
discouraged by this both because a it
shouldn't be discouraging the the
results you don't want to go out
necessarily and have a party about it
but these these results are no way
discouraging to have lost the house it
is almost unfathomable what a horror
show that would have been Medicare
Social Security you would have seen cuts
definitively without a doubt you
probably would have seen all of the
patient protections in the Affordable
Care Act completely gutted that's just
as a starter I'm sure there would have
been other Horrors but those are pretty
big ones right there so we have
protected social secur
we have protected Medicare and just
broadly speaking we'll also tell you
this we are looking at a much more
conservative Republican Party a much
more Trump ista Republican Party an a
more progressive Democratic Party those
two things are the truth you lost some
of the non Trump errs the never Trump
errs they didn't do much but maybe
they'll help
you'll hear Mitt Romney come up and say
something occasionally that was a very
gracious of the president now on the
Democratic side for what it's worth and
I'm not sure how much it is worth
anything frankly but you have a much
more progressive caucus I only Joe
Manchin at this point is the only
conservative left and so I'm not sure
what that's gonna mean frankly if they
will get more obstructionist to the
extent that they can but it is what it
is all right we're gonna take a quick
break in a moment although let's just
check in on this this was a pretty
stunning night last night our good
friend Steve douchey went to a bar in
Missouri cuz he was out trying to get a
feel for you know the average person so
he goes out to a bar in Missouri and
look at how he connects with the average
person it's really really touching when
he asked this woman why is she voting
for Claire McCaskill like I've said
before my husband my son's father Sean
Kraus passed away this summer because he
didn't have health care yeah and
he died because he was poor in America
and it happens more often than people
would like to believe and that was the
number one issue for you when when the
Democrats Brett and Martha were talking
about health care a couple of the people
here at the bar the Patton alley bar had
hit home and that's why they voted for
her of course Josh Hollies people are
waiting for the results just about a
mile from where we're standing right now
all right back to you all in New York
all right I'm at the pub have fun at the
pub Wow can you imagine having someone
tell you that their husband died because
they didn't have enough money to have
health insurance because they were poor
in America and you going so that's your
number one issue not the caravan
fascinating that's what other people are
worried about other things let's go back
to New York now right let's step over
here to the folks who seem to be having
a little bit more fun wonder why that is
you Democrats sure take this to heart
don't you just right I have a fun show
here leave it on the field you know
what's amazing too is that she said she
started it by saying as I said so they
clearly had asked her beforehand so was
it like juicy was like in this moment
like oh I know I don't know how to
respond I'm it's almost as if like he
didn't even listen the first time and by
the second time it almost like just to
curse I'm like oh I probably should show
some slight bit of sympathy I was like
the this is it this is a poll but the
harry shearer disc jockey and Wayne's
World
I don't know if you guys remember that
but like they go on the show and they're
just insulting him the whole time and
he's just like oh yeah that's great
super excited about the festival and her
like uh you're you know you're a loser
and he's just like oh wow who else is
gonna be there he just has like a
completely to respond so just can I do
every single thing a except in this case
instead of being juvenile he insulted
this woman shared probably one of the
worst things that could ever happen to
anybody do she's just like yeah I'm
gonna
totally ignore that moving on because
the reason why I go out to the bars to
get in touch with real people and what
their real concerns are and then to
Joe's not ideological not ideological
extreme it wasn't ideologue that was
that was a that was a hard left position
to be upset about your husband being
murdered by the American insurance
industry that's super ideological so you
know there's a little bit more of like a
common sense moderate American phobia
about Guatemalans as an example in my
own defense she didn't have the comment
about being poor in America earlier
that's what threw me off I didn't I
didn't know she was gonna be quite so
explicit the second time around sort of
gross anyway back to you guys it's all
flattened into equivalent bite-sized
pieces of the spectacle what I want to
know is what kilmeade would have done
because Kilmeade is such a contradictory
road right now he either would have been
like oh he would like you can't blame
the president for that insurance you
would have stayed alive right oh yeah oh
you're trying to argue uh that's a
little bit I don't I don't buy but Obama
said people can keep their doctors right
well that's yeah or with woke kilmeade
which happens 10% now he would have been
like yeah and that's real indictment of
the private insurance industry I think
writing a book about yeah alright we're
gonna take to the Democrats for
realizing that not wanting to be
murdered by the government is winning
winning idea that people want people
have you run on it all right
testers coming through oh yes okay we're
gonna take a quick break we right back
with Dave waggle
you
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the behest
of the Central Intelligence Agency
national political course but though
never does it doesn't it actually it's
ongoing the national political
correspondent for The Washington Post
Dave Wagle now Dave before I brought you
on you said you were working on three
hours of sleep if it makes you feel any
better I'm I'm almost right there with
you
cool I think we're both gonna start
babbling coherently the more we talk so
let's get to it yes let's do this so you
were in DC last night watching from the
the control center let's start I mean we
you know I've already top line some of
the big I guess headlines from this what
what was there anything that
particularly surprised you that you saw
out there so I always want to start
something didn't surprise me which was
having been to a lot of you suburbs for
Democrats were we're gaining I've done
none of the house lives really shocked
me even the max Rose and Staten Island
is one that popped out to a lot of
people last night having covered him
haven't covered Donovan Donovan was kind
of like a sleepy entitled incumbent
roses impressive and there was a big
Democratic advantage there that he
turned out so the I'll serve the
opposite ear answer now that because the
things that surprised me of the same
thing that surprised everybody else at
point I'm making everywhere today is
that look Democrats got more votes for
governor in Maryland Maryland both gains
out Ohio and Florida then Republicans
got when they won those races 2014 and
going into this Democrats kind of had a
mantra a little bit of positive thinking
a little bit of a little bit of data
behind it that it was a high turnout
election they were going to win and
there were states where that's true
right Virginia that's true Nevada that's
true but that did not happen this time I
was surprised at the resilience of the
Republican vote too
come out for elections with fairly
uninspiring candidate on the ballot for
them that she's not not how Democrats
behaved in the midterms in two and ten
and fourteen you know to their long
lasting political detriment so what do
you think I mean what accounts for that
I mean so what so just to be clear with
what you're saying is that Democrats out
you know overperformed from their base
lines the problem is that Republicans
overperform from their base lines and
maybe their base lines a little bit
higher but they still overperformed to
like we saw this in the special
elections it seems to me that we had
both parties over-performing the the
typical special election numbers but it
just so happened that Democrats
outperformed overperformed just a little
bit more and in these interviews they
didn't I mean what what do you think
accounts for that well so everyone's
gonna have the same take on this which
is that there's just been a reset wing
people's base of the political bases in
this country you know sherrod Brown is a
great example to watch here debbie
Stabenow was a great example to watch
although very different races where
there are those those maps in those
states look like look like the Obama
2012 map and the governors were in the
governor's race know hi oh it looks like
the Trump maps there's only one county
in Ohio I think the Turnbull County that
voted for Trump in 2016 voted for
Richard Cordray tonight and this is
despite Cordray running a much much
better campaign than Hillary Clinton not
having her vulnerabilities going into
election day very popular so you you
have the sorting that you're seeing this
was kind of apocalyptic thinking today
from people like Ian Milhiser at the
Center for American Progress saying if
we're just adding into a period where
we're at you know conservative voters
will not vote for Democrats at any level
for anything it's hard to see how they
ever win back the Senate you know the
Republicans have had this sort of
thinking before and improve and wrong
and comeback but certainly there hasn't
been hard Democratic thinking about how
to compete you know let's
they in Nebraska again and the last time
they achieved anything is when they
could win 7-6 in Nebraska right I mean
so the idea being that these sort of
tribal allegiances are hardening and the
the enthusiasm I mean we we would have
anticipated a lull and the enthusiasm in
Republicans that we're not seeing is
that a function of Donald Trump going up
there and just you know I mean because
the two days ago everybody was saying
there's a there's a trump tax it costs
you four points everywhere I mean is
that is that the case it's it is it
different so on a senator yeah or in a
governor's level I mean what how do you
sort that out I it's it's very
consistent actually so there's no state
where Republicans the exception of you
know the blue states that have roles in
moderate governors there is no place for
Republicans did better in this election
that Trump did in 2016 he they ran
behind him in races they won like in
Indiana they were behalf of his margin
Tennessee about half of his margin and
in Missouri but you know the castle's
don't lose by six in a state that he won
by nineteen
so that tax yellow carry carried out
around the country that does you you
have a situation where it's hard for
Republicans to win the house and it's
actually the president I think starts
2020 is an underdog you know he's got a
good economy but he has an electoral map
that looks a lot more like the one that
reelected Barack Obama you know - Ohio
more strength for Democrats in Virginia
and Colorado and then in a long term you
know this Florida amendment for which is
going to lead to a couple hundred
thousand people coming on the rolls of
Democrats so you it's just because of
the way the Senate map is structure
let's say you know you picked up the
Senate made a chart and just put a half
of it on the ballot this year probably
the Republicans would've lost a couple
seats um they managed to pick up will
see at the end of the night for the end
of the week will they pick up maybe four
seats
places that the president had won four
of the ten states the president had won
maybe they gained in the one Senate
Senate seat up this year where
Republican was up and Hillary had won
they lost and they lost a despite
leading in the polls
so that's sorting the word tribe it's
used a lot not what to call it not sure
what to call it but look where people
where people were outnumbered in 2016
only in a couple cases Democrats
outperform sorry and did Republicans
outperform and that was just when they
had moderate governor's everywhere else
they ran behind it okay so I mean it to
boil it down on some level it's there
are some states that are very supportive
of Trump and in those statements
the Republicans did well there are some
states where he's not as is supported
and the Republicans did poorly and it
just so happened the luck of the draw
this cycle and and presumably right
every six years from now right there's
gonna be more Democrats incumbent
Democratic incumbents up for re-election
well I guess now it'll be Republicans
too
because they picked up four but will be
up for re-election
then significantly more it was like
two-thirds more right
Democrats were up on reelection and and
so we I mean we were talking about this
in 2015 even in anticipation of 2016
people are like the 2018 the Democrats
have to get the Senate in 2016 because
in 2018 they're going to get wiped out I
mean that was that it was very realistic
conversation where I remember the stakes
were okay well if we like if a Hillary
gets elected she's had two years to do
kind of anything at all and then they're
gonna have he had 60 Senate seats but at
least she gets the point judges etc etc
that's a good it's good that you bring
that up too because I've been thinking
right before the 2016 election I was in
a Utah and I talked to jason Chaffetz
who at the time was going to continue
leading the House Oversight Committee
and he was promising if they won
they were gonna spend the two or four
years but the first two years
investigating Hillary Clinton and it
pretty pretty awesome basically we're
just gonna have hearings because they
said okay well she wins by accident
we're gonna beat her in eighteen and
twenty Republican Republicans are kind
of that ruthless in public and Democrats
are not yeah and the Democrats aren't
that ruthless in private either it feels
like yeah good point
no even the in private or what the way
that Nancy Pelosi was talking about this
she didn't kind of a strange position
because she she under no illusions that
she's popular the I mean what's going on
with that well I mean she I've seen some
polling that she has just absurd
absurdly low favorability ratings
outside of of where she is now
maybe it's it's not her fault because
again she's been like one of those like
twenty year Republican projects to you
know San Francisco values she's losing
support on the left it seems to me as
well it within the Democratic Party so
that may account for some of it too but
what is she thinking is she thinking
that she's going to run for re-election
in two years that she wants to be leader
of the you know Speaker of the House
when maybe the Democrats take back the
Senate I mean what's the like why why is
she doing this is she waiting for
somebody to come to come up from below
and letting them get a little more
seasoning because it doesn't seem like
there's any youth coming into the the
leadership at all no I mean what in my
more cruel moments I prefer to the House
Democrat leadership is like the the
gambler just stays at the table trying
to break even running you know just need
to get back to even that I can get I
could go home for the casino because
you've got a leadership team that's been
there literally for a decade has lost
before tonight had lost four elections
in a row and you know gained a couple
seats in two of them
but was out of power and they just are
not budging even today they're giving
signals are not going to budge and so
the the it's gonna live in the weeds but
Pelosi use public strategy here has been
to unwind about the negative impressions
about her by kind of being herself you
know going on The Colbert Report talking
about bipartisanship she does think she
got very much her so far as anything
Hamby it is and it is but it they've
just made this bet no you know kind of a
classic baby boomer behavior tonight no
we don't trust anyone else to do this
for us and we're just gonna walk lock
ourselves in here and because the next
generation wouldn't do as good a job as
us and you've seen some blanch into that
like this class that's coming in we
deduce once everything's called Lou the
math and how many people said they
wouldn't go to her for speaker beyond
that you act some some young talent
that's been trying to move up and the
way she was framing her decision leading
into this election was I'm going to be a
transitional speaker so what does that
mean
they I don't know the way that a lot of
people interpret it was she's gonna be
speaker through the end of the Trump the
first this Trump term and then does she
say no one else is good to me to keep
running this I mean she's gonna turn 80
in 2020 in the next couple of years so
if she's here's been in transition you
might see in it you might see some more
hints at that but she's also said she
doesn't want to be seen as a lame duck
so I don't know what that means like is
the more I describe it the more confused
I get about what her plan is and and and
and to be clear I'm not as concerned
about her age as I am that the her
political ten-year which I mean months
ago she was talking about instituting
pay-go last night let's play one of
these clips I don't know which one is
more ridiculous from her speech last
night I'm sure you heard this is this
the one where she's talking about the
bipartisan marketplace of ideas I mean
let's just hear this clip stark contrast
to the GOP Congress
Democratic Congress will be led with
transparency and openness so that the
public can see what's happening and how
it affects them and that they can weigh
in with the members of Congress and with
the President of the United States will
have accountability and we will strive
for bipartisanship with fairness on all
sides we will have a responsibility to
find our common ground where we can
stand our ground where we can but we
must try we have a market for a
bipartisan marketplace of ideas that
make our democracy strong a Democratic
Congress will work listen all right Dave
you just talked me down here is that
just like pablum that they feel like oh
we have to do this because we've always
done it since you know the 90s I mean
I'm not a yeah I mean every every
everybody talks like this
I mean Barack Obama talk like this Trump
talk at this for like 10 seconds after
the 2016 election Ryan talk like this
Ryan because got it so much more how
we're gonna bring back regular order
which no Republican cares about when
they have Bernhard and few Democrats I
think you know in Pelosi's case she does
believe this he does believe that when
she ran the house especially in 2007 she
was fair she you know she helped pass
tarp she took some hits when she needed
to she passed bills every bills she this
is just a different theory of politics
then then relatives have she wants there
to pass progressive legislation but not
in a way that blows everything up and I
think she really the way things turned
out in 20 and 2010 I don't think she
ever got over where she thought she did
pass compromises keep people safe and
therein from tough votes that they
needed to and got wiped out and got
demonized so I think she will this is
what I keep getting back to where
Democrats making this this bet that
keeping they could keep her on as leader
they never really had this conversation
about well what if we had a new leader
who leads on a clear agenda starts fresh
with the public
never really did that they kind of let
every candidate run their own campaign
and so the result of that is having
Pelosi with this sort of decent pablum
sauce the sort of a boilerplate about
bipartisanship but if but I mean if 2010
stung
what did she learn from it it doesn't
feel like she learned anything I mean
yeah I mean this is the same thing with
um Obama and Biden when I would hear
them on the trail they were described
like how we need to get back to a
certain level of civility and if you're
beyond you know throwing left wing
Twitter then this is obvious but if
you're any kind of Democrat you think
well gee like we're all looking to
change the rules and stole the Supreme
Court not all the things you go over the
way that Republicans kind of smashed the
rulebook to gain power you look at that
and you think why do we keep why do we
keep acting nice but I would say the the
first press conference the first
statements after an election that the
party that wins are not like legally
binding right I don't think that I mean
I know I think she does what she wants
to set this tone but I'm not sure that
so she's ever here so the thing to watch
here to be before a little bit is is
that Republicans are kind of are
pre-gaming almost and saying well in a
very kind of Brer Rabbit way
well alright well you those guys won but
they're real it's really going to
backfire if they do any investigations
of Trump they they can't do that and
that's just no Democrat falls for that
but they definitely need to be making
the assertive argument and and frankly
they won the election with that argument
I mean I wasn't as made a congressional
this is anybody the voters will feed the
his Democratic Congress would probe the
president and ask for his ask for you
know mar-a-lago contra records all that
stuff they would have not voted for
Democrats it was pretty clear that
Democrats were gonna investigate the guy
if it wouldn't be cheeky about it look
the closing ads the Robertsons ran we're
warning that if you like democrats
they're going to peace the president and
makes it and bring single-payer health
care about okay
well having one right maybe you don't do
all that but you won with voters being
told hey elect these guys they're going
to be
fare to the president for you to then go
ahead and say hey how about you released
the same level of transparency that
every Democrat in history has done up to
now it doesn't seem wild-eyed to me and
it doesn't seem like it lost voters yeah
I mean that is promises made promises
kept
right I mean if I think all right well
so let me ask you a couple questions
that struck me as saira bizarre how is
it in my understanding is that the gap
with Gilliam is still closing and we had
somebody call in last night who said
that the new Florida licenses that were
issued apparently did not scan by the
voting machines you know when they
signed in them to vote cool democracy
and that all those people were given
provisional ballots because if some
screw-up with the three deep imprint on
the floor to licenses
now I haven't confirmed that Florida but
but if that's the case that there are a
lot of provisional ballots and Gilliam
you know accounts maybe I don't know
maybe it becomes closer maybe we'll see
but how do you reconcile the idea that
amendment for which Rhian franchises 1.5
million felons overwhelmingly passed in
Florida but DeSantis looks like he won
how do you square those two things
under that came across as kind of like a
like a toy provisional ballots are
important they do flip elections
sometimes Democrats at this point
especially in a race in races like it
like states like Georgia rather and
Florida are pretty good now at chasing
people who had election day problems and
if they had written about going after
them so that is why I think you have not
seen a call on the Florida Senate race
for example there that's why there's a
couple of races I think you're not gonna
be resolved for weeks and you know if
this is this is something that I think
Democrats you're gonna have a discussion
from some of the House Democrats about
introducing a bill that would not pass
but would bring national attention to
voting reform to solve this problem
because look a Brian Kemp might end up
winning this election after a little
after running at this after running it
pretty badly the two issues that I think
Democrats have begun to highlight as the
kind of good government issues are voter
integrity and gerrymandering and on both
of those
when gerrymandering was on the ballot
this year got completely wiped out
Missouri in Michigan in we're waiting on
Utah in the least two states then no
people voted against you're a man during
I think there's probably a electoral
majority for how about we don't make
people stand in line for five hours but
he don't screw up the voting machines
etc but Democrats have not you know the
last time they had power they would
didn't do a ton on that issue and I
think they've gotten scared straight
since then all right well I'm sorry I so
I had two questions I had two questions
that were rolled in there one was just
sort of leading in about maybe the
chance to Gilman pick picked up but how
do you square the the the Fourth
Amendment in Florida winning or I should
say amendment four or whatever I can't
remember what winning so easily and
Gilliam losing like howdy
does that make sense to you can you
explain that I can very easily so this
is this is this is like a great little
game theory question because on the one
hand the stakes were very high to win
the governor's race in Florida the other
hand the stakes were high maybe four you
know generations to get this amendment
passed and in Florida you need 60% of
the vote to pass a constitutional
amendment so there was a decision made
by the people behind that amendment not
to make it super partisan now Andrew
Gilliam was for it Rhonda Sanchez was
against it believe Rick Scott was
against it certainly Rick Scott probably
personally he denied enough
felons rights to get him the lead he has
right now but they kind of kept
Republican big money on the sidelines by
not turning in this into a partisan
cause and the people behind amendment 4
very very cleverly got you know coke
coke money some Republican criminal
justice reform money they kept them on
board with this as a we can all agree on
this good government reform and so they
didn't yoke the Democrats to that and
they had they it's hard it's hard to say
what would have happened so in Ohio you
had about ballot measure that that
failed on criminal justice reform and
the statewide Democratic ticket failed
in Florida all you needed was this thing
to get 59% of the vote and you would
have lost your best chance perhaps ever
to change that law so I think it was a
strategic decision and you know but for
a hundred thousand votes in Florida
we're not even asking about it I mean
they're saying oh it was brilliant at
that that's I mean that's amazing right
I mean because it also suggests that
like when you do have races you know
these special elections when all the
Democrats poor in their national money
that that may be counterproductive
because you are sort of like trigger
young you know that everybody like it's
like out the electorate now has this
sort of latent virus that can be
triggered by environmental changes and
once the environment changes they turn
into you know everything becomes super
tribal
uh-huh no it's not just that but imagine
if the President had just tweeted at the
start of early voting I don't know they
kidding the Trump boys here
Florida membered for is a disgrace would
bring criminals to our streets vote
against it for the troops you know
something like that
the president's like use his campaign
megaphone to say vote against this and
that had flipped you know two hundred
thousand votes that would have but that
would've been the ballgame so they had
to be very careful about this and that's
there's a quirk of the way Florida
amends Constitution which to me got the
craziest idea I think getting sixty
percent of the votes
probably good I mean North Carolina
passed a couple of bad amendments now
with 55% of the vote
how so that was the way that they
decided to build the campaign around
this and how do you explain let's say
like Ohio
you know Cordray losing in Ohio but
Walker you know losing in Wisconsin or
Whitmore winning in Michigan like like
why why does Trump have salience in one
place and not the other that's a really
so basically the question is it's very
cultural and so exit polls aren't
everything but if there's Appalachia in
your state Trump was very resilient and
if there wasn't he was not so let's look
at you know Ohio is always been more
conservative than Michigan but you know
Ohio on election day especially in
southwest Ohio the Southeast Asian Ohio
say the voters who were Democrats until
Trump came around
we're very we're very red you know very
positive with the president Ohio you
know 7% of people who had not voted in a
midterm sorry by a seven-point margin
people who never vote in the midterm
before voted Republican
they were Trump people who were
convinced to come back out and then in
the Upper Midwest you just have kind of
a different political and cultural
tradition and there you see
first time midterm voters broke for
Democrats white voters broke not broke
for Democrats I mean though the the
white vote in Michigan was like
Democrats lost about five six points but
it in West Virginia and Tennessee in
Kentucky you have a cultural break from
the Democratic Party that I don't think
they have any plan to repair I mean like
the honestly I thought the the best
repair plan was the was the Richard oj2
campaign which did about as good as you
can imagine any any campaign doing in
that state at this time and it that
wasn't enough so IIIi don't think it's
just the same thing if you were if
you're asking Republicans okay so what's
your plan to go back and win you know
Fairfax County Virginia is I mean they
don't have there's those voters
culturally have broken away and maybe
they'll vote for some future governor
who runs as a moderate but they're not
going to vote they're not going to vote
for a trump heroic and party just as the
Ashtabula County Democratic voter is
gone and they're not going to vote for
any Democrat except here at Brown so
where is the where is the sort of I
guess where's the best place for for
Democrats to fish if we're talking about
West Virginia and anything that touches
Appalachia is like don't bother really
right I mean unless you're willing to be
Joe Manchin I mean joe Manchin
outperformed you know other Democrats by
what like 50 points right I mean his
state went for you know we talking about
West Virginia Joe Manchin state went 45
what was it 45 at least points for Trump
and he won his race by five points
that's a 50 point swing and Joe Manchin
from the perspective of most Democrats
other than the fact that he has a D and
65 percent of the time you get him to
vote with Democrats he's a louse but so
where where can Democrats win without
having to be
Laos --is most of the country is the
answer I mean I mean the reason that
they haven't uh on this map I'm saying
most that most of the country when it
comes to I'm probably repeating myself
okay thanks earlier but they're in
Michigan in in basically the states that
make up like a Obama 2012 electoral
majority they can pull that off in and
they can't in places were just they used
to have populist Democrats and they
don't anymore so well step back a few
paces Democrats decided in this cycle
not to have a conversation where they
kind of elevated pro-life democrats and
they probably they could have won some
primaries they wanted to I mean with
Colin Peterson's like the last of these
guys Minnesota he won his primary won
his election he's he's safe he's
sticking around but I say the I don't
think that you didn't see what
Republicans thought they were gonna see
which was this policing about only not
only the most left-wing candidates but
they they did not nominate the kind of
Democrats who used to win in these
states which involves breaking with the
party and I frankly think the the kind
of purity test folks who were angry at
mansion and wish he would there are
people chanting at mansion during the
cabin I'll post votes for him to switch
parties you just can't get away with
that you could you know over for the
government write a new constitution so
that we have proportional representation
or a parliament like a normal country
but as long as you have every state
getting two senators they don't have a
plan to fix this right
Dave waggle anything that we left unsaid
do you think or are you just so
desperate to take a nap there that I'm
gonna say I'm gonna say I'm gonna say it
it all came down to Waukesha County and
him down to how Scott Walker could not
deliver his usual the proxy and that was
that was the election my understanding
is he needed seventy percent there what
did he get yeah in the mid-60s and that
was when they knew he was cooked that's
God blessed that little County is
different is never done is wrong except
for
the many many times when it's done this
wrong we had Josh Orton on the program
yesterday said if Walker doesn't break
70 there he loses there you go
yep that's the suburbs that is the the
Trump effect and hey the final final
thing to run on or to leave on this is
an election where the party in power had
could brag about 3.7 percent
unemployment what does this election
look like if they can I don't know that
something that right need to be
litigated but and this president has
never had to face an election they're
not going rosy for him economically not
that I'm wishing that for the country
but there's a lot of scenarios we've
never seen yet the one we did where
Democrats are trying to convince voters
hey the economy's great the vote for us
you know what it actually mostly works
for them that's true
good point and if the steam runs out of
the Obama economy Donald Trump may have
some explaining to do Dave waggle a
Washington Post thanks so much for your
time today buddy I really appreciate it
I know you're exhausted oh thank you
very much grab mail time all
right bye-bye
all right folks we're gonna head into
the to the fun half wearing we will take
your phone calls
obviously results are still going to
come but let's let's leave on this you
know Scott Walker had a when he found
out that he lost I guess
this morning he posted this on his
Twitter feed this is the day that the
Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad
in it and I guess that's psalm 118 24 if
I remember correctly I have to tell my a
good memory thank you and so that's how
I cheer myself up too I look at pictures
of sort of like highly edited sunsets
and put some psalms over it and that's
what I did last night after you I wonder
if that's the great lake or an ocean
because he's in Wisconsin he probably
doesn't spend a lot of time you know in
the ocean he can now so Scott Walker I
am sure you will go off and get a job
with Koch Industries and continue doing
horrible things he's gonna mop up at
Foxconn there you go that exactly or
maybe he'll get a job with Foxconn
offers him five billion dollars worth of
state money and then walks across the
street and starts collecting on it
there's a perfectly viable gulag option
for Scott Walker there you go Foxconn
job if all Foxconn jobs were former
politicians I'd be cool with it what do
you think his Foxconn job would be my
guess is it would lobbyists no or
Foxconn I feel like he would be
positioned in the no-show wing of the
warehouse where he just got to send an
assistant down there once a week to
press a punch card and they just send
him a big check
that's called a kickback and he
certainly earned it in terms of what he
gave them yeah Scott Walker
bye-bye all right walk away more let
Scott walk away walk away governorship
where was Dave Rubin and his walk away
move it oh can we play this walk away
thing yeah it's kind of long though it's
kind of long but you know what folks
this is a pretty cheery I think you're
gonna enjoy this the great victor ger
now you all recall several months ago we
played a video what was the name of that
guy who was running the walk away
campaign he was some New York like model
not like that guy not a hugely
successful model I don't think who was
announcing to the world that he had been
a Democrat now he was gonna walk away
here it is it's the walk away March what
was the name of the guy poor man's mile
oh the poor man's Milo but he he I can't
remember what let's see and he had a lot
of he was gonna have dinesh d'souza was
going to
there can't you do the contact maybe or
who was the oppressed kid yeah his
name's all over it I bet let's see what
again that doesn't matter what his name
is
by the way so remember it shows that
he's branded and Straka oh that's why
that's a funny name yeah it's a funny
name so Brandon's truck I had this
walkaway movement and you'll recall Dave
Reuben I mean go back into Dave Reubens
tweets I don't have the time for this
like three or four months ago he was It
was as if Dave Rubin was like on a
rolling ayahuasca trip or something like
that because he was like a woke up this
morning and I had visions of of people
walking away from the Democratic Party
and we're on the verge of something
really huge and African Americans are
about to obey because Dave is so in
touch with what the African American
guys did and they're all gonna walk away
Larry elder told me yeah we're all
walking away many people have asked me
and here's then he can he talks about
walk away and then Dave Rubin cancelled
his appearance at the walk away thing I
never addressed it and here is Brandon
straw rak'ahs walk away they were going
to get millions or at the very least
hundreds of thousands or the very least
tens of thousands or at the very least
thousands or at the very least hundreds
or at the very least tens and they
delivered on those tens of people and
here is Vic burgers reinterpretation of
the videos that came from there it's a
little bit long but you deserve this
folks enjoy it Democrats took the house
what happens next is going to be a
combination of oversight and all hell
breaking loose I believe in the
lame-duck session but here is that walk
away March
[Applause]
[Music]
all right everybody keep walking again
if you're gonna be part of the walk you
need to walk now she's gonna make sure
everybody keeps moving now is the time
to walk if you're walking if you're
gonna walk you wanna go now so to make
sure everybody keeps moving
you're gonna walk you need to go now
[Applause]
lock her up lock her up and you know I
started dancing when I heard it they
said la la la
yes the White House yesterday pause it
pause it for one second guys awesome
just want to remind you I just want to
remind you these are all former
Democrats who were singing video lock
her up and then they realize they were
they were gonna get off the Democratic
plantations Obama showed up that's a
lock her up lock her up that's why they
all walked away was because they wanted
to join in the cheer my fellow superhero
Kanye made this shirt I left the White
House yesterday it was a pleasure to be
there to see Donald Trump in person at
the White House I love you too so
Hey USA USA USA USA USA USA USA USA I
love you too
walk go away walk away walk go away
I Love You America thank you this guy's
career did not go the way he wanted to
be here some more music and I hate to do
this because we're so upbeat but I'm
reading that there are there was a
horrible shooting in Pittsburgh at a
synagogue and eight people have been
killed hey JT make everyone happy
you guys inspired today or what the
reason I'm here today is because I wrote
a song for our movement I wish would you
please somehow by the grace of God it
went viral I get it I got a show on
patreon soap box on Sunday nights you
guys nine o'clock come check me out I am
JT Wilde take your time to Michael Flynn
Junior's here I want to dedicate this
song to his dad don't you cry cuz I'll
be coming home to you we gotta say it in
the biker world if I had never
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
thank you guys that's called arm
yourselves I I wish I had the ability to
award the Academy Award that's my
preferred way to take in reality that is
also such a genius
all right folks enjoy we're gonna take
quick break heading to the fun half
don't forget you can support this show
by becoming a member to go to join the
majority report dot-com you support our
daily show and shows like we had last
night we're gonna have debate shows I
would imagine coming up in the next two
years we're gonna have a coverage of
maybe a hearings let's hope we're not
covering any more the Supreme Court
hearings press conferences wild right
now
oh yeah and all right well we'll cut to
it after the break all right
don't forget at EMBs you can go to
patreon.com/scishow and calm slash the
anti fada and of course the literary
hangover at patreon.com slash literary
hangover alright folks see you in the oh
don't forget michael's a live show you
can check it out on the home page it's
in February buy tickets now
tickets almost going to run out all
right seeing the fun I have six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty it's a
nice feeling
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
sweetheart get me a beer it's a nice
feeling get me a beer
all right so Donald Trump just had a
press conference
look I know people are don't want to see
this guy but he's the president United
States and there's gonna be a lot of I I
think there's gonna be a lot of
craziness over the next couple months
there was a report in New York Magazine
today
that Donald Trump jr. has been telling
people that he thinks he's going to be
indicted I can tell you that I have
heard for a while from you know third
hand sources not enough to really talk
about on its own but I've heard that
that that is well that and so in and
certainly there's a lot of people who
speculated that you know because the
Donald Trump jr. is worth a few people
who have not been brought in who you
know by a Muller is my understanding and
yet he's all over the place so in terms
of possible relationships with foreign
entities if you will
this is Donald Trump at the press
conference following the loss of the
house question mr. president for me if I
may ask the question are you worried
that's enough that's enough president
and ask one of the other folks that said
enough pardon me ma'am mr. president
that's enough this president I had one
of these I may ask on on the Russia
investigation are you concerned that
that you may have not concerned about
anything with you main investigation
because it's a hoax are you that's
enough put down the mic mr. president
are you worried about indictments coming
down in this investigation
yes I am because I'm having an anxiety
attack sir I'll tell you what CNN should
be ashamed of itself having you working
for them you are a rude terrible person
you shouldn't be working for CNN go
ahead I think that's a very rude person
the way you treat Sarah Huckabee is
horrible and the way you treat other
people are horrible you shouldn't treat
people that way go ahead and go ahead
Peter in Jim's defense I've traveled
with them and watch them he's a diligent
reporter I'm not a big fan of yours
either so question if I can't you
repeatedly heart you are the best
mr. president you repeatedly over the
course of just sit down please well when
you when you report fake news no when
you report fake news which CNN does a
lot you are the enemy of the people go
ahead mr. president over the course over
the course of the last several days of
the campaign sir sir at the end of the
campaign you repeatedly said that
Americans need to fear Democrats you
said Democrats would unleash await his
anxiety attacks are hilarious raise aiya
tea I love it started pacing yeah no
he's super anxious the prot well problem
is he doesn't have an answer for it he
doesn't have an answer for this question
and it's because he's super nervous
about it
that he cannot come up with I mean right
like in the White House they should be
sitting down and saying when you get a
question about Russian indictments you
say look it's a hoax you know allow it
from it's a hoax you can keep asking me
these questions about the hoax but all
you're doing is you're wasting the
American people's time I mean I can
answer this question sufficiently and
but what Trump can't handle it well
frankly I'm not a big fan of yours
either Samantha there you go I mean what
I do appreciate about
is to see some measure I don't want to
overstate this but some measure of
solidarity amongst the press corps where
they will all basically say like you
can't pit us against each other now
frankly I'm not found a whole lot of
them anyways but at the very least if
they're basically saying we're not going
to allow you to use to play us off each
other so that you can avoid a question
that would be a very good practice to
begin all right now now a lot of
energy in that room now Trump has to
deal with the the Muller investigation
it's unclear they must have some
strategy at this point and it's unclear
what it's going to be I think we're
gonna get a better notion in the next
couple of days maybe they think he
doesn't have anything maybe maybe he
thinks that it's a trump jr. is going to
pay the price and he's gonna be able to
pardon him or something like that but
here is Donald Trump asking being asked
what what are you gonna do about Muller
because folks it's Muller time sir
president going back to the Russia
investigation and potential
investigations from the now
democratically democratic majority and
Congress some say that you could stop
all this by declared I could fire
everybody right now but I don't want to
stop it because politically I don't like
stopping it it's a disgrace it should
have never been started because there
was no crime it is everybody has
conflicts they all have conflicts over
there that are beyond anything that
anybody's ever seen in terms of
conflicts from the fact that people
asked for jobs from the fact that they
have very good friends on the other side
like really good friends like Comey by
the way lied and leaked and also leaked
classified information nothing happened
there
might perhaps maybe something's
happening that I don't know about I stay
away from it
but you know what I do I let it just go
on there wasting a lot of money but I
let it go on because I don't want to do
that but you're right I could end it
right now I could say that investigation
is over but it's it's really it's a
disgrace frankly and it's an
embarrassment to our country it's an
embarrassment to the people of our
country and it's too bad going what
about the declassification of the
documents some say that that would clear
we're looking at that very seriously
mm-hmm very serious time is that still
about the Comey memo call me is a
terrible guy I can't tell what they're
looking to declassify in that instance I
think it could be documents they came
they could be all intelligence
committees we could declassify could be
update look there's gonna be there's a
big difference now because you're not
gonna have Devin Nunez running
interference and you're going to have
the Democrats in the house have control
over these documents and access to these
documents and the ability to perhaps and
of course stop harassing the FBI and
have the ability to perhaps coordinate
with Muller's investigation where do you
not want us to go where do you need what
do you need to be pristine I could file
all of them they could be fired
everybody in Congress can be fired
you're a terrible person did you never
tell Sarah Huckabee she looks bad so
rude people have no civility this Sarah
Huckabee I could fire the perfect tell
right like you're not being mean to me I
don't I don't care I can defend myself
in Missouri yeah when you go have to
Sarah Huckabee who is you know that's
before I don't remember yes Wow anybody
could pick on a three you haven't grown
out of that pathetic
so here new news out of Arizona in the
cinema Makassar race is that it makes
ally there are 600,000
in ballots outstanding so we'll see what
happens in Arizona don't know what the
latest is about florida tester has it's
now confirmed who have one so we'll see
what happens with arizona florida i
think is basically a done deal
for Nelson but I don't think anybody's
declared in that race and I don't know
if we have anything else extant no well
I mean I want to even though obviously
it's a huge uphill I think you know
Georgia will go to runoff it looks like
and Stacey Abrams isn't conceding it and
we should support her and frankly they
should do what onload did in 2006 in
Mexico they should have a encampment in
Atlanta and protest ongoingly is stolen
election well I do know and you know
this makes more sense to me now in the
context of there being a runoff there
was a suit filed I don't know if it was
by the ACLU to keep Kemp from overseeing
this election right and look you know
you have something this close and it was
widely reported that Kemp was personally
disenfranchising tens of thousands of
people who knows if that's gonna happen
but apparently he was freaking out April
Ryan too and he said that when she asked
about voter suppression that she was
being hostile snowflake it's like Matt
said last night in the Chapo stream
Venezuela and post 1979 Iran elections
are more legitimate than the governor's
race in Georgia great format but yeah I
think that's a class making a lot of
that that's a classic case of where are
the UN inspectors who are what amantha
power actually did pull that card out
she said if she when she was UN she's
like if I was still in Bastion United
Nation
and you reported to me all of the
dynamics of Georgia I would be
immediately calling for of media it goes
well we say of course but actually you
know people in that position don't
usually pull that card out so it was it
was a good step that she did that it
just so happens that America has the
nukes so they're not going to do that I
am count yes the nukes this is
the world's most dangerous and wealthy
Banana Republic let's uh let's hear and
this is a little bit depressing but but
this guy it's going to be interesting to
see what his future is in in politics
Beto Rourke loses the Senate race I
guess now by three percentage points as
more votes came in about 200,000 out of
a almost 8 million votes so not a huge
loss but here he is giving his
concession speech and dropping the
f-bomb I want to thank this amazing
campaign of people not a dime from a
single pack all people all the time in
every single part of Texas all of you
show in the country how you do this
I'm so proud of you guys
there you go so he's allowed to say it
borsch Epstein was very skinny can see
right Porsche meanwhile baitul Rourke
says swear words
but the president is demonized for other
things that the liberal media says he
does and that is the comment for
sinclair media i'm i like at board up
shiny even looks like he's having
trouble reading the teleprompter at his
own name Boris Epstein trying to call
into the colouring machine collusion is
illusion it is fake what the president
says let's hear your mother into the
majority report okay I'm trying to see
there we go yeah I know I got it let's
go to the phones you call them from a
6-1 zero area code who's this where you
call them from six one zero let's try
this call from a six one four area code
who's this where you come from well
hello six one four hello yeah this is
Jordan from Ohio how are you good
Jordan what's on your mind yeah thanks
for the show's coverage was great I
watched you guys last night and gritted
my teeth and made it and I have to say
like a lot of people have said there is
a lot to be happy about but not so much
in Ohio right well sherrod Brown yeah
you know but I mean you guys have had
David de Leon and he did that that book
about project red now yeah and it just
shows how building those structures
insulates those systems from quick
changes so well like we had better
turnout we had better turn out in
gerrymandered districts with a lot more
Republicans too so Harry
right and I mean look the the reality is
though that doesn't implicate the
governor's race right and so you know I
think there's something in Ohio that is
unattractive with all due respect in
terms of the general population wow
that's very personal to me
well chapter of my book partly in the
electorate pilot like carry on you know
to talk about what people get wrong
about Appalachia and when Appalachian
touches electoral politics you know what
doesn't sell here is precisely what
Republicans have spent 25 years and
countless millions of dollars promoting
on the airwaves which is Pelosi's
milquetoast endorsements is nothing at
all pablum I think you said it right and
you know if you want to tap into Ohio
and if you want to tap into what Ohio
has it's time to get angry and be super
socialists and get on with it because
the things that the National Democratic
Party is selling in the ways that
they're selling them to Ohioans by
bringing somebody like rich Cordray in
after he was easily tarred as being
participatory and said Strickland
governorship you know it's tough to
rally people that have been eating
for 25 years after NAFTA and after the
steel industry goes away and after auto
manufacturing goes away and you can't
tell me that that doesn't matter
approaches matter I mean if the state
approaches matter I mean you know
sherrod Brown is it seems to me on some
level is you know provides a good
counterpoint yeah I mean we didn't crush
anybody and Renee C might be the most
repugnant human being to get great to
the stage I mean you look at that guy's
history it's disgusting and sherrod
Brown you know god bless him he's got no
interest you know he's got no aspiration
beyond where he is right now right well
I mean hopefully other I guess
Democratic politicians will follow in
his mold on some level yeah I mean I
like what we've got
you know Tim Ryan Jo Shivani you know
those guys that are kind of striving for
bigger better places in local and
regional politics but you know powers
being power it's just not moving quick
enough and Ohio is not getting I don't
think the messaging it needs you know
you saw how badly issue one got crushed
and you know that was largely because
they were able to paint it as something
other than what it was right and you
know it its messaging you know those
things matter
so yeah hey we're going forward and
their lens losses and we're going to
keep participating believe me but you
know it would do national leadership a
lot of good to think about the kind of
message they put on the arrow.high oh
we're going over oh yeah look at these
districts a lot of red districts you
know and how they're drawn just like
crazy ass yeah that is no joke and then
you couple that with the people that do
have it good in Ohio and was a serious
culture of contentment you know people
that do have it good have their district
on such a way that it's easy to get the
people that they want reelected I mean
Rick Neal was a great candidate in 15
against Stivers and Stivers is the money
man for the Republican Party and he
didn't even have a chance and I mean
this city and county voted Hillary it
was you know 15 is drawn in such a way
as to make it completely inaccessible
and you know until we get some level of
state control back where we can or that
amendment goes through and they actually
draw these in maps again we're in a
tough spot so you know you want to get
people in the street that might be a
better option than telling them that
Nancy Pelosi is coming back for another
turn but we are so thanks guys have a
good day appreciate the call Nancy
Pelosi is very inspiring to Republican
voters
I mean the there's a lot of evidence
that that's actually the case I know I'm
not and I mean that all on and of its in
and of itself should be it's like
they're allergic to taking that lesson
though that's the Hillary problem too
yeah and I don't I don't like no I mean
the problem is it's not just a question
of they it's like she's not going to let
go of power and it is the the difficulty
has always been at least traditionally
that it's very hard to amass power when
the currency in the house is currency
right like if you don't have your fund
raising coffers or not overflowing then
you don't have the ability to go out and
help fundraise for other people and it's
very transactional at that level where
it's just like that dude help me out you
know I don't agree with them on politics
but they help me out so I'm gonna slide
them a vote because it's gonna mean you
know more help for me to get reelected
and my there's not enough of a
constituency in my district that cares
about that I mean that's basically the
dynamic and it may be changing on some
level because basically technology now
allows you know a a progressive in
wherever whatever district they're in to
to nationalize their fundraising skills
and they don't have to rely on
corporations in there who are interested
in what committee they're sitting on or
that are represented in their district
so I who told me that Seth Moulton was
yeah Brendon said that Seth Moulton out
of Massachusetts was contemplating a run
that would be great oh no I mean I
actually I probably would be more
inclined to support Ryan over Seth
Moulton frankly I'm terms of politics
yeah
Ryan is they're both bad in my view on
sort of some kind of I mean Moulton even
worse arguably because he's in
Massachusetts with a sort of Third Way
talk and third way affiliations but I
think Ryan
is much more steady on trade in economic
issues than molten mold I mainly heard
Moulton talk about Russia stuff frankly
I mean I would like someone who is safe
in their seat but that's Ryan say finish
that those are both safe seats for sure
part of the problem is it just like you
know where is the you know Ryan I don't
find that to be terribly progressive
either you know yeah I mean I mean well
barbara Lee is the one who's progressive
but she's you know she's definitely I
mean that's another pretty an older
California Democrat but I think she's 90
and she hasn't she's gonna be
specifically not expressed interest
because she got she is gonna mean the
leadership right isn't she gonna be yeah
I think that her she's up yeah she's in
the but she specifically said she's not
interested in her and Pelosi's job so so
who I mean who else is in I don't even
know there's you know this is not
something that we have can you know that
much control over frankly I would get
rid of Schumer first it's my if I had
the ability of wave wand sewers just and
you only had one one wish I would I
would a would be a Schumer careful you
say an air no I'm just saying I'm using
but what why do you why do you think you
you say sometimes the people in the
Senate are apparently satisfied with
I've talked to some other people who say
that people in the Senate are satisfied
with him because there's no point in
being public about it if you don't have
an option and that there is some measure
of of discontent with him but there
isn't a sense of who could replace him
at this point seems like a bad signing
of itself well but part of the problem
is again Schumer fundraises super easily
and so he has the ability to go around
and help other people and when you know
smaller donation fundraising you know
really replaces it the the the value of
that type of relationship will diminish
but in the meantime you know more often
than not that's how people function
here's the bad news we're losing seats
and I got a bunch of court appointments
have been confirmed for Trump but I have
shackles I wouldn't I wouldn't necessary
a don't exercise you know there's
nothing nothing about that at all
let's go to the phone call sometimes
reality is ethnocide 3-5-2 well he's not
actually giving them shekels he's giving
them dollars no they actually go through
a special wire transfer gone from a
3-5-2 area code who's this hey Sam
my name is sandy I'm calling from
Gainesville Florida what's happenin D
well I'm a little have a highly
disappointed today we I'm with
indivisible and we knocked on 5,000
doors in our county since April and
really worked hard and we turned out to
vote in our County here but you know
well in our city where Gainesville as
you may know there's the home of the
University of Florida and so we're in
you know one of those islands of blue
and a gonna sea of red and just wasn't
enough to overcome anything really on a
local level or the state level or the
federal level so I guess the the most
upsetting thing is gilliam that it's a
gut punch it's just I think we had a lot
of progressive hopes riding on that and
it would admit so much to our black
community and not only did the that he
lose but it's really a statement that
our white voters have been with Trump
for two years now and seen all of this
and they're like yeah we're cool with
this we just all in on it you know it's
just very disturbing yeah anyway I
appreciate you guys giving me some hope
today on a national level I guess I'm
just kind of concentrating on Florida
and just it's tough stuff well next time
around sandy there's gonna be a lot more
new voters hopefully so you know hang in
there
appreciate them yeah yeah come from a
two four zero area code who's
it's where he come from shame about you
uh yeah is that you from two four zero
yes veto from Maryland how you doing
maybe you know what's going on well I
guess I mean I don't think it was that
bad I mean a sister lives in Florida she
was pretty inconsolable this morning
right but I tried it I tried to like
tell her not to get her hopes up but you
know it's hard to do she was highly
invested in it and you know she did a
lot of canvassing and all that I was
pretty disappointed but I think overall
it wasn't a complete total you know I
mean I did win the office pool it looks
like well in that case like yeah I mean
you know I don't want to make it all
about me but I mean that is like beer
and pizza money for a month for me so
the one thing I wanted to say was I
think we need to take a little bit of
stock in or sort of face up to you know
I don't think that the the economic
populism is going to override the tribal
culture stuff unless unless there's some
type of look in 2008 that was sort of a
economic you know recession and if you
can probably say the same thing in 92
but I mean I think overall I'm not sure
that you know what I would really like
is for someone to do some type of
research and find out the people that
voted for Trump in 2016 and then or that
didn't vote and then voted Democrat at
this time and find out exactly why they
voted Democratic and I would I would be
I would imagine it's not based on
economic populism but I'm I'm at you all
but you know next week we got John sides
on he's written a book called the
identity crisis the 2018 presidential
campaign battle for the meaning of
America that's a question I think that
I'll end up posing to him appreciate the
call
victories from progressive Democrats and
losses from centrist Democrats yeah I
mean we've seen losses from progressives
and losses from moderates and losses I
mean it it's all across the board and so
it's it's unclear I mean I it depends on
where they are right I mean Joe Manchin
one not progressive yes looking at the
bigger picture and the way forward for
regular people in this country it has to
be economic populism and I don't know
that that maps directly onto electoral
strategy because right this country I
think so little class consciousness and
that's a huge problem but I think we all
agree that the favorable policy sets is
a populist an economic populist set of
policies I know this policy is like
ideas to take action around okay ideas
to take action around some policies
filled solidarity yes build solidarity
but in this context I think what we're
talking about in what he was saying was
electoral politics yeah I know I just I
always want people to look at the bigger
picture when we talk about this stuff so
sorry if that seemed to come out of left
field right calm from a 6-1 zero area
code who's this six one zero that person
is gone call from a 6-3 one area code
who's this hey hey do good Tim what's on
your mind gotta be quick we got another
35 people online I have a quick question
for Jaime is Matt alive yes okay good
okay good
prayers up survived by a little tree boy
and for Sam I have been to
district 19 same as a lot of people who
call that feel yeah and the rest of the
countrymen bummed about Gilliam and
Texas but we are pretty happy here that
the wretched John Faso is gone yeah and
now we helped bring New York State
Senate bullion to under real Democratic
control and they're just something very
satisfying about Faso losing when his
only strategy seems to be my opponent is
black and he got owned that's totally
unfair and that he was a rapper has
nothing to do with race yeah I know
there were other ads too that were super
he's all tired of Democrats I was
playing the race card I'll tell you in
you know Faso also I think like had
there was a tremendous amount of animus
towards Faso up there yeah I mean I like
like months ago I saw signs that just
said Faso lies like not even seemed to
be like paddy like not even seemed to be
tied into the election event it was it
was it was a function of when that woman
approached him about his vote on the ACA
and right people did not forget that up
there I have a funny too funny numbers
from that same district apparently and
you would know an eland Greenfield
which I guess are both the independent
and green candidates they both law yeah
they both lost a blank ballots thanks
for the call I'll say this too that it's
got the greens up there you used to have
a significant amount of support I I I
remember seeing you know I know ten
years ago Joel Calvo maybe it was longer
than that who was I think he ran for he
ran for something a big green seat and
he was up in that neighborhood you know
yeah but a lot of that bread and
circuses what are different and also
like what a different time yep cuz like
Richard Wolffe ran for mayor of new Hey
as a Green Party candidate in the 80s
got 30-something percent Joe Koval was a
serious like Ecology's Marxist academic
I mean I don't think it was a viable
strategy but the Green Party used to be
you know I think a much more serious
thing column from a nine to eight area
code who's this where he come from
whoa Sam yes oh hey this is justice from
NAPLAN ition Joseph what's on your mind
I'm just calling him about so icky kind
of following the Native American races
so like so yeah like in the New Mexico
we see Deb Holman next we wind which is
pretty good yeah she's a she's a great
candidate you know I spoke to her at
Netroots nation and it was was it on
this program is it on Ring of Fire
yeah so you can go back and hear a
pretty good interview with her from
Netroots over the summer and she's
pretty progressive and you know had been
it's pretty exciting yeah and then also
uh Cherise David in Kansas mm-hmm that
was a bit of an upset yeah yeah and
there were a few others like Paul that
Jordan Idaho they lost Anna another
Navajo James Curtsinger in Utah they
lost as well but I do feel pretty good
about Deb hauling and Charisse David
well I appreciate your calling in giving
him a shout-out thanks Joseph yeah
thanks
do you think there's any lessons to be
drawn between tester and Donnelly I'm
seeing people talk about like Mitchell
cares here says what he didn't notice
was what I did notice just from testers
ads that he did really stick to the
issues and didn't do a bunch of
triangulating or corny I'm gonna build
the wall stuff like Donnelly like zero I
think maybe a limited message there
between how to run in those kind of
states if you're gonna run as a Democrat
don't be like no
waffle or something I don't know if
that's it phrasing I mean maybe you know
a tester was not terribly good on
immigration from years back and so he
may have already built his
anti-immigrant bona fides and I can't
remember exactly what the vote was but
I'm going back now five or six years
maybe you've got a flat top hair cuts
also doesn't Montana have a little bit
more of a populist like well so I'm
saying well and also there was that
governor there several years what was
his name Schweitzer like I feel like
Indiana relative to Montana Montana has
a little bit more of like a kind of it's
connected with like that's really bit
more than Indiana it's like we we are
getting it like the the racism of the
countries and more relief now is there
more are we starting to see variation
geographically in it and I think also
feels like it definitely not sort of
definitely that's what I think waggle
was saying with if it touches on
Appalachia
now our caller from Ohio seemed to think
that that was maybe too broad a brush
but so like Max Baucus would contradict
this because he was definitely a massive
corporatist but on the other hand my
understanding is Montana had Brian
Schweitzer who was a populist and Custer
who governor and tester who ran and has
the first time around yeah he in his
primary that was Marcos used that race
as a way of destroying the DLC right and
test her and even thirty public not as
good as you would want but he's a
certain popular streak whereas in
Indiana the last Democrat they had was
Evan Bayh Ted that's a very different
vote it the initial dreamer bill someone
reminds that's just disgusting vote
obvious but I do think there's a
difference between I think if you're
running in Montana there might be a path
well and also Schweitzer like praised
Pat Buchanan at times they made appeals
to horrible right-wing populism but I
think there is a certain there is more
of that economic populism in Montana and
there is an Indiana I think right well
but also my point being that and he and
not some off
sir terrible votes it doesn't come off
as fake if that's the way you've always
been right triangulated dial Donnelly
vote one nation in the past I don't know
I think his tone became but I suspect he
did that in response to polling that
looked like made him look like he was
looking bad also did he win what was he
a guy who had like some type of just
truly obscene like Republican who said
like you know didn't did he win against
some type of like rape doesn't exist
kind of candidate several years ago I'm
not sure because my impression of
Donnelly was a he's a guy who won by
default and tester good bad whatever
clearly is a distinct political
personality who's winning on his own
merits for better for worse let's go to
the IMS I just like us to remember
Denver Dave the so-called bigger
pictures often a collage of little
pictures I know this sounds like it's
coming out of left field but many people
in the US are busy dealing with little
things everyday elections and Maccarone
economic changes are both big issues
okay bronze plan Katie Hill won the 25th
congressional seat in California on a
progressive platform this seat has been
Republican for the past 25 years also
she's millennial I mean I think like all
three of those things are relevant in
terms of of winning combo breaker female
young progressive you do on literary
hangover I think I think it's disgusting
and here is Steve Kornacki with some of
the exit polling that you know pretends
well for what that gives a sense as to
what what Democrats need to do to win
over those independent voters and my
understanding is and I think for the
most part this election independents
broke for Democrats more often than they
more than they did for Republicans for
the first time I think in in a long time
if not ever you know more often than not
people have identify as independent or
they'll take the cut tax cut right
but here is what Kornacki breaks down in
terms of what is the most salient issue
with voters and it gives the Democrats
in the house an opportunity they can
pass legislation it won't necessarily it
obviously will not pass in the Senate
but they can they can make the the
Senate
well perhaps be seen as an obstacle to
the type of reform people want and if we
also show you among independence here
this is the interesting one I think sort
of the tiebreaker is an election what
wins out there among independents by a
two-to-one margin it is healthcare over
immigration as the issue most on their
minds well that is the that is another
Tea Leaf as they say to read in this one
yes
well I don't know I don't know how to
leafy it was but it's a bit more than
clearer than a Tea Leaf typically would
be I think Chuck Todd should drink more
tea leaves it it's going to give it
gives a roadmap for what Democrats need
to do going forward I think not wanting
to literally die would be a winning
campaign issue with people well I mean
Democrats certainly pushed it I think
health care at least this time around
Democrat well they did to Hillary sort
of I mean Hillary Hillary gave speeches
but Hillary's just a bad candidate
wouldn't matter it wouldn't matter what
Hillary said single-payer will never
ever happen that's a no but that's a
separate argument than talking about
protecting pre-existing conditions they
did it much more narrow this time you
know speaking of protecting pre-existing
conditions how can you talk about saving
the patient protections for the people
of America in a way
that makes it sound like the least
desirable or least inspiring thing you
could imagine well Nancy Pelosi cracked
the code last night in her speech in
announcing that the Democrats had taken
over the house the Constitution's checks
and balances to the Trump administration
it's about stopping the GOP and Mitch
McConnell's assaults on Medicare
Medicaid the Affordable Care Act and the
health care of 130 million Americans
living with pre-existing medical
conditions let's hear it more for
pre-existing medical conditions
liberalism where there is a there's a
will there's a Pelosi oh my god I don't
think she meant to say that anybody have
gone out here want you to put your hands
in the air it's not inspiring well look
I think it's inspiring to say that
you're gonna have health insurance that
is not going to penalize you if you are
pregnant or if you have cancer or if
you're born with a congenital heart
defect or if you have diabetes or if you
have any one of them you know the
hundreds or thousands of ailments that
used to keep people from getting health
insurance and keep people out of
bankruptcy but she didn't articulate any
of what I just said fellow South Africa
fellow South Africans who amongst you
all has gout diabetes or obesity if you
don't have a pre-existing condition
though
what are you hear in that speech well we
just played a healthcare which it'd be
free at point of service and that's what
they should be hammering on yes I
understand
and we heard yesterday that about 50% of
of Democrats were out talking about
Medicare for all but the fact is is that
overwhelmingly people want to retain
their protections from from the
Affordable Care Act that's sunk the GOP
in Minnesota one of the few things that
that sort of survived basically out of
the the last eight years left in haleh's
up oh but she but it's just it's more of
an example of her not being able to
message it prop or have an example just
it's so simple they campaigned on taking
away those protections they said that
you shouldn't have health care right
have obesity or a family crisis and we
beat them because we're gonna protect
you blah blah blah blah blah not shout
out pre-existing conditions at your girl
oh and incidentally we're gonna do
absolutely nothing a raise your wages if
you're not if you're not good at giving
a speech then don't give a speech I
actually yeah but but I mean part of it
was like she wanted to be able to go out
there and make it seem like she was
still in charge and and she is but
that's why she did that but I just like
you know at one point let's put the
Democratic Party let's put winning
elections above the personal careers of
of these individuals okay it's very
counter her brands right cuz she's
actually been kind of running around
sort of saying like this isn't about me
I'm a veteran like I'm just trying to
kind of get the job done in a way it's
entirely about her and even if you know
I actually think there's another thing
Harry Reid was better at how I read was
much more willing to be like you know
what you guys get out there on TV you're
better than me yes and I'm gonna be in
the back here like making the Machine
run which she actually is arguably
decent at yeah I think Lily undercuts by
just being trash yeah III think so
to me that speech was very on brand
because it was about defending the
status quo and not ask
for more what do we want instead but I
think I've made my point yeah III mean I
think there's a lot of things that are
that are problematic with it I mean
you're not you know I don't know if you
see a house leader necessarily I don't
even think it's the role of a house
leader in many respects to get out there
and articulate those things because
they've got to provide cover for for a
whole range of candidates and you know
whatever percentage it was that ran not
on single-payer health care or Medicare
for all in one she's got to provide
protection for them and it's not
necessarily her role to do that but you
know even if you're gonna be timid at
least do it with some measure of
competence that wasn't timid it's not
worked out well for the Democrats I
didn't show me the timid comp but it's
that the Democrats have exercised that's
exactly my point they have not been
competent with their with with their
timidity either if they're still like in
my head that they're competent managers
of this society yeah I think that's a
projection that's you're buying into
their brands and ironic exactly and it's
completely not true Florida Governor
race now is 0.122 percent away from an
automatic recount DeSantis is at forty
nine point seven Gilliam is at forty
nine point one percent the margin is
fifty thousand votes if it gets down to
I'm trying to do the math here because
right now it represents point six to one
percent and essentially 0.1% votes
I guess it's around eight thousand votes
if he makes up eight thousand votes it
goes into an automatic recount
I really wish he had not conceded I mean
well but you know it doesn't matter
right recounts recount
speaking of a misunderstanding of the
dynamic of politics here is what's named
Casey Casey hunt on MSNBC and assuming
that Donald Trump is going to for some
reason play by the rules she recounts
the story where Nancy Pelosi was in the
room with a bunch of Republican leaders
and a Democratic leader and Donald Trump
and noticed that nobody was addressing
her and Casey seems to think that's
going to change now I know it's tough
very quickly one thing that Donald Trump
is gonna have to change under this new
reality is remember Nancy Pelosi went to
dinner at the White House and said hey
do women get to talk around here it was
her and a bunch of men guess what she's
gonna he's gonna have to let her talk
Donald Trump is gonna have to listen to
a woman
[Applause]
yeah what's that Shh exactly I didn't
start anything with the wife I'm sorry I
couldn't hear what you are saying right
why don't you relay the information to
Mike it's weird because he never wants
to be around girls but he communicates
like them all right we're gonna have to
end on a little bit on the early side
today folks cuz I'm a bit fried call him
from a nine five four area code who's
this where he come from hey buddy it's
Michael from Miami Michael from Miami so
is there gonna be a man town well I mean
you guys have why what was pretty good
and you guys were on it do you remember
last time we talked and I said I thought
the gun was gonna have to drag Nelson
across the line yup that was basically
the theory yeah well the exact opposite
happened it looks like DeSantis dragged
Scott across LA which was really unheard
of but it came down to turnout in Dade
and Broward County we got fifty six
percent turnout in Broward County you
know you got 60 percent over in Lee
County which is where Fort Myers is a
stronghold of southwestern Republican
you know politicians when you when you
don't get your people out for whatever
reason and there was no excuse
weather-wise or anything else there were
no voting irregularities there just
weren't a lot of people down here
apparently could get there for whatever
reason I mean the one the one problem
was in Dade County they ran out of ink
and one of the ballots for the early
voting machines but apart from that dude
you had five million people early vote
in the state and that's that's a problem
and when you don't get your base out the
way you really need to especially in the
bluest counties in the state you're not
going to win the only thing I would say
I would add to that someone did call
last night and say that the new Florida
licenses were not um I heard that I
heard you call you know I did try to
call it now that's I'm sorry
but with all due respect to my friend up
there now I have a new Florida license
it took about 30 seconds for them to
figure out how to reconstitute the iPad
and get it set up if that was not an
issue now look I would be the first one
to tell you that I hope I'm not I'm not
just believing you I'm taking what
you're saying any face I know you're not
I'm just I'm just
that that was not that was not the
problem there were there were a lot of
people who were enthused looking and
rude to everything right
okay if you believe in his policies and
I know that on that panel of there
there's some who believe he wasn't
progressive enough fair enough that's
that's a dispute for another day but as
far as running this campaign Sammy I've
been following or covering Florida
politics for a long time he was the best
Democratic candidate since launch aisles
for statewide office and obviously the
demographics in my state have changed
right remarkably since okay and you had
starting in 1998 with Frank McBride
who's passed away and then in 2002 you
had other people excuse me a buddy but
he Devon's back a long time ago than he
had Frank McBride I'm going on through
then charlie Crist is a Republican than
charlie Crist is a Democrat and Alex
Sink and it was just it's just like it's
a cavalcade of losers Andrew did not do
that he stuck to his message he actually
had one that was resonant he had one it
was timely because health care was
clearly the number one issue in this
state as well as the rest of the country
there were reasons that that the health
care who should have been successful
because you know Scott let me ask you
this did he back off and in the general
off of like Medicare for all or anyway
did he change his position no what he
did was he kind of reformulated by
saying look why shouldn't we be at the
party why shouldn't we have a seat at
the table trying to be able to get paid
is Medicaid for it you know expansion of
Medicaid it's ridiculous being offered
to us why are we saying no there's no
reason to except for petty political
differences so he didn't he didn't
necessarily walk away from Medicare for
all but he more or less emphasized the
fact that the Republicans had no plan
they still have no plan right you
understand they had Ron DeSantis Sammy
Ron de santis won because he tethered
himself to Donald Trump he had no new
ideas he spit out their talking points
in an arguably you know admirable
fashion depending think he was a
computer or whether it was just being an
automaton and he basically stuck to his
message okay and that's how he won he
won because Donald Trump's popularity in
my state is hovering somewhere between
45 to 47 percent there abouts and the
yahoos often worth they vote they just
vote those cultural issues they work and
they an unfortunately
now you've got a situation where not
only do we lose the governorship and and
you want to know what the real disaster
is and this is what I don't know why
we'll touched on this or not I'm sorry I
didn't hear it the Florida Supreme Court
has three mandatory openings which means
that those justices once they reach the
age of 70 have to retire now earlier
this month the Supreme Court decided
that Scott did not have the right to go
ahead and fill those vacancies that
would belong under the purview of the
new governor that was supposed to be a
hopefully gilliam the fact that he can't
do that means there's a whole raft of
crap heading our way that the Florida
Supreme Court is going to overturn like
nobody's business
starting with workers compensation laws
all kinds of environmental laws
everything else you can possibly imagine
not to mention the cavalcade of
right-wing Justice is sitting in this
district courts thinks that Trump filled
Obama's slots and all the slots at
Obama's yeah didn't fill a recess
appointment is it is beyond depressing
in that regard so when you yes the fact
that Andrew didn't win it was bad the
fact that he ran I the FBI there's gonna
be all kinds of recriminations did the
FBI thing get to him I don't think so
I don't be was a question of people not
believing this guy's trustworthy I don't
think that they but he wasn't capable of
running state government that's this had
to do with one thing and one thing only
well two things one the color skin and
to the fact that Donald Trump has an
unusual amount of popularity in this
state all right I can put I appreciate I
appreciate the call everybody gonna do
my only congratulations and happy
anniversary I forgot to get back to you
I think well done
Rosie very proud of you and the guts
that took to start this show I'm giving
you a sitting ovation brother thanks I
appreciate it all right folks we'll
listen I gotta go cuz I'm about to pass
out all right we will be back tomorrow
folks see you then
to get to where I want but I know son
I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid the
rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
