[Music]
after Donald Trump is the death of
accuracy there's a huge difference
between Europe Canada and Australia in
one hand the USSR MAOIs China North
Korea and the other yes I don't think
anybody would debate that I'm assuming
everybody in the room is on the same
page so far there's a huge difference
between Australia and North Korea okay
the distinction matters a lot George
Orwell and Hitchens were actual Democrat
I don't know why you want to use
Hitchens George hor well and this is
Chomsky by the way which I'm not sure
this should be Here I am them George
Orwell and Hitchens were actual
democratic socialists the Democratic
socialists want to nationalize the auto
industry would want Bernie is just your
standard New Deal Democrat who wants to
tax the rich reduced the army wants
living wage and Medicare for all we need
to all Republican ivenna to pay two
independent voters in the general
election that's why it matters that's
can you address this well actually I'm
sorry this part is irrelevant I already
did address that they're gonna level
that charge against anybody and so that
is what it is
also this was the part that I wanted to
give an airing and I don't know this
very anoying formulation can you guys be
socialist without be useful idiots for
the murderous Maduro regime you can
criticize the government while at the
same time supporting Bernie's - okay so
you're about to get something
dangerously substantively wrong here
about to read but your first couple
sentences are wrong substantively and
factually I have said on molt I not only
have said I said at the heart of the
drumbeat for a coup and invasion I
top-line this report the New York Times
about Maduro using paramilitaries for
extrajudicial killings you can go look
that up a couple weeks ago on the
majority report and my Arc of my
coverage if you go back to conversations
that Ava College or like a year ago
definitely included very serious
critiques other than as well in
government you don't Center that when
you're on the verge of a coup or envy
because that's politics and that's why
we aren't just like nerd BOTS here
there's some strategic analysis about
focus but in every single conversation
look I'm gonna defend Chavez I'm gonna
defend the Bolivarian movement in many
ways
and I've never shied away from
criticizing maduro and the current
government even Nathan Robinson again he
wouldn't Center it now but he wrote a
piece about a year ago where he said if
anything you could argue Venezuela's on
the right I wouldn't I would say it's a
left populist project anyway so you're
wrong but now you're getting
substantively wrong you can criticize
you at the government US government
while at the same time supporting
Bernie's tweets telling Maduro to let
aide into the people would you have some
okay dude
this is where you're okay though so
that's just so naive
this is what I'm talking about before
can you not be a useful idiot for
capitalist imperialism you know what I
can't I part of me wants to elaborate
how stupid that perspective is but I
mean honestly Jamie just nailed it like
the convoy that has actually turned into
an international embarrassment that
literally everybody outside of the
Venezuelan opposition of white oh I
don't want to use opposition that way
because there's opposition that is not
quite oh but outside of this Guido
clique and u.s. foreign policy even the
Brazilians were a little bit concerned
about it because they're like whoa we're
not actually gonna get into a ground
invasion no feni's Wella guys and the
Colombians are you know a very far-right
government they were enlisted by it so
what that actually was would be a
precursor to greater US interference
also a massive undermining of legitimate
food aid projects you might recall and
I'm sorry to say from here I am as I'm
assuming you don't
there was a major operation that was
part of what got bin Laden and I'll I'll
give you one that some people don't like
but maybe you would like I don't have a
problem with what we did to this on bin
Laden I don't
sorry I don't whatever what I do have a
major major problem with was that the
CIA set up a fake vaccination program as
part of a effort to basically collect
DNA to properly identify who was in the
compound the blowback and upshot of that
lie is
a physical danger to health workers
particularly in South Asia and in
Pakistan and a total undermining in
places as far away as Nigeria of
legitimate and actual efforts to
vaccinate people so this scam convoy was
not only a obvious and transparent and
everybody except for like apparently you
because I'm telling you like Chris
Murphy tweeted about this thing dude
okay I like Chris Murphy but I wouldn't
put Chris Murphy on the cutting edge of
a radical critique okay everybody
understood that and more broadly what
happens when there is a legitimate aid
effort of a legitimate aid worker
undertaken by the State Department now
any autocrat in the world can say oh
well look at what they were doing in
Venezuela so actually the blowback of it
undermines global relief efforts writ
large so dumb dumb dumb dumb take it's
not controversial
that US aid is just a front for the CIA
they have been condemned by those
propagandistic and biased bodies known
as the UN in the Red Cross is being
politically compromised they are but I'm
telling you even even projects USAID
that are better and more legit because
these are complex organizations like any
other though the nakedness of that
effort undermines even where they're
doing legitimate work and people and
people with real jobs right absolutely
what I'm saying including USAID itself
so and then the other questions would
you have supported the stalin during the
holiday more in Ukraine or Mao Geron
three years camp famine and I'm going to
say in both cases unknown would you have
supported the u.s. south tour and Jim
Crow
yeah like can you read the beginning of
that email off can you guys you guys can
be socialist about being useful idiots
for murderous Maduro regime where's the
stuff about the Maoist China and that
stuff because like to characterize China
as Maoist China Anton would you
supported Stalin during the hall d'amour
on Ukraine or Mao during the three years
of great famine
when they turned away international aid
and millions died of hunger oh I'm an
anarchic communist what do you think my
position is on Stalin he only killed
like a million of us yeah III guess I
just think it's ridiculous also just
frankly to like okay
again let's have a slightly
reality-based conversation here
so I'll even I'll even bill it on
right-wing terms
I am a critic of Lee Kuan Yew and the
Singaporean system and they definitely
are repressive and abusive of people's
rights and there has never been any
reporting and any legitimate claim that
they did anything on the scale of what
Pinochet did in Chile so even to draw
like that kind of direct like to say
Maduro absolutely violates human rights
and abuses absolutely to exist and there
are I'm sure some shortages though
that's been exaggerated clearly
independents show independent reporting
does show that for sure but you're gonna
compare that to millions of people dying
and they chai in in any Great Leap
Forward or any number of Stalin's crimes
that is emotional blackmail emotional
blackmail and historically delusional to
the point of being offensive you got a
deal with the options on the table right
because there was a legitimate left
resistance to Stalin at various points
in time so of course I would side with
them in that instance if the choice is
on the table here were authoritarian
sort of social democrat Maduro on the
one hand and left resistance from the
communes on the other i would side with
the communes but those aren't the
options here
