[Music]
yeah we can do one biting clip alright
just sit back enjoy it that's it just
just you mean just you just want to
literally laugh at a man losing his
basic faculties okay you might he might
have been motorboating though he might
be water but yeah maybe Biden's getting
high maybe Biden's blazing Biden should
do that Biden should come out and just
blink I'm sorry I've got all the drug
stuff I promised weeds actually great I
just discovered it a couple years ago
it's been helping me with stress on the
kale stress on the campaign trail
I remember the year was 1982 in 1982 I
was in the Senate I was 15 years old in
the Senate and Bobby Kennedy had just
flown back he was actually at it
Ghostbusters was popular at the time and
by to be Kennedy was at the movie
theater and then that goddamn a rap
killed him and I sat down with Strom
Thurmond who was my greatest friend in
the history of the earth great guy I
remember Strom Thurmond said to me said
I don't hate black people I made him
pregnant I said ah what a hell of a guy
anyways you ladies might not understand
that and I sat down of them and I said
we got to do something about healing
this country and that year was 1987
all right here's Joe Biden my longtime
friend and she's a friend she's been my
friend in and out of public life my long
friend time friend the friend though
guys I don't have them a longtime friend
and she's a friend she's been my friend
in and out of I think he's rapping yeah
you should definitely take you know I
forgot who said this but I might have
been Vic for now but somebody's like if
if Trump and Biden or both senile like
Trump will just power through it so
what's the key I'm see now it's fine
it's an asset just give me some jello
[Laughter]
can't resist it people people think too
much nowadays Joe just embrace the
fleeting impressions as telling you
imaginary Hancock heavy
did you so okay guys what do you think I
don't know if I'm gonna get the Biden
voice but I think the direction and I'm
taking it is pure seed ility with
vanishing with with mixed-up timeframes
that usually lead to defending
segregationist senators I think that
that is going to be basically the
template of the Biden impression I think
that makes that incredible thing to me
is how member ahamill okay he was killed
in 1990 I just got a of a breakfast
meeting with Ronald Reagan who is my
friend and he shouldn't dropped about
Africans not having shoes but it was a
joke
Barack's my friend okay the amazing
thing to me is it's gone from people on
the Left using the term sundowning to
describe what's happening with Biden -
I've literally seen mainstream
journalist doctor use the word sundown
to describe what's happening
they've said like he gets worse as the
day goes on yeah I mean honestly even
like look I hope that he is not actually
like losing like obviously I don't I
hope that that is not happening but on
but just like it's clearly just like
yeah this guy part of it it like it
would be legitimate if there was any
indication whatsoever and there is
literally none they of like saying like
hey Bernie seems off like it's not a
gist to say once you read it reach a
certain point actual like just in terms
a we have to ask some basic questions
and if you cover those metrics like two
or three years ago Joe Biden never
sounded like this right he made gaffes
whatever but I actually always thought I
still think to be honest even with this
that he's a formidable candidate for a
variety of reasons but like 2016 no
problems he would have crushed it this
seems different
he seems the very least incredibly tired
and you know I don't know we need to be
real about that I like what we were
saying like cinimon Sanders is
negotiating for a day what would you say
present on Sanders like circus or for
job but the questions and the debate
covetable it's what Brendan said yeah
there's a mode said it's like okay so
every all of the candidates are gonna
have a question and it's gonna be at the
bottom of a jello Cup and he didn't want
one jello Cup yeah these are gonna be
the person he was
twenty jell-o cups to cover all the main
issues so if you're saying that Joe
Biden can't debate without jell-o cups
that's a real misrepresentation he
wanted a lot of jell-o to talk Trump
versus Biden is gonna be the first AM
debate series because yeah like all
right what did you do to Joe Biden's
gets a 9:30 Sunday debate with a break
for lunch in the middle of it that
sounds fine can I have a fish fillet
maybe we could both sit on sofas while
we do it together comfortable bed thread
need to slug each other you know Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump I thought was
the pinnacle election of the decaying
like Empire and then if by the Trump
it's just like yeah I'll say right now I
won't do the dumb like self-interested
move of like telling people to vote
Green Party or whatever but I will tell
people I think we need to start doing a
hell of a lot more content unlike on
permaculture building resilient local
communities because the mainstream
avenues are pretty much done it's just
like I could see some old centers like
there's this report that Joe Biden only
wants to debate if he can have a jello
Cup those jello cups first of all
they're multiple jell-o cups they cover
climate change criminal justice all of
the major issues so it's a
misrepresentation that Joe Biden just
wants to eat jell-o cups with do it
Donald Trump in the in Sunday 40 you
also gotta throw in a visit just also my
personal opinion Joe Biden said he could
do it without the joke as far as I'm
concerned Joe Biden could debate
standing vertically for an hour and a
half without jell-o cups I mean that's
the kind of shape he's it
Oh God yeah your car from an eight-six
Oh area code
