[Music]
the whole Dave Rubin saga started with a
video that I did I don't even remember
what the video was I think it was
probably some like Dave Rubin meaning he
knew if you think about it man did you
keep me to be good again or something
like that yeah yeah something dumb I
don't know it's something Dave Rubin
something stupid and actually I didn't
itell did you tell this video I titled
that yeah Kelly keeps getting the blame
but I'm the one who I titled it what was
it something like Dave Reubens is super
dumb or something very stupid person or
something which again is really
descriptive as much as anything else
it's barely I mean it's sort of like is
saying that you have a ball cap on
insulting link it's just true I don't I
mean I don't really you know Dave is not
a bright guy that's the response someone
gets when they say em okay would be a
Republican to that yes that is a stupid
comment it's a historical stupid comment
that literally a Google search could
clear up Google you have it on your
phone so then somehow I don't remember
the next how this went
I don't but Sam started exchanging
Twitter mentions with Dave and Dave
couldn't just Dave still is not even
still Dave has not blocked any of us he
knows he knows that that's a bad look I
mean I'm sure he blocks plenty of people
but not us he blocks people all the time
content as drill said you never give
your enemy's content right never give
you any B's content and see him dumb but
you know certain things work and so Sam
was like all debate you and you know
again Dave Rubin is dumb but he's not
like it's not that dumb he's not totally
delusional he knew that the idea of
debating Sam on anything policy-related
would be like career suicide career
suicide usually unpleasant experience
massively embarrassing generate
thousands of memes so he needed to
figure out a way of ducking it while
maintaining you know his credibility's
and ideas as an ideas man
and that is it not put on laughs it
really does crack me up that that's his
brand it's funny can I just get in here
the way they talk about the idea
marketplace it's they really want a
strictly regulated ideas marketplace
where you can't use words like racist or
sexist or sword
yeah or dumb or more on it yeah it is
it's worth taking lease to it's a very
regular it's not the free marketplace
that I like for my ideas right now to
say that yeah I think we should give
ideas of work out so I'm a social
Darwinist when it comes to ideas word so
Dave uh you know him or whoever scurried
over to the MRI YouTube page and it just
so happened that the video that Matt so
rudely but descriptively correctly
titled was up and Dave is slated to
become he's stupid
which by the way was very I mean I don't
kind of WISPIRG that is I mean even
there like I guess Santa Bates people
that calm streams they can't Sam yeah
you say like hey you four-eyed big-nosed
 like there's a there's a there's a
the easiest way to have a programmatic
change for the entire weekly can we
start to show three hours latest nobody
called me a Jewish and wants to
argue about taxes so we're going live at
5 p.m. today guys the best way to get a
debate from Sam is calm or aggressive or
something yeah I mean yes Sam as Sam is
so so anyways whatever thick right
Sam is sick so do you know Dave but but
what Sam responded
you know correctly first of all and this
is this is just some layers of so much
 here because first Sam suppress
my free speech by taking down the video
which Dave as a matter of principle
particularly because it was on YouTube
for Christ's sake which is the pinnacle
of all free speech questions David
nothing to say not a principled defense
where ever you know they've all tear
right I hate what I hate it but I will
defend to death his right to say it
that's some good goddamn enlightenment
principles right there Voltaire it
begins with a V you could look it up on
Wikipedia day so
that video was taken down my speech was
suppressed and then Sam was like hey
like I suppress the guys you know speech
and I will never I would never do
anything like that you know Michael is a
you know just a co-host but super mean
and I don't condone anything like that
how about we have a civil ad-hominem
free exchange of ideas and Dave's a too
late
my feelings were already hurt and for
years now more and more people and in
this case actually literally more and
more people have been calling Dave out
to do a debate Dave apparently is unable
to read super chat than a majority
report in it without having some sort of
like weird physical spasm and clearly
like all of the just accumulation of
like relentless evidence that this guy
is just almost like a pre joke is
accumulating to the point where Dave is
retreating further and further into his
like crackpot right-wing safe spaces and
donor networks and is also not even
putting up a pretense anymore about his
role in the exchange of ideas
this happened at campus clash of course
he's literally on stage with Charlie
Kirk and Candice Owens at the University
of Connecticut yesterday he got this
question and watch the I mean you talk
about a regulated marketplace I call
this more like a closed down marketplace
walled garden my first one is to Dave
Rubin when are you going to debate Sam
cedar on the majority report
oh it's C Candice has the right instinct
which is like hahaha it's doubly awkward
because Charlie Kurt is credits like I
did debate Sam in a national platform
when Michael ah yeah I think I took my
beating like a man like what like Dave
Jesus but at the same time charlie Kirk
is able to string together like Dave
could not do that like they would not do
which
early Kirk did Charlie was any better
than I expected yeah I mean not again
let's be a little bit real here like
Dave is not capable of doing that in a
way this is a little bit ablest so so
face the abilities of Charlie yes so
it's so chart so but Kansas has the
right like just dismissive laugh which
is like a good that's a good default
move and Dave what I like is like he's
not happy no yeah he's like hunched
oblique yeah I'm not doing that you do
prick you have to say anymore
I'm just not going to good on the kid
for can you play that one more time
Brendan yeah this by the way how you
doing go to these events and treat these
people with disdain and ask them simple
questions don't freak out but don't
preface it with like don't prep oh no
province get to the business and the
business this kid got to was one is to
dave rubin when are you going to debate
sam cedar on the majority will see boom
not even not even it's sam cedar of the
majority report couldn't have done it
more cuz then you got the plugin we
appreciate that thank buddy thank you
and and then you don't get don't give
him anything else to respond to besides
what you want sacked left to upset our
managing a bunch of shots up there i
think he had a question for candace
owens next but you know dave rubin
obviously on this tour i think there's
still a few weeks of school left they're
probably doing more appearances let's
get a follow up
let's get involved actually i mean i'm i
there's a lot of directions you could
take this in one person suggested that
now it's time to talk to Dave about
debating me
let me just add an ecumenical like
debate Matt debate Jamie oh I would
debate Ana Kasparian debate like lit I
feel like you could do either the follow
up which is like why won't you debate
Sam which could lead to some pretty
funny things and then you could just
like that's the first follow up and if
somebody's already asked that question
then you say like how about not luck I
have a question though here's a question
to give to Dave Rubin especially if he's
with Candace Owens ask him cuz he's had
her on the show how many experts
are are more expert about racism and
anti-semitism than Candace Owens in his
mind and see what he says yeah you know
what's so incredible about it is that
I'm sitting here literally thinking to
myself Jesus that's a mean question it
that's good I like I'm not even
bullshitting I'm just like God he's just
kidding just twing what that's like
ant with him that way because this whole
thing subcommittee hearing on hate
yesterday that Kennesaw ins just knew
that subcommittee hearing on he put it
may be is date a retweet
they've got to the point where he's like
she's not a racist cuz she said Hitler's
nationalism was okay it was just like
when I used do you think that Dave's
like right like his Jewish like parents
and grandparents are like as dumb as he
is so they're not sort of like upset
about this or is it like there may be
like look kid we get that like you had a
middling career as a just profoundly
unfunny stand-up comic and now you're
like doing this kind of sad YouTube
propaganda role to like pay the bills
but like could you at least refrain from
minimizing Hitler's legacy we should
track him down and find out that would
be interesting I really would be like
genuinely curious cuz I know absolutely
people that I will not name of the faith
of the tribe who would say like hey if
you need to say that the water should be
polluted to get a check I mean you need
everybody needs to make a living but
they would definitely draw a line at
like no actually Hitler was very bad and
I'm not really comfortable with
minimizing that David and I understand
that you were never the most acute boy
but I think we're I think that you were
at least able to make it through a
quarter of Schindler's List and you
should be equipped enough to understand
it what what can this Owen said was
actually very bad
she was just defending me no but she was
just defending nationalism I don't get
it that wasn't the point hello - hello
all right let's uh
