Nina Turner might be the most effective
political communicator in America she
was good
she's always good and how triggered she
makes whiny people who don't appreciate
like that this is a campaign and in a
campaign you draw distinctions even
amongst people that you're friends with
it's called a campaign we're not you
know I don't know what people think
we're doing we're not playing foosball
together though even if foosball you
still compete but she the reason that
there's this triggering though I think
is is is a definitely a testament to her
power she is an unparalleled clarity she
is an unparalleled sense of purpose and
she is bringing it in a real direct
morally inspiring way and it's actually
that fusion of here is an absolutely
real down to earth no BS person who has
basically off-the-charts oratory skills
and charisma that you know I'll put it
in in in my terms she reminds me of this
guy and there could of President Lula a
major compliment coming from Michael
basically the highest compliment I could
give somebody the lulav of Cleveland
Nina Turner making some basic
distinctions that again this is the
truth don't freak out about it either
have an answer or absorb it but these
are real things we got a lot of copies
there's only one candidate in 2016 who
told the multi millionaires and
billionaires in this country keep your
money I'll raise my money with the
people
[Applause]
there's only one candidate who's been
marching with the working-class people
not because he's running for president
but because it's right hello Marriott
workers hello
Amazon workers hello Verizon workers
hello teachers come on somebody and I
don't know about you but I hail from a
tradition that says that you will know
the tree by the fruit that it bears and
senator Bernie Sanders bears good fruit
so there are many copies people want to
talk about a framework
people who stand up in other folks
living rooms and say to them
multimillionaires and billionaires that
nothing will fundamentally change for
you well Queens I got a message if
nothing fundamentally changes for
multimillionaires and billionaires to
nothing fundamentally changes for you
and you and you and you that's exactly
what she also talked about who why did
somebody vote three times to give Donald
Trump the military budget he wants this
stuff matters it matters domestically
and my god doesn't matter
internationally and I'm only gonna talk
about that more there's a reason why the
report in Politico came out several
months ago that leaders from Bolivia to
Spain from the UK and across the globe
of everybody they could talk to were
excited about Bernie Sanders because in
him when he calls her freeing Lula when
he calls out the military-industrial
complex as he did the prison industrial
complex when he talks about cutting
defense spending when he is the only
candidate to say we will cut aid to
Israel not if they formalize what
they're already doing in some distant
future scenario but we recognized today
that the policy towards Palestinians is
in a daily dehumanization a daily abuse
a daily act of apartheid and murder in
Gaza the only person treading this water
is Bernie Sanders and Nina Turner told
it as it was she's so great she's like
one of the most politically talented
speakers I think I've ever seen
also I love how all those people and
donut Twitter are like so terrible to
her it reminds me of that McSweeney's
headline I support strong women of color
unless they are politically to my left I
mean that's it there's nothing there's
literally nothing more than that and you
know it's like and left anti-racist
politics you have fundamental as adolph
Reid said its constituent parts of a
struggle and then you also have a basis
upon which you recognize that there's a
huge diversity of political opinion
within different communities and you
understand people as peers and
colleagues not
