let's start with just the troubles that
Facebook has been having over the past
couple of years in many respects the the
the trouble started with well they've
probably predated it but I think they
became it became a Facebook sort of
turned from everybody's way of keeping
in touch with people they wanted to keep
in touch with or people they didn't want
to keep in touch with to something a
little bit more nefarious maybe around
the 2016 election but give us a little
bit of backstory here well of course you
know one of the many ways that people
who are looking to to influence the
election notably you know entities that
were some of which were related to the
Russian government and agents of the
Russian government were from use
Facebook to promote a highly partisan
fake news story and literally fake news
right and that is where Trump even
appropriated the term fake news to apply
to more legitimate news sources but and
people started to notice this but
Facebook turned a blind eye to it and it
was really you know these these were all
stories that were designed to create
polarization that would ultimately
presumably redound to trump in the
election I mean they even organized fake
events you know using these these fake
account these face fake of Facebook
accounts there was one in Texas where
they kind of got a bunch of anti-fat for
presumed face off with with far-right
people that it was completely contrived
so Facebook turned a blind eye to that
and then they sort of got caught and
then they then they got caught again
with the Cambridge M analytical scandal
which was there's this organization this
for-profit entity Cambridge analytic a
that was bankrolled by Robert Mercer who
also bankrolled Steve Bannon and you
know the Clinton cash book and a number
of other election related you know
skullduggery you might call it a what
happened there was that it turned out
that Facebook perhaps unwittingly we
don't know allowed Cambridge analytic to
mine their their users are the data of
their users for frankly political
purposes now this is all kind of done in
the data request was done in the guise
of of academic research but nonetheless
ultimately the profiles of some 87
million Facebook users were you know
we're mind without the permission of the
people who held those accounts and you
know in Facebook just just tried to
stonewall and backpedal and give these
sort of vague assurances that they would
do better and that was only going into
2017 in October 2017 Sheryl Sandberg ran
you know came to DC to appear before a
committee in Congress so we've had this
ongoing problem with Facebook's sort of
immorality and immorality you know they
they they say they hesitate to police
speech and of course none of us want
Beach police but that's not necessarily
what's going on here and they have not
you know with all the innovation that
you know their tech geniuses are able to
create you would think they could come
up with you know really you know a
variety of measures to protect against
these things but they have not all right
well there's a couple of things there I
want to touch on measures of dealing
with this one of the more prominent ones
but I just want to go back because the
you know the there's a lot of different
you know
on some level we need to divorce the
question of what was the the what is the
danger or what is the implications of
this fake news but in another respect I
recall I don't know if this was four
years ago I can't for the life of me I
can't remember but there was a study
that was done where they not only mined
information from their their users but
they ran an experiment to see if they
could influence voter turnout and they
were successful they were able to drive
turnout in some areas and suppress it
and others as an experiment
theoretically and I can't remember this
is a four or five years ago it created a
small scandal people felt this was
inappropriate to do but it also clearly
provided a roadmap and a sense to
anybody who started digging through that
process that hey this could be done and
this could be done for what may turn out
to be a small amount of money so leaving
that aside for a moment but people
should have that in their you know in
their in the back of their minds a
because looking at this now in 61
million people yes being included in
that experiment without their knowledge
without their knowledge and of course
this is in some respects I mean someone
could make an analogy this is like
printing the directions on how to make
it a large-scale explosive device on the
internet right and publishing it but be
that as it may the question then is if
Facebook is fully aware of how this fake
news or there could be manipulation of
its users what is their responsibility
now they have no I mean there is no
statutory responsibility for Facebook to
protect the data that people willingly
give them there's no statutory
responsibility for face
but to prevent people from manipulating
anybody to do anything I'm and on some
level that's what that platform is
designed for right ultimately to be
monetized um so when they come in front
of of Congress you know what it why are
they doing that what are they afraid of
well they're afraid of exactly what
you're talking about some kind of
regulation regulation of any kind it
seems you know because I mean when you
look at the critique that got them
really crazy recently which was the
speech by George Soros and Davos really
what he was talking about is the
problematic structure of these social
media platforms as monopolies he was
talking about government regulation you
know seeing them as as as entities that
needed to be properly regulated in order
to preserve democracy and that made them
totally insane you know what I mean they
don't think they should be regulated at
all that not only made them totally
insane that actually drove them to some
action or I should say the presence of
George Soros we're going to take a break
and Adele when we come back want to hear
about the sort of the latest version or
I should say the latest chapter in you
know what Facebook is up to not only did
they refuse to take any responsibility
in policing their network
apparently they functioned outside of
their own social network in a way that
is if not criminal in many ways just
highly unethical particularly for an a a
platform that says well we want to
encourage dialogue and free speech and
whatnot we've got to take quick break
when we come back we will talk more
about Facebook's anti George Soros
campaign and anti other platform
campaign as a way of diverting attention
from their own failings we're going to
take a quick break I'm Sam cedar this is
wearing a fire radio
