[Music]
[Music]
along with master politicians like James
Farley and Louie how the president
surrounds himself with bright young
college professors such as Raymond moly
Rexford guide Tugwell and Adolf Berle
men who generate new ideas and new
policies they are the brain trust of the
Roosevelt Revolution welcome to the
Michael Brooks show were broadcasting
live from Brooklyn USA were left is best
as it is everywhere else with super
producer matt black hello chief
economist david Griscom how's it going
so Brewster David Slovak is in the
digital sphere and the ever growing ever
expanding ever radical TMDs universe on
this week's program Daniel Bessemer he
is author of rise of the defense
intellectuals a professor at the
University of Washington and foreign
policy we're talking about breaking the
imperialist consensus what does a
socialist foreign policy look like what
can we do to stop the slaughter in Yemen
and the rise of the think tank
intellectual and how it relates to our
world today he's gonna be here in studio
we got a shout-out Kyrie Irving he's got
something to teach all of us and no I've
not embraced the Flat Earth theory sad
to say labor unions and the moves
against Cavanaugh I'll check in as
another reason to not confirm a
endlessly lying almost certain predator
to the Supreme Court
plus we have a Griscom economic minute
we have a lek regulate and so much more
on this week's Michael Brooks show and
of course a gulag which we have now
moved to the postgame you got to be a
patron to get it all that and much more
on this week's Michael Brooks show thank
you one and all for being here let's
start by talking about environmental
refugees if you're like me your image of
environmental refugees are people from
developing countries who are
disproportionately on the receiving end
of the climate crisis as it is already
enacted in our world from small island
nation states to Bangladesh to other
areas that have been afflicted by
everything from hurricanes to droughts
to disrupted agricultural cycles we know
that poverty and climate are interlinked
and we also should know that as Joshua
Kahn who is a regular on this program
and a global climate activists that
there is a distinct says there's a
distinction between climate justice and
climate policy they're not necessarily
the same thing there's many paths
towards techno and economic fixes that
the climate crisis that don't do durable
things to deal with the justice equation
of what the climate crisis is let's
reorient ourselves and some of the facts
about where we're at in terms of the
climate crisis this is from NASA average
sea levels have risen by seven to eight
inches since 1900 almost half has
occurred since 1993 since 1900 a verge
temperature in the US has increased by
1.8 for in height from 2021 to 2050 its
rise is expected to rise about 2.5
Fahrenheit
drought is more likely to earlier spring
melt and reduced snowpack in the western
US with significant with a significant
in reduction in emissions at annual
average global temperatures
of 3.6 Fahrenheit this is going to lead
to an increase in droughts wildfires and
all of the other things that we already
see playing out with climate and it's
also introducing us to a new sector of
climate refugee which are the wealthy
the privileged there's a report from The
Guardian about people in Arizona more
affluent members of Phoenix moving to
Flagstaff where they don't have to deal
with regular above hundred degree days
they're leaving an unbearable city
because they have the financial ability
to do so and many climate fixes are
predicated on this scenario of those
with the wealth and the access and the
capacity to insulate themselves from the
effects of climate change which of
course have been disproportionately
created by those in the wealthier part
of the supply chain
look at the prepper elitist prepper
fantasies of Silicon Valley and Peter
Thiel look at the plans to live in
bunkers in New Zealand and escape the
fallout of a global crisis spurred by
climate infectious diseases and other
global ecological catastrophes there is
a way to address this that doesn't
center class or justice Jerry Brown
who's doing some very important things
as governor of California is a great
example of this there's very little
interest in his approach to dealing with
the climate crisis that has to do with
environmental racism that has to do with
the effects of drilling and fracking on
local communities that has to do with a
broad-based union heavy bottom-up path
of resiliency for all communities but
there is one focused on techno fixes
innovation and building resiliency out
so that people dealing with the effects
of climate change can buy into another
luxury brand to escape from the crisis
that's what we see parent playing out in
Arizona that's what we see in the
prepper industry out of Silicon Valley
and we really could see a dealing with
climate and a sense of resiliency that
as I say is another luxury brand an
optin versus a globally integrate
movement to deal with the climate crisis
in and of itself and all of its
humanitarian consequences we can't do
that without centering class in the
equation and dealing with the
longer-term big picture contradiction
between ecological limits and insatiable
capitalist appetite it's impossible to
reconcile but it is possible in some
ways to make dealing with the
consequences of climate another class
distinction and that's already happening
and if we don't have a radically
different approach to dealing with the
climate crisis that is labor class
focused and fully integrated with a
broader set of justice concerns we will
replicate all of the same cultural and
economic pathologies in the climate
realm as we have every where else guys
if you want to jump in please do that is
the opening which we're time is
tightening up on those that's good yeah
you know it's when you're looking at the
the climate crisis I mean there's really
no way that we can talk about dealing
with it without talking about it's very
serious public solutions right you know
you talk about something even as simple
as making public transportation more
accessible and free and better right
that's something that could be you know
huge have a huge impact on the amount of
you know carbon that we're expelling
through driving I mean think about like
a high-speed rail system throughout the
United States that was able to connect
even just the you know the corridor
between Washington DC to Boston you
don't know what the amount of people
that live through there and think about
how many cars you could pull off the
road but these kind of solutions require
serious you know public support and they
also need require serious public
mobilization which is something that
privatization and past few years of
neoliberalism and capitalism if really
prevented it's that we have individual
solutions to a global community problem
which is not going to work because what
you see is what's happening in Arizona
or all these people you know are
literally sweltering to death right
because you know cooling is still seeing
us something that's a luxury product and
then the wealthy are just getting up and
out of town like that's not a solution
that's going to work at all it's
a solution that's gonna be able to face
the immense challenge that was created
through the greed of a few people over
the past 50 60 years and also the idea
that this is about individual
consumption also does the flip side
where it becomes like a hairshirt thing
like Oh having you know having an
air-conditioner that's a real luxury
you're telling people who are sitting in
hundred degree weather and maybe don't
have the ability to move around and on
top of everything else there was you
know heat waves people dying in Europe
certainly in India that uh you know you
don't need an air conditioner
that's a personally profligate thing
right versus first of all none of these
things are gonna be solved by any type
of individual consumer decision period
and the attitude that it's about
individual consumer decisions actually
does tend to you know fall radically
disproportionately on the poor right
like somebody who's wealthy maybe
they're taking a fast for like a
spiritual exerciser for their health
somebody who's homeless is not eating
because they don't have food yeah and
speaking of the spiritually profligate
it's sort of what Griscom said
especially it's you know people when
they want to defend Elon Musk say you
know there's certain interesting
engineering things and at least he's
doing this electric car stuff because
nobody else was doing that which you
know however much you could disagree
with those we don't necessarily need
that right the personal automobile I
think has been disastrous as any
technology maybe we've ever had so like
I don't know if I necessarily want that
to be made to work and I guess you could
say like a governing a public body would
maybe try to do the same thing and it
could be you know like they're gonna try
to make electric cars when maybe we
should do more mass transport type of
things but I'd rather do that
democratically then like expect some
private individual to make this work in
a corporate scenario yeah Maseca nor der
thing even those engineering
breakthroughs even if they produced what
they promised would still be a secondary
part of the solution in any sensible
scenario and even with the most
energy-efficient cars imaginable you
still cannot have like it's and this is
where it's very hypocritical and very
it's it's tough because it's like okay I
understand the hypocrisy of American
consumers saying okay
China can't if China has a middle class
with everybody has a car in the road
like the United States
nobody can breathe on this planet and I
don't care how efficient the car is and
how many miles he gets the production
manufacturing an emissions process of
even the cleanest vehicles that we can
see in our foreseeable future are gonna
essentially just submerge the planet and
smog and obviously there's a big
hypocrisy factor of people in the United
States being like oh okay well no it's
time to stop right like after we've
exhausted and depreciated everything but
the reality is is that there's no silver
bullet to any of these things that's
gonna come from the supply market or
engineering side and a lot of the
solutions that we already know of to
these things are things like mass
transit which of course we can innovate
them we should have bullet trains and do
all sorts of things that we're already
way behind places like Japan and Europe
and but they're not these new magical
out there scenarios they're things that
we already know work yeah and have
already been the basic conflict of how
we just get around and deal with having
less emissions and expecting that you
know here's the fundamental thing and
you know something I'd say to people all
the time is that you you just can't
expect the logic of the system to work
in the way that it in a new way than it
has for the past hundred years the
profit based model might produce certain
kind of environmentally friendly cars
friendly and compared to like you know
the worst emissions that I know you can
imagine right but only in so much is
that they're able to extract a level of
profit from that which is not
necessarily like they don't get the
value from the total social good they
get the value from like the individual
purchaser who is buying that car saying
oh I'm feeling a little bit better about
what I'm doing for the environment and
I'm not saying that that's not a good
thing you know at all but to deal with
the major solutions we need to have
real structural understandings of how
like how we're interacting with the
world and that means for organizations
that are you know working on transport
questions which are which are car
companies for example having more
initiative and more incentive for them
right to be looking to the environment
as a whole outside of just trying to
compete against other car companies on
the market
yeah the notion of mobility writ large
versus just car exactly exactly it's
like so you need that kind of push
that's going to be outside of like the
this sort of market of of like
capitalism that's sort of telling
companies what they need to do and the
first thing that companies are always
going to do no matter what they say is
going to try to find ways to make profit
and that's the number one goal and
that's the way that the logic of this
system so waiting for a free market
solution to the climate crisis it's
going to be something we're be waiting
for godot with that one I mean seriously
you know we're at a moment now we're at
such critical levels that without
leading a real concerted effort and
without possibly even some pain on some
levels for us like we will not have a
livable climate in our you know even in
our lifetime certainly not you know for
our children or any possible children
right and it's you know something that
we really need to take seriously and you
can't wait to expect that you know the
market is can be able to innovate its
way out of the problem and the crisis
that it created because it was exactly
by following the logic of the market and
you know if capitalism in general that
caste created the conditions for this
crisis and you're not going to be able
to break out of that without some kind
of force that really disrupts that
entire that entire structure actual
disruption let's get to the shout out
and give somebody some props who
I even defended him when I guess he
didn't deserve crops frankly hairier
bill that this is your fish look I
didn't know that you didn't different
crops well I did give him props when
saying there was this flat why were you
doing that because I thought was funny
because I liked the rap music and
inspired
this is crazy this is how to control
damn where's Alex Jones uh Kyrie Irving
is a great basketball player and he
about a year ago it was only like a year
ago right Oh years ago yeah I'd say
about a year ago maybe year ago he had
some he's also I don't know he's still a
vegan but he had some vegan brain going
on all love to vegan listeners looks
like February 2017 he was on this and
honestly like I guess I troll so a
little bit I didn't even I didn't
realize that this Flat Earth thing was
such a big thing until Kyrie Irving came
out with it he's a really good
basketball player and like many athletes
and he points out in this clip he's a
super young dude and I actually just
liked this example we just wanted to
highlight this example of and this could
be applied to so many things of just any
public figure just copping to making a
mistake in a non egoic and non defensive
manner and keeping it moving yeah this
was at the Monday speaking Monday at the
Forbes under-30 summit in Boston so the
Forbes under 30 you know Forbes like
what's that business about yeah what's
what's the real the flat earth right and
then you weren't joking so which is it
which sorry yeah well I mean good let's
clear it up for good you never have to
get Oh for good you were gonna ask me
regardless but I think I think like what
you say what you do and how you mean it
at the time I was like huge and the
conspiracies everybody's been there
[Music]
everybody's been there yo what's going
on with our world you know like you
click that YouTube click and it goes
like how deep the rabbit-hole goes no
you start telling all your friends like
y'all did you see that watch this video
telling you and at the time he was like
I know you like innocent in it but you
realize the effect of the power of
voicing even if you believe in that it's
like you just like oh I don't come out
and say that stuff that's for intimate
conversations because perception while
you receive that just changes like no
I'm actually a smart ass individual like
it was like at the time just didn't
realize the effect and right I was
definitely at that time I'm a big
conspiracy theorist right tell me
anything right I'm sorry about all that
you know for all the science teachers
everybody coming out tonight like you
know I gotta reteach my whole curriculum
I'm sorry
I apologize I love the pushback from the
science teachers I actually love the
image of like a middle school science
teacher going up and be like dude you're
destroying my profession by putting this
nonsense on Instagram and Twitter like
excuse you you putz
yeah and I'm in school he carried that
perfectly he remind he's like look I'm
human sorry I spread it and let's keep
it moving
and I actually think we can be to
Chicken Little when it comes to how
dangerous like say our current media
environment is with this stuff yes
because I think people have always been
able to go down rabbit holes I actually
think it's harder to maintain a cults
sort of sphere of in permit impenetrable
military perishability
and you know like we were saying earlier
in any given question with a large
enough sample size like 7 billion people
on earth there's gonna be a certain
number of people that are gonna be like
 you I don't want to take your word
for it and I'm going to like take this
opposite forking paths that like is now
available to me but I actually think
that the internet makes those harder to
maintain over longer periods of time you
need to throw more junk at people but
like I don't think people stay on them
as
but this is just a hypothesis no III
think it's true in terms of its some
information at least anecdotally about
cults as an example it's a lot harder to
maintain that if somebody can go on
Google and culture all about abusive
leaders
the debunking of story there that's a
common I'm forgetting it I'm listening
for thirty four thirty no I'm some some
new I forget his name the big yoga guru
all sorts of abuse I'm listening to a
podcast on it um
Bikram right and that's another thing it
was like just even relative to 2002 our
two thousand eight like there's just
more people who look things up yeah I
mean cult literally yeah you needed to
control the culture of it right exactly
I I am curious though what is the most
what conspiracy theory have you guys
gone in the deepest on I'm gonna think
of which one I have to while you told me
I just honestly can't probably because
the conspiracy theories that I believe
in I probably still believe in so I'm
trying to think of a good one that I've
moved pen that I moved past Oh cuz I'll
actually know could be either way was
one what's one you've either moved past
or you still are like you know what I
stand by I think there's definitely been
a cover-up of the Kennedy assassination
and I think probably if always known you
had you would have CIA mafia and the
Cubans involved in stuff so can I give
you my cuz I I get in trouble but I
think Kennedy one is one of the ones
where I'm actually like the most like I
don't know that I necessarily believe
the reports of the of the Warren
Commission but I'm not that
conspiratorial about it in some ways and
partially I'm not because I'm not
terribly convinced that JFK really did
have until maybe towards the end I
understand his rhetoric shifted but he
was a he was a cold warrior and he was
pretty good to go for most of his career
so it seems like is really like was
really the Bay of Pigs and a couple of
speeches enough for the whole apparatus
to flip on him like that uh it's hard
- no I like that stuff is that stuff is
the interesting question of it I mean I
I've heard read one book that that Bobby
Kennedy jr. wrote a blurb on for the
back so that is right and but I've read
it's kind of by this Catholic theologian
guy it's a bit out there but it's fairly
interesting but he says it was because
of Kennedy's attitude towards African
national movements so like the Patrice
Lumumba killing and things like that
they realize couldn't be and who knows I
mean the there was a lot of the Cuba
stuff the Bay of Pigs thing I mean the
Bay of Pigs is sowing that's just a
lot of people off yeah I mean and that
was like that was that was basic that
illicit history Vantage you get on the
show Bay of Pigs I mean if it's a lot it
loft you look at it from the perspective
of Kennedy might have stolen that
election might literally still not but
he also ran to the right right missile
gap exactly and and the missile gap
possibly was a result of discussion with
the Dulles brothers like they tipped him
off on that stuff and and then he wins
it but by a razor thin margin you have
this entire state apparatus that thought
it was Eisenhower's right Eisenhower's
military-industrial complex and they
thought Nixon was just gonna roll and
Nixon was leading the Bay of Pigs from
the White House because Eisenhower had
the heart attacks so they were ready to
go and then Kennedy goes in a very
strange because it's it's hard to know
like what the Dulles brothers were doing
there it's hard it it's impossible
really to know a lot of this stuff and
then Kennedy let's the Bay of Pigs go
forward it's a disaster and then he
actually instead he instead of being
like what almost every post Kennedy
leader would do which is be like you
guys had a catastrophic mess up what can
I do
his attitude actually does changed well
at least in those recordings where he's
like the are you guys doing yeah
he's pissed off and it looks like the
Bay of Pigs from a certain angle it
looks like it was set up to prompt a
full ground invasion of Cuba oh that's
Myers yeah exactly that's definitely my
and Kennedy Kennedy didn't do that
Kennedy so there was the you left those
guys on the beach to get murdered like
sort of Ted Cruz's dad comes
then Ted and then activate Rafael Cruz
activate Rafael to go down to New
Orleans and try to build up as Wald's
cover as a communist and then yeah there
we go alright Griscom what is your
what's your conspiracy theory well this
is a conspiracy theory that I the first
time I heard I was very wide-eyed have
you ever heard of the solutrean sorry
solutrean hypothesis before no so this
is one that they basically found sounds
good
it will they found all of these
arrowheads in in Newfoundland in Finland
yet no no yeah I found them yeah in
Canada northeastern Canada okay I don't
even all right and and Azaria David Lake
they were very similar to arrowheads
that were found in southern Spain and
southern France mm-hmm so there became
this whole theory that came about that
maybe the Native Americans didn't come
from Asia that they actually came from
Europe very testy and I had and I had a
professor who was a big adherent of it
and it was like in college and he was
explaining it to me and I remember
things like wow this is so interesting
like you know this lost history and then
you know I was like oh wow
and then I when I talked to one of my
friends at university is a Native
American activist is like have you ever
heard of this before their do
you mean that Nazi crap right right it's
like you know it's just like all of
those hypotheses that always try to you
know turn the gays back to Europe it was
definitely like : I know I might ask
remember I can remember his name and
he's an actual maniac right did he have
a tenure no he said he was an adjunct
professor which is really which is
really funny just because usually you
think that yeah that the adjectives are
always so afraid of getting in trouble
right I was gonna say I would think that
the the sort of terrors of neoliberalism
would keep that sort of thing in check
you know he goes by at balls-out adjunct
a lot
a few people I think early on in the end
like pop promoter
Oh care who I don't think had sympathies
but once they started being able to do
you know genetic testing and other
things that sort of like proved it was
completely you know nonsense the only
people are still holding on to it we're
weirdos who sort of think that there's
an actual cover-up right
what does you know absolute nonsense but
no I don't have any other good I don't
have a good alien
I've got one that I've sent yet but it
might come back around it was right when
I first got the internet right and I
went online and I have no idea how I
happened across this it was like one of
those geo sites where it sound like a
white background that like it's like
wallpaper and then the comic sans font
over it anyway this big long thing about
how elites were building an ark in the
Rocky Mountains that's happening it's
happening right that's the thing that's
that's one of those ones that's like
it's not it's take it literate what is
it literally seriously but not literally
exactly but right like that's not
happening but Peter Till's buying a
bunker in New Zealand I'll tell you how
literally I took it is I printed out
about 35 pages and I brought it to my
German class in seventh grade and I
decided to show it to my German teacher
from Martin who had a bit of a crush on
and she looked at it and she's just like
okay all right that's great cute who has
a crush of these bringing out geo sites
pages now that's wonderful when this is
very important actually I did remember
one okay so I remember very quickly when
I was a young boy in Austin Texas
flipping through the television Alex
Jones you are our boy Austin Texas
flip it through the television channels
and he ended up on the public access
channel right and very important a very
important discovery was being talked
about was you know arm Swartz Nagar is
very likely to run for president I don't
know when this was maybe in the early
2000s and the person on television was
very worried about this and he's giving
us dar warnings about how the founding
fathers very much purposefully put in
the naturalized citizens closer to the
Constitution that's right prevent the
Austrians specifically the arc from
coming into our country and taking over
and returning it to the monarchy it was
going on oh my god this is terrible you
know this is almost Roshan ager
it's coming you know this
destroyed the republic you know i must
be like eight or nine I know others now
so we're Tigers coming up to take over
the Republic and this guy was very
passionate if screaming at the
television only later did I learn that
man's name that may as nice beautiful uh
I'm trying to think of wood I mean I
actually I totally believed the the
Randall Sullivan reporting unlike
basically like a rogue unit event of the
LAPD killing a biggie I pretty much
totally like and some of that still
holds up like there were all these cops
that were some of them are part of the
ramparts division which did have this
like it was an antique gang division in
the LAPD and it was like I think there
was like a federal investigation of it
for like killing people planting drugs
it's like what training days based off
of and some of those guys and off-duty
hours worked security for death row
records and some of them were like
actually members of the pyro Bloods
while they were also cops and there's
like this whole rabbit hole about like
basically this LAPD uh it's actually
kind of tragic he this guy Henry Poole
like he basically I'm sure I'm gonna
offend people by saying this but he
basically lost his mind like he quit
LAPD because he thought there was a
massive cover-up and then he did a civil
suit with Biggie's mother for the whole
city of Los Angeles and again like
there's some truth to it but he also had
like a pattern that he really wanted to
see so it was sort of like a story of
kind of like obsession to but I I
totally until there I mean there was
some new there was some like awesomes
raiser stuff that came out about that
that kind of made more sense but I
bought that and there still is like an
element it's like I'm one of the things
let's like there is some truth to this
like there were cops yeah and I was yeah
like why the do you think you
should get the benefit of doubt like in
the Gary Webb CIA cocaine stuff it's
like even I believe that stuff a hundred
person well the only finding Gary Webb
stuff's pretty the only thing that's
quibbled with is it I guess Gary Webb
himself even didn't say
was like a main driver whatever right so
it's right agree but like what are we
arguing about a pathway yeah what do and
also I think that there's like what are
we arguing about there's also like he
identified one route I think they're
like the reality was it's not this like
the Contras used cocaine to fund their
war and basically the question is is
like was like doesn't mean that like the
CIA personally package vials up to
deliver in south-central no that's
probably where you get more
conspiratorial but today like know for a
fact that it was happening and I'm sure
interfere with other agency
investigations to protect known
traffickers like of course that's just I
mean and that's a that's across the book
I mean that's in Afghanistan it's in
Vietnam like drugs make you liquid like
and the CIA works with liquid like
you're looking to organize a death squad
in developed country where do you think
you're gonna get money for that from
yeah well which Queen was it where she
was basically like the opium which one
was the British Empire was basically
like the opium do right when they forced
opium on the Chinese I don't remember
which Queen but like yeah it's just that
that stuff's just economics and speaking
of just economics let's actually you
know what we got to get to to our lack
and Griscom segments as I said before
the gulag is gonna be moved to the
postgame as another added bonus
incentive for people to come patrons but
I want to play this um
Brett Kavanaugh is lying lying lying and
lying and you know we know this it's
almost certainly a perjurer even on some
of the most trip I mean perjuring
himself on the trivial stuff not like
the horrifying assault allegations
against him and this is all still in the
context of somebody who will be a
corporate bagman on the Supreme Court
there were great protests across the
country yesterday on just even notion
that someone with these accusations and
with this record and without an FBI
investigation the notion that the
Republicans are still moving him through
is of course utterly misogynist and
horrifying there's another component to
this as well which also needs to be in
the mix and that are these D si I've
learned teachers unions West Virginia
teachers unions organizers talking with
Joe Manchin David Slovak sent it you
don't have that email if you can find it
that would be great
sorry if we're disrupted but basically
we're gonna find that in a second but
they're on a speaker call with you know
I think I just retweeted it you can find
it on my Twitter timeline there aren't a
speaker call with Senator Joe Manchin
the Senator Joe Manchin of course the
you know very far right-wing Democratic
senator from Virginia who is threading a
needle on this the reality is of course
that West Virginia
Trump's very popular Manchin has
regularly voted for every type of
reactionary and corporate and of course
coal interest imaginable but he is still
a Democrat in West Virginia and he still
is also a Democrat in West Virginia
where there's a little bit of an upsurge
of grassroots energy there was the
amazing teacher strikes you got a guy
like Richard Oh Jenna a Jetta writing
running a real rigorous populist
campaign for Congress and mansion needs
to listen this is actually very well
done of these Union members telling
mansion the even additional stakes of
having a far-right corporate Republican
operative on the Supreme Court
pretty cool would that be for me to come
one way or another before I see the
findings of the investigation that
doesn't make any rationale or sense
whatsoever I think it makes perfect
sense because we what we've been saying
all day
senator is that we don't need an FBI
investigation everybody want one
well we we don't mean an FBI
investigation and you should not need an
FBI investigation to know that Brett
Kavanaugh is bad for women and is bad
for Americans quite frankly we know even
before the assault allegations we know
where Brett Kavanaugh stands on
reproductive rights we know where Brett
Kavanaugh stands on health care we know
where Brett Kavanaugh stands on unions
and he stands directly opposed to all of
those things and speaking from someone
who is a sexual assault survivor
who is a union member who is a teacher
who just went on strike with women who
workers who were 74% women against
austerity for you to be well and if you
were if you really were with a senator
you would know how to vote already and
you would have known how to vote in June
when he was announced because he's
anti-union I believe in looking at a
judge's voting record and seeing that
when he votes consistently against
unions every single time and sides with
bosses and corporations that man is my
class enemy and he stands against
working class women and working class
people and if you stand with us you are
gonna vote no on him
and you don't need an FBI investigation
to tell you that so if you stand with
workers if you just did with working
class West Virginians which your whole
state the whole state of West Virginia
is working class senator Manchin you're
gonna vote none Cavanaugh so tell us yes
or no what is it is it work yeah this
has a little respect here I'm gonna vote
what the facts showed me I haven't heard
the facts what I haven't seen the facts
in this investigation so he just blew
past all of her points and she's exactly
right if he is with them he votes no
period on the fact that Brett Kavanaugh
is absolutely as she said he is a class
enemy in addition to of course being an
enemy of women an enemy of anybody
with any need for recourse and justice
in society and Joe and this rule of law
thing has nothing to do with anything
that's spin and manners and and
that's great pressuring hopefully it
comes through although I I'm pretty
scared about how Manchin votes on this I
think I think we'll just be that'll
essentially we'll just be head wind from
flake and then we'll see what Collins
and Murkowski come with but of course is
any guy as he still likes to do he still
likes to pose as something of a West
Virginia populist this was a no vote in
June just as Emily said you should
become a patron of the Michael Brooke
show there's a massive amount of content
you get we have a friend in here a
patron visiting us tonight someone who
has been a steady and rigorous critic of
my excellent taste in rap music
including even at times that aren't even
real one time he accused me of liking
Drake which is a falsehood and so we
have the illicit history series this
Sunday Meghan Day on the history of
ultra elites and tax shelters last
weekend Luke Savage on the reactionary
truth underneath all of the maple
washing about Canadian politics we do a
lot of global stuff a lot of on Europe
the Middle East of course a lot of
coverage recently and the crisis and
possibility in Brazil as well as primers
on different political theorists and
policy areas there's a theory discussion
group and with David Griscom there's a
thriving fully activated 24/7 discord
community and of course there's woke
Bros with big waz and myself it's the
beginning of the month please make sure
it's very frustrating there's definitely
a lot of like issues with card declines
and stuff for some reason on our patreon
so it's always a really depressing
beginning of the month when you hit a
certain number and then there's just
this huge fall-off most of which is just
people
having trouble with their banks so just
check up on everything sorry that
patreon so annoying make sure everything
is squared away and if you haven't done
it yet joining us at patreon.com slash t
MBS go to the michael brooks show on
youtube subscribe to it great way to
follow share and seed the content you
can follow all of us on twitter as well
as of course all the guests there's
links to that as well and now it is time
for the pestilence the strategic
pestilence of matlick with regulate
there's no youtube regimen is disgusting
then it really is i mean that should be
the regulate so they so transparently
pulled the plug right when they're like
they they were helping us steal music
right like that's what they were sort of
doing by their by their copyright things
because it helped them attack things
like Pandora or Spotify yep and then now
they and we do we have to follow up to
see what role your Cohen is playing all
all of this because I do think he's
involved in YouTube music and lyric Owen
I'm going game - interpretation only are
: Lee R :
my uh this is a theme I think we've
touched on before but not in the
regulate segment which is how
conservatives get upset with double
standards as if statements are made in a
sort of vacuum that the meaning can be
extracted from by objectively by
scientists so there Ari Fleischer who is
not a good person it was a terrible
person should not be in any public
respectable company prime propagandist
for the invasion of Iraq tweeted out
this story about Beto O'Rourke this will
be a one-day story because Beto is a
Democrat if a Republican wrote this in
college women's groups would protest and
the press wouldn't let it go that's how
it works
it's a double standard what he's upset
with is Beto review to play when he was
19 in college and said that I think the
worst thing was some of the actresses
maybe wouldn't have gotten those jobs if
they didn't have large breasts you know
it was a crass thing for a 19 year old
to say I don't know that it necessarily
should be a multi-day story
but the thing is is it doesn't it's not
really about what was said it's that's
not the only thing that matters the
logos of a statement is not the only
thing that matters right as those of us
who love our Western civilization like
to point out Aristotle had ethos pathos
and logos ethos is your credibility and
your works that go into how people are
going to judge your performance in
rhetoric so for instance if if betta was
a like anti-ro for instance right yeah
women's groups probably would be hitting
him with these Ted Cruz wrote this this
would fit exactly who Ted Cruz is if the
shoe fits you gotta wear it right and I
was thinking about this on the way and I
was doing a little thought experiment
where it's like mmm yeah like let's say
you had got a Perry Mason ashes there
are two people in the world you there's
two people in the world okay this might
be a bit too abstract but they're in
this room and there's a chair and in
between them there's a piece of
parchment that says all men are created
equal
now what that means is going to depend
on who you put in those chairs right if
it's Thomas Jefferson and George
Washington they know like yeah we know
what that means yeah right right if it's
like James Baldwin and you know Eleanor
Roosevelt it's gonna mean something else
it means something quite different and
that's that's the that's really I think
we have this explosion of media and
communication and all this stuff and we
really need to get this understanding
that meaning is socially constructed and
it's up to us basically and attempts to
a clue to that fact are basically just
exercises of power or trying to cloak
exercises of power I'm not gonna get
into it but also witness Sam Harris
yeah totally all those things all of
that stuff because you know Hitchens got
onto that cuz he always says the 21st
sent he said the 21st century is gonna
be against the literal versity ironic
mind and I think that's true I think he
focused too much on the religious
fundamentalism because what Sam Harris
does with biology or IQ and those things
those are the same sort of
fundamentalist pursuits right they're
looking to drill down to find something
right that
can explain everything with and it's
it's uh it's that's not what it's about
that's not what it's about at all and it
also yeah and it also puts you like in
this in this platonic realm where you're
not subject to history or context yep
and and I like I actually like religious
language in the sense of like we're all
fallen humans I think that that's
actually an incredibly humbling and
accurate stance for us all to hold
across the board because it's like I
mean just definitionally we are fallible
we all have much room to grow in every
way shape and form and as soon as you
sort of state a stance where your art an
end point and you know everything from
that end point you're in very dangerous
territory even if you're cloaking it
with humanitarianism and rationalism and
all these other great values which
actually are trait values whose brands
been totally diluted by all that
rhetoric David Griscom chief financial
correspondent it's been a couple of
weeks since we've heard although I will
say I'm going to this Jordan Peterson
conference in Idaho in a couple of weeks
and Richard Wolfe will be there I don't
know how I'm gonna handle it I don't
know how I'm supposed to frankly have
your back and keep things civil or
you're gonna have to watch your back I
think oh I'm not worried about that
buddy should be worried about what paper
gets slipped to who I'm gonna go like
just sit you're like wolf and I are just
me sitting like having coffee and he's
gonna be like if you want to go to the
economics and democracy conference you
know what you have to do I just step up
I just like slide and address underneath
his latte and I look wistfully into the
distance as a bomb is planted you're
building it's like a scene in narcos all
right go ahead David
yes all right well you know I want to
talk about a very specific problem this
week in fact 1.5 trillion dollar problem
and that is student loan debt I was
thinking about that especially after I
don't know if people were familiar but
this week some very disappointing news
came out a lot of folks especially with
gone to college and
decade I've been sort of offered this
opportunity where if they go into public
service for ten years and they make
faithful payments on the student loans
that they'll be forgiven and this was
something that you know caught the fancy
of many people well this is the first
year that you know this program is
available for folks who have been
working public service for the past ten
years to have their loans forgiven
mm-hmm out of 90 out of a hundred
percent of applicants 99 percent were
rejected by the Department of Education
of course in fact only 99 people in
total I believe we're accepted so there
are many reasons that the Department of
Education has claimed for why this
happening being appealed miss file their
paperwork people not understanding the
parameters of the program we are
fascists exactly well you know and the
problem is is that you know the program
itself doesn't seem to make a lot of
extent since even to the bureaucrats
within the government there's been
conflicting statements from the
Department of Education on what it takes
to qualify for it and even their own
people within the administration seem to
not really understand how it works but
this leads us to a larger problem than
just you know these folks who you know
definitely should have their loans
forgiven but the fact of how many people
in this country are crushed under
student loan debt as I said a second ago
it's a 1.5 trillion dollar problem now
that's bigger than credit card debt and
it's also bigger than auto loans in this
country so we when we're talking about
we're talking a very significant part of
the economy that has sort of weighed
down and a very specific generational
issue because the average the average
cost of debt for students in the past 20
years has increased exponentially now
we're looking at you know average debt
load in 2016 was over $37,000 for
students I mean that's enough to start a
small business that's enough to you know
put a first payment on a house I mean
that's a significant it's a lot of
dampening on the US economy on top of it
the delinquency rate in the u.s. is
around eleven point two percent in 2017
so that means that people aren't even
able to make their payments these
payments are huge by the way we're
talking on average payment that's around
$300 oh yeah I've been in that position
of trying to negotiate like you know
like a lower number
month in the past and they're just like
no yes you just push it off if you can't
meet a minimum pretty high threshold
they're not interested well then it's
like if you for example if you go on
forbearance because of a new you know
financial changes you can see all the
payments that you've made just disappear
in a year you know because of interest
yeah I mean it's absolutely crushing and
it's one of those things that it doesn't
have to be this way in fact you know if
you look at other countries that you
know don't offer this kind of predatory
practices when it comes to higher
education you have you know better
better outcomes in general and you know
one thing that I just want to talk about
it's like if you want to talk about a
way to stimulate the economy for giving
student loan debt is an incredible way
to start you know not only is it
something that will take the burden off
of people's backs it will allow them to
be able to spend their money in more
productive ways rather than just
servicing the interest payment on bones
which is a huge industry that really
doesn't do very much that's productive
for our society on top of any other it's
a parasite industry without it down it's
a parasite industry and on top of that
it really changes the way the higher
education is thought of in this country
and we got to think about sort of
structurally what college education in
the promise that the the loan programs
that we had were was that we had an
upper class in the United States but we
had an upper class because they worked
harder and they were smarter now we had
a change which is more the technocratic
change was like oh we can open up the
universities to people of more
working-class backgrounds well more and
more we've seen that a college degree
while it gives you opportunities that
you wouldn't have without a college
degree it is not a guarantee of entrance
into the middle class
in fact it's far more likely even
without even when controlling for
college education if you come from
wealth that you're going to find more
opportunities to become wealthy and if
you come from a poor background even
with a higher education degree you're
very unlikely to be able to break into
those higher thresholds of earning so
what's happened with college education
is more and more people are fighting for
it to be just like an ongoing four years
of job training right which is not
something that's necessarily even very
healthy for you know the intellectual
life in the United States and having you
know college and universities accessible
to all people where people can learn
about literature art and philosophy
would just make for a better society
overall it makes your conversations
better
it makes your interactions people better
and it allows for the kind of critical
thinking that we're very much or lacking
it in this in this country because in
general most people go to college and
they're so stressed out because they
understand the amount of debt that
they're taking that the only thing that
they can do is something that's directly
career oriented and you know higher
university is higher education is one of
the you know the glories of our of our
civilization of human achievement and
it's been so cheapened by this
for-profit system you know if we want a
better society in a more educated
society and a more prosperous society we
need to end the system that exploits the
hopes of young people and exploits them
for profit absolutely it's pretty insane
does something happen it's pretty insane
the way we have seventeen-year-old sign
on the dotted line for loans of that
well especially when you think about the
for-profit schools which I'm sure most
people are familiar with but they're
absolutely frightening where these
people will go to online schools and
rack up forty five fifty thousand
dollars in debt being told that this is
you know their opportunity or people who
think they went it they follow some like
path of low income work because they
expect that that's gonna qualify them
for these forgiveness things and then
you realize you've been doing that and
you're not even gonna get credit for
them you know I have to say what after
college I took a job at a non-profit it
was good work but it you know it wasn't
necessarily what I wanted to do and it
wasn't a huge decision but I remember
having that thought in my head is like
oh no if I if I you know don't work in
this industry anymore I'm not going to
have the loan forgiveness that I was
sort of hoping for and I made the
decision to jump and I said I can't
imagine us taking you know eight years
or even now after reading this how
furious I would be realizing that you
know years of my life that I had spent
you know working towards a certain goal
or being you know taken away did that
that chute that buttons huh the
buttons messed up when I let go so it
just means I need to talk yeah just keep
going the buttons like we need more we
go through so many these goddamn buttons
we really do they must be made in China
I gotta tell you what a static a static
is literally the name of it
well a sta T I see but I'll put another
s and yeah because they're being
bad ass tatak how you do what
I've always wondered is like what would
if like that would be a very interesting
like like what if there was a reframe I
mean I've been somebody I've certainly
been in student loan delinquency right I
think many people have if that was
something that was like if that could be
flipped from you know people are hounded
and financially unable to there was like
a collective like we're actually not
doing this as a form of civil discipline
death strike yeah we're doing a debts
TRO instead of like we can't do it but
there was just a bunch of people was
like we choose not to do this because
this is fundamentally exploitative
abusive and unfair yeah you giving our
education to bankers to collect interest
on right was up we're not yeah
yeah
and this wasn't and certainly this
wasn't right and this wasn't all fee
like this wasn't spelled out exactly
when you were you know good but even
regardless of whether it was spelled out
or not like yeah well and I always
wonder where there's interventions where
it's like what if something that's just
an odd like an obvious social and
economic ill could actually just get
reframed as like no we're actually just
taking collective action here well you
know definitely would be something
that's good you know the problem with
student loans and that kind of activism
I think you know there's simply
something I support but the power that
these student loan companies have they
have huge power no the garnish your
wages your bank account you know and the
fact that you know you cannot declare
bankruptcy with your student loans I
mean that's absolutely wild to think
that you know somebody who opens up like
the most bizarre business ever just like
completely you know waste of money
for 50,000 60,000 can you know declare
bankruptcy and you know have AB some you
can dress like a beanie shop and declare
bankruptcy yeah but somebody goes you
can't do it right and and you know
finding out that it wasn't financially
the best decision for them and
understanding the punishment that you
get for declaring bankruptcy by the way
that's not you know something that just
makes things go away right you know but
the fact that you don't have that option
I mean it's absolutely disgusting and
this was so hard to fight against it is
really just morally unconscionable as a
society and as a government that we
continue to allow the system and it's
incredible and it's to the Democrats
deficit that they have not made the
student loan forgiveness a major part of
their platform because it's something a
lot of people utterly bizarre and people
I mean I if you want to know is like
endless navel-gazing about motivating
young voters I mean of course the
broader you know Medicare for all for
younger people and for parents obviously
free college but like mass student loan
like just student loan Jubilee if you
convinced students if you convince
people in their 20s 30s 40s that you
could have a policy mechanism to
discharge their student loans or chop
them in half or you kidding me no
exactly that's a lot of votes I can't I
don't understand why it's not a major
part of strategy and the thing is is
that it would also just it would be good
for the economy in general like it would
just be better if people were not
spending three hundred four hundred five
hundred dollars a month servicing loans
and instead spending that on consumer
goods or spending that or even health
saving it the fact that so many people
can't even afford you know $400
emergency but it forced to make student
loan payments is you know absolutely you
know it's really disgusting it's
absolutely disgusting I'm navigating
here Daniel best neurs outside but I
don't think could somebody go out and
find him I think he's I think he's on
I'm confirming that he's and he's on air
floor oh go find him but yeah maybe go
Chris comes like yeah I got it
I gotta find him um but uh no I I don't
I mean that must be just some type of
another like dumb polling move
or something it must just be like oh
yeah well we don't know that people get
out to vote on that so we're not gonna
Center it that's really the only reason
I can imagine because it seems to me
that that is a give me in terms of
motivating people on getting rid of
student loans yeah I don't know I guess
there's some people who have the only
push back I've ever gotten is people who
are like well I've paid a lot of student
loans why should I not you know I've
already paid those which I don't I don't
really
because I do I sort of feel like the the
bubble is new enough right like I feel
like it really Griscom would know it's
better than I did but the student loan
levels really started peeking mid 2000s
right right so like it's not like you
would have all these people who were
from the mid 90s that had these huge
debt levels that are gonna feel like
they got what is that what is also what
is that logically yes Oh gives a
they were at their worst just to get
this out there they were actually at
their worst in highest around 2007-2008
right but what's really striking about
the student loan bubble in general is
that it expanded during the recession
while all other types of loans dwindled
so during the past like eight years
that's really expensive people try to
escape the graduates I chose I chose
because I was a freshman that when I
think in 2007 and I chose to yeah I'm
like I'm really I think I might do grad
school right you know a lot of people
know in that time period that was a ton
of people did that because that was that
that was like a yeah that you would ask
and also the and and it didn't sink in
either that it would be like a
structural feature of the economy even
in a recovery so people went and they
gobbled up like law degrees which you
know things like that which weren't
great calls
Daniel best nurse here we are gonna take
a brief break I don't know what are we
gonna do for break musically on that
well we can do this one if we just do it
quickly this alright I'm gonna go I need
to run okay for a second so let's if you
need to switch it up switch it up and
then we will be right back we're talking
about what a socialist foreign policy
actually looks like and also throwing a
lot of shots Daniel has a whole list of
people that he would like to start some
beef with so I just want I'm I was
surprised but I'm just following the
lead of my guests all right we'll be
back soon
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
welcome back to the Michael Brooks show
joining us now is Daniel bessner he is
the an I'm reading the whole thing he is
the an aah and Kenneth B pile assistant
professor in American foreign policy in
the Henry Jackson School of
International Studies at the University
of Washington he's author of democracy
in exile han Speier and the rise of the
defense intellectual we actually had a
really good conversation about this book
on the majority report a couple months
ago thanks for being here man yeah
thanks for having me I appreciate it no
it's it's my pleasure but it's been fun
too cuz and then you had this piece that
will also obviously talk about the New
York Times it's sort of charting what
would an actual left foreign policy look
like and I kind of I want us to deal
with the left foreign policy I want us
to talk about the think tank component
how far in policy is actually made Matt
I don't know if you need another minute
you got it but I wanted to start I mean
with I want to just take two different
issues we'll take them one by one that
we've been covering on the show
obviously people people will laugh this
is another Brazil segment we're gonna do
I want to play this clip Bernie Sanders
just put out this segment on his YouTube
channel it's with Danny Glover and Mark
Weisbrot about the situation in Brazil
it's particularly important I mean we're
about a week away from the first round
of elections and the polls that came out
today look really bad Haddad had a lot
of momentum Wilson are oh the fascist
candidate is shooting back up and
another thing that happened this week
just briefly to really underline the
judicial coup nature of this Lula had
finally been granted an ability to do an
interview with a newspaper you know in
Brazil like incarcerated cartel heads
give TV interviews and they've totally
blocked press access to him in terms of
giving interviews he was authorized the
right to give an interview by one
Supreme Court justice and another
Supreme Court justice immediately
stepped in and intervened and blocked
the interview and just sort of a I mean
they're really showing their hands here
in terms like what they're actually up
to and I want and you just got back from
Brazil so you'll tee off on it but first
let's just play a
little bit of this video that Bernie
Sanders put out with Danny Glover and
Mark Weisbrot the threat to democracy
Brazil as a result of the enormous
achievements of the Workers Party this
one is a really unusual election because
first of all the most popular candidate
the former president Lula da Silva is in
jail and he would have won the election
by all the polls if he had been allowed
to run in the fifth even for centuries
in poverty they had a violent economy
they extended their relationship with
other countries in Latin America the
Workers Party was first elected to the
presidency with Lula in 2002 and then he
was re-elected and then he could only
serve two consecutive terms and so in
2010 one of his ministers Dilma Rousseff
ran and she won and then she won again
in 2014
now that period was a very successful
period for social and economic progress
in Brazil and then in 2015 there was a
recession and the right-wing opposition
parties to Dilma who was in office took
advantage of that and they impeached her
they didn't really have a crime they
accused her of a kind of an accounting
manipulation which all previous
presidents have done in governance - it
was a power grab but then they still had
the problem that ruika run for president
so with a very politicized judiciary
they went after Lula and he was
convicted of taking a bribe which was in
the form of repairs to an apartment
basically and they never showed that he
owned or stayed in the apartment or
rented it or that it was his in any
legal way they didn't have any material
evidence either we have to do something
about this but we at the same time
understand
this is not only just happening Brazil
it's been undermining other countries in
the region as well the question about
what has happened to all of these
governments in the region with
introduced policies that were more
friendly to poor people and friendly to
indigenous people what is happening to
those particular countries and certainly
those leaders who initiated those really
progressive changes the leading
candidate is this congressman enjoyable
so narrow in the press they compared him
the trumpet to be honest that's actually
unfair to Trump because he is so
extremist and so openly racist done
misogynist that's a nightmare
basically what he represents is someone
to the same kind of ideology of Donald
Trump
he's extremely - right he certainly is
attacked by the only African religions
is also called for intervention of the
military as well you have to remember
this country is a relatively new
democracy it's only 30-something years
since the dictatorship progressives have
to be concerned not only what is
happening here in the United States but
also concerned about those who are
progressive in other countries in Latin
America as well and certainly Brazil is
one those progressive forces so that's I
think as I just just tee off on it I
mean first of all what do you make of
that timeline and being in Brazil and
and also you were nodding your head at
the regional implications of this - well
it's really interesting because of
course Latin America's had this pink
tide over the last 20 or 30 years and
now this is sort of the reaction to that
right and so there's this long history
in Latin America so as Danny said I have
to say I'm with Danny here but the
military dictatorship from 64 to 85 and
so you have this new democracy in 85
which has been having a lot of
transitional problems and of course
existing in this capitalist world and so
I think it's just really important to
emphasize how this might have brought
room for Clinton implications for the
entire region right so it's reaction to
the Chavez the Lula sort of Pink's
height of the 1990s and 2000 so it's
really something that Americans need to
pay attention to even as they're really
different
ideologically inside very much know but
sort of a more people's progress and
focusing on poor people and indigenous
people and
trying to combat poverty as opposed to
doing things like giving
air-conditioning to the subway right so
you go to Brazil and the actual
residential spaces are very rundown
there's a lot of you know we could curse
on here a lot of all over the place
right so the government has instead of
focusing on that for actually working
people it's focused on giving
air-conditioning to the subway and you
could see sort of the corruption
involved with this right-wing coup
that's recently happened with jilma they
when they actually got rid of the old
mode they this this Tam our governments
impose really vicious austerity it's
it's really terrible and so of course
what happened was the fastest candidate
was stabbed in the state of minister
rice actually when I was there and that
has really led to an increase in popular
support for him so it's sort of a the
worst of all words world's here but yet
at the same time it's also Lula has this
sort of sustained popularity and the
workers parties actually won the last
four elections in the road because they
actually know how to do this exactly and
there's Lula Lee very stuff all over the
place literally all over the place you
could see free Lula propaganda which is
great you know and a good propaganda
messages and also the name of the
activist who was killed I forget Marina
yes Silva right there's Reena Silva I
need to mariela Franco excuse me
Marina Silva is actually a terrible
presidential candidate in Brazil Mariela
Franco is assassinated City Council
woman who they've still not identified
right who assassinated her right and so
there's a lot of grassroots support for
that but it's interesting is sort of the
bourgeois opposition has coalesced
around this really far-right figure much
more far-right than Trump in my opinion
because he has an actual ideology do you
think that that also has to do with last
week on the show I criticized this sort
of free-floating anti-corruption
discourse and how it gets weaponized by
the right absolutely because that's what
they used to get rid of Lula right so
and it's what is corruption who defines
corruption right it's it it's always
that's the question right so helping
working people is defined as corruption
well sort of Wall Street banking is not
right and so it's all about definitions
and who is the power elite there I
completely agree let's touch on one
other let's go to Yemen
mom you know we're refueling you know
United States and UK I mean it's kind of
funny the way it's presented in the
media because in some ways it's like
well we're refueling these Saudi UAE
missions so we're we're sort of
supporting it but the reality is is that
my understanding is first of all that we
literally they would not have the
capacity to do what they were doing so
it's not just sort of like support staff
we're a co-equal or or highly Co active
participants in just a slaughter
absolutely I mean the United States
really since 1945 has armed the world
and this actually relates to Brazil
Brazil is one of the most armed
countries in the world and where do you
think they get their weapons from so
these are small arms - right yeah no
small arms right it's you're worried if
someone's worried about getting robbed
actually saw a robbery their first hand
one of the first times that I did the
first time and it's just people are
afraid about getting shot with handguns
right and where do you think those guns
come from so this is a kind of secret
history of the United States that all of
the violence that we see and we see
these countries as dysfunctional or
whatever the case may be but they're
fighting with the u.s. arms and what do
you think could be done in terms of
Yemen I mean I what I would do is
immediately stop funding the Saudis and
what what critics are what sort of
bourgeois
right when critics would say then what
do you do about oil right if you sort of
thunder tear asunder the us-saudi
relationship that would affect oil
prices and I think this is how we have
to think of a left foreign policy as
encompassing also domestic policy we do
things like invest in an alternative
energy rights because right now we're on
a very restricted foreign policy program
because our own economic policies
backward-looking reactionary policies
really lend themselves to the support of
dictators like in Saudi Arabia and
elsewhere throughout the world before we
get I want we're gonna get to this New
York Times piece with your sort of basic
outline for kind of what a left foreign
policy would look like but before we do
that I do want to talk more about this
democracy in exile book it's a
fascinating book thanks partially
because to me there's some things that
maybe we could actually learn from it in
terms of how people sort of come
together and
build and you know an intellectual
infrastructure about how to look at the
world basically obviously our goals and
what we're trying to do or diametrically
opposed the people you're writing about
but they still maybe have some useful
guidebooks for us but first of all could
you I mean explain who is this guy Hans
spare and where does this come from what
is the rise of the defense intellectual
sure so actually Hans Meyer was a guy
who was on the left wing of the Social
Democratic Party of Germany in and
during the era of the bimah Republic
basically the Democratic German state
before Hitler and over the course of the
1920s he progressively lost faith in
Marxist theory because and he wasn't
wrong here Germany's workers essentially
to some real degree supported
anti-democratic movements whether it be
on the right like the fascists or even
on the less with the communists who were
anti-democratic right this is Leninist
vanguard ISM and over the course of the
30s he began to argue that intellectuals
needed to become essentially the
handmaidens of power and used their
research skills and use their knowledge
in order to build a defense of democracy
against extremist threats and he helped
build institutions like the RAND
Corporation which were essentially
designed to permanently remove the
public from the foreign policymaking
process so it's his transition from
social democracy to very of what I would
consider to be a right-wing hawkish
American foreign policy so what are the
three components of that is it is it the
trauma of dealing with Nazism which you
talked about is it this notion that
there's an objective world that can only
be apprehended by experts or is this
actually you know is this Plato
philosopher-king stuff there's elements
of all of that but it comes from the
idea that modernity is simply too
complex for ordinary people to
understand and the fear is that ordinary
people who don't want to do things like
remember there was a strong isolationist
movement in the 1930s didn't want to
fight fascism and after the World War
two there's the fear that ordinary
people wouldn't be able to commit
themselves what was seen as the
existential struggle against Soviet
Communism so the idea was you create
what is essentially a shadow
state where the public or even the
Congress doesn't really have an effect
on foreign policymaking so a place like
the RAND Corporation which is
essentially the laser rands to people
sure
so the RAND Corporation is really the
first national security think tank and
what I think is really important about
it is that it's builders consciously put
it not in the American State it's
technically a private organization but
it's totally disconnected from the
public it's totally disconnected from
Congress so you essentially have the
research arm of the American Empire the
people who are suggesting to the
policymakers what they should actually
do having no democratic accountability
whatsoever the people have no way to
sanction or even really know what Rand
is doing and this is also of course
connected to the rise of what historians
term a culture of classification right
we don't even know what our own country
is doing in the world because everything
that's classified right so it's the idea
that the wise American foreign policy is
one in which the public and the Congress
don't have an effect and you could even
see it on as basic a level as education
so whoever is listening how many people
in high school learned that America has
hundreds of bases overseas right so the
idea is that the public is completely
disconnected from this huge Imperial
infrastructure that really governs the
world and that's linked to this fear
that the public isn't going to be able
to make a wise foreign policy that
emerge from this belief that the public
voted for Hitler they may not want to
fight World War two they can't trust
them to be you can't trust them to beat
Stalin etc is the history not to be like
exculpatory but is the history of like
German support for Hitler and the Nazi
Party is it a little bit more
complicated oh of course it's more
complicated it's it's not that we're
gonna let Germans off the hook no no
youyou don't you know Germans but
no is it I mean just because there was
that book that came out decades ago what
does it call dome Hitler's willing
execution right there's that like public
perception that right that feeds into
this that this whole country just like
on mass was ready to buy into the one of
the most horrifying genocide 'old yeah
right no no absolutely I mean I think
there's elements of truth in both sides
where it's absolutely true that not
every German with some M
the Nazi Party and not every German was
a virulent anti-semite but it's also
true that German labor was one of the
first groups to be co-opted by the Nazi
state so it's important to take the
critique seriously but my big criticism
people like Speier was that they they
turned this contingent historical
experience you know Germany after World
War one lost this major war depression
etc that the the creation of a totally
new state and turned it into a universal
referendum on the capacity for ordinary
people to serve as democratic decision
makers and I think that's the real
problem this universality of a very
contingent historical experience so then
a so then and and how does this defense
think-tank and public intellectual
infrastructure parallel the like literal
policy apparatus we have like the Dulles
brothers running wilds and you know just
laying to waste Africa Latin America
Asia we have you know the rise of the of
the arms and defense industry and the
same circle that actually even in you
know okay the you know obviously this
guy is more sympathetic as this kind of
like world-weary German intellectual had
a trauma and seriously miscalculated but
now we have you know I mean john bolton
fits this mold is like we have this in
this network of think tanks and
intellectuals that are funded by defense
contractors and and also coalesce with
the military and intelligence appetites
I think that's absolutely correct and I
think this really highlights the
importance of institutions to American
foreign policy making so in my view all
of the institutions that were
essentially coalesced in the 1947
National Security Act the National
Security Council which is how Kissinger
comes to power right or while rostow
comes to power the CIA and even the very
Department of Defense are essentially
institutions that are designed to one
managed this an emerging American
Imperium for lack of a better phrase and
to be able to respond immediately to
what to perceived crises throughout the
world because the fear was that the
fight with the Soviet Union is this
existential crisis especially after 1949
when the Soviets get an atomic bomb so
democracies which were traditionally
maligned as being slow to react you know
you actually have to go through
Ingres and things like that there was
created an institutional infrastructure
that was a la that was created
essentially to allow democracies to
respond in non democratic ways the
president could immediately send troops
or the CIA could do subversion in the
Italian and French French elections of
1948
so these institutions are crisis
institutions and you really see that not
only throughout the Cold War but after
the Cold War ended right why do these
institutions which were designed and
built to fight the Cold War continue to
exist because there's an institutional
inertia and you see this with the new
identification of an existential enemy
like what Michael Flynn calls radical
Islam or what Lindsey Graham calls
radical Islam so you you defeat the
Soviet Union and then there's another
existential enemy which provides a logic
for these institutions to keep on doing
what they're going to do for example to
deploy special forces to 149 countries
in 2017 things like that right right and
so now let's shift gears and go over
this list that you published in the New
York Times it was about a week ago
yeah week or two ago of the sort of five
different components of what a left
foreign policy would look like you want
to just run those yeah absolutely so the
idea was that I didn't want to describe
or prescribe actual specific foreign
policies because I think that's for the
grassroots and and the leaders of the
left to work out on their own but really
to identify a series of principles that
I think it could could be used to sort
of serve as lodestones for what a left
foreign policy can be so the first one
is democracy and what I really mean by
that is bringing Congress but even more
than that the people back into the
foreign policy making process developing
some mechanism that allows ordinary
Americans to actually have a say and and
even more importantly some knowledge of
what the United States is doing abroad
so that's the first point the second
point is accountability right that you
need the foreign policy professionals
who do things like start the Iraq war
they shouldn't to take one example of
Paul Wolfowitz and then become president
of the World Bank and then once you
resign from the World Bank of disgrace
go to the AEI and then once you're at
the AEI become one of the head foreign
policy makers at jeb Bush's foreign
policy team right so everyone thought
Bush was going to win so people were
planning to have wolf woods back in
power it's
me is rather wacky and if you don't have
accountability you're gonna keep on
making the very same mistakes number
three is anti-militarism which is just
to recognize that this unit the United
States has this enormous base system
really eight hundred bases are by some
counts a thousand bases you know all
these aircraft carriers that have the
capacity to destroy the world twenty
times over that these sorts of bases and
forces should be withdrawn to be drawn
down that we should stop spending a
ridiculous amount of money and what is
essentially oftentimes graft and in
other times basically unusable weapons
or pointless weapons and bring it back
to social welfare systems the fourth one
I think is really critical and that's
the notion of threat deflation like I
said since 1945 the United States has
really been moving from crisis to crisis
first the Soviet Union then then
so-called radical Islam and and then
North Korea and Iran and really I think
it's important to emphasize that none of
these none of these powers none of none
of these threats poses serious
existential threat to the United States
now the United States may very well at
some point be the victim of a terrorist
attack but to me that's more a
consequence of living in an
interconnected world it's a consequence
of modernity that you can't really ever
fully defend against and so Americans
need to understand that we're really
safe and we have to stop spending so
much money on these ridiculous based
systems in trying to manage the world
and then the fifth the the fifth point I
think is really the one that that opens
up for us a lot of discussion which is
internationalism and what does the Left
mean and if I internationalism right are
we gonna start doing humanitarian
interventions I don't think we should i
but i think we need to think about what
ways do we interact in the world on two
levels first let's say Bernie wins what
did the left is to actually control
state power do what do they do with
those mechanisms but even more
importantly we might be concerned with
what I've started to call the foreign
policy of civil society right which is
what do NGOs what who pull movements
like DSA what's their foreign policy how
do they build transnational solidarities
with working-class movements abroad and
relate that to state power but not be
totally reliant on it so for example I
wouldn't want Bernie to start funding
organizations because let's say the next
Trump wins in the East our
funding right-wing organs right so we
need to think about ways to separate
state foreign policy from again the
foreign policy of civil society and so
could this also involve like you've
talked about as an example just sort of
like banning certain types of corporate
behavior abroad right and and I think we
need to we need to move away from what I
would call the consumer capitalism that
has defined American capitalism since at
least the 1960s which is the idea that
consumption is the center the center of
what it means to be a human being and
that we have to actually make the
argument as left that Americans may have
to for a time give up some of their
consumptive habits in order to create a
more just world where it's not defined
by the types of hierarchies where the
global North sits at the top and totally
dominates the global South and you we
have iPhones that rely on this horrible
labor and all the things we're very
aware of but we need to make that
argument that consumption shouldn't be
the center of what it means to be a
human being and what how does like and
how does like so it was so it's so funny
because I am curious like how China like
as an example fits into this in terms of
just a world where the dynamic is gonna
be absolutely different and China has
you know I think some of its own really
negative appetite absolutely in terms of
foreign policy and I think people should
be not naive about that either at the
same time I don't want to fall into the
cliche cuz that's the other problem
these conversations they immediately
succumb to cliche like what about the
rise of China regards to a left foreign
policy right which is less what about it
I think that's absolutely important
thing to emphasize and I think that I'm
so the me the question is security
transition in East Asia right the United
States is not going to be there forever
and even though some people have the
older generation are essentially arguing
that we should be there for 200 years in
East Asia in the South China Sea defend
Japan defend South Korea I don't think
that's realistic and I don't think that
should be the responsibility of the
United States now the question is what
does the security transition look like
and the left needs to grapple with these
non easy questions do we just leave
South Korea and Japan to to Chinese
hegemony right is that what the left
wants to do it very well might be what I
would argue is that the state itself
doesn't stay in sort of the eastern
hemisphere forever but that grassroots
again the foreign policy of civil
society
works on building these types of
transnational solidarities where we
could work to create a just world
however we do I think need to recognize
the limits of American power in an era
when the United States for example
doesn't control 50% of industrial
production like it did in 1945 just the
reality is we don't have the powers that
we did earlier in our history and what
about in a plate like like in Africa or
this sort of like this multi colonial
play right now right like where it's
these different models and China's going
in incredibly aggressively and of course
United States all as extractive abusive
relationship with that be a place where
because you know one thing I've said in
the sort of pushback of conversations I
get into where it's I mean you know and
I think it goes without saying that like
of course you know the u.s. Western
security system is incredibly exploitive
and abusive in anybody with I think even
the most soft left politics would want
to leave that world behind categorically
and then at the same time like as I
always say like when you're an activist
in say I don't know Cameroon you can
exploit contradictions in the United
States potentially you could say like
well you know the foreign policy United
States is essentially obviously directed
by extractive industries and arms
manufacturers and that really is the
engine and then there's all these sort
of you know crazy hegemonic theories and
military presence and expanded kinetic
activity but then there is also like
civil society organizations who are
concerned about various issues in Africa
as an example there might even be people
inside the State Department who are you
know writing reports that are indirectly
criticizing what the rest of the
apparatus of the government is doing in
China as an example like there isn't the
saint's like it's like oh well we don't
we put labor organizers in jail here to
write it go yourself there is
there's no contradiction to play off of
so it's like but maybe if I understand
what you're saying correctly which is
interesting is that the only way
actually to properly even begin to
respond to that type of like
mercantilists neo-colonial situation is
actually to completely give up our own
way of doing that business and properly
get on the other side of a power
equation if that's possible well I think
there's always gonna be trade-offs right
and so these trade-offs are absolutely
going to be tragic I mean the problem is
if I had my druthers
I would totally stop every genocide and
humanity and save everyone in the world
even in this case just even talking
about like literally labor abuses right
right an example right like yeah where
maybe there's more room in terms of I
don't know exerting diplomatic power or
who we back on the grounds or align with
or so on right and I think this is what
these sort of civil society and NGO
organizations could do which is act
which could actually help identify
people on the ground people that respond
to the values of the left and help build
them up in whatever capacities are
possible I don't think this should be
military and this is why I'm wary about
making it a state-directed project even
though the American state obviously of
course has awesome power is that it just
historically has lent itself to such
destruction even even with people who
had truly great and noble intentions it
just never works out we don't understand
what's actually happening on the ground
we don't understand the power
coalition's we don't know what will
happen so I'm just generally loath given
- given the history of the United States
after 1945 to promote state-directed
projects yeah but this is why the left
needs to build we need to think in terms
of movement politics right it's not just
electoral ism and it's not just
grassroots it's thinking of the left as
a larger movement where certain elements
are able to do certain things and other
elements do other things right and the
state may have certain limited
capacities but we as people who are
trying to build these sorts of
working-class transnational solidarities
begin to create our own foreign policy
where we're able to connect with people
on the ground in a real way that that
someone from the State Department will
just never be able to do by dint of
their position what is National Security
does that exist well this is really
interesting and and it's a good question
right and and this really leads to my
argument that the national security
state and this whole idea of American
Empire is a capital P progressive
project and what I mean is that refers
to a very specific historical movement
roughly between 88 and 80 and 1920 which
is the idea that you create categories
like the economy which is probably the
most famous one or national security
which is this abstracted pseudo social
scientific concept that you're able to
manage right that you're able to measure
national security it goes up where it
goes down you have more or less security
so I think that that's kind of a naive
epistemology and way to understand how
the world actually works so no I
wouldn't say national security is
actually a
thing but it does have real effects as a
category just like the economy has real
effects like the idea of a macro economy
is essentially a little wild that you're
able to sort of create this incredibly
abstract category that you can
manipulate by doing that doing a and
then B will happen right it doesn't
really work that way it's essentially a
human heuristic and this is what
national security is so it's an
organizing analytical concept that
people have used to talk about things
like defense and um if I had my wit my
wish the left would sort of move beyond
the security discourse which I really
think limits our politics and actually
prevents against transformative projects
of the of the type that I at least would
like to see in the world by by promoting
a conservative almost reactionary
politics where you could only defend
national security which is in some sense
a negative project as opposed to build a
more positive world right and also like
whose security exactly right like cuz
because that's I mean you talk about it
as not being a monolithic bloc I mean
like okay I guess there's some very
obvious things we could say we can't
have a perfectly safe world but we could
all agree that nobody wants you know a
bomb to go off in midtown Manhattan
that's terrible for everybody okay so
that that's a very narrow limited claim
that we could all safely agree to but
beyond that you start getting into
everything from well what about the
blowback from all of these you know Wars
and kinetic activities we pursue
overseas I don't think that's benefiting
us you know what about the rules were
writing that might increase the
likelihood of the spread of infectious
diseases because we're undermining you
know developing countries ability to
distribute generic drugs on behalf of
our pharmaceutical industry you know
what does that mean
I mean I think you're right there are
absolutely a ton of unintended
consequences and types of blowback that
we'll get and also as you indicated
security really has a tendency to sort
of gobble up everything where everything
could be justified in the name of
security so for example the invasion of
Afghanistan Iraq the intervention in
Libya what's going on in Yemen right now
whether we do or don't act in Syria and
we actually have been acting since 2011
even though most people don't know about
that so I think this logic of security
really becomes all overwhelming and it
really becomes the criterion by what
all political actions especially foreign
policy behavior is judged in that night
not necessarily be the best way to think
about things so for example an
alternative heuristic would be justice
in global justice right why don't we
make that the the the measurements of
what we do in the world as opposed to
security Americans and and I'm not
exactly sure why but they desire a
risk-free world right there's almost a
cultural sense that we can't talk about
the fact that we're going to die and I
think this actually has a lot of reason
just it related to a slightly different
topic of gerontology right why do we
have so many old politicians like people
who are above 70 above 75 even above 80
Dianne Feinstein I believe is 85 and
Grassley is 85 something like that
because we don't have a sense of talking
about death in this country and sort of
the fact that we can't live forever
right so it's kind of a general cultural
American problem the the acceptance of
risk and the acceptance of literally
death you know it's a cultural problem
that I think we needs to think more
seriously about on the Left I'm not
gonna die totally just gonna blow right
past that no I think that's that's
actually really interesting but on the
and then on the other hand there's this
enormous fear of death but then on the
other hand that's like incredible
comfort with outsourcing death whether
we're right slaughtering Native
Americans or Vietnamese people or
Yemenis like as long as it's sort of out
there we can just lay waste and even in
a more direct sense I mean since the
creation of an all-volunteer force in
the early 1970s I believe 73 essentially
the buzz was e has outsourced death -
poor southerners often of black or a lot
NX latin x background right right so
there's actually a literal outsourcing
of death so that people like Brett
Kavanaugh never had a fear of getting
drafted but it's a poor person in in
rural Georgia who's going to fight the
bush mozzies wars abroad so in many
senses we've outsourced as source death
and even more recently we've essentially
started to privatize the military where
so many of our wars are actually for
people who are who are veterans of the
American military and then work for
defense contractors and so like they're
not even included in our understanding
of what America does abroad we've
essentially created a new class of
mercenaries much like the Roman Empire
much like the empires
throughout medieval Europe we have a
class of mercenaries that fights our war
fights our Wars and so there's no even
consciousness amongst the American
populace of what the hell the country is
doing in the world right let alone the
elite let alone the elite does nothing
which does nothing which I guess is why
they still get that like a contact high
from being in the same room as John
McCain or something exactly or you know
where John McCain's daughter could could
Megan Megan McCain could it could dare
we're big fans of first year we went to
calls together oh you did I didn't I
didn't know her but we were in college
at the same time but this this fact that
she has the gall to critique socialism
and say they're playing with other
people's money right it's it's an in her
life as literally other people her life
and and right literally other people I
Finn has been promoted by the the
American war machine on one hand and I
believe alcohol on the other hand yes
right so I like I like beer who doesn't
he's a great a great man a great
American but yes so we're living in this
absurd world you know it's really
upside-down where the values of this
country or just topsy-turvy right now
before we get to the postgame you're
gonna hang out with us postgame shot
what about the sort of what about the
European project is that this sort of
like because it did seem like there
there was certainly a time where for all
of the hypocrisy and contradictions and
let's not even like we can go there in a
second that like European progress is
achieved in this sort of balance between
an incredibly privileged place in the
global supply chain which still relies
on exploitation you know of Africa and
Asia and Latin America and so on and
even even their own eastern zone as we
see more and more right and that there
is something of the u.s. security
umbrella and so they're able to have a
period of time where you know
particularly like late 90s early aughts
where they're just like you know they're
investing in their social safety nets
they're moving forward on some you know
important social issues and we can point
out all the apocrypha and contradictions
and everything that are just sort of
endless and then at the same time it's
like you also have to admit that it's
like hey
of everything that's happened so far
where would it probably be the nicest
place to be right probably somewhere in
but now they've ironically you know
they've essentially like detonated
themselves through actually writing in
almost like the gold standard into the
Euro right which is you know so I mean
but how does the failure or maybe it's
not a full failure yet fit into this
project in terms of like having some
type of transnational superstructure
that isn't just economic but
theoretically also delivers you know
ecological and labor and other forms of
of Rights I think that's a great
question and and and I think it's
important for the left to recognize
transnational solidarities even of the
horribly elitist type of their European
Union and everything you said are
actually really important because it's a
first step to the world we want to build
and III mean someone asked me today what
my major foreign policy goal would be
but I think we could actually do for
examples in North America created
through North American Union where we
don't rely on Mexico for essentially
cheap labor and and exploit that country
as we have for at this point hundreds of
years to me the major tragedy of the
European Union is that it never had a
Democratic base and the elite who
designed it never tried to build that
Democratic base and I think you're
seeing the the blowback of that now is
if there was never a popular Democratic
base for the European Union so it was
always going to be an inherently limited
project and which was why I was it was
essentially confined to the realm of
intrastate travel sorry interstate
travel and currency right because those
are sorts of these hyper elitist
projects economic projects and travel
products that were able to get done but
the European Parliament was never much I
mean this is why I serve Leo Berlusconi
you know appointed all of these Italian
models that he knew to it because it was
kind of a joke right and so I think that
what this shows is that to build the
types of transnational solidarities that
you and I want to see in the world they
need to be on a Democratic base they
can't be Vanguard and they can't be
elitist and I think that's what the sort
of the grenade that the European has
Union has done to itself is demonstrated
you said as a final question here
actually I wanted to combine two things
because maybe they're contradictory so
one part of me says what can we building
a left foreign policy actually learn
from
Ultra elitist intellectuals is there
something to learn in terms of how they
banded together to generate ideas and
kind of map a concept of the world but
then conversely I've also heard you say
you know really really earnestly and in
a very good way that like especially the
first part of the equation of restoring
democracy to foreign policy includes
just really serious educational projects
in getting people to understand the
world were in and obviously in the
United States the Empire we preside over
yeah I think it's really important so
just to take the second question first
what I would do is do things like focus
on changing textbooks right how could
the Left inform the Texas textbook
industry right how could we get
discussions of American Empire into
textbooks how could we reframe things
like the tea party not as about anti
taxes but about economic justice right
it's just how you tell the story what is
the narrative that you propose and it's
not remaking history it's just actually
looking at history in a different light
and I think that sort of project the
educational project that left needs to
take much much more seriously than it
has in the past now it has four very
understandable reasons we often don't
time don't have funding and things like
that
but it's something that I think we need
to focus upon and in terms of what we
can learn from people like Honda spire I
think it's important and I go back to
sort of Marxism day one Marxism 101 is
that you need to understand the
historical context in which you live so
to me it's not useful to make analogies
so to example late Imperial Russia in
1917 because the conditions of the
United States and 2018 are so different
and so in that sense this sort of large
Vanguard assault against the state is
probably not going to happen what people
like spires showed is that intellectuals
who are dedicated and who understand the
actual structures of power within which
they operate are able to change the
world and I think that the left in that
sense needs to on of course you always
the base is always the grassroots it's
always the people and some degree it's
always a working class but you also need
to have an elitist component at least in
the sense that let's say Bernie wins in
2020 who the hell is gonna staff the
National Security Council right you need
to have an answer to that question right
me me you need to have a basically both
of us great excuse me so you need to
have this just got to
I think that's fair so you need to have
a cadre who's able to do that and that's
unfortunately an elitist project an
entire article but it's just recognizing
at least what I think to be true is that
this is the country in which we live in
2018 well right and also there's a
distinction
I wonder between this elitist ridiculous
notion that like there's a special breed
of people that can think about foreign
policy that's ludicrous
ludicrous and certainly if you go and
even just sort of intuitive reactions to
how the world works I think you can
track a whole lot of like at least I'll
say anecdotally plenty of people who you
know I'll just run the stereotype like
you know the guy no that didn't go to
college or whatever has a much better
instinctual grasp of how things work at
least from my perspective than plenty of
people I know who you know have gone to
Ivy League colleges but then conversely
like most people don't have the time
inclination or desire to be like an
expert on you know the inner workings of
the Iran's Parliament right and that's
fine right and as long as they have
enough discretion and power to say don't
invade Iran because of some you know
ridiculous fear-mongering that you're
trying to lie to me about that's the
Democratic you know governance that goes
back to people and grassroots always you
see I don't I don't think there's any
scenario even in the most utopian one
where there isn't some sense of
different people taking ownership in a
broad sense of different areas because
there's always you know different types
of expertise levels desire right and and
that doesn't concert it's about I think
the the total evening has to be the
access to people having power over
domain it's not the idea that power
wouldn't exist that's when it becomes a
fantasy right now I agree and it's all
like equality of different types of
capital whether it's a literal capital
or social capital culture like we
shouldn't value people like Paul
Wolfowitz more than we value teachers or
whatever right well I mean and yeah and
in fact right and then and then in the
analogy would be the positive version of
Paul Wolfowitz right has the same social
capital as a teacher poets of course has
less value than any teacher and
and yeah and and then I think this leads
to two points so one you need a
mechanism to sort of mediate between
this class of experts and the demos in a
real way where the demos actually has
sanctioned power over the class of
experts and I think it's also important
for us on the left to really defend
learning and knowledge right because if
you don't have learning and knowledge
then you a great historian what it said
then you leave decisions to either habit
to the authority of any type whatever
you want to when you decide or chance
and we don't want that we we value
knowledge and we value learning we just
don't think that that makes someone
inherently better or best and the
brightest in any real sense and I think
we just have to that that seems like a
contradiction but it's actually not it's
kind of just the reality mm-hmm like an
actual lived reality lived reality like
that is like it's very able to say one
person has an expertise in a field does
not make them a better human being right
a part of a select cadre right and
especially given the fact that the
experts have up so royally all
right it's so many times whether it's
Vietnam Afghanistan Iraq so we also need
to represent sorry not represent
recognize the inherent fallenness tabara
catholic metaphor of human beings yes I
was saying that earlier and I must have
I think now I realize I stole that from
you know I'm really aligned with I like
that I like that a lot I'm all about
that what we're gonna do is we're gonna
do a post game we've got more sound to
play we're gonna get some discord
questions the gulag is happening in the
postgame the Gulag segment the ole our
old friend steve clue beck returns he
has a book you know those guys he's an
interesting version of an expert he's
definitely one of our favorites we're
gonna actually do a nice little archive
dip for the first part of the post game
so this sunday elicit history of the
elite and tax havens with men a day woke
bros there's gonna be a new one on
Thursday Friday's the live show at the
Bell House and as I say just make sure
every all of your information is in
order because the first of the month and
if you haven't done it yet go to
patreon.com/scishow of the support we've
been doing very well we're closer we're
moving towards that mm so
you Matt thank you David thank you David
thank you Gucci Wylie for being in
studio and thank you
Daniel duster thank you back in the
postgame
[Music]
