[Music]
alright lastly Chelsea Manning was on
Brian Statler's program this weekend
she has subjected herself to real
deprivation as a function of protecting
WikiLeaks and Julian Assange and I do
think that there is a fundamental
difference between what we you know we
key links of the era when they released
the material that Chelsea Manning had
acquired 2010-2011 I guess and what we
Keeley's has become in many respects
they've become far too involved in
pursuing a specific agenda too much
Donald Trump's DMS oh you mean there's
difference between civilians being
gunned down in Iraq and like what
Hillary Clinton had for lunch yesterday
exactly and and look you know like I
think that even even in the context of
of putting out that the those documents
I think it was really more the mechanism
in the way that they did it rather than
frankly them doing it I mean I
understand they're a they're a an
information you know liberating agency
and I think you I mean I think there's
some question about that but I have very
little doubt that the the cables that
they released and the video that they
released wasn't worthy of news reports
and and I frankly you can look at the
era from 2011 to 2016 and how many news
reports were based on that information
but here is Chelsea Manning saying that
the executive branch especially Trump
wants
attack journalists and we'll use the
judiciary as a rubber-stamp
she is out of prison because the grand
jury ended that was looking into a
Julian Assange there will be another one
that will be started though they run out
their term and then they bring in
another one and she very well may end up
back in prison for the duration of that
term of that grand jury God oh do you
view the prosecution of Assange as a
threat to press freedom I mean I think
that I think that the Eastern District
of Virginia is now turning into a rubber
stamp for all these different
prosecution's that really are going
after you know and and I think that
ultimately what they really want is they
want to go after journalists like
they're like the this administration
clearly wants to go after journalists I
think that if the administration gets
its way as it's laid out you know in
repeated statements like the the media
is the enemy of the people kind of thing
you know you know that then I think that
we're gonna see that you know national
security journalists and and you know a
lot of press RUP t'v you know for this
administration press we're probably
going to see you know indictments and
charges you know but perhaps indirectly
related and the average American commits
a you know there's so many of federal
offenses
the average American commits three
felonies a day so whenever a journalism
it makes a misstep I think that they're
put on notice now that the FBI and the
Department of Justice we're going to go
after them on the administration's
behalf I don't know what those three
felonies a day but they could be you
know ranging from like you know taking
tags off of a mattress but terms of
service sorts of things yes it's quite
possible here's where she explains why
she may return to jail after May 16th
and what about you you're due back on
Thursday yes
another subpoena for another grand jury
yeah what's gonna happen
well it's they're asking this that they
want they've already stipulated they
want to ask the same questions so this
is not about this is not about anything
new they're not even asking anything
they're not even asking anything new
I've already laid all of this out so
you're gonna refuse again I am gonna
refuse I I don't I think that this grand
jury
is an improv I mean I think that all
grand juries are improper I don't like
the secrecy of it one of the reasons why
the what why we had so much why there's
so much secrecy and speculation and like
so much like ham hand-wringing over the
Moller report was because of the secrecy
we would know we would know far more if
we would just have public hearings bring
the stuff out there and like you know
and I did I testified you know before an
open court with all these journalists
there like I have nothing new to provide
okay I want to hear any new again that's
the law will you be back in jail next
weekend well I'd be bad I mean it's
gonna depend on art we certainly have a
motion to quash we're certainly gonna
raise every single legal challenge we
have we have very you know we have a
very strong case we had a strong case
previously but now we have additional
evidence as I like what what our case is
so it's up in the air we don't know if
you'll be sent it to jail or not we
don't but you know I think that we have
a much stronger case in terms of like
the legal objections which we you know
the the previous judge didn't he refused
to even hear the he he refused to even
hear them or act on the motions he just
simply placed me in contempt and ignored
our our motions there you go God you
know I don't think anyone would blame
Chelsea Manning at this point if she
were to seek asylum in another country
at least until Trump isn't president
anymore or she has some kind of offered
to come back like she suffered so much
already it's unbelievable to me but very
brave
