[Music]
your salon Delaney
so cute John Delaney he's still in the
race
stall well has dropped out Delaney still
in the race why no he is mad he's mad I
believe that that Bernie has hijacked
the good name of Medicare to provide
more than Medicare for people this is a
very weird construct but it's his way of
basically trying to signal to
right-wingers now on one hand you got to
applaud Face the Nation for having all
the candidates on on the other hand it's
like well I don't know if you can have
this dude on why not Mary Ann Phillips I
mean what Mary Ann Phillips I have not
familiar with her I mean I would
definitely say that Marianne Williamson
should be married double the airtime and
Elena she's a much more innovative
candidate as your signature issue as I
know and in the last debate you said
Medicare for all is good policy and it's
not good yet politics but more than
eight of the candidates of the twenty
four twenty five now support this are
our voters just being misled by your
fellow Democratic candidate yeah I think
they're wrong I mean look at so many of
the candidates senator Warren so many of
these people have outsourced their
health care plan to Bernie Sanders right
because this is Bernie Sanders's plan
and it'll take private insurance away
from more than half of the country and
they will reject that if we run on that
he knows it'll also reduce quality and
access in our health care system because
Medicare doesn't reimburse sufficiently
positive now understand Medicare for all
is a little bit of a misnomer it really
is Medicaid for all and reimbursement
rates may very well stay the same I
don't know under Bernie's policies to be
honest with you we do know that there'll
be a far less expense involved in
administrative costs and dealing with
insurance companies
broadly speaking but also can cost Sneed
to be controlled so is Delaney just
going to wave a magic wand and get cost
to be control I mean if medic medical
providers are paid the same amount of
money across the board as they are today
how do you control costs quality and
access in our healthcare system because
Medicare doesn't reimburse sufficiently
to keep all the hospitals or providers a
debate stage when you raise this though
I understand that it does seem popular
at least with people who vote in primary
but here's the thing Medicare for all's
our great slogan they've hijacked the
good name of Medicare and applied it to
a law that will cause upheaval in our
health care system and I I was the first
person to actually talk about this now
we're seeing the debate change on this
issue as people start to realize my plan
which is called better care is a
universal health care plan every single
American gets health care as a basic
right of citizenship for free but I
preserve options if people want to opt
out and keep their private insurance
they can if they want to buy
supplemental plans they can it's a much
better way to create a universal health
care system non-citizens non-citizens
are not covered by my better care plan
but under my immigration reform they
will have legal status why they while
they wait on a path to citizenship which
would allow them the didn't be covered
see with you if you take immigration and
health care together you kind of see how
we can start solving now when he says
that everybody gets health insurance for
free under his bed and care program but
the risk pool is still gonna be split up
between private and public what what
magic wand is he going to be able to use
to make this thing work he's lying he's
lying it's not true he can't do it and
this is when I say like Bernie Sanders
has to go out there and I don't know if
I would say sacrificing the right way
but he's got to tell the American public
the truth and the truth is this is the
only way it can work
insurance is not outlawed in his bill
private insurance but you need to be in
Medicare there will be a market for
supplemental insurance and it will be
even under Bernie's plan bigger than
cosmetic you might unlikely that you
would need it possible that you would
want it if you have enough money to go
with your first sinks but the fact of
the matter is you need to have a single
payer to drive down costs to eliminate
the bureaucracies that are involved and
just like I mean in my house right now I
have a file this big of like bills from
my kids
doctor pediatric doctors and the bills
like range from like 25 bucks to 75
bucks there's like multiple ones of them
I gotta call them I gotta get pay each
one of them at a different location
I've got dental things I'm waiting for
the money that we spent on the dentist
to come back from the the insurance
company I mean it is such a massive pain
in the ass as a human being but also
from the standpoint of productivity it's
like I can't believe I can spend all my
time on this it's unbelievable
it's unbelievable that this is our
system it is just bizarre there is
nothing else that is even remotely as
bureaucratic as this I've gone in and
I've got my driver's license
I've sold cars or you get I've got them
registered at the DMV I've registered to
vote I'm five I've filed deeds or
whatever it is none of that is even
comes remotely close to what you got to
deal with the health insurance companies
private insurer
it's nuts it's nuts
so Delaney's just out-and-out lying and
uh you know if you're gonna invite
somebody on you're gonna ask them this
question you've done the homework people
booed you also do the homework on what
the plan is right I mean come on
give me a break ridiculous
