all right yeah let's go through this you
know folks we had mentioned yesterday
that we've gone through the work that
Fox News has done regarding the caravan
and that the concept that we were being
what it was it that Michelle Malkin
called it a total invasion and we have
heard from folks like Gorka that we're
talking about military aged men and this
whole notion that we are under siege in
fact the president has instructed the
Pentagon to send 5,200 troops to the
border with helicopters and barbed wire
extra barbed wire with an extra 7,000 on
standby this is the same amount of US
soldiers involved in the battle against
Isis in Iraq and Syria Trump probably
knows the CEO of that barbed wire
company right oh yeah hey Bill remember
you asked me if there was an opportunity
here with barbed wire
guess what just remember the kickback
just put some cash in a paper bag drop
it off right in front of them are
loggers gonna need some barbed wire to
they will have Blackhawk helicopters
with night vision and sensors they will
have troops trained in a kind of eerie
aerial combat missions used by the
military in active war zones this is
it's stunning and it is all kabuki it is
all kabuki folks in fact you don't have
to believe me
you can believe the guy who
functions to let a little air out of the
tyres at Fox News and make the people
who are working there in this company
that puts out this misinformation on a
daily basis feel a little bit better
about themselves as if they're somehow
mitigating the damage they're doing that
inspire guys like the the guy who killed
eleven people at a synagogue because he
thought the Jews were behind driving
that Caravan tomorrow the migrants
according to Fox News reporting are more
than two months away if any of them
actually come here but tomorrow is one
week before the midterm election which
is what all of this is about there is no
invasion no one's coming to get you
there's nothing at all to worry about
when they did this to us got us all
riled up in April remember the result
was 14 arrests where America we can
handle it but like I said a week to the
election and Jennifer Griffin's on it
from the Pentagon yeah right and this is
him throwing to the 52-hundred look I
appreciate Shep Smith saying this but on
the other hand Shep Smith saying this
ass wages too many conscience conscience
at that at that outlet it makes too many
people feel like well it's not just
Tucker and Laura and everybody on the
prime-time who are spreading these lies
on a daily basis you may not know what
he was referring to about in April
because you don't watch Fox News but in
Fox News they had ginned up this entire
thing - in April and so I appreciate the
Shep Smith is saying this on one hand on
the other hand not many people hear that
from Shep Smith and to the extent that
they do they blow it off but it does
make the people at Fox News who know
they're putting out these lies on behalf
of the President
it makes them feel better about
themselves so frankly maybe it's
actually detrimental because I don't
think it's healthy for anybody at that
outlet to feel anything other than shame
really there should be two - emotions -
I guess states of mind at Fox News
complete delusion or total shame those
are really the only ones you kid there
shouldn't be a gray area and if to the
extent that Shep Smith provides that
gray area I think it may be even
problematic so now that there is some
sense that maybe we've got this covered
right like the question is is like how
you're the president the United States
bill shine is your communications guy
he's still the guy who basically has all
the friends at Fox News with Hannity and
all the other ones they've sent now
5,200 troops to the border with Black
Hawk helicopters with people trained
night warfare but that's a problem
because while it pushes the narrative
forward that there's this invasion by
these families who are two months away
walking towards us maybe they stopped
along the way
