[Music]
Sam cedar fun half ladies and gentlemen
we got to show you this clip I imagine
many of you have already seen it or
heard it if not you may want to sit down
the Mad King really had a rough day
yesterday because of course he was so
taxed by having to have high-level
conversations with the president of
Finland not mocking Finland at all but I
also imagine there's there's still a
little bit of tension from the time that
Donald Trump pretended that in that the
the finished president had told them
that they take rakes and they rake their
they rake their force unlike us a
student was so dumb we don't do the rake
here is Donald Trump in a press
conference with the president of Finland
he is being asked a question by a
reporter from Reuters guy named Jeff
Mason and he'd asked the question at
first about like you know what what were
you hoping to get from zalenski on this
phone call now this is quite an exchange
at one point and I don't know if it's in
this clip it might be he talks about a
stenographer taking down it was in this
press conference talked about
scenographer taking down word for word
column for go you know comma 4 comma now
the interesting thing about that is that
the transcript we've seen is not a stern
ographers transcript it is one that is
supposedly compiled from the best memory
of everybody there so Donald Trump
inadvertently let everyone know that
there is a verbatim word-for-word
transcript and there are some people who
are saying hey wait a second
it feels like there might be 10 minutes
from this conversation that are missing
but that's uh that's just a little
nugget embedded in this burst of
insanity from Donald Trump like
Alexander Butterfield it himself the
question sir was what did you want
president Solinsky to do about president
vice-president Biden and his son hunter
yeah it was just a follow-up of what I
just asked you ready we have the
president of Finland ask him a question
I have one for my just wanted to follow
up on the one that I asked you which do
you want you hear me yes ask him a
question I will but mind you a long
answer asked this gentleman a question
don't be rude
no sir I don't want to be rude I just
wanted you to have a chance to answer
the question that I asked it said
everything it's a whole hoax and you
know who's playing into the hoax people
like you and the fake news media that we
have in this country and I say in many
cases the corrupt media because you've
corrupt much of the media in this
country is not just fake it's corrupt
and you have some very fine people too
great journalists great reporters but it
to a large extent it's corrupt and it's
fake ask the president of Finland to
question place okay I'll move on now mr.
president okay so there it is Donald
Trump losing a little patience doesn't
want to talk about this it feels like a
little bit upset also very must be you
know this is a thing he's a lot of
people say this guy is a sociopath has
no empathy for others there he is he's
very worried that the president of
Finland feels like he's being ignored
he's mad about it even he's very mad
about it I go through this all the time
with my kids where I'm like when you say
hi to somebody look him in the eyes one
of those type of jobs but Don Trump
seems very very upset about this and who
could blame him now however today
they must have regathered they put him
on a slightly different medication not
sure what the deal is but he decided he
was going to answer that question very
explicitly
now understand what's going on here
the White House is dealing with a
two-front war I think and you can see it
in the context of this Washington Post
piece that came out today or last night
about Mike Pence there were two
different groups if you read this
article there were two different groups
of sources it appears it appears that
are around Mike Pence one is Mike
Pence's top advisors supposedly who were
trying to spin this story so on one hand
these people around pants claim that
when he spoke to zalenski and said you
got to deal with corruption he didn't
realize that was a coded word that meant
the Biden corruption he just thought it
was general corruption so when he didn't
go for whatever reason to the funeral
because he was mad at because Trump was
mad at Solinsky and when he go went met
with zelanski and talked about
corruption he didn't know that he was
talking about an investigation into the
Biden's he just thought general
corruption however those are officials
close to Pence insist that he was
unaware of Trump's efforts to press the
Lenski for damaging information however
the piece also says that one of Pence's
top advisors was on the July 25th call
and the vice president should have had
access to the transcript within hours of
that readout so there's another group in
there saying no no pence knew so I
haven't known in that long at all but
yeah and the reason why that's relevant
is because Donald Trump knows that look
we all you need to do is look back at
the 2008 financial crisis too big to
fail too big to jail Donald Trump knows
that if he and the Vice President are in
on this
and it's built bar and bringing
everybody we are all guilty what are you
gonna do about it now
that's what he's thinking that Mike
Pence is gonna be on this side of the
tent pissing out not on the outside of
the tent pissing in and so here he gets
explicit and I'm convinced that the
reason why they got explicit about this
is because they want to make it like no
we weren't hiding anything in the White
House
everybody knew so it's not like there's
no cover-up here because what we did was
okay and you're gonna have to impeach me
for something that I say is okay well I
would think that if they were honest
about it that sort of major
investigation into the vibe me it's a
very simple answer they should
investigate the Biden's because how does
a company that's newly formed and all
these companies if you look at and by
the way likewise China just started
investigation into the Biden because
what happened to China is just about as
bad as what happened with with Ukraine
so I would say that President Solinsky
if it were me I would recommend that
they start an investigation into the
visors because nobody has any doubt that
they weren't crooked that was a crooked
deal 100% he had no knowledge of energy
didn't know the first thing about it
all of a sudden he's getting $50,000 a
month plus a lot of other things nobody
has any doubt plus when they got rid of
a prosecutor who was a very tough
prosecutor they got rid of them now
they're trying to make it the opposite
way but they got rid so if I were the
president I would certainly recommend
that of Ukraine so there he is he's
basically now shifting tactics they're
saying like oh yeah no this is we're
gonna go full-on we're gonna keep asking
for this we asked for it at the time
totally legitimate ask
there's no every reason why pence would
know too because we're completely proud
of this agenda we did it on purpose
and that's what I think that's what
they're gonna go with which makes sense
you're caught dead to rights
can't argue the facts you now argue the
law what we did wasn't wrong
it's like Trump jr. revealing the
meeting email yeah exactly that's what
they that is at one point they realize
like no instead of like pretending what
you did was wrong pretend what you did
was right only once it looks like you're
gonna get caught exactly once you're
caught
what's wrong with stealing from the bank
did the West why the money's there
I didn't tell you I was taking money
from the bank cuz I thought it was good
to do that and fine of course it oh wait
why would you keep money there that's
money's meant to be spent that's
basically what happened
