[Music]
Elizabeth Warren for a bit because she
has come out with two basically well she
came out with a big proposal on the same
day that Bernie announced which was one
of my favorite favorite days in politics
in a long time
on today on Monday today she announced
that her presidential campaign will not
have private fundraisers or one-on-one
meetings with big donors that's a big
deal and I imagine Bernie Sanders will
probably follow suit I don't know that
he already even hadn't already there but
it's gonna be interesting to see if
that's the case with like a Kamala
Harris or with a Cory Booker or a
Kristin Gillibrand or if Joe Biden jumps
in at Joe Biden
it'd be a good thing if they followed
suit it would begin to you know in some
way untether their decision-making from
big donors maybe at the very least it
would give you know just some indication
that you know they're open to it let's
say but here's Elizabeth Warren who also
came out with a plan like I said last
week on a universal child care and the
plan basically has four elements one
it's free for families who live at 200%
or less of the poverty line so family I
don't know what that is for family for
poverty line somewhere I think in the
20s
and double that you get free you know
you get free childcare families above
200% of the poverty line pay a sliding
scale between zero and seven percent of
their income on child care right now I
think the average family something pays
somewhere around like ten percent at
least I mean child care is expensive
super expensive and nobody and nobody
pays over seven percent of their income
on child care and this would be financed
by the wealth tax and the cost over the
course of ten years about seven hundred
billion dollars so seventy billion
dollars a year to invest in a program
that has huge returns ah for the kids
and for the parents and frankly this is
before you start to measure a lot of
people are gonna go uh they're women who
want to work men maybe who want to work
who are responsible for their childcare
there are men and women who want to take
care of their their parents but there
are people are gonna go back into the
workforce and it's gonna generate
revenue there but but just in terms of
the number we tell you how small seventy
billion dollars is relative to what
we're used to paying for stuff if you go
back and you google seventy billion
dollars then we had a perfect example of
like how dramatic an increase in
spending seventy billion dollars a year
is and that is how much we added to the
military budget last year seventy
billion a year and virtually no one
questioned it
with seven hundred seventy billion
dollars a year seven hundred over ten
seventy billion dollars a year they
raised it there was not a there wasn't a
moment's of debate there was no debate
they didn't have to did didn't have to
get people on board they didn't have to
prove the efficacy of it they didn't
have to make a case that where our
security national security is
compromised that that nothing nothing
just penciled it in I think it may have
made one or two mentions on the nightly
news and that's it this could be done
literally with a snap of a finger and it
is also something that we have done
before between 1943 and 46 the Lanham
Act provided Universal child care
because obviously we needed women to go
and work in the factories for the war
effort and they they wrapped this up in
a matter of months this was not like we
need 15 years to plan for this it was
just boom I mean New York City within a
year got UPK up and running and frankly
that's an even harder thing to do
because you're dealing with you know
people who not only need to know how to
care for children but need to be able to
teach them we came very close to this
type of bill in 1970 something early 70s
both houses of Congress had passed a
bill very similar to Warren's
and and dick Nixon vetoed it on Pat
Buchanan say-so
so great proposal and I want more of
this I want and the beauty of having
Elizabeth Warren proposing these things
in this race it's not just that she
might become president and being able to
actually execute them but that others
are going to have to follow suit that
others are going to either adopt and
sign on to her plan or they're gonna
have to beat it and so this is just the
opening salvo good for her
