well really the past couple of weeks we
have seen which is what isn't
undoubtedly not the last attempt to
unseat the Maduro government in
Venezuela and where a an attempted
populist uprising led by Juan Guido who
is the the would be I guess successor to
Maduro depending on who you talk to in
an extra-constitutional way many are
calling it a an attempted coup supported
by the US as well as other Western
countries although other countries are
supporting Maduro but in the meantime
and which is not to say that there
haven't been many severe problems with
the Maduro government and that they
haven't taken some extra constitutional
steps themselves to maintain power but
clearly what is happening to people in
Venezuela to the extent that things were
in a bad situation leading up to 2016
let's say for many Venezuelans things
got dramatically worse after that why is
that well much of it has to do with US
sanctions on the country which which
Trump instituted the first and August
2017 and then there's nothing wrong in
2018 and the first ones were directly
aimed at oil exports by by Venezuela
which you know basically foundational to
its economy its revenues from from oil
exports are how it pays for a lot of the
basic elements of daily life that we
take for granted food medicine you know
water transportation that kind of thing
or parts for those things so you know
it's it's ironic because the dire
economic situation that is you know
currently going
on Venezuela it's it's that's often the
pretext there's actually used to argue
for with a it's Guido doing something
more dramatic to to make Maduro step
down and yet that situation is not
entirely but a large part of it is due
to US sanctions that are basically just
just crushing the the population at the
very least at the very least I mean I
think it's it's uncontroversial to say
that the sanctions have exacerbated any
existing problems right I mean there's
no one who even makes an argument that
the sanctions in some way helps the
Venezuelan people does it yeah I mean I
wouldn't say say they they that helps
them I think the the kind of argument
that people will say people who who back
regime change efforts is that this is
supposed to harm the the Venezuelan
elite the Maduro himself I mean I think
these are this is disingenuous I mean
you know you look at what's really going
on on the ground and who it's really
hurting its you know Maduro is fine and
so are the rest of the people that are
really good as well I mean I think the
real idea behind the sanctions is that
one like I said it creates this pretext
for saying well look look how terribly
the country is being mismanaged you know
this is this is dire we have to do
something we have to change the
leadership but to possibly militarily
invade I think the other thing it does
is there's this always this vague hope
of sanctions that if you impose them
that and then you make people suffer so
much you make people you know just
basically get crushed by the wave of
economic misery and starvation and lack
of medicine and healthcare and so on and
so forth
that eventually things will be so dire
everything will be so bad but they will
rise up and and and overthrow the the
leader in question themselves I mean the
actual track record of that happening is
not super great I mean you know
populations that are are suffering from
from from all these various ailments are
not usually the most conducive
necessarily to to revolt and part of the
reason for that is also that it's not as
if Venezuelans don't have television or
the internet you know other ways to
access the news they they know that US
sanctions are doing this to them so if
anything it can even push populations
like men as well as population to
actually rally around your the leader
that the the West is trying to depose at
the time you know I mean I that raises I
mean there's a more general question but
I mean has there been a time in modern
in the modern era when sanctions have
worked in that way because it does seem
to me that you're giving I mean
particularly you know Maduro in
particular has it's very much
concentrated power but whether it was in
Venezuela or whether it was in places
like Cuba or in it in Iraq or other
places I mean is there any examples of
even on their own terms
sanctions actually working because it
seems like yeah particularly in this
modern age like it's very easy to sell
to the people that you're being you're
suffering and because of this outside
aggressor and this could be a way of
basically generating a a national spirit
and a way of like basically protecting
regime yeah absolutely I mean I'm trying
to think about other examples I you know
I think that examples with sanctions
have sort of been able to lead to some
change the behavior I think Haiti in the
nineties it you know led to some results
but the actual that you know the stuff
that people really think that these next
thing I do which is namely either
prevent the the use or the manufacture
of
with it's a mass distraction and you
know probably the biggest you know the
main white whale which is regime change
they haven't really had success Iran you
know that the the clerics are still in
power they've been powerful for you know
ever since the Revolution North Korea
doctor dictatorship isn't going anywhere
I mean and it's been decades that the
sanctions have been going on there Iraq
Saddam Hussein didn't step down despite
the the you know really quite terrible
sanctions that were launched against
Iraq the nineties and nor well you know
weapons of mass destruction sure that
that might have had been eliminated but
it wasn't because of the same sanctions
and also I mean Iran you know we look at
how around changed its behavior it's
it's mostly been through through
diplomacy so yeah I mean there isn't
yeah there's not really an example I can
think of where at least in recent times
that's worked and actually there is a
study that a pretty well-regarded study
that looked at sanctions used between
1914 and 1990 and they found I think it
was that sanctions only succeeded I
think 34 percent of the time and even
then what they succeed at mostly was
just sort of kind of moderate goals so
no not these really big wide-ranging
aims that the Western powers usually
kind of cite to justify sanctions but
more moderate kind of changes in
behavior and it also tended to according
to study to work mostly when it was
countries that were already sort of head
friendly friendly relations with with
the power that was imposing sanctions so
yeah there wasn't really much dividends
to suggest that they'll actually have
any kind of effect at least not the one
ones that the Trump administration wants
to have all right well let's take a
break and let's talk about the sanctions
that we've seen that we're implemented
in 2017 there's been a study that you
write about
performed by the economists marquest
brought and Weiss brought in Jeffrey
Sachs and when we come back let's talk
about the results of that of that study
and and more I'm Sam cedar this is bring
a fire radio we'll be right back with
Branco March attack after this
