[Music]
one of the things that's been
interesting about Bernie Sanders
campaign so far is that he has been
taking aim at Donald Trump his bigger
broader message is this correct call of
essentially the 99 versus the 1% there
still is just the fundamental class
divide in American politics and nobody
articulates it better than he does uh
and he specifically talks about the CEOs
of insurance companies he talks about
Amazon he talks about where the money is
going who it's getting taken from in the
forms of people's wages and lives to pay
off and endlessly self enrich America's
oligarchic class but in that frame he's
actually built in a compare and contrast
with Donald Trump which is really
effective and one of the signs that in
some key respects he is the Democratic
frontrunner is that he is the first
person that's actually put consistently
Trump front and center of course
everybody doesn't like Trump and they've
all taken their shots at Trump but each
of his stump speeches he never
represents his Democratic rivals except
or the Democratic Party other than to
say that he respects his colleagues and
he'll support whoever the nominee is and
by the way we're gonna need to see um
other candidates starts to say that
pretty soon but he goes right after
Trump and so here is a video it's a it's
a mash-up of a great Bernie rally in
Nevada I'd go to Bernie's site and watch
these rallies his speeches are very I
mean you know it's it's nothing you
would expect but they're increasingly
good but also he's bringing up local
Aintree gentrification activists he's
bringing up people talking about health
care he's bringing up people talking
about student loans he's bringing up
people talking about you know structural
racism as well as his own personal
history which is of course really
important and it's great people like
Nina Turner but also people that you you
know you haven't her role kana but it's
also local activists that you haven't
heard from before so I'd watched some of
these rallies but this video is a
mash-up of Bernie and Nevada and talking
very specifically about all of trumps
lies on things like Medicare and Social
Security and this is really quite
effective or in donald trump
campaigns in Nevada and all over this
country he talked about being a
different type of Republican a friend of
working families and I will be your
champion
I am your voice on May 7 2015 at a tweet
Trump said my quote I was the first and
only potential GOP candidate to state
there will be no cuts to Social Security
Medicare and Medicaid and the book you
remember he said I am NOT going to cut
Medicare and Medicaid or social security
I'm not going to cut Social Security
like every other Republican and I'm not
going to cut Medicare or Medicaid every
other Republican is going to save
Medicare Medicaid and Social Security
without cuts have to do it well I know I
will shock all of you to tell you the
Donald Trump life and that's really how
I won the election in the first place
Donald Trump told the American people he
was not gonna cut Medicare Medicaid and
Social Security I am going to protect
and save your Social Security and your
Medicare be defending your Social
Security which the Democrats will
destroy fast forward to the budget that
Trump introduced just last week that
budget calls for a cut of one and a half
trillion dollars in Medicaid eight
hundred and forty five billion dollars
in cuts to Medicare and twenty five
billion dollars in cuts to Social
Security and you know what a 845 billion
dollar cut to Medicare means it means
for those seniors who are struggling
with health care today it's only going
to be worse you can't get rid of
Medicare you know Medicare is a program
that works you don't get rid of Medicare
you can't do that people love Medicare
and it's unfair to them during the
campaign Donald Trump said as you all
remember that he was going to provide
health insurance for
three body with much lower deductibles
you have to take care of people well
guess what halide again a budget that he
just presented would end the Affordable
Care Act throw thirty-two million people
off of the health insurance they have
Trump's budget is a budget which will
make it harder for our kids to get a
decent education for our young people to
go to college auto for working families
to get the health care they need harder
to protect the air we breathe and the
water that we drink every day I wake up
determined to deliver a better life for
the people all across this nation that
have been ignored neglected and
abandoned Trump's budget is basically
about the Robin Hood principle in
Reverse it takes from the poor and
working people and gives more tax breaks
to the rich and large corporations with
so that's exactly right and you should
spread that one far and wide I think
look the only other thing I button this
with is it's in it's the empirical
debate about what trove the Trump vote
is basically over in terms of again most
of what he did was activate a base that
is driven on white identity politics and
of course he played to them with
misogyny and xenophobia and so on that's
obvious on the other hands there's no
doubt as Bill Fletcher jr. says one of
the ways of synthesizing these both
correct realities of a resurgent white
supremacy and the crisis of inequality
and diminish life prospects from vast
majority of people is as the great Bill
Fletcher jr. says right-wing populism is
the herpes of capitalism so you can
synthesize these intelligently without
reducing one to the other and I would
say it is useful particularly when you
talk about places where there was that
small but hugely essential margin of
people who either stayed home which are
the most important or people that flip
to Obama and Trump because they fell for
Trump's lives because they were so
desperate
and that also requires frankly an
accurate understanding of the Clinton's
record and Hillary Clinton which we
can't you know sugarcoat either I'm
sorry it's terrible for working people
uh but you can he be reminded there that
Trump was relentlessly lying and
hustling and one of the reasons that we
the two reasons that this show called
Trump well in the primary we were wrong
on the general but we knew Trump would
do well in the primary was because he
did racism without subtext and also
because he said everybody gets health
care and Medicare for all because there
are no people in this country there's no
normal person that has David from
politics that thinks you know overt
racism is tasteless but wants themselves
to be poorer so a rich person get a tax
cut nobody has that politics there were
plenty of people who were Nick or
accurately legitimately left behind
neglected abused hundred-percent and
also had xenophobic sentiments and he
played to both of them that's reality
here's a hot take I think that was a
much bigger or more worried fraud
against democracy the way Trump lied
about this stuff than anything to do
with Russia and emails of course
hundred-percent
