[Music]
here is Joe Biden managing to to do this
all I don't know how many jump cuts they
had to have in this but I will tell you
this I spoke to a lot or you know one of
the things that I like about Netroots is
that you go out to a bar I don't I don't
have personal contact with a lot of
reporters the vast majority of these
reporters are younger than me some
instances significantly younger than me
and they go around and they just they
follow candidates so you find somebody
who's been like following Joe Biden for
months they're all concerned about Joe
Biden like I don't think it's
appropriate for a reporter to sort of
like in some instances sort of like
provide some subjective analysis but I
had two or three reporters say almost
the identical thing to me like he has
changed like in terms of age he's aged
but and we all age I didn't know how
people who follow Bernie Sanders say
this to me and and I Got News for you
like the reporters don't they form like
a personal assessment of the candidate
more than they do ideological they don't
assign Bernie fans to follow Bernie
Sanders or Biden fans to follow that
most of these reports as far as I can
tell some of these anyways there seem to
be largely agnostic they seem to be just
sort of like almost like how can you
really do that like if any policies were
you know particularly aggressive so
that's so weird well it's it's weird
it's weird they cover it in a way like
almost like if you were like a good
reporter and I said you're gonna follow
the Orioles I know you're not a baseball
fan I know you don't particularly like
the Orioles but you're gonna go out
there and they're you gonna tell me
everything you
see about the Orioles so so it's not you
know it's a game to them yeah I mean
it's a job it's a job and but the the
people following Biden said to me the
weird thing is he moves so slow and
what's interesting about it is we have a
clip after this or Joe Biden oh no
that's not what it is I saw a clip of
him where he was behind Barack Obama and
Barack Obama signed the ACA maybe it's
in this thing and Joe Biden is clapping
and this is this is about eight years
ago and Joe Biden's clapping yeah right
here will you watch this you watch Joe
Biden now and you watch how hard he
claps right there and you can't Joe
Biden hasn't moved that fast in about
five years I think as in that clap
that's what's interesting about that
like he's really hammering that clap but
go ahead what's going there's great
being part of the first democratic
debate in Miami the question was asked
whether we support eliminating private
health insurance some said yes I said
absolutely not I believe we have to
protect and build on Obamacare that's
why I proposed adding the public option
to Obamacare as the best way to lower
cost and cover everyone I understand the
appeal of Medicare for all but folks
supporting it should be clear that means
getting rid of Obamacare and I'm not for
that I was very proud the day I stood
there with Barack Obama and he signed
that legislation never before had any
ever been able to do that in the white
house 20 million Americans gained
coverage over a hundred million with
pre-existing conditions finally got
protection the most important piece of
my you know I know how hard it is to get
that passed I watched it
starting over makes no sense to me at
all I knew the Republicans do everything
in their power to repeal Obamacare they
still are but I'm surprised as so many
Democrats are running and getting rid of
it the Affordable Care Act was historic
achievement for President Obama and if
I'm elected president I'm going to do
everything in my power to protect it and
build on okay that is one of the most
cynical takes you could possibly have
the idea that this is getting rid of
Obamacare it is building Obamacare it is
building in now
it's overcoming it in the Hegelian sense
it's just absurd it would be like how
can we possibly give up c.t our CRT
computer monitors why would we want to
do that it's such an amazing
accomplishment the idea of a computer
yes it's the size of an entire apartment
but why would we want to give that all
up for a for a laptop why would you want
to do that it's like when they were on
letting gasoline saying you they want to
get rid of cars exactly it's just it's
just it's incredibly cynical I can
understand the strategy there because
you want to make it sound like they're
attacking Barack Obama and but look at
this this is amazing look at this guy
who's attacking Obamacare - it's not
just Bernie Sanders at all who want to
get rid of Obamacare from Medicare for
all it's this guy who is willing to do
the same thing it's disgusting so
Democrats aren't just running on good
old ideas like a higher minimum wage
they're running on good new ideas like
Medicare for all
what oh my gosh back in the fall of 2018
there's Barack Obama endorsing at least
two major campaign ideas Bernie Sanders
why isn't Barack being honest about the
fact that if you do Medicare for all you
have to have a three-month period where
no one's allowed to get health care
what's in it like a four month period I
don't know oh yeah he is something like
a four to six month period or something
like that at the doctor lie
I can't believe Barack Obama is
attacking Obama care in that way it
really seems aggressive and I will say
this too for those people who think that
that Joe Biden's plan has a better
chance of passing he wants to expand the
public option p4 ace HCF this is the
partnership for America's health care
future this is an industry group that is
against Medicare for all on Joe Biden's
plan we strongly believe every American
deserves access to high-quality health
care we agree with the majority of
Americans who believe the best way to
achieve this is what is working and
while coming together to fix what isn't
unfortunately Vice President Biden's
proposal for a new government insurance
system through a public option would
undermine the progress our nation
in other words ladies and gentlemen the
fight is going to be had the fights
gonna be had so you're going to enter
into that fight saying we want what we
want or you're gonna enter into that
fight with like we're willing to take a
fraction of what we want but the
opposition is going to be exactly the
same the opposition is going to be
exactly the same this is a simple
question of physics you've got a knock
down a steel door do you take a hammer
or do you take a ramrod
which one do you start to approach that
hammer that door with first i mean joe
biden's really digging deep into the
hoping to reach the people who are not
paying attention about politics it's
also very poor timing this is what's
fascinating about this right now thirty
five percent of democrats were paying
attention to the debates i don't know
how many are paying attention to the
primary but i guarantee you it's about
half of what it's going to be in just
two and a half months in september early
october we get close to iowa by the time
you get to iowa you're gonna have
probably two and a half times more
attention paid on the primary joe
biden's out there and he's trying to
appeal to those people who are not
paying attention to politics which is to
say like these guys want to get rid of
obamacare they which is like literally
the equivalent of saying like how can
you take away from hardworking americans
$7.25 that they're making when they try
and pass this new bill to raise the
minimum wage they're taken away their
minimum wage now and then gonna replace
it with some other thing that's
basically what his argument is you want
a fifteen dollar minimum wage and why do
you have to do this by taking away what
they have now it's also bizarre the way
people talk about the public option
because is it medicare for all just a
really really good public option that
would put private insurance companies
out of business the the public option
they're talking about i don't know
exactly how many people would be
eligible to for it with joe biden but
the public option is not open to the
public you need to prove eligible for it
so it's not even a Medicare buy-in like
it just seems like a sneaky way to get
out of having a real public option
medicare for all is not an option it is
a public system you don't have you're
not going to have most people are not
going to have other options get but the
right doesn't talk that way because the
right says everybody has access to
health care so everybody will have
access to supplemental care all you'll
need is enough money otherwise you're
going to have Medicare for all which is
going to pay for all of your health
insurance it's going to pay for
everything they all of your health care
