folks have some understanding of at
least some of the the issues involved in
voter suppression but I think you focus
in on a you know sort of it's a bit of
an intangible a bit but it's a I think a
very important tool that frankly
Republicans have been using as a means
of suppressing the vote and that is
simply a confusion and so walk us
through and and you you you focused a
lot of your reporting on Georgia let's
use Georgia as a test case when we talk
about this this dynamic of confusion I
think folks remember the election
between Abrams and and the ultimate
winner of the race Brian Kemp but fill
us in a little bit on the details I
don't know if people just refresh our
memory there sure we'll just to zoom out
for a second I have been covering voting
rights for a number of years now and
I've covered all kinds of different
voter suppression laws and tactics that
we've seen pop up across the country
especially since the Supreme Court
gutted the Voting Rights Act in 2013 and
like you mentioned something that I've
kind of seen pervasive across the
country that's that's hard to describe
at times see how these laws affect
voters level of understanding of
elections and how voters just end up
extremely confused when when it comes to
casting a ballot and I was in Georgia a
number of times leading up to this
midterm election and on election day and
what we saw was the effect of all of the
different provisions that Brian camp had
pushed for his voter purges different
measures I made it harder for Georgians
to cast a ballot
together they just created this intense
air of confusion across the state
and I was in Atlanta at a few different
polling places on Election Day and
people were being forced to cast
provisional ballots they were having to
wait in lines that took over four hours
they were being told that they weren't
registered and nobody understood what
was happening and when I say nobody that
includes the voters election workers
polling place volunteers election
protection attorneys that were
volunteering to help people better
understand election laws there was just
on all levels there was just a sense
that nothing that was going on made
sense and so it really made me think
deeper about this question of the
effects of confusion on election and we
should remind people that Brian Kemp
almost up until I guess a couple weeks
before the election was the Secretary of
State and he was still the Secretary of
State but he had recused himself at one
point I think after having done a
tremendous amount of damage all right so
let's go back just I mean you you you
raised this and I think it's a good
place to start because while there has
been a push by the Republicans for voter
ID that started really I guess sometime
in the early aughts and those of us who
are a little bit long in the tooth
remember the US Attorney a US Attorney's
scandal where US Attorney's around the
country were fired by the Bush
administration for not coming up with
enough cases of voter idea of voters ID
fraud to justify harsh voter ID laws but
it really the floodgates opened with
that ruling by the the Supreme Court in
2013 you described it as gutting the the
Voting Rights Act but it did a
particular thing tell us a little bit
about I think it's section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act what what did they do
that open the door particularly for a
place like Georgia
sure yeah so before the Supreme Court
ruling in 2013 states that had a history
of racial discrimination when it comes
to voting which included in both states
across the south including Georgia they
had to pre-clear any changes that they
wanted to make to their election laws
with the Department of Justice so that
meant they had to get approval from the
federal government if they wanted to
change the number of polling locations
if they wanted to cut voting hours if
they wanted to pass something like a
voter ID law and we saw after that
Supreme Court ruling in 2013 a number of
states took advantage of the elimination
of section 5 and very quickly passed
voter ID laws that previously had been
blocked by the Department of Justice so
because of that Supreme Court ruling and
the fact that we don't have those
protections in place anymore states like
Georgia are free to pass restrictive
voter ID laws and then advocacy groups
are on the defensive and they have to if
they have issues with these laws they
have to file litigation or take action
after they've already been passed and
they're essentially on the in a reactive
position and on the defensive and they
have to expend huge amounts of resources
and time to fight these laws that are
ready on the books and I write about how
that litigation in itself causes even
more confusion advocacy groups aren't
trying to confuse but often decisions in
these cases come very close before an
election
sometimes just weeks or days before an
election and voters and poll workers
don't have time to learn about the
change laws and don't have time to be
trained on how to enforce the new laws
so during this midterm in particular we
saw in Missouri a judge issued a ruling
just less than a month before the
critical Senate election they're
blocking part of the state's voter ID
law but because there was
because co-workers in that state had
already been trained and they've been
trained on the old laws they were giving
voters misinformation on Election Day
and some voters that they actually had
to fight with their poll workers to be
able to cast a ballot without an ID so
even when you these laws are overturned
we still see them restricting and
confusing voters
alright Cara and I want to go a little
more deeply into that process and why
there is such an opportunity for such
disparity but I mean let's let's be
frank here this is not an accident right
I mean how it shakes out and any given
in any given scenario may not be you
know completely manipulated but the it
seems to me that and I want to get your
take on this you've been reporting on it
for years now when the Republicans and
it's Republicans are doing this let's
also be frank about that when the
Republicans passed these restrictive
voting laws they must know that there's
going to be litigation but this is
almost it's like a you know heads I win
tails I win as well because the if the
purpose is to disenfranchise a
significant number of voters all they
need is confusion they don't necessarily
need of the hard and fast rules I mean
is that your sense that this is there is
an awareness that like yeah worst case
scenario we get a ton of confusion which
is actually the best-case scenario yeah
that's largely the argument I was making
as well I think I talked to one source
one of the cofounders of black voters
matter and then in Cliff Albright and he
spoke of the fact that these repressive
voting ones that Republicans are passing
create this fog of confusion and even if
the laws aren't successful even of
course overturn them or they don't end
up being put in place before an election
within this fog of confusion
Republicans can pass other laws voters
are consistently misled about about
whether or not they can cast ballots and
like you mentioned it's kind of win-win
either way Republicans understand that
by complicating election laws and by
making it it's the United States is one
of the countries with the most
complicated election laws by putting us
in this position they know that there
are certain voters voters of color my
low income voters students the elderly
who are more likely to be confused and
we know that those demographics are more
likely to vote for Democratic candidate
so this is definitely yeah go ahead well
we got to take a quick break here Carol
when we come back I want to talk more
about the reasons why those folks are
susceptible to such confusion and why
even poll people working at the polls
don't know we got to take a quick break
I'm Sam cedar this ring of fire radio
we'll be right back with Kara Lerner so
we talked about the powerful role
confusion plays in American elections
