maybe it's hopefully past a Howard
Schultz moment he of course is the
former CEO of Starbucks and he released
a book this week entitled something to
the effect of from the ground up how
America can be really great again or
something to that effect the ground up
being a of course a a play on the fact
that he made his money by selling coffee
and we were talking about well there's
two there's two things that struck me
this week one is you mentioned Mike
Bloomberg the billionaire who's already
contemplated jumping into the democratic
race and I thought it was very funny
when this got when Bloomberg tweeted out
like hey I refused in 2016 to run
because I don't want to help Trump win
and he's basically saying like you can't
cut ahead of me in the
self-aggrandizement Department I'm a
bigger billionaire than you are and if I
stood down despite my massive ego and
narcissism you have to step down too
buddy
this is not appropriate and to watch
these two aging a white guys fight over
how much their money makes them eligible
to be President sort of fascinating and
you mentioned that you know it's it's
driven by consultants this is the other
thing that strikes me about about how
much it speaks to our moment in addition
to this guy jumping in and having an all
of his critiques focused at right
basically a band of people who he thinks
anyways are associated with Democrats or
maybe they're never Trump errs right
because he wants to appeal to these
people by saying the Democrats are being
too radical and I think in his mind he
actually thinks there's a chance he's
gonna run for president and that he
could he could do well and maybe even
win but he hasn't quite accepted the
fact that all he would do would probably
be helping Donald Trump win but you know
we
talked about his advisors one of them is
Steve Schmitt one of these never Trump
errs the other a big one bill Burton
from the Obama campaign and you know the
funny thing about this is you got Howard
Schultz out there and he's talking about
he's running because our politics are
broken ostensibly because there are
people on the right and people on the
left and they disagree and but the the
irony is is to the extent that our
politics are broken because I happen to
believe that politics are actually a
function of disagreement that's why you
have politics is because different
people have different ideas about what
should be going on in society and
politics is the way to resolve that so
the extent that our politics are broken
and that to me strikes me as politics
working the way they should to the
extent that they're broken it is really
in many respects a function of the
wealth inequality that this billionaire
who on a whim decides he wants to run
for president and has the ability to
command basically the nation's biggest
media outlets for a couple of days
particularly in this environment I think
that's a sign of what's wrong what's
broken with our politics the other thing
I would suggest that's broken with our
politics is the idea that you've got
these high paid a high price political
consultants who are you know egging this
guy on or just yessing him to death
so that he continues to race because
they're lining their pockets there's no
other way I mean I saw a performance by
Bill Burton on Meet the Press daily that
I just found fascinating why is this guy
running for president well he's really
good with his family what are you
serious they rolled out some line that
that was to the effect of it was
something like the we need to risk the
the the possibilities for new
possibilities or at risk the imagination
for new possibilities this is just this
is it's not even good pablum right and
this is what is fundamentally broken
with our politics
you know first order is that money has
distorted the the marketplace of
politics you know like you know
political power is diminished by the
massive amounts of concentrated money
that we have in our society today well
of course I mean you're absolutely right
I mean this is one of the and I I just
don't you know the critique here that
you know somehow or another the two
parties are just you know they're having
these ridiculous squabbles and it's just
all so simple it's just so easy all we
need is some guy who ran a business
because that's of course exactly the
same as running the government which I
really would have thought after two
years of Donald Trump
nobody was deluded enough to think that
that that that was true and I'm not just
talking about Trump here look at the
other people in his cabinet he said that
he was going to hire all these fabulous
you know titans of industry to come in
and really get things done look at Rex
Tillerson that guy ran ExxonMobil I mean
that makes Starbucks look like you know
my corner grocery the coffee shop yeah I
mean it does and Exxon Mobil that guy
was obviously an extremely successful
executive who you know was onion Oh
unparalleled and his abilities to run a
major a big corporation he got into the
State Department and completely failed
on every level he raised the place he he
absolutely remember all those people who
were quitting and everybody else showing
up at work and didn't know what they
were they they assigned all the the
experience people to go and do filing
and yeah I mean it was it was insane and
I mean even though Tillerson you know is
now sort of remembers well he was one of
the grown-ups yeah he was it didn't work
out well those grown-ups from the
private sector I mean look at the Ross
the guy's a screaming crook he's
completely lining his pockets while he's
in office he appears to me to be a
little bit past his prime but even if he
were in his prime this guy was a was a
you know
a big investor banker type who took over
major industries and then turn them
around and sold them oh that I mean and
look at him I mean he is complete he
goes on TV and he said you know I have
no political acumen whatsoever so I mean
this idea of that is completely
ridiculous and the disappointing you
know I mean of course these political
consultants are looking for work but
cheese yes it's pretty it's pretty
cynical we've got to take a break
Digby if you'll join me in the next hour
we get a lot more to talk about
I'm Sam cedar this is a ring of fire
radio
