[Music]
you have to Center foreign policy at the
analysis of a presidential campaign
partially first of all it is the right
thing to do and they're in an
interdependent world and there's not a
single you know whether you're talking
about migration or climate or you know
arms control I mean these trade I mean
these things are at the center of our
lives even if they're not noticeable and
frankly even what we're arguing about
here you know are we going back to some
idea of of a sort of 1960s middle class
or are we saying how do we actually
develop a program that fits in a
globalized context and then on a super
practical level this is the immediate
thing there's all these debates about
theories of change and who works the
bureaucracy and how you fight Congress
and those things matter but there is
nothing that you have more power over
other than foreign policy right out of
the gate you're immediately dealing with
troop deployments drones you're at the
center of these things from day one and
Bernie Sanders is the only one that has
even inched and taken some significant
steps in the direction of a real reform
here while in this area Elizabeth Warren
represents a you know highly
disturbingly conventional thinking and
actually some I forget who someone made
that a very smart point about this that
it's even more revealing because Warren
to her very much her credit was willing
to pick fights with Obama on domestic
issues she didn't pick a single fight on
foreign it's not something that they
think about and even the primary stuff
she's talked about has been on trade
which she's framed as an American issue
um I think it was uh well I'll try to
remember who made this point I've got
too much stuff going on Road Khanna made
a similar point today on MSNBC this is
very important how do you talk to a
voter who has Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren in front of her or
and isn't deciding to make that choice
they believe they both have great
progressive credentials but maybe they
feel like Bernie had his shot last time
what do you say to that voter well first
of all I think senator Sanders has a
very progressive record on foreign
policy I work with him to help stop the
Yemen war he's voted against President
Trump's defense budget increases so he's
going to highlight his progressive
foreign policy record the second thing
is if you look at the polls actually a
lot of fun senator Sanders the support
can come from Vice President Biden and I
think the contrast he will draw is that
he actually is the true champion for the
working class and he can build a winning
coalition as some of those working-class
voters choose him over the vice
president Riek that's 100 percent of
right and I would really you know I
would look even to things where Sanders
you know it
I mean look there is a continuity in him
that's great on foreign policy going
back to the 1980s okay even as a mayor
of Burlington working on Reagan's dirty
Wars so if want to be really you know
look people want to like biographically
one person was a Republican in the 80s
one person was fighting Reagan's dirty
Wars he was a leader against the
invasion of Iraq and then his policies
on things like drones have been mediocre
at best and some of the things he said
in 2016 he's evolved from significantly
but he did vote against John Brennan
whereas Warren voted for John Brennan
John Brennan's the architect of much of
the worst drone policies that were
pioneered under Obama this stuff really
matters I mean there's a lot of lives in
the ballots and that's the one area
where there's indisputable power that
whoever occupies the White House has
immediately yeah and people around the
world don't get to vote for who's
president of America sure don't maybe
think about them indeed they're rich
they can they have ways of influencing
at least
