so Angela let's just start with who who
are the proud boys they are a probably
the most well organized and and part of
the men's rights movement and so
basically the proud boys are as they
would describe themselves Western show
this and that's just to put it simply
they have chapter or chapters they they
do meetings you know they're John not
just sort of like participants in online
forums like I think a lot of the men's
rights movements are they actually do
stuff in public as as we are now seeing
okay we we we got to go a little broader
than that because I I just think that
the everything you just said probably
strikes normal people as being yeah
absolutely bizarre we have a group of
adult males who are in their 20s 30s
their leader I think is late 40s Gavin
McInnes well tut we'll get to him in a
moment and they all wear Fred Perry
collared shirts and they're in a
basically he-man women hater non Western
civilization hater group is i mean ii
it's like it's it's like a like like a
youth group but for theoretically grown
men that's not an egg they consider
themselves to be sort of like a
Fraternal Order they have levels of
participation so like the first level is
actually you actually have to identify
yourself officially as a proud boy and
you have to make that a publicly known
statement it's not something that you
shy away from you have to actually
explicitly say that identify that in
some of your other public communications
or on your social media profiles that
you have to make it known the second
level is when things start to get a
little stranger you have to commit to
giving up masturbation it's a really
important part of moving through the
ranks and it's something that they
insist people commit to as they sort of
go through it
then the applies a part of that
initiation what happens is that you get
beat up by other proud boy members of
higher rank while you list your five
favorite cereals and then the third part
of it is when you actually get a tattoo
I'm marking and then you you're saying
these things like they're not absolutely
bizarre you've got to get beat up while
you're saying your five favorite
breakfast cereals yeah yeah like and
it's a real thing these are places that
have these are they're already pretty
well organized group they've been
growing pretty steadily the last couple
years because they're tapping into this
sort of energy that is that that is sort
of percolates within the larger anti PC
men's rights movement and so it's just
like a funnel you sort of start with
big-picture kind of stuff and then you
slowly you know recruit people and work
them down the fourth level is where it
gets scary though and sort of it goes
from being weird to sort of scary is
that actually the highest level of being
a proud boy is when you commit violence
for the cause that's why they describe
it
and it is it is the most honored thing
you can do and you are recognized as
such when you get to that level and the
what we saw on Friday in New York City
it wasn't just that it was an outlier or
a random example of the proud boys sort
of getting into a scuffle what they had
was a moment where some of them could
commit violence for the cause and sort
of earned that badge of honor and that
distinction and it's intentional and
when Gavin McGinnis founded it he
described it very proudly as a gang he
really believes that there needs to be
sort of a pro violence movement at the
tip of the spear for the larger for the
larger you know men's rights and anti PC
movement and he's pretty on a bash about
the fact that that violence is a
necessary and effective tool and you
know it's and that's kind of where the
the sort of the culture part of it comes
in right that when you're sort of moving
people through those levels a part of
that is actually to indoctrinate and to
get people comfortable just like any
game with increasing levels of
activities so it goes from being sort of
strange and weird to in you know
starting to create those moments of
hazing and more intense camaraderie -
outwardly conditioning people and
incentivizing acts of violence what if
you know what is this all about where
they don't masturbate and how do they I
mean we'll get on to the more serious
aspects of it but it's you know people
should know this is a very you know
bizarre group and and and and I happen
to have known
Gavin McGinnis socially a years ago we
will talk about that in a moment but
what is the theory behind telling the
members of this gang that you're not
allowed to masturbate and how do they
regulate that they I think it's I think
it's an honor system and and and I think
that's really a part of it the theory
behind it I think is partly connected to
a few things one is that there's this
it's it's gated touch yourself a little
bit a little feminizing or beta this is
according to sort of their tenants that
there's this this hyper masculinity
associated with being a proud boy which
seems strange given the name but and
that even doing that act alone is
somehow a part of it
the deeper piece though is less about
their hypervalent approach and actually
more about creating a shared sacrifice
and to incentivize you know more group
activities the idea is that when
somebody moves for that level of
commitment it's actually coincides with
with a hazing experience and a piece of
that is actually that you know you're
you're sort of bonding a little bit more
with with the group and it's it's like a
gang right the idea is to really tether
you more to to a to a community in a
weird way than to yourself and so as a
part of that presumably and as it
typically is the case you actually spend
more time at proud boy meetings and with
other proud boys
and you sort of move deeper into this
this disorganization so okay so now you
are referred to this gang as being
centered around the men's rights
movement and and in Western chauvinism
what why do you not use the term white
supremacists I think that that's too
easy and too simple and I actually think
that it's not because I don't think that
they inherit they have a part of their
it's not because I don't think that race
is a big piece of their organizing
principle I but they're I just it's just
too simple and I think these days those
sort of knee-jerk reaction often times
as they when these things break into the
public is because we think about this
kind of activity activity in the past
typically associated with white
nationalists and white supremacists and
because that's often our frame of
reference that's immediately where we go
to when we see groups like this because
it feels very similar and there is no
doubt that bigotry and racism and and
very much anti-lgbt discrimination are a
part of their brand but it's bigger than
that and it isn't purely limited they're
organizing principle is not around race
in fact as evidence of that actually at
proud boy meetings is where actual white
nationalist organizations will try to
find recruits because there tends to be
very intense alignment but it isn't the
soul this is their the organizing
principle and so I think it's a pop I
think it's just a little misleading and
they have there are people of color that
are part of the proud board community
and so when we say that they're a white
nationalist group and then they're like
it actually makes it harder to get to
what they're really organizing around
and that's the part that scares me
because they are much more appealing
then then say oh the white nationalists
are when you look at Charlottesville
what you saw on display at Shaw's though
not the night of the tiki torches but on
that Saturday when there were all those
people there one of the ways that so
many came together was that with that
proud board chapters had actually
activated themselves as well as other
men's rights organizations to say go out
and protest political correctness
and so there is something much more
appealing and broad about that than
simply you know white genocide and you
know white cultures die and being
destroyed so I think it's important to
be able to be aware of that
all right well Angela we're gonna take a
break when we come back I want to talk a
little bit more about how they see
themselves in terms of these these shock
troops for the conservative movement
that you call that I think we could say
is you know they're white supremacist
friendly right like there are allies of
these folks and then let's talk about
Gavin beginners I have some personal
experience with this guy we shared some
former friends former friends of his
because and in many ways this is a
cautionary tale it's sometimes it's very
hard to watch your friends get super
wealthy when you just get a little bit
wealthy and if you have the right sort
of I guess emotional problems it will
turn into something like this we will
talk more about that when we return
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
