CEDA the destiny of America is
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar his Monday November 19th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Michael deantonio journalist and author
of the shadow president the truth about
Mike Pence also on the program today
midterms nearly resolved Senate and
governor in Florida called for the
Republicans as the Democrats destroy the
Republican Party in California just gone
meanwhile in California as the wildfires
still rage 80 now dead hundreds still
missing
Trump puts his grievance and ignorance
in the forefront and as the CIA fingers
Mohammed Ben Solomon in the Khashoggi
killing Trump sticks his fingers in his
ears Nancy Pelosi under fire looking at
a potential leadership challenge and her
proposal to change a house rule is
perhaps one of the best reasons to
challenge her but from the left
McConnell kills the so-called bipartisan
criminal justice reform bill that was
fun while it lasted and Ohio stunning
gerrymandered State House to bring the
worst conservatives have to offer
meanwhile Julian Assange may be closed
to prosecution in the United States and
only because I'm so old I remember
coverage of the Obamas Melania Trump's
$200,000 hotel bill for a Toronto day
trip all this and more on today's
majority report ladies and gentlemen
yeah.that Melania Trump story
I mean well what's the exchange rate
that's a good point that's a good point
favorable to you those of us in the
United States so but I don't know those
stories tend to get a little petty but
like I say only because I remembered the
relentless multi-year project that was
reporting on Michelle Obama's trip to
Europe that I even mentioned those
things but more importantly I want to do
this story up top here just briefly we
had mentioned it but as I I read it it
was also flagged for us by a listener
who sent us an email it seen the story
the email puts it into a slightly
different more different context this is
from listener Mike who apparently worked
in Congress at the Congressional
Research Service and so he
from time to time provide incoming House
and Senate freshmen fresh people you
know just a how to work your way around
the new Congress from I guess from a
bureaucratic standpoint and so he
flagged this and this story is out there
there are now 17 incoming Democratic
freshmen representatives who have signed
a letter saying that they will contest
Nancy Pelosi as Speaker of the House and
18th has also committed to that she has
not signed the letter I think it's Spann
Berger who built you beat Dave brat I
haven't looked at the entire list of the
17 but the vast majority of them are to
the right of Nancy Pelosi alright so so
with that said and I think that's a
problem I obviously I don't want a
speaker of the house who is to the right
of Nancy Pelosi and I think people who
have listened to this program for an
extended period of time I'm far more
interested and think it would be far
more helpful for the Democrats to
replace Chuck Schumer who I think is
relentlessly bad and incompetent and
worse particularly in light of the
recent revelations about his essentially
moonlighting for Facebook but they're
doing two things about what's going on
there are three things that really stuck
is speak out for me in terms of the
Pelosi thing is one that for those of us
on the Left who want to see a change in
the Speaker of the House it's important
to make sure that we get something
better that sounds a little bit less
sexy and in my mind sort of basic but
there's a lot of people lose sight of
that and I'm not convinced yet that
there is a candidate on the left who can
win remember because the Republicans
in this for the Speaker of the House
it's just I ostensibly that you need a
certain amount of Democrats to maintain
the majority so Republicans could
theoretically vote for a candidate a
more right-wing Democrat they probably
would vote for a more left-wing I mean
they they would rather Nancy Pelosi
because they've dedicated a significant
amount of resources in time to demonize
her but to the extent that there is a
reason to get rid of Pelosi for me the
biggest reason for me in the past has
been her stated support prior to the
election even for Pago what is Pago Pago
means that anything that the Congress
passes any programs that they vote for
in past must be offset in terms of their
cost pay-as-you-go no deficit spending
this is absurd from a policy perspective
it is absurd from a political
perspective there is no constituency out
there for pay-go I was listening or
reading democracy and chains again the
libertarian Koch brothers are big fans
of Pago and have decades of course
because it constrains spending and so
Republicans get in and this is the game
that's played Republicans get in they
increase the deficit then they
immediately find after they've done this
they immediately find a more fiscal
responsible profile and that's the way
that they use it you know they attempt
to leverage the cutting of Social
Security and Medicare etc etc so Pago is
a problem and to set that as a
constraint it is almost like a it's a
it's a transcendent policy insofar as it
impacts every other policy and every
other ability to get to push a
progressive agenda there's now a
proposal in a change of the rules to the
house because incoming leadership gets
to change the rules of how the house
operates you could do it every year at
the beginning of the session it is
proposed by Pelosi and Massachusetts
representative Richard Neal
it would quote require a 3/5
supermajority to raise individual income
taxes on the lowest earning 80% of
taxpayers now that sounds all well and
good first blush it's like yeah good cut
that I mean increase the taxes on the
top 20% don't raise them on the rest of
the country the only problem with that
is as you start to realize it
particularly in light of Pago in
particular you take a whole host of
progressive policies off the table right
now that bottom 80% incidentally along
with the top 20% is paying essentially
the lowest have the lowest income tax
burdens in the history of the country
well maybe not the history in modern
times since mmm at least let's say 75
years I suspect it's actually longer
than that but let's call it 75 years and
what it basically does is it says it
takes off the table all of these
progressive initiatives and prevents
Democratic representatives for having to
make a so-called tough vote to raise
taxes on people in the middle class and
theoretically living in poverty it just
puts unnecessary constraints that are
really there just to protect people from
taking votes that are meaningful if the
Democrats want to actually pass a rule
that is helpful in terms of let's say
populist policies then institute a 3/5
supermajority needed to cut Medicare or
cut Medicaid or cut Social Security and
now this again wouldn't be a problem
if Nancy Pelosi hadn't been so adamant
about Pago if the Democrats came in and
said like we have no problem adding to
the deficit and let's punt this if the
Republicans so concerned about fiscal
responsibility let them raise taxes on
everybody when they eventually take the
house so this is really problematic and
you know this is a fight I don't know
how much people outside of Congress can
really influence but good thing to tweet
at freshmen representatives that you're
aware of this and to to tweet at
representatives don't handcuff
yourselves we are putting you there to
vote on and to pass and obviously
without the Senate none of these things
are gonna become law but it's important
that Congress puts their stamp on it now
we want you to pass progressive
legislation and anything that's gonna
stand in that way do not vote for like
these new proposed rules important to
have some awareness of what you know the
depth of these issues the other stuff
about that you hear from the left about
Nancy Pelosi largely I think is just
misinformed I'm in favor of new
leadership in the house but not at the
cost of having someone more conservative
there nevertheless like I say there are
some reasons to find real problem with
what Nancy Pelosi is doing that proposed
law it strikes me is a gift to the right
the best argument for the left agitating
to unseat Nancy Pelosi so that she feels
she has to
give stuff to the left rather than give
stuff to the right you need to balance
out the pressure that's coming from the
right so all right let's look into just
some of these videos of Donald Trump
making an ass of himself in California
before we do 2018 has been a difficult
year for human rights but have you ever
wondered how rights and abuses are
documented around the world you probably
have the sheer volume of global crises
we're seeing from civilian casualities
in Syria to ethnic cleansing and miramar
to the caging of children on US borders
it's critical that we exposed the truth
in order to defend the rights of all and
bring those responsible to justice
Human Rights Watch does just that
they're an independent nonprofit
organization known for their accurate
fact-finding impartial reporting and
targeted advocacy often they do so in
partnership with local activists and
human rights groups they accept no money
from any government but rely on the
support of informed dedicated people
just like you you have heard us
reference Human Rights Watch on this
program countless number of times over
the years so if human rights are
important to you visit HRW org slash
majority that's HRW org slash majority
to make a donation and support it's
vital work around the world when you do
not only is your gift tax deductible it
will be matched dollar for dollar until
2019 that means your donation will go
twice as far to advance justice and
defend the basic dignity of people who
need it most
again that's HRW org slash majority so
Donald Trump out in California here he
is with Gavin Newsom the California
governor elected I guess the lieutenant
governor as well Jerry Brown I'm not
sure who the third person is in camera
frame here but it is it Trump is
this is a stunning example of someone
who resents California because that's
where all the votes came to make him
lose the general election tally and
California has the power on things like
cafe standards and what not to push back
on Donald Trump and someone who knows
nothing about what he's talking about
but feels obligated to pretend that he
does this is like this is this is a sick
individual
but let's hear him here yes and I know
Gavin's committed we're all committed
I'm committed to make sure that all of
this cleaned out and protected take care
of the floors
you know the floors of the forests very
important you look at other countries
where they do it differently and it's a
whole different story it was with the
president of Finland that he said we
have much different we're a forest
nation he called it a forest nation and
they spent a lot of time on breaking and
cleaning and doing things and they don't
have any problem and what it is it's a
very small problem so I know everybody's
looking at that to that end and it's
gonna work out it's gonna work out well
yeah and all the adults surrounding him
are thinking this guy's a complete total
 for one reason
he's a total is this this is the
average climate of May to October in
Finland in California the red signifying
California the blue Finland the numbers
on the Left that the the y-axis is the
average precipitation totals between May
and October and inches of rain might
have something to do with how they rake
the floors yes you
notice that the precipitation in finland
versus california is almost seven times
greater and the raking is about seven
times greater as well right
it makes the raking easier that's the
whole point because things are looser
and you don't in raking water there's no
maybe if you raked more in California
you'd get more rain I would also add
that the is it the prime minister of
Finland has no recollection of that
conversation the president reportedly
according to the AP isn't sure where the
US president Donald Trump got the idea
that raking is part of his country's
routine for managing its substantial
forests the finished president said in
an interview published Sunday that he
spoke briefly with Trump about forest
management on November 11th when they
were both in Paris for arms this day's
events he said the conversation focused
on California wildfires in the
surveillance system Finland uses to
monitor forests for fires
he remembered telling Trump we take care
of our forests but couldn't recall
raking coming up I mean what are you
gonna say the guys are all right
we have more of Donald Trump being a
 in a bit but first we're gonna
take a break
talk to a Michael d Antonio the
co-author with Peter Eisner of the
shadow president the truth about Mike
Pence good time to check in and just
remind ourselves what a Mike Pence
president presidency might look like we
could take a quick break we'll be right
back after this
you
on the phone oh I'm sorry we're back Sam
cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome to the
program journalist CNN contributor
author Michael D Antonio author of the
latest with Peter Eisner the shadow
president the truth about Mike Pence
Michael welcome to the program thank you
Sam great to be with you now Michael we
I we met at at politican this year on a
on a panel about Mike Pence and you know
there more broadly I guess you know does
the left want Mike Pence or does
somebody want Mike Pence to fill in for
Donald Trump and I was you know I
thought I knew about Mike Pence I knew a
little bit about Mike Pence but you know
a lot more and you said something to me
and I want to start here and then we'll
work our way back and forward in Mike
Pence's life but you said something at
the time that I found really disturbing
that upon being inaugurated Mike Pence
had become the most powerful Christian I
think you called him maybe a
reconstructionist in the history of the
United States maybe I did I get that
right or and if so correct it but but
tell us more about that
well the actual term I used was
supremacist which is an even more
disturbing concerned you know sure
reconstructionists imagine creating
God's Dominion on earth and believe that
all that they do should be around
evangelizing for Christ but for a
supremacist it it also has to do with
taking over the government
installing what they believe our
biblical values kind of layering them on
top of the Constitution so in Mike's
case when he was starting out in
politics he would speak to
and talk lovingly of America's heritage
when there were state churches well in
fact there never were state churches but
there were colonial churches and one of
the main impetuses for the revolution
was to get rid of state-sponsored
religion Mike thinks that's a really
good idea just as he thinks it's a
really good idea to rollback marriage
equality to rollback reproductive rights
I think he would even like to see most
forms of contraception outlawed as they
were prior to the 1970s Wow
all right well with that said Michael
can we just ring you back up we're
getting a little bit of a buzzing on
your line we're gonna try you we're
gonna write ring you right back up sure
okay okay great
all right bear with us one second folks
we're going to try he's got a little bit
of a problem with his phone and we're
just going to try and we're gonna try
and fix that we will cut this off of
course from the podcast we'll be right
back give us one sec
you
so Michael all right so we have a a
Christian supremacist who is now I mean
is he is he the is he alright so having
established his bona fides as a
Christian supremacist and people
understanding what that what that means
right I mean the-they
it would be theocratic many respects is
he the most powerful I mean I guess vice
president right you're up there yeah
he's up there and the thing is that
there's not been someone so overtly
committed to this religious idea of
government ever before at this level in
our politics so certainly there have
been Christian conservatives John
Ashcroft as a senator and Attorney
General was quite devoted to many of
these ideas but we've never had someone
who could in a moment become president
and that's really one of the few things
required of the Vice President is to be
prepared to step in and he's been
preparing for this all of his life and
the people around him all say well when
the moment comes Mike will be ready
that's the phrase that they always use
Mike will be ready and he has salted
throughout the government his own folks
Donald Trump arrived in Washington
without very many connections and
certainly no experience in government
but he leaned on Mike Pence to help him
come up with appointments to every
department in the government and often
at the very highest levels there are
tense people in charge who are I think
more loyal to him than they are to the
president you know alright I want to put
a I want to put a pin in that and come
back around to that but that is the
other aspect about this that Pence is in
some respects and maybe you know in some
ways and and and we'll come back around
to this is reminiscent on some level of
of Dick Cheney's relationship with
George Bush I don't think it's quite
quite analogous but the power dynamic in
terms of personnel seems to me to be a
little bit different than maybe we saw
with Barack Obama and Joe Biden or with
Bill Clinton and Al Gore but but we'll
circle back around to that let's let's
go back into Mike Pence's history a lot
of people don't realize this but Mike
Pence was an AM talk radio host a
right-wing talk radio host I should say
I've got nothing against am talk radio
show host based on my own pedigree but
what what what what was I mean where
where did what was he doing before then
and because this guy was I think he
billed himself as being Rush Limbaugh
but but nicer right precisely he would
say I'm a conservative but I'm not angry
about it or that he was rush limbaugh on
decaf and he very much styled himself
after Limbaugh he tried to develop a
strong radio voice and he did develop
that he had a pretty strong personality
but the strength of it was this kind of
all-american I think of cornfields and
slapping red white and blue flags he
wanted everybody to think that he was a
nice guy so he would say things that
were quite radical for example he was a
big advocate of prosecuting people in
the military who formed relationships
across rank so there was a famous case
of a woman officer who had an affair
with a man a male officer and he wanted
her put in the Brig
these are pretty extreme ideas he was
really worked up about the hiv/aids
crisis one of his first sponsors in the
radio business the owner of a radio
station that he went on first
was a very wild-eyed preacher who had a
lot of street protests against people
advocating for equality back in the late
1980s and was very out there in his
radical statements about anybody who was
different from him and what's really
fascinating about Mike because he didn't
start out this way he as he was born
into a family that was traditional Irish
Catholic his parents and his
grandparents were Democrats they were
really new dealers and he saw I think
when he went off to college that there
was an advantage in being a right-wing
evangelical Christian in rural Indiana
which was where he was from and where he
would seek his first office um all right
so yeah let's talk about him as a as a
congressman not terribly effective from
a legislative perspective is that that
seems like I mean like an understatement
I mean I guess you can't get worse than
nothi than then completely ineffective
but he seems to from a legislative
perspective been completely ineffective
he was I mean he couldn't even get a law
passed that went after the problem of
child pornography
he was so ineffective in in his entire
time in Congress which was ten years he
didn't pass a single bill no he did
manage to elevate himself he first
challenged John Boehner to be Speaker
and then sort of as a as a sock to the
Christian right wing of the Republican
Party Boehner invited him into the
leadership structure after he defeated
him so he was always about promoting
himself promoting his own power
and he was a reliable vote so the NRA
would have given him a hundred percent
grades the coke
there's and their organizations favored
him he was a great fundraiser and this
is something people failed to appreciate
it said he raised millions and millions
of dollars that he didn't need so he
gave it away and that's how you make
friends in your caucus and the House of
Representatives is you raise lots of
extra money give it to your buddies they
use it in their campaigns and then when
the time arises and you're out
campaigning either for in this case vice
president are eventually president and I
think Mike will campaign for president
they're going to be on your side
describe how the development the
relationship with the Koch brothers
developed because the I mean the Koch
brothers maybe if this is a I shouldn't
say this is uh incongruous in any way I
mean on some level I wrote a book in
that era about the the sort of the free
market fundamentalists and just the
fundamentalist that basically made up
the Republican Party but he brings them
together in some way Mike Pence does in
his relationship with the Koch brothers
I mean he is really very much a coke
funded politician more than most and
particularly at that time right right so
this was the old Americans for
Prosperity days when they were one of
the very first independent political
action committees they went around the
country in 1999 looking for candidates
who said the right things had the right
appearance you know they they wanted
good-looking people who stood for a
really ferociously independent
capitalism would oppose environmental
regulations do everything that the Koch
brothers wanted and have the chance of
getting elected so among the first two
were Jeff Flake and Mike Pence
both of whom succeeded and they they had
a similar style they they were kind of
blandly good-looking guys who offended
almost no one on the stump but if you
listened carefully what they were saying
was pretty extreme and they were
reliable votes in that pro-business
anti-regulation arena throughout their
careers one of the strangest things that
mike did in this period was he he had a
column that ran in local papers and he
wrote a column saying that there was
absolutely no evidence that there were
health effects from smoking this this
was in 1999 so by then there were only
about 300 papers that had established
the firm connection between smoking and
cancer the number of deaths related to
smoking were well-established but little
known to many people was that not only
was this a great anti regulation
position you know you could say that you
were a hundred percent against
government regulation if you're standing
up for tobacco but Mike's family ran a
chain of 200 convenience store gas
stations where tobacco was a major
profit source so he's at one point
standing up for the Koch brothers but
he's also standing up for his family's
business and all the money that they
were making on cigars and cigarettes and
chewing tobacco every single day well
Michael I'm sure you're aware the
charity starts at the home well here -
no there's a funny thing that he has in
common with Donald Trump so you
mentioned that he was a broadcaster and
this was before Trump was a broadcaster
and actually Mike was on television in
India and in addition to being on the
radio long before Donald was on the boss
on The Apprentice Mike was the host of
this TV show but he also his family went
through one of the biggest bankruptcies
in
history of the state of Indiana business
I believed that it was well over a
hundred million dollars that they walked
away from leaving not only suppliers and
vendors on the hook but the state of
Indiana they they were left with
millions of dollars in cleanup costs at
gas stations where the pence companies
had poured all kinds of things into the
ground so he's got both broadcasting and
bankruptcy and all sorts of other tricks
in common with Donald Trump so the
there's not as much difference between
them as people would like to believe so
in the I can't remember if it was the
late Ott's mid aughts
he leaves Congress to become to run for
governor must have been late aughts I
guess or maybe just a you know in like
2010 is it I mean because he was and
extremely by the end of his first term
and and he was going to try and run for
reelection when he became vice president
he was unpopular he was significantly
unpopular if I remember correctly he was
so he he looked well and ran for
governor of Indiana then a Republican in
that state kind of start starts out with
a huge advantage because the
registration favors them and you almost
have to try to lose and he almost did
lose but he got into office and then
proceeded to do all kinds of stuff that
nobody liked it was one of the main
things that he and then that he did that
really alienated not only great swaths
of the electorate but the Republican
establishment was this thing called the
Religious Freedom Restoration Act or
rifra and what this was was a law that
said it's okay to discriminate on the
basis of sexual identity so if you were
running a business and someone came in
to buy invitations for a same-sex
wedding or a wedding cake or really if
they had any view that was different
from yours on a religious basis you
could refuse to serve them and he
actually got this through the state
legislature and signed it and the this
thing everything sort of hit the fan
when a picture from the signing ceremony
which was held in secret was actually
released and if you looked at this photo
you'd see something that was kind of a
modern-day Last Supper painting with
Mike seated at his desk with his pen in
hand
surrounded by preachers and Catholic
nuns and Orthodox Jewish people all
fully recognized is fully recognizable
from their clothing and the state
erupted you know the the conservative
Indianapolis newspaper ran one headline
on the front page and it was in huge
type and it just said fix this because
businesses were saying they're going to
move out of the state the n-c-double-a
was saying it was going to no longer
hold tournaments in Indianapolis it was
a disaster and he backtracked on it as
quickly as he could and and we should
say I mean ultimately the the on a
federal level it was the federal rifra
that was almost like revived in some
respects in the Hobby Lobby case yeah
we're the ACA where riff wrote was
basically used if I'm not mistaken as
this sort of the leverage point in
allowing for Hobby Lobby as a closely
held business not to have to offer
certain health insurance benefits to its
employees because it was offensive to
the owners religion well right right
and and so go ahead well this was
this is Mike being a little bit ahead of
his time you know he he wanted to do
this by statute and the case involving
the ACA wound up being a Supreme Court
case and now it's it's more there's more
leverage for businesses that want to
withhold either insurance coverage for
contraception or if you don't want to
bake a wedding cake they have some
standing to do so on religious grounds
but the law Mike pushed through in
Indiana was much broader than that and
it would essentially allowed anybody to
refuse service to almost anyone else and
claimed that it was a religious there
seems to be a series of instances like
this where he over reaches and then has
to walk it back essentially I
specifically I'm thinking about a a a
situation where it was a case I had
interviewed actually an attorney about
it where at one point he and his
department of adoption services or I
can't remember like child welfare
services in in the state basically cut
the funding to foster parents or parents
who adopt kids with special needs there
was no federal funding and they state
cut the subsidies in like 2009 I think
it was they ultimately were sued II had
to sort of reinstitute those payments
but well what what's going on here like
what what there's just a series of these
things because on one hand that paints
him as a guy who's like I just am deeply
religious and I have these principles
that are nuts to a large segment of the
population even in my home state but I
go forward until I'm sad
but then we have a vision of a far more
mercenary guy
it seems to me who has become vice
president
well you're right and it's a good
observation that on some of these cases
it does seem to be religiously motivated
but in other cases it's it's this
overstepping almost as a matter of
wielding power and and refusing to
compromise there were two really
important examples of this while he was
governor one was a case in northeastern
or northwestern Indiana which is up
toward Chicago and tends to be
democratic where there was a crisis
similar to the Flint water crisis it was
primarily an african-american community
where a industry had polluted the ground
in the water so terribly that people
were getting sick and a huge housing
project had to be shut down and Mike
refused to intervene refused to give
them disaster assistance just insisted
there was nothing wrong and that he did
not have to act there was another
infamous case of a wrongful conviction
and incarceration of a man for murder
who all the evidence indicated he hadn't
done it and it was proven that he hadn't
done it and he was released and he
wanted his record wiped clean so that he
would not have the conviction show up
anywhere in his record and Mike just
flatly refused to do it really for no
good reason and as soon as he was out of
office his lieutenant governor became
governor and reversed him on both of
those issues so and he was a a good
regular Republican governor of the state
of Indiana and he saw no reason to hold
on to these policies when clearly the
people in Chicago which was the
community that
was affected by the pollution needed to
have that redressed and the man who had
been incarcerated had become a cause
celeb for the entire state and they're
really what's amazing about this is it's
sort of like the case with the border
separations and Trump we're even
Franklin Graham jr. was saying you know
we we can't abide this separation of
these children and their parents and
Trump said I'm still going to go forward
with it in Indiana there were
evangelical leaders who were telling
Mike to change his position and he just
wouldn't
so Mike Pence came to us via Paul
Manafort and I think there is a story
that has you know been reported in
multiple places that mana fort brought
Trump in to look at pence as vice
president that Trump was leaning towards
Chris Christie and mana Fork pretended
that the jet that brought Trump in was
broken and that they had to stay
overnight so that he would have more
time with Mike Pence the I can
understand the theory right like Mike
Pence the theory was Mike Pence is going
to deliver the evangelical vote that
that the the Trump essentially hiring
Mike Pence as vice president was the
metaphor like I I'm bringing you folks
into the tent I will do your bidding and
therefore it's worth it for you to come
out and vote for me if only because of
what I'll do with the Supreme Court but
but more I mean it is that basically the
dynamic that was going on there that is
the dynamic and there is a a whole
theological backdrop for all of this
where people talk about the biblical
story of Cyrus and the fact that as a
non-believer king he allowed Jewish man
to be his key adviser and he protected
the Jews and Cyrus's Kingdom
and allowed encourage Cyrus to act in a
just manner and and to therefore serve
God and the this is taught in Christian
Rite churches today that Donald Trump is
Cyrus and Pence is the person who will
moderate him and mediate on God's behalf
and usher in the kingdom despite the
fact that there is this awful person in
the Oval Office so none of what Trump
does none of the sins that he's
committed in the past
none of the outrages that he continues
to commit matter because Mike Pence has
his eye on him and pence believes that
he's destined to be president and that
God intends for that to happen anyway
and and I think most of the Christian
Right world assumes that this will be
the case too so he's in this caretaker
position kind of looking over Trump's
shoulder his ass equus ness you know the
fact that he's the sycophant in chief is
all part of the game it doesn't matter
how much he degrades himself how much he
gravels in front of Trump's awfulness he
is there for one purpose and that's why
the Christian Right is going to remain
loyal to the president there's a little
bit of that like lying for the Lord
quality to that absolutely that's a
that's a concept that is very current in
the conservative Christian movement and
you know there was Pope's have
subscribed to this as well that any
amount of deception for the right
purpose is somehow permissible so the
ends justify the means even among the
pious let's let's because I want to get
to just like it how you know how much
how how much of a actionable plan do you
think Mike Pence has to assume the
presidency I want to get to that in a
second
but before we do let's talk about the
personnel in the White House because I
look at like this guy Matt Whitaker who
has been who went from chief of staff
for Jeff Sessions to now the acting
Attorney General and this guy when his
whole sort of biblical reference for the
law and a litmus test for judges need to
be Christian and the story that Whitaker
came not from Jeff Sessions but from
outside of Jeff Sessions and was more or
less installed there and became Donald
Trump's eyes and ears it occurred to me
that he sounds like maybe he came from
Mike Pence because it doesn't sound like
this guy came from anywhere else I mean
is that do you have a sense of that like
how many people in the White House now
are Pence people that we're not really
clear about well it's there are people
in the White House most notably this
fellow Nick Ayers who is right now Mike
Pence's chief of staff but is in the
running to replace Kelley as the
president's chief of staff but more
important where Pence is concerned are
the people who are cabinet secretaries
you know someone like ben Carson is more
Pen Stylus in a Trump loyalist the
people at Department of Agriculture HHS
Alex a czar was Pence's guy in Indiana
for Health and Human Services you can go
down a long list of people not only in
the administration but people have been
named to be federal judges whose pathway
to these appointments is through the
vice president's office in fact a lot of
the judges have been vetted not in the
West Wing but by the vice president's
office so there's this very much a kind
of shadow administration that serve
Donald Trump and you know the other
thing to consider is that Trump's not
much interested in this stuff
he's he's not a guy who cares much about
policy he you know when he says that
he's he doesn't know who Matt Whitaker
was well that's a lie you know it just
chalked that up to one of the half a
dozen lives a day that he commits but
I'm sure he doesn't really care who met
Whitaker was in the past
only that he saw him on FOX TV trying
out for the role by saying that Muller's
off the reservation and needs to be
reined in and that the investigation is
based on nothing and is a fraud so he
made it clear to the president where he
stood as a guy from Iowa I think
Whitaker would have been on Pence's
radar years ago before Donald Trump even
considered running for president in 2016
Mike Pence was working in Iowa and New
Hampshire in South Carolina to develop
his primary and caucus state contacts
for his own run for president
so Whitaker would have been on his radar
as would have been Sam Clovis is another
controversial figure in the Department
of Agriculture and his Whitaker's buddy
in Iowa right so there is this reality
that you're going to find more
connections between Pence and the
players and the Trump administration
that go back deeper then for the
president and any of these figures how
much of a plan do you imagine that Mike
Pence has to become president I mean is
he just is he let me let me delineate it
this way obviously he is contemplating
the idea of running as a sitting vice
president maybe in 2024 right does he
have a plan and I imagine he's
you know ready if the Lord decides that
Donald Trump needs to be needs to go in
some fashion that he's that Pence is
ready to step in but do you think that
Mike Pence like when we when we saw that
letter that was released weeks before
the midterm elections from an anonymous
source within somewhere in the
administration how what I doubt it was
Mike Pence writing this thing but to
what extent do you think that he had any
close proximity to the writer or
awareness that this was going to be
written a and B that's another way of
asking like does Mike Pence also have a
maybe we can expedite this or have the
chips fall in a certain way plan well
he's a pretty ruthless guy for all of
his milquetoast exterior and claim to be
so nice and promoting the president when
he sees his opportunities he grabs them
and I would be very surprised if the
Vice President didn't know that that
anonymous letter was coming and I really
have to assume that he knows who wrote
it and it was is not unhappy about the
fact that it was published he is in the
current he's currently in Asia and
Pacific
representing the president at various
meetings and he's made it clear there
that he disagrees with Trump when it
comes to the press as the enemy of the
people he's he has cultivated some space
between himself and the president and in
a a niche that suggests that he's a
little bit more normal and that he's an
alternative to trump maybe even a
transition figure back toward politics
as it regularly was before this great
disruption so I think he's constantly
positioning himself
he created his own super PAC in May of
2017 five months into the vice
presidency no one ever did that before
he's raised huge sums of money he spent
more time on the road talking to local
Republicans and the president has and we
know how much he enjoys going around
doing rallies
so his network continues to develop and
grow the expectations for him in the
future are greater than they ever were
I actually think nikki Haley left the
United Nations to prepare herself to be
on a pence
Haylee ticket in 2024 so we've not seen
anything yet from Mike Pence
Wow well Betsy seems like a good place
to wrap this up
Michael deantonio the book is the shadow
president the truth about Mike Pence you
know what before we go I got asked this
okay like what there are you know I
think people people not of the
fundamentalist ilk look upon Mike
Pence's relationship with his wife as at
the very least anachronistic I guess
right and in in what what do we know
about Mike Pyke how you know I think
there's a there's a Fasil response to
that like Mike Pence you know is really
really concerned about you know
maintaining control over his his you
know sexual urges which may be you know
all over the place to a certain extent
well like is there anything beyond the
fact that this that you know in the
course of your reporting that Mike Pence
is anything other than you know more or
less the the type of guy who would walk
out of the Handmaid's Tale well you know
he's obviously a very repressed guy
there's so much effort being made at
containing and controlling his sexuality
his his emotions that you have to think
that there's some fear there that that
he's worried about those aspects of
being human being when he asked Karen to
marry him he told friends that he had to
forgive her for not being a virgin
because she had been married before so
this goes way back
I think his fear of passion and
sexuality and perhaps women is
well-established I think the president's
fear of women is well-established that's
why he's so angry at them and tries to
belittle women at every chance he gets
beyond that you know I think that the
Pence's have this meaning on the minds
where she's every bit as ambitious as he
is he respects her judgment politically
and in a lot of ways as sort of like
surprise surprise Bill and Hillary
Clinton they're a power couple they
pursued these ambitions together and I
think she takes every bit as much
pleasure from the exercise of power and
the achievements that he's notched in
his career as he does that's interesting
you know I just screening of Vice about
Dick Cheney and the relationship between
Lynne Cheney and Dick Cheney is every
much as much a shared venture in some
respects Dick Cheney you know by the
account of this film is a Lynne Cheney
project and I you know it's it's it's
striking in in many respects but Mike
Michael deantonio the book is the shadow
president the truth about Mike Pence
we'll put a link to that at majority dot
F M thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thanks Jim all
right folks
I'm gonna head into the fun half wearing
we will play let's play one more clip of
Donald Trump being a complete just
I mean the the I can only imagine the
the sense of you know someone like Jerry
Brown walking around being you know a
normal human being and all the other
people there obviously as well being a
normal human being being aware of the
human suffering that's going around
being aware of the implications of
climate change and how in it is likely
that what they're witnessing is not a
one-off incident but a a continuance of
a trajectory and a glimpse into the
future of what's going to be going on in
California and then to be sitting there
with this who has no human empathy
but a an intense desire to appear as if
he knows what he's talking about but
exercising not even the slightest bit of
effort to to do so III you know I've
been in some rather uncomfortable
situations where I've been sitting
around people I don't like but I've
never had to do this frankly here he is
this is him talking about him being in
pleasure right is that it yeah they're
in a they're in a place called Paradise
California here is Donald Trump trying
to remember that you don't really see
the gravity of it I mean as big as they
look on the tube you don't see what's
going on until you come here and what we
saw at pleasure what a name right now
but when what we just saw we just left
pleasure or paradise and what we just
saw at paradise is just you know it's
just not acceptable right
pleasure paradise do different I can see
what I'd make the mistake it starts with
a P it starts with the P here is Donald
Trump also showing his ignorance as to
he's already earlier said you know
Finland doesn't have this problem why do
we have this problem
Finland like we already expressed as two
to three times more precipitation or no
it was it seven times more precipitation
during the months of May to October
which will I mean for those of you who
are Trump supporters that much rain in
precipitation will make the starting of
forest fires that much less likely and
the intensity of those fires much less
so because things aren't as dry here is
Donald Trump addressing the likelihood
that climate change has implications for
creating essentially really dry
environment in California that would
lead to intense forest fires they're
seeing this devastation no change your
opinion at all on climate change mr.
president no not one way climate we're
going to have that and we're gonna have
forests that are very safe
here we go so we're gonna head safe
forests and that's happening as we speak
instead of fire you said we need to
change the fire bed after the state
local collisions it doesn't you know
we're here with the federal government
now state local and federal government
federal government's gonna work with the
state a lot of things they've been
working very hard and I think you're
gonna see something very spectacular
over the next number of years but I mean
this guy has won macro for all these
things we're gonna have great climate
things it's already the climate it's
getting better
well that's his favorite mode this is
the same mode he was in when he was
throwing paper towels yeah Berto Rico
strutting around getting to wear the
coat the USA hat it's so much about
containment for him as well like the
idea that we can make safe forests right
the forests are gonna be great they're
gonna be safe it's happening it's
already happening but probably six day
we I would say probably three weeks six
to three weeks three to six weeks great
forests
happy safe for us and he you know in
that moment where he's close to Jerry
Brown right lessons have been learned
lessons have been learned nobody knew
about fires until I became president
it's a constant balancing act between
sane what he even his he knows he should
be obligated to say and also covering
his own tracks yep all right folks just
a reminder this program relies on its
members for its very existence
you can become a member by going to join
the majority report com by becoming a
member of the program you are supporting
this show you're making it possible for
us to have entries we had a lot of we
had a lot of great response from the
interviews we had last week that was one
of my favorite weeks I have to say yoky
yokai bang Claire
on on what the media has been up to and
John sides on the implications of race
in our country following Obama and Marcy
wheeler covered all bases last week
really great stuff the best interviews
and we're gonna have even better
interviews they're gonna just get better
a lot of things were learned a lot of
things were learned and we're gonna have
a lot better ones in like three to six
weeks everyone knows that
and it almost wouldn't even have to be
said that's right but you can support
this program by going to join the
majority report calm and as a way of
saying thank you we give you extra
content every day so if there is one of
those rare times where you find the
interview too dry too we T I know I have
a tendency to do that people have told
me that sometimes repeatedly over and
over some people have told me that but
that's just the way that we do it here
it's kind of like that chart that we
just showed earlier with the Norway
California it's dry there's some drier
stuff there's some drier stuff that's
right wet stuff more wet stuff but yeah
I mean I've been told in the past like
you should do the fun half as the free
show and the interviews but no that's
not the way I want to do it so you can
support the show by going to join the
majority report com also you can see us
live we're still debating about guests
January 13th in Brooklyn New York we
will be at the Bell House we have a link
on the majority dot F M and in the
podcast and we'll put it down below in
the YouTube as well part of the Brooklyn
pod fest tickets are only 15 bucks it is
18 and over so if you're a young person
come to the show and we may have guests
we may not not sure
what does it matter does it really
matter
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code get
10% off with the coupon code majority
tea MBS put out 2 shows this week or
last week so go catch up on that you
know you can you can you can get it as a
podcast on all where all your podcasts
are delivered or you can go to the
youtube channel youtube.com slash Sam
cedar watch the full show clips on the
tea MBS Channel and obviously head over
to patreon too if you want to support
that program the auntie fada
they had a giant episode that was the
guy the who the could gone on to cover
on the all right right I don't know if
that's the most recent one o Pandora
I mean patreon.com slash the auntie fada
literary hangover yeah another episode
on Catherine Maria Sedgwick we look into
there's a common thing in colonial times
where people colonialists would go into
Native American tribes and they would
stay there and they wouldn't so much
happen the other way around because
apparently the lifestyle was just better
or something like that you have to infer
Catherine Muir Sedgwick had an ancestor
who was captured by Native Americans and
then married into it and stayed a Native
American she preferred it so we talked a
little bit about that and about the rest
of the story check that all out head
into the fun at six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty oh I'm gonna
talk about a libertarian debate that
we're gonna have coming up to we will
talk about that and the fun half six or
six to five seven thirty nine twenty see
you there Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like these
I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defensive that you're idiot
we're just going to get rid of you all
right you want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur five
times eight four seven five seven five
[Music]
don't you see everybody's taking their
dumb juice today come on Sammy
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
seafood I'm hoping to add more moves to
my repertoire all I have is the dip in
the swirl fine we can double dip yes
this is a perfect moment no all right
gonna take quick break I want to take a
moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already hood Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to I do see people Shitler with
such a death to America
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back fun half ladies and
gentlemen fun half Orthodox donut on the
I M Sam as someone adjacent to show
business and a Jewish man what is your
reaction to Ice T's recent claim that
he's never eaten a bagel I mean I'm
skeptical I'm skeptical well I had a bit
of controversy when Cynthia Nixon had
her whole lox and cream cheese thing
because I I've ate a bagel like out of a
bag before but I've never went to a
bagel shop and bought a bagel
alright here's why it's not necessarily
the same you are at least half of Ice
T's age I would say well I don't know
maybe you're about half and ice-t is
also he's been on many sets before okay
yeah right he gets there for breakfast I
Got News for you there's bagels I've
only been on Mob Wives yeah you've only
been you've only been on reality shows
and craft services they're very very
thin
I wasn't even so that's my that's my
take I don't buy it I think it's a you
know it's a pose
have you ever seen the no longer her
never seen it the law and order's spread
never heard of amazing never even heard
of law and order
why was iced tea on that I never know I
would never even heard of that show
fun fact his name was actually thin on
Wow of course you know I if in fact
these but when his David Pakman takedown
piece for stealing your background
panels going to air and talk about
competition starting to kick in
did he did he did he he asked me how to
make him
I know I probably shouldn't have said
anything can we get let's let's see a
Pakman thing up here alright let's go to
the phones call him from a 509 area code
who's this where he come from a famine
throughout Reagan Ronald Reagan you
really you really jumped in got in early
today well the phones are closed early I
tried calling it like 6:30 and you but
you just opened them up which is really
helps the free market I think yeah none
of this like you know get up at you know
six hours before the show and get on the
phone plus to be honest we we get
charged we get charged for that time so
I'm very because I'm getting more
diligent about that yeah yeah I feel you
there hey I need to ask you about RVs
yeah okay
Arby's so hold on for one second we're
looking at David Pakman at handles he
really did he stole the show he stole it
yeah well pac-man I think we know
that
Wow what's he gonna do saying it for
years
I've been saying it for years frankly
this guy all right whatever all right
okay whatever yeah go ahead I'm sorry
listen um I need some information
because your Hollywood adjacent I would
say ROM what do you what do you think
Benjamin's getting for these RVs
commercials um I think he's doing
probably what's that what's the payout
be specific please you want me to be
specific about the payout well let me
say this yeah let me say this all right
this is as far as I'll go
I have not paid for a meal with John
Benjamin in quite some time
well you put it that way right but okay
that supports my theory that he was
probably already a rich guy before
Arby's came along and so I'm just what
did you do an Arby's commercial Sam
would I do an Arby's commercial for ya
for the money that he's getting would I
do an Arby's commercial I would Syria
seriously consider it and then I would
probably do it yeah I mean I you know
it's any - it's very here I mean I don't
you know I don't think I would do there
are some brands I would not do like yeah
it would have to be for a significant
amount but would you not do what would
you what would you not do
I wouldn't what a subway came and they
said we want you to be the new Jared if
they put it that way I wouldn't say no
but if they said would you would you
sell like a turkey sandwich
sure yeah but I wouldn't do like finance
I wouldn't do you know yeah I wouldn't I
wouldn't do gold no I mean I met I mean
I've turned down a lot of these in terms
of ads now I will say this not for the
money that you know would come with a
national you know Arby's spot let's say
but now there's a picture there's a
picture of you on the internet with the
Benjamin and David Cross right and
you're wearing like a pink shirt and you
look really confused right you have like
a confused look on your face it's
possible and so Benjamin is now the face
of RVs and David Cross is in a M&Ms
commercial is he and I just feel like
yeah and I need I feel like I need to
see I need some cedar on something you
know yeah like oh you know I would do
get just is that the picture yeah
is that the picture I don't I'm not yeah
I don't know where that picture is look
at how young everybody looks in that
picture oh my god well I went out
actually with those two guys for a drink
the other night I didn't pay so that's
the only thing I care about
I mean frankly I didn't have to pay so
no look I'm with you I would love to to
get you know but I just don't think
that's gonna happen but I do appreciate
the encouragement Ron Reagan oh I wanted
to ask you one more thing so there's all
these rumors online about you running in
2022 against Chuck Schumer
yeah let me and let me address your
assessment of all these were crazy
it's pretty crazy crazy my sense of
those rumors is that they're all being
made up and spread by you nah dude
they're all over Twitter you've been on
Twitter lately I have been and it's I
mean it's a lot of a lot of them are a
lot of them are me yeah a lot of them
but now other people are yeah
well listen you know what I mean I I'm
not gonna rule it out let's put it that
way I'm gonna be I'm gonna actually I've
got a focus group meeting later and I
need you to do me a favor can you look
straight into camera and say the Chuck
stops here and then say I'm Sam cedar
and I supported this message sure I just
want to see how it plays no I must own
this group okay go the Chuck stops here
I'm sorry what you said it right in the
middle of my can can you let me just do
it do it do it over sorry one more time
from the top the Chuck stops here I'm
Sam cedar and I approve this message
how's that yeah get back to us you need
to do like they're ready for Hillary but
ready for cedar yeah I don't know I
think I want mine to be a little bit
less about people are ready for me and
I'm ready for them but we'll talk about
that after you know can we do no no I
can't I've done one I've done one for
your focus group today you know this is
the problem with politics that it's all
about this all focus group driven and
Ronald Reagan already it's like what
happened in the candidate the the
campaign manager comes in and starts to
corrupt the guy Ronald Reagan is already
doing that I haven't even declared yet
and he's already getting me to like you
know Taylor to myself to a focus group
on from a to one zero area code who's
this where you calling from
good afternoon panelists
from San Antonio John from San Antonio
good to hear from you is this going to
be about the the race against me and
Chuck Schumer not necessarily you know I
put out the counties did I thought you
would do well in though on Twitter so
people want to look that up that was
surprising pretty well in art how
surprised you didn't say Columbia County
on that I noticed that but whatever
that's fine okay well I mean I think
you'll actually woodwind most of the
counties I mean the real the real issue
would be the five boroughs
you know Suffolk County Nassau County
West Westchester some of the other ones
near there and that's two-thirds of the
vote that's where all the people the
progressives didn't do so well except
for Jumaane Williams did pretty well
because he was actually from Brooklyn
right the other one did you know
Teachout and and the Nixon didn't do so
well yeah five boroughs anyway so I know
you already covered this earlier in the
day but I think I do feel it's important
on Thursday the Washington Post reported
a new rule that Nancy Pelosi wants to
implement it requires a 60%
supermajority to pass any legislation
that raises taxes on people who aren't
in the top 20% of all earners friends
and the majority report Erik Levitt
wrote an excellent article in New York
magazine where he proclaims while
progressives are committed to increasing
the discretionary income of the bottom
80% it does not necessarily mean that
keeping their tax rates at historical
low levels a bill has been required a
bill that required these households to
pay a new smaller sum to the government
such as fun single-payer system that
would reduce the cost of living by
delivering a radically cheaper health
care services could hardly be called
regressive Levitz notes and the same can
be said for legislation establishing
universal health care paid family leave
or any other program aimed at easing the
middle class financial burdens equating
support for middle-class families with
opposition to increasing their tax rates
is a conservative project which
Democrats have no business advancing if
the party wishes to
Babla structural barriers to policies
they would hurt the middle class
why not require three-fifths majority to
cut Medicare that's what it yes Social
Security yes yeah exactly and and and I
you know if we were talking like you're
not gonna raise taxes on the bottom 20%
let's say and the people in the you know
the the lowest quintile of income you
know I would be I would that's fine you
know but to say that we're not going to
raise any taxes and there is is exactly
as Levitz states it it is a basically a
like a fail-safe to make sure that you
can't get any type of universal programs
passed and it's absurd it's silly it's
dumb it's just a well it's not dumb I
mean I understand why she's doing it it
is to allow Democrats from having to
take a difficult vote and here's the
problem
okay the Democrats have to now you know
Nancy Pelosi is thinking is like how can
we maintain the house the Democrats have
to get with the program and understand
the way this stuff works is you take the
power and you use the power even if it
means you're gonna lose the power and
that's not to say that you should be
taking a medicare-for-all vote in the
next two years because it may not mean
anything although I don't think that's a
hard vote you could take the vote and
then you you do the taxation later right
you come up with the the means to pay
for it when you can actually implement
the policy but the one thing that we've
seen from the affordable care act it
seems to me is once you get this stuff
in stuff that people are going to like
even if they don't like it as much as
they would like something else you know
beyond it right cuz the the ACA was a
step at least in the right direction and
particularly in terms of the Patient
Protection and I've been saying this for
two years and they just ran you know
Nancy Pelosi when she announced that she
was taking over the house said you
let's hear it for pre-existing
conditions the point being that the
Patient Protection part of that bill has
always been the most successful part of
it once you Institute these programs
particularly if it's something that's
universal it's gonna be extremely
durable so you can lose the house
because you get Medicare for all and
it's gonna help you get back the house
but even at that point like you know
medicare for all would go a long way to
make people's lives that much better and
create a a fact on the ground as it were
that is really important so yeah John I
think it's it's worthwhile to to to
bring that up consistently and I would
beseech you please revise your
estimation of what's happening in
Columbia County if I take on Schumer
thank you for the call all right thank
you bye John
I don't understand why I didn't even
contemplate Columbia County so on
Twitter and we'll talk more about this
tomorrow but I just want to brief
briefly touch on it I I would like to
debate steven crowder in fact I'd like
to debate any of these reporting YouTube
people some I'm willing to you know ones
that have a sort of substantial sway
over segments of our population I am
willing to you know the ones that are
doing damage the ones who are doing
damage from my perspective the
subjective call but their ideology is
all damaging but some have more traction
and than others I'm willing to travel to
their studio I'm willing to call into
their show I'm willing to host them on
my show I'm willing to go to a third a
third place and certainly if you're a
conservative youtuber out there the
phone lines are always open and more
often than not we check
Twitter sometimes and if you're a
conservative you you know youtuber and
want to debate me on some topic you know
tweet at us and tell us that you're on
the line to give us your area code and
you'll get to the front of line believe
me so this was going back and forth and
apparently Adam Koch --is-- who used to
talk about in this program you know a
little bit I mean I'm familiar with his
work but from like years ago from Adam I
can't remember he had a show name like
yeah it just escapes me at the moment
that's just my old age and he somehow
got involved in a thread and he's a
hardcore libertarian and I think quite
earnest won and he tweeted at me and
said I just found out that you have a
standing thing to debate libertarians
and so he said I'd like to debate you
and I was it took me I think well it
took me about four seconds after seeing
it I don't know how long he had tweeted
it you know maybe it had been an hour
two hours or five hours or a day ago or
something but I've deemed him we've got
we've exchanged information we're gonna
have him on you know probably calling in
I don't know where he lives but calling
in sometime in December to do a debate
on libertarianism and you know I don't
know if he's going to look at you know
stuff I've done about libertarians I
mean I think our arguments are probably
set I imagine I have a sense of what
he's going to say and he has a mad sense
of what I'm going to say but in honor of
the fact that we'll be having one of the
first sort of scheduled libertarian
debates that we've had in a while
in December I give you a Utah Senate
Senator Mike Lee now here's the thing
now that there is and we will find out
there's a runoff election in is it
Mississippi Mike sb and I can
remember the Republic Cindy hyde-smith
who has a real affinity for talking
about lynchings and whatnots hangings
public hangings but as it stands now
with Bill Nelson having conceded this
weekend in Florida Republicans have a I
think of 52 53 to 47 advantage 53 to 47
advantage or I should say 52 to 47
advantage it could end up being 53 I
think with this one in Tennessee but who
knows it could go the other way a guy
like Mike Lee gives him a little bit
more breathing room to destruct a little
bit of his libertarian ideals because as
you know people's vote becomes less
crucial they can brand themselves a
little bit more right Susan Collins is
released she can pretend that she cares
about a woman's right to choose more now
than she did when it she was absolutely
needed for a vote on Kavanagh so here is
Mike Lee giving a speech to the
Federalist Society this is the ones that
developed guys like Kavanagh is the one
who asked the moms yeah ask the moms
here he is talking about how the left is
going to start a civil war in this
country unless they give up things like
a federally mandated highway system or
other functions of our government
according to any reasonable measuring
stick the dysfunctional status quo is
unsustainable even in good times like
those we're experiencing right now it's
driving our government toward insolvency
in our politics toward violence
realistically pause it I know people get
annoyed when I interrupt
sometimes these videos but our
government does not have the ability to
be insolvent you understand that right
our government does not have the
inability to be in saw
and unless it decides it wants to be
insolvent we have the ability to print
money we have the largest or I should
say the most meaningful economy in the
world obviously China is very important
as well but our currency essentially
works all around the world we have a
very robust economy we have the ability
to print our own money we also have the
ability to tax people it is impossible
for the government of the United States
to be insolvent but continue
realistically Americans have two options
either we're going to once again embrace
the Constitution's vision of a diverse
tolerant pluralistic union of states and
of communities each governed according
to the values and priorities of its own
citizens or this fundamentally
unamerican contest one recklessly
designed to determine which half of our
nation will have the power at least
temporarily to unilaterally impose its
will and its values on the other half
will escalate violently out of control
posit I want you to understand how nuts
of what he's talking about is first of
all it is completely an American concept
like the Constitution suggests that
Congress right will control things like
commerce interstate commerce and has
responsibility for the general welfare
Michael II doesn't I don't think you
have a problem with immigration for the
feds doing immigration either but
continue let's just listen to this
absurdity he wants us to go back to an
era let's say where states could say
come up with their own voting law laws
about who can and cannot vote
based on things let's say like by race
or by a poll tax or a literacy test
right or maybe even who can and cannot
own slaves also they don't have half of
the country on their side it's a half
and half this isn't half split popular
what popularity wise he's saying that
the majority will impose its will on the
rest of the country but yes in terms of
population that's right but continued
control ultimately this will come down
to a binary choice a simple binary
choice federalism or violence many on
the Left don't seem too concerned about
any of this they believe demographic and
historic trends coupled with what many
see is the inherent rightness of their
leftist cause make their ultimate
victory over red America inevitable and
morally justifiable they believe every
lever of federal power will one day soon
and permanently be in their hands they
are content with non-stop political
total war because they're sure they're
going to win it blind to the fact that
such a victory would come at the expense
of the American experiment itself posit
now just understand what he said this is
the threat this is a threat like a
secession threat it's it's no it is a
civil war threat right I mean he says we
have two choices one is to embrace the
system of government the neo Confederate
essentially policies of allowing the
states to function as completely
autonomous fiefdom
or there's going to be violence that's
the choices that we have America
according to this Senator unless we're
until this changes unless we're until we
change this it therefore falls to
conservatives to chart a new course
not simply to turn away from disaster
but to turn America toward something
better toward a genuinely happy and
sustainable future
one of tolerance and diversity of
viewpoint that's it there's my diversity
of viewpoint either you start letting
States discriminate and create a race to
the bottom in terms of protections for
consumers and workers and citizens or
there's going to be violence let's hear
more of this lunatics ravings the
low-hanging fruit is obvious the
interstate highway system K through 12
public education the federal higher
education accreditation cartel early
childhood at education the Department of
Commerce the huge glut of federally
owned land and real estate housing
policy workforce regulation fees and the
knotty interconnected problems of where
welfare dependence and health care would
all be more easily untied if 50 diverse
and motivated states we're working on
them 50 diverse states where by the way
populations dispersed differently health
care is provided differently in each
locality and each state has more of an
ability to decide what solutions will
most benefit their respective
populations in Washington because posit
I want you understand what he's saying
here he's saying get rid of things like
the high like federal highways which
connect people now I don't know if he's
talking about on a practical level or on
some like misunderstanding of the
Constitution right but just imagine you
could have completely different
standards in the 50 states across the
country for the highways for the
highways to connect them
those Wisconsin cheese highways I think
would be pretty cool and and all the
diversity that it represents you know
folks people who live in why
they're their health care could be
radically different then the health care
of people let's say in New Jersey
because in Wyoming they have two hearts
and every human being what's funny of
course is the idea that he'll also say
like would you let health insurance
companies sell across state lines to
increase efficiency in competition now a
it's funny because they already can do
that but be they seem to understand the
concept of size and risk pools cutting
costs I mean heck how is it that walmart
manages to sell their stuff in Michigan
and in let's say Georgia how do they do
that it's not oh I know how they do it
through the federal highway system
continue on Washington because of
America's deep red blue divide these are
very controversial issues they're less
so within our increasingly dark red and
dark blue states when there is no
national consensus or federal imperative
there should not be federal law
especially if there is a greater degree
of consensus within each state hmm if
everybody in my state agrees that we
should have segregated water fountains
what business is it of the federal
government to tell us that we can't I
think is what I mean that's the
conversation we would have been having
50 years ago like they're always afraid
of tyranny of the majority except at the
state level where it becomes more acute
right then the tyranny of the majority
as long as it's done by the state that
is the perfect unit or really the county
I mean why not the county why shouldn't
we do this by the county or what about
municipalities like if that theory works
so well about the states
why wouldn't we just do this down to the
neighborhood I should be able to control
my own home Sam
well I mean honestly like what it's
completely arbitrary it's completely
arbitrary just based upon and this is
what the this is what libertarianism
seems to always boil down to we're going
to reduce or we're going to land on a an
idea of government and the most
appropriate size of government that
maintains the order of power that I
benefit from tends to be the really the
operating principle of libertarianism
but we will have more time to discuss
that in the future indeed like these
guys are basically made up setting out
to make sure democracy can to overrule
capital and property that's right and
we're just gonna find the the proper
size of government that is going to
allow for you know we just need we just
need one or two places to be the drain
so that everything flows down
essentially from there this guy this is
pretty rough
I guess Emma big 'land from TYT went
down to a trump rally was this a trump
rally or before the election well this
before the election okay and this is in
Fort Myers Florida
as you know both now Andrew Gilliam and
Bill Nelson have conceded Bill Nelson
picked up about 2,000 votes in the
manual recount not enough here is that
Trump Mogga rally this is from October
31st we just came across this is pretty
impressive tattoo that I don't know I
guess
guys a little it's better than the Sam
Harris tattoo it's not on his face let's
say that
[Music]
so that's Obama that's Hillary Clinton
who's that down there Osama bin Laden
that's the Ayatollah Khomeini and then
the worst enemy of the United States is
on top on top George Soros worst enemy
so on your back he got George Soros
Hillary Clinton Obama and the Ayatollah
as negative not positive you can see
Michael the Archangel casting the demon
into and then you have below them the
enemies of the United States and it's
Constitution
Jesus Oh
look forward to hearing him on the new
crooked media podcast right it reminds
me of I can't member who said this but
it might be like Sartre or something
like that but talks about how the
anti-semite spends more of his time
thinking about Jews then like Jewish
people do yeah like you literally put
Obama and Hillary and George Soros on
his back with the tattoo yes absolutely
like a 70 year old man as well that's
the new tattoo death cult death cult
that's what it is it's a death cult I
mean it really is an illness now all the
data shows that Donald Trump certainly
hurt people you know Republicans who are
running for re-election and that dynamic
probably won't change for some time
however this Ohio thing is nuts and we
talked about this in the context of
North Carolina too there are some states
that are just so incredibly
gerrymandered that it is mind-blowing
this comes from Cleveland calm
the Ohio Republicans won the race for
every statewide executive job from the
Governor on down this year that's you
know sherrod Brown won his race but in
every other statewide job Republicans
won the Democrats ran much more
competitive in total votes for the
hundred and sixteenth the house excuse
me the one hundred and sixteen Ohio
House and Senate elections across the
state Republicans got just over fifty
percent total the vote in fact I've seen
some indication I haven't seen the
latest numbers but maybe they maybe they
actually lost like just got under fifty
percent
they won 73 of the hundred and sixteen
State House races they won in in the in
the congressional districts they won
seventy five percent of the seats with
just 52 percent of the overall vote they
have a supermajority even though they
may have just crawl across the 50
percent threshold the implications of
that I think are obvious in terms of
what kind of legislation you're gonna
get in the lame-duck session
Ohio House passed the Stand Your Ground
law with enough votes to override a veto
and a so-called heartbeat bill that
would give the state one of the
strictest abortion limits in the entire
country now the only thing that should
give you any type of hope although it's
still incredibly disturbing is that in
2015 Ohio uns voted to reform the way
the Statehouse districts will be drawn
beginning in 2021 and they did the same
for congressional districts go
going forward the votes would change
we're not close each passing with more
than 70% so there will be come a time
with this redistricting will go away in
the meantime the Republicans are trying
to get whatever type of draconian bills
passed and turn Ohio into a deeper red
hellscape but we see this in North
Carolina to where the Republicans barely
won 50 percent of the vote and they got
10 out of 13 house dentist's seats we
see what happens in a state that
actually redistricting a way that is
more commensurate with some measure of
fairness and in Pennsylvania Democrats
picked up five new seats I think it is
so this is nuts it's nuts
do we have this county commissioner
who's in Kansas there was a
commissioners meeting last Tuesday and
Leavenworth Kansas or I should say
Leavenworth yeah just outside of Kansas
City and apparently this county
commissioner - Lewis Klem had taken
issue with a project that was presented
by a planning consultant who also
happened to be the only black person at
least that we can see on camera in this
video and you know apparently this guy
Lewis clamp had an issue with the
development project that he only had an
issue with the development project
itself and he wants to make that
absolutely clear to this consultant he
was recently we should say well go ahead
listen to this
see how convincing he is
how much think I'm picking on you
because we're part of the mastery the
dick you know you got a gap in your
teeth you're the masters don't ever
forget that I passed that out the other
day and that lady said you know I I
didn't think of it I don't start passing
that around so I don't like a I don't
like be there you go
he just basically told this woman I
don't want you to think that I'm picking
on you because we're part of the master
race you know you got a gap in your
teeth you're the Masters don't ever
forget that
little master race can you imagine I
mean just like I mean obviously there's
a lot of people in our audience who can
imagine who've gone through this type of
stuff but you are in what is
theoretically not just an extremely
theoretically professional environment
but one that is public and this guy is
projecting all of his creepy racist
 on you were there to do a job
this is a guy who a month after he was
appointed to fill a vacancy on the
Commission this is a I guess maybe last
year he went on a according to reports a
meandering disjointed soliloquy about a
number of racial at racial ly incendiary
topics like slavery the civil war
Reverend Martin Luther King and exactly
which historical figures are deserving
of a national holiday not everybody does
them all because we have robert e lee
who god robert e lee wonderful part of
history is part of the gap-toothed guys
you know we don't we don't have a
Washington anymore you may be removed
anyway because he had slaves
welcome to Trump's America ladies and
gentlemen let's go to the phones
you call them from a 6'5 Oh area code
who's this hey how's it going Sam this
is Garrett callin from Sacramento hello
Garret what's on your mind uh so you
know I'm in the area of the wildfires
that were happened up in Paradise and
I'm I'm actually I'm from San Bruno
originally where we have the gas
pipeline explosion over there
back end I think 2010 I had a couple
buddies that passed away in that one I
have some friends that are up in
Paradise right now kind of suffering
from that wildfire and I've been looking
at the whole PG&E issue and sort of
their liability within the causing the
campfire and and explain to people why
why they would have liability uh so they
have started a number of fires
throughout the years I think as people
might know California is better in a
drought over the last five plus years
and we've had a number of wildfires that
have increased in size every year we had
initially one of the most tragic
wildfires up in Santa Rosa back in 2015
and we had the Mendocino fire up in
Mendocino County and a lot of these are
started by downed power lines that
aren't maintained the maintenance should
know that people are is the Pacific Gas
& Electric Company and III don't know
the background on the PG&E but if it's
anything like let's say what we see in
you know in the East here National Grid
you've got one big company that buys up
a lot of smaller companies and the first
thing they do is they cut back on the
sort of maintenance of lines and sort of
go more towards a a model that is
literally putting fires out like when we
see that some
thing has gone awry we go fix it as
opposed to sort of going around I mean
it used to be that you know Niagara wood
which you know was bought by National
Grid they'd come out and they'd cut
trees that were impinging upon lines
before there was a problem and yeah and
they do that with PG&E but it's
typically when it's a problem right
exactly that's what I'm saying they
slightly change the threshold in which
they will go out and do work they will
wait for it to become a problem and it's
far more efficient from a dollar
standpoint but it's not far more
efficient when it comes to averting
possible disasters and particularly now
when we're in an era and we're going to
be even more in an era where the
potential for disaster and the severity
of those disasters is greater because of
changes in our climate and so that kind
of brings me into one of these
legislations that has been recently
passed SB 901 is a California State
Senate bill that was passed last year
and it had to do with the Sienna Roza
fires California the San Bruno explosion
and I mean they they have dozens of
fires just in 2017 that left 46 people
dead over 9,000 homes destroyed and the
California state legislature is
concerned that PG&E will become
insolvent they'll have to go bankrupt
due to the cost associated with
penalties from causing these fires from
civil lawsuits from penalties that they
incur so they passed this legislation
that allows them to Kasich that cost on
to consumers and I just don't see this I
don't see how that's helpful when you
look at the company and I mean they've
taken regulations less than
because it's subsidizing essentially
they're cutting corners and it's
subsidized it makes it it makes it
dangerous for everybody they don't
follow proper regulation they they go so
my dad teaches a lot of classes for
firefighters on how to respond to
hazardous materials and what a lot of
these companies will do they just had
worked down in Imperial County that
tried to do this though try and create
their own board and get state approval
to have a company self-regulate
themselves so in Imperial County it was
several oil refineries that got together
and said hey we want to be able to self
regulate this and PG&E has approval in
many areas of the state to do to do
their own thing
last week I I had just in front of my
own house gas leak which you know being
from San Bruno is kind of kind of scary
to me you know I understand what can
happen with that and the way that they
handled it just seemed so irresponsible
they lit cars died by while they were
literally opening up the asphalt to open
up this busted gas lines and they ended
up having to run up and evacuate
everybody in the area because of it
because well hey now we have this gas
leaving and it's the combustion issue
and they just don't seem to follow the
regulation and they're more concerned
with how it's going to affect their
investors rather than the people that
consume it Garrett I appreciate the call
of course of course left is best thank
you guys for doing your work a longtime
listener and I appreciate what you do
Sam thanks Garrett thanks for calling it
people just to remind people if they
don't know what Garrett's talking about
the San Bruno
gas leak explosion happened
I think it was in 2011 2010 summer 20
2009 somewhere about seven eight years
ago I think it was just before we
started this show maybe and III can't I
mean there were a number of deaths and
it just blew up like a like a
neighborhood essentially I don't
remember other details of it but I think
it was right before we started the show
you know this is why you know if you're
going to allow the consolidation of
these enterprises you really start to
lose any type of semblance of argument
as to why the US government should not
be owning this why they should not be
government-owned entities are you know
infrastructure seems to me to be one of
those things where it's just we have
proof time and time again proof that we
can do this just as well if not better
or I should say for the same amount of
money we can do it better without a
doubt you just take the profit out of it
I mean just those resources you're just
gonna go back into providing it and you
cannot say that there's competition
because there is no competition PG&E
does not have any competition and you
can hire the same experts just don't
need to provide shareholder returns call
from a 781 area code who's this where
you come from hey guys it's it's Tim
from Boston Tim for Boston what's on
your mind Tim
I am hoping that we can have a broader
discussion with Jamie and maybe Michael
as well maybe later in the week unless
they've all gone on vacation Jamie and
will remain you have yes have flown the
coop for the week we're gonna be talking
about the are a wide meeting is gonna be
it's like right on the top of the list
of things to discuss Brendan and I will
fight about something though yeah um
yeah so this is pretty is like a big
concept that well ting that we can
explore all right let's not wait for
them to return then I appreciate the
call though okay well it's best we'll
save it for them I appreciate the call
call it from a 6-5 one area code who's
this where you come from but I don't
want to like have a local you know ten
minutes have a choice anticipating what
we're gonna talk about in the future
let's just let's just do it come from
six five one area code who's this where
you come from
hello my name is Chris la Paco yes de
cristal Paco will you chris Lopaka
long time no hear from how are you sir
I'm good sir sorry I haven't called in a
while I've been growing a beard so we
got a lot of stuff on my plate I also
very time-consuming we're sure for sure
I am also calling about the rumors that
you might run against Schumer I think
it's a pretty good idea and if you need
anyone to hack his campaign I know some
friends in the Ashkenazi mafia that
could probably help us out here yeah
I'll do it you have plausible
deniability okay don't worry about it I
have no idea what you're talking oh I'm
good
exactly exactly I'm on I'm on the vegan
train I'll be real quick here I'm on the
vegan train and I haven't eaten any meat
or eaten any animal products basically
in like two or three months and it's
Thanksgiving coming up people are gonna
be eating lots of turkey and other
animal products and I would just like
people just for one day anyone listening
when you go to Thanksgiving don't bring
any animal products just stop being mean
to animals for one day bring some hummus
and don't be an okay that's all
I got man all right
well thank you the Chris lapacho
already becoming an evangelist three
months I'm gonna need a little bit more
time before you started evangelizing on
Thanksgiving might want to start off
with just like meatless Mondays but yes
I mean there's no reason not if it's
easy for you to do and it's easy for
everybody more or less I usually bring
these little chips to eliminate you know
some of this stuff and you start there
and you start to weed it out at least go
to your local poultry farm if you're
gonna eat a turkey get your mom to go to
the local poultry johnathan Armstead I
have a suggestion I think the media does
disservice when they say what if Obama
had done this whenever Trump does
something stupid I think instead we
should parrot the same talking points
Fox News would have done too Obama only
apply them to Trump everything they said
about Obama was based on him being from
Chicago Harvard education for some
reason a Kenyan Muslim socialist so we
use that on Trump for instance with the
Acosta white house band we say how is
this Queens thug want to do it ban
someone who like it was a Wharton School
frat party well as someone who respects
the First Amendment it knows how to turn
the other cheek I think this is wrong
but I guess I'm better than a man with
five kids and three baby mamas who lives
in government housing Lord this racism
is killing inside I mean that's the
inherent weakness of hypocrisy arguments
is do you just say well if everybody's
doing it wide let's just not care or
does it reaffirmed the I guess the norm
being violated right I just don't know
if as people are receptive enough to
structure it that way but but maybe I
don't know classist are creative I'm
from Indiana and and loathing the
Hoosiers have for him is a fairly
unrivaled Oh this is a referring to Mike
Pence its tampered now that he's in
Washington but even Republicans have a
bad taste in their mouth I worked for
the local public television station
where he appeared numerous times during
his governorship I want ever I wasn't
ever on set with him but my female
co-workers recounted very lecherous
interactions that left them
disgusted maybe Karen mother pence keeps
him out of rooms alone with other women
is to prevent an otherwise in inevitable
sexual harassment scandal grand old
pirate so let me get this straight we're
to take lessons from Finland on forest
management which will likely end up
giving the timber from the our public
lands to private for for-profit
companies but we are not to take lessons
from Finland when it comes to
socializing our medicine oh is that the
thing is that what Finland has more
private forests probably they probably
sell off more of their lumber that's a
clever way to play off Trump stupidities
just have me talk about that and the
secret message is right privatize
forests White House press corps pretty
upset about Michelle wolf huh yes I
guess they've picked somebody who's not
a comedian pretty boring historian the
dx4 good I hope nobody goes now is the
only time but I would be interested in
going now
it'd be boring yeah that's my that's
more my pace Ola camp Encinos I see that
Digby was very busy last week guessing
on Nicole Sandler's and Brad Friedman
show in between your programs meanwhile
I also saw that your friend Sarah
Silverman got a star on the Hollywood
Walk of Fame a couple weeks ago I
predict the David Cross and John
Benjamin will get stars before you win
another podcast award from I heart of
whomever thank you DX well I appreciate
that Winnipeg Craig his name is fan fin
SVU is still running strong Kentucky
Fried comment there's a clip of SVU
where iced tea can be seen eating and
everything bagel snowflake Matt you're
wasting your life in NYC if you don't go
to H&H regularly iced tea also said he
has never had coffee so there's that
Miami Dave Sam would you be supportive
of Trump proposing to repeal the telecom
Act signed under Clinton so that all
media isn't owned and operated by only a
few and alternative media would get a
boost I don't know if alternative media
would get a boost but absolutely I would
bring back the
sinn fein laws in a heartbeat and more
I don't know that Donald Trump would
ever do that
here is Donald Trump you know for a
while that we have well we've covered
Trump there's been talk of there being
some type of like Russian Saudi Israeli
access her axis I should say early on I
remember we had Dan dicker on the on the
show in the Trump administration where
he pointed out like the if you were
going to an assemble a cabinet that was
about the sort of petrol dollar this
should be the one it could also just be
that Donald Trump has some type of deals
with the Saudis but he really I hope I
got a hope I got to think that they're
getting their money's worth because he's
really going the distance on on trying
to downplay the the Muhammad's been
Solomon's role in the killing of
Khashoggi and the CIA over the weekend
there was a leak that they had clearly
found that MSB was involved at least in
terms of ordering the the kill here is
here is Donald Trump yeah who knows
we haven't been briefed yet the CIA is
going to be speaking me to me today we
have not been briefed yet as of this
moment we were told that he did not play
a role we're gonna have to find out what
they have to say
we're taking a look at it you know we
also have a great ally in Saudi Arabia
they give us a lot of jobs they give us
a lot of business a lot of Economic
Development they are they have been a
truly spectacular ally in terms of jobs
and economic development and I also take
that you know I'm president I have to
take a lot of things into consideration
so we will be talking with the CIA later
and lots of others I'll be doing that
while I'm on the plane
I'll be speaking also with Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo so in other words the
reason why MBS did this why they were
bold enough to essentially lure a
Washington Post columnist a resident of
the United States a Saudi national who
had been critical of the NBS regime lure
them back into a an embassy in Istanbul
send a 15-person kill team to kill him
chop him up to get him out of the the
remains of his body out of the country
the reason why they did this is because
they were under the impression they
could that they would suffer no
consequences internationally and by
internationally I mean of course from
the United States I can't imagine where
they got that idea the only thing that
they underestimated was the level of
power the president has and they may not
have I mean they certainly
underestimated they overestimated that
he had the ability to quiet every you
know Republican senator but this was
just a bridge too far but you can
understand why they thought they could
get away with it it's because Donald
Trump's clearly communicated like do
whatever you want
I don't care whatever it is that we have
some type of relationship between
Trump industries and yo is enough for me
to say whatever you do we touched it
together I mean he's doing it now after
the fact after it's made it's become
incredibly controversial and costly to
him he's still doing it so there's a
good reason why they thought they could
get away with this
and it is the same reason why duterte
you know arrests journalists bowls and
arrows I mean it's it's the same dynamic
as to why I think you know we had talked
about the elite in Brazil uninhibited by
the implications of them electing a
fascist because you know that mirror
that sometimes the United States would
hold up and say like you know this is a
problem we don't like this that's gone
that's gone meanwhile Donald Trump sat
down with Chris Wallace on Fox News
Sunday and was asked a couple of
questions one of which was about the
Khashoggi tape that apparently exists
and makes it clear that he was killed
among other things and apparently
according to the CIA
maybe the tape maybe other things make
it clear that NBS was involved here is a
Trump responding to Chris Wallace on
that Turkish president air Dewan says
that he has shared a tape with the US
and other countries that is of the
killing of Jamal khashoggi inside the
Saudi consulate in Istanbul have you
want to either hurt the tape yourself or
been briefed on it and if so to your
mind what is his job
we have the tape I don't want to hear
the tape no reason for me to hear the
tape why don't what I've been totally to
hear it sir because it's a suffering
tape it's a terrible tape I've been
fully briefed on it there's no reason
for me to hear
in fact I said to the people should I
they said you really shouldn't there's
no reason I know exactly I know
everything that went on in the tent
without habit and what happened it was
very violent very vicious and terrible a
month ago you said you had spoken with
Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman
and that he had told you directly that
he had no knowledge and still says that
but we now know that some of the people
closest to him some of his closest
advisers were part of this question did
NBS lie to you sir I don't I don't know
you know who can really know but I can
say this he's got many people now that
say he had no knowledge what if the
crown prince speaking to you the
President of the United States directly
lied to you well that he told me that he
had nothing to do with it he told me
that I would say maybe five times at
different points so what if his laws
recently as a few days ago do you just
live with it because you need him well
will anybody really know all right will
anybody really know I mean it's true can
you know anything how do we know Chris
this isn't a dream how do you know even
that you exist maybe I wake up and you
go away it's the mystery of epistemic
folks there you go it's all just we're
all just dust in the wind so we can't
know again no that's why I don't listen
to the tape it's a real Schrodinger's
cat Chris there you go we're last under
hermeneutics pyro but just dust Chris
for just dust so plus I think we're
making a lot of money I get a lot of who
can ever know he's gonna start saying
that with a wink in like a week right
who can heaven who can ever know you
know did we did we just Acts
pre-existing conditions who knows who
announced how do we know what
pre-existing is do we even know that
we're existing unbelievable there was
more in that interview right wasn't
there one other yeah
here is Chris Wallace presumably trying
to
make it seem like he cares about press
freedoms can't help but get in a dig at
Obama because that is in his genes as a
Fox News paid employee I'm totally in
favor of the media I'm totally in favor
of Free Press gotta be fair press when
it's fake the president get to decide
what's fair and what's not
I can tell what's fair or not and so can
my people and so can a lot of whether I
understand that but but when you do
something very good and they write it
badly and this is consistently when you
as an example
rarely do the whined about fakes new fox
news all the time when he never said we
were the enemy of the people
well no he didn't talk about the news he
didn't talk about anything I'm only
saying it very differently than anyone's
ever said it before I'm saying fake news
false reporting dishonest reporting of
which there is a lot and I know it see I
know it because I'm a subject of it
a lot of people don't know it but when I
explain it to them they understand it
and Chris you know that better than you
don't have to sit here and act like a
perfect little wonderful innocent angel
I know you too well I knew your father
too well that's not your gene there you
go I just put you in your place
nepotism Kirk you know I gotta say not
the first person to say that lugan press
Merkel got the Lucan press
yeah the lugan press protects anger the
lying press the lying media Nazis
adopted that term it was around I think
as late as or as early as mid 1800s in
in Germany but the Nazis revived it I'm
reviving again just total coincidence
total coincidence there you go the lion
lugan press let's go to the phones you
come from an h-60 era Cody who's this
where he gone from hey this is no
Lindsay from Brooklyn
Lyndsay from Brooklyn what's on your
mind Lizzy um so I was curious uh you
know how like medicare-for-all is
becoming a very big you know platform
and policy about a lot of especially
Democrats or only Democrats are champion
around and I've heard you mention a
couple of times about a student loan
forgiveness and then assembly member on
cam also put that bill for by up student
debt so I just wanted to hear more of
your thoughts about like how strong of a
policy do you think student loan
forgiveness will be in the upcoming
years it's Lindsay right yeah Lindsay I
think that it's going to be an
increasingly important platform and
because you're seeing you know part of
it will be a function of the youth
turnout if it continues on this
trajectory but also the youth that is
reflected in our lawmakers I contend and
I have yet to see somebody really write
about this is you know and I'm sure
somebody has I just haven't come across
it yet that the size of the baby boomers
relative to all the generations that
have passed it until you get to the
Millennials has dictated much of our
culture and our politics and also you
know what the issues are that the baby
boomers are aging is why you will see
you know continued strength from
Medicare although the fact that then are
you know people contract an age or I
should say the the you know the
Generation X is smaller may leave
Medicare a little bit vulnerable and
Social Security a little bit vulnerable
and I'm not convinced that we don't hear
all this in anticipation of that that
time but with that said then the
Millennials start to be you know in your
40s and you start to get a little bit of
a more of an awareness of the importance
of that stuff but I think as as the
Millennials age in a little bit more and
become a major voting bloc you're gonna
see this become more of an issue
because you know like I said the other
day back in starting in 2016 the
president of the National Home Builders
Association was blaming student loans
for the the dip in housing starts yeah
and and I think we're gonna see more and
more of that as it goes forward because
it's it is a real it is a real problem
on from an economic perspective it is a
real problem from a quality of life
perspective it's a real problem in terms
of like fulfilling the needs of society
perspective you know people aren't going
into the professions that we need them
to largely because they're inhibited by
the amount of debt they have yeah I mean
that's that's my life exactly basically
um you know just an anecdote which I'm
sure a lot of people can relate to is
I've paid off about over $50,000 in my
student deaths and only 17,000 of that
went to the principal amount the
remaining of it went to like interest
and then like nothing was nuts that's I
know a ton well thank ya nuts
first of all yes even having to go into
debt for 17 grand is absurd but the idea
that you're going to pay multiples of
that is just nuts like that is that is a
broken system that does not make any
sense like what is the point of having a
society if it doesn't address that like
what's the point of it it's absurd right
it's utterly yeah like what is the like
like I can understand you know why why
we have debt for like you know I'm going
to go into debt and buy a factory that's
going to you know build chairs and the
idea is like you know if it it that debt
will create you know some type of
business opportunities and theoretically
opportunities for society
you know I'm just you know speaking in
just very very broad theoretical terms
there is no sense to having people go
into debt from a society's perspective
to become more valuable citizens to the
society there's just no value to because
it the debt itself undercuts all the
benefit you're getting well right and I
mean it to me it removes value because I
originally had gone to graduate school
for Social Work and then the time I
graduated my debt was in the six figures
and so I was like I can't do social
works because I won't be able to live
one be it exactly yes exact on and then
like I could have bought a house by now
or at least another house but like I
could have got an apartment or an arena
or bought a ton of other things that
just are going into this like black hole
of my student debt well I I you know I
hope we get to some type of debt Jubilee
then time to save you some more money
appreciate the call yeah thank you very
much thanks yep call him from a three
six seven area code oh we don't have
much time
this may be the final call the day folks
come from a three six seven area code
who's this where he come from yes hi my
name is oh hi my name is Samson I'm
calling from the UK I was your show I
wanted to make some point I wanted to
get your opinion on Richard or Jetta and
what I think is uh is the hypocrisy in
my opinion I just want to get your own
thoughts on it between the how people on
for example TYT and maybe the far left
for example they call out people like
Kamala Harris because she feels of
prosecutes to be mooching and they call
out other people they say they are not
perfect that he has a lot of issues
especially Tamela Harris what happens
TYT in the same bread and order and the
intercept and or a solid progressives
prop up Richard or Jetta this
the same man that doesn't support coke
he's very conservative vote for Trump
and and you prop up this guy so my my
what I just wouldn't people news of the
hypocrisy shank and the rest of the TYT
D said I questioned Hillary's judgment
because she would've voted for the Iraq
war hi the same breath and you pump up
someone like you Jada who voted for
Trump after Trump said he's gonna kill
that the families of terrorists whose
judgment is more flawed in that logic so
I just wanted you to thought on that
hypocrisy and I Richard Odetta said
something that really got to me because
I'm black he said that the Democratic
Party is not the party of Maxine Waters
amount in industr does that that has
racist overtones you will always hear
Republicans say that the Democrats are
the party of Schumer and Maxine Waters
so I feel that when he mentioned Maxine
Waters the way he used that this is not
a party of Maxine Waters I felt very
offended in that so my opinion is why is
why is the hypocrisy you go after Kamala
Harris - that she has she's not perfect
you go after all the people that are not
perfect but yet kyt they are literally
propping up this guy like his the his
receiver so why is the hypocrisy on that
why is it like that why one standard for
Kamala and other people yet this guy
whose track record form he can go from
everywhere he okay there he doesn't have
a good track record progressive why so
why we being palmtop why why Harry I get
boy I can I do all right what me okay so
let me just make the second point hang
up and you and you then I also wanted to
talk about this idea that Julian Assange
please thought on it if some kind of
free speech guys some kind of is more
buyers will already know these guys or
right-wing act he supports a lot of
nationalist agenda so please when any
progressive is trying to prop him up
they make it clear that his side's with
white supremacist besides with white
nationalists so I don't know why they're
defending him very quickly so important
that his model is not a home alright I
get you put I guess
he's ready right yes all right I
appreciate okay okay I get you yes Oh
Jetta and Kamala Harris I mean all right
look I think the critiques of Kamala
Harris are fair the issue sets of the
people that you're talking about and I
don't think it's I I think it's wrong to
say far-left I just I just don't I don't
think that's an accurate description
no of of the people that he's talking
about I I don't think that any of those
outlets do you're talking about our you
know to the left of voices you'll hear
on this program
I think the intercept not unlike its
founders is is you know has a I don't
say like a has a civil libertarian
streak that you know people to the far
left wouldn't be as concerned about
frankly I also think that the the people
you're talking about their issue sets
are very much oriented towards the
financial crimes the lack of
accountability for the elite in this
country and so I think a guy like a
Jetta becomes more attractive because he
is talking about a left populism whereas
Kamala Harris when it came time for her
to deal with a guy like Steve minuchin
basically punted for political reasons
and I think that's a look I think it's a
defensible position broadly speaking put
aside for a moment the personalities
that that it tends to lead people to
supporting I think that is a a broadly
very defensible position that we have a
problem in this country with two-tiered
justice
and lack of accountability and you know
just the idea that Donald Trump is not
in prison five years ago frankly is an
example of that never mind a certain
percentage of the people in his his
cabinet with that said you know and I I
didn't hero Jettas comment about amount
Maxine Waters but Oh Jenna has some
problems from my estimation that I
overlooked in the context of West
Virginia would I vote for this guy for
president United States I don't think so
do I like some of his policy
prescriptions yes are others that I like
no for West Virginia as a congressperson
great I think nationally speaking we
could probably do better look I think a
lot of this stuff gets you know is
reductionist and so you know that's what
I think explains it you know I don't
know what how else to describe it I
think there are policy prescriptions you
know Jettas take particularly in red
states I think is effective you know Joe
meant you could easily argue that joe
Manchin's is even more effective because
he actually wins in in in his you know
West Virginia's was what +35 for Trump
plus forty for Trump and mansion won by
you know over performed that by another
five point six points so when we're
talking about votes wings mansion does
as well as au Jetta but he does it on a
statewide basis and he won mansion is a
crook in many respects so I just like
the argument gets muddled it seems to me
it seems to me it is much better
to make the argument that Richard Oh
jetta has a policy set an issue set that
is positive and he has to make some
compromises or that issue said is
somewhat compromised because he's
running in West Virginia so he's a
little bit more I think coal friendly so
he's a little bit more you know whitish
as it were it's definitely not what we
need at a national level exactly but
what I like to see that level of
skepticism towards financial
institutions do I think that his voice
as he projects it on the national stage
will be helpful in the campaign yeah I
do I would like some other candidate to
have to come in and steal essentially or
move to his migrate to his positions in
the same way that the the party moved to
the left on Medicare for all because of
Bernie's run if he gets a more jaundiced
view towards money into the Democratic
Party than good that's my perspective on
it I just I don't think it's helpful to
get too caught up in personalities like
it all just gets to be a little bit too
much high school we can't quite afford
that stuff but there's a tendency to do
that because that's the way human beings
function and it becomes easier than
actually sort of like you know some
measure of nuance and as far as Julian
Assange like I think the mission of
WikiLeaks initially was quite positive I
think somewhere down the road it got
corrupted I think how we don't know the
nature of what Julian Assange is
indicted for
Marcy wheeler has a great post where she
lays out four different scenarios and
one of them is a legit undertaking from
her perspective and does not endanger
the freedom of the press and whatnot
put aside what Julian Assange like you
know whose team he's on or whatever it
is if you indict a guy for certain
activities that other journalists that
you may like engage in then it's a
problem so again we need to know more
about Assange but you know separate the
personalities it's much easier to have a
perspective that everybody's a jerk and
an a-hole and are liars and then just
start assessing like you know what do
they actually do and what they're gonna
bring to the party that would be my
advice all right that is it for our
calls I'll save those other ones for
tomorrow play that saying that live
stuff you get pinched anyways I don't
think it's that great it's annoying
yeah it's just to talk about it and get
annoying and a couple talks about it
maybe when we talk a little more about
Amazon one more Nick I'm sure this point
has been made but does anyone notice
that trumps literally a cartoon
character is once Nicky repeats in every
situation and has like four outfits he's
cycling through yes yeah I think that's
why he does so well Sam's tinder profile
hey girl swipe right how about you be my
first lady of New York that is not the
that that would be running for governor
Jay Jay cool are there no intellectual
property rights laws that can protect
the show's brand from Pakman also does
having to add T MBS shows in one week
correlate with no Michael Monday a
basket oh yeah yeah exactly
will Jeanine be on the show this week
how to survive Thanksgiving yes she's
gonna call in probably the fun half on
Wednesday
Sean vote seeder play the hero some game
Willie see Sam what do you think of the
argument that the purpose of Pago is to
tie POTUS in McConnell's hands until
2021
sort of like Schumer's pledged to
restore judicial filibuster was about
stifling right-wing judge appointments
III don't understand why you can't just
have a democratically controlled
Congress and the ability to bring up
bills on the floor as a way of
controlling the Republicans you don't
need that pay-go
chicken Crowder Crowder took the rest of
the year off to deal with fibromyalgia I
know we're gonna speak about that
tomorrow
ramble run projection I see the end of
the Union coming can you guys get a
lefty on to talk about the market I
don't know if you've noticed but the
markets been in the tank for like a
month and a half two months now yeah
maybe
Mack's in Phoenix sounds like that
Center wants to take the United out of
the United States of America by gada Sam
why do they call themselves the
Federalist Society it's an oxymoron well
federalism it's a confusing term but it
means that you you distribute a certain
amount of power you have limited federal
I don't understand devolve them to the
states yeah I don't understand why it's
called federal you would think it would
be confederalism during the Mike Lee
cliff I'm like if it's federalism and
violence I'm like federalism obviously
because I in my in instantly I thought
that was the federal government doing
things no no that make no sense
term I don't know why but the Federalist
Society you would think would be in
favor of a strong federal government but
it but instead what it means that a a
federalist and it's confusing because I
think maybe they adopted from the
Federalist Papers as a way of like
trying to imply that the Federalist
Papers this is do not want to have a
strong federal government but this is
like you know early Mike lunch yeah
you can find some counter examples in
the Federalist Papers to certain things
that the Federalist Society wants
without a date without a doubt without a
date without a doubt but federalism
and and I don't know the etymology of
the development of that word in this
context means that a significant amount
of power is devolved to the states but
it's really we would call that
confederalism it seems to me slightly
worse brand
I think super genitals am I dreaming or
did you guys use the Jimmy door don't
freak out song without the lyrics before
the discussion with Anna last Friday
that's red flag II I don't know I'm not
sure that it's referring to jib upstate
did us see Emma talking to the Trump
supporter said he would literally kill
his democratic sister if it came down to
it yeah that's nuts
brave o matic Brian Kemp just announced
that disgraced former Transportation
Secretary Tom Price has been appointed
to his transition team wonderful keen
and 375 for Sam you ever feel ridiculous
when reading the president's quotes yes
for ArmA Gillian during this past
election ten Oregon counties including
my stupid conservative County had ballot
measures on second amendment rights like
county residents have the right to own
semi-automatic what automatic weapons
and high-capacity magazines without a
registration requirement to saving GRA
graces in my County where the reelected
sheriff would enact such measures is a
common sensical guy and that measures
narrowly passed by less than a
percentage point and this is a state
where Democrats now have a supermajority
in the legislature and our gun safety
governor was reelected by a large margin
all right three more secret identity
politics despite the way the Republicans
have gerrymander the state of Ohio into
permanent redness most conservatives I
know get hung up on the idea that
individual Democrats get to keep their
cushy seats because nearly all the
Democrats have been drawn into a few
districts in reality the way the
Democrats and Republicans have drawn
districts is symbolic Republicans can
control the state individual Democrats
can keep their jobs and Republican
voters end up projecting their own job
insecurity onto these Democratic
legislators itself reinforcing Trump's
umbrella hello is anybody there did you
guys see the right-wing rally in
Philly where 30 people showed up
hundreds turned out in opposition
wielding anti fascist gritty signage and
the final I M of the day
[Music]
vegan Angelico stop calling Trump a
 or it won't come on your show
apologize now please see you tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut you
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will you tell get paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
