[Music]
you
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat the
majority report with sam Sita
[Laughter]
it is Friday November 2nd 2018 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA it's casual Friday folks
nothing casual about this week I may be
wearing a soft collared shirt but you
got to get out there and get your
friends and maybe even just this week
reach out to your enemies and get them
to vote not necessarily your political
enemies I'm just saying like your
personal people you don't like
but are similarly situated in terms of
their politics get them to vote and
joining us this week Digby from the blog
hullabaloo also on the program today
Andy Kindler from Andy Kindler calm and
mind spiral and thoughts of viral
thought spiral The Witches of
of waverly place I can't remember that
show but I saw him on and Milo was a kid
also on the program today with midterm
days away will Trump's racism xenophobia
and anti-immigrant pitch carry the day
another way of putting that is just how
racist are the Republicans meanwhile
right wing attempt to smear robert
muller fails catastrophic ly and has
muller already subpoenaed donald trump
google workers walkout over sexual
harassment and the trump administration
cancels a program to fight domestic
terrorism meanwhile in a tight Senate
race in Arizona the Green Party
candidate endorses the Democrat and
revealed the Jaworski report shows how
Nixon was about to be indicted by a
grand jury before he resigned
interesting story as to why that came
out now live history Fed says reduced
immigration could slow the US economy
and a George W Bush appointed federal
judge allows the continuance of the
North Dakota Native American vote
disenfranchisement campaign all this and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen it is November 2nd as you are
undoubtedly aware what you may not be
aware of is something that I was not
aware of until Kyle the guy who made
this show possible literally made this
show possible I think I've told the
story a million times but here is a
million one
I was at Netroots nation it must have
been the summer of 2010 after air
america imploded in the fall of 2009
meirin had started had launched WTF i
think and i was trying to figure out
what I was gonna do I was thinking about
going back into show business but I
couldn't I couldn't swallow pitching
another dumb sitcom and the last one I
had pitched CBS they said they were
gonna buy it they were gonna make a not
a pilot but where they call it
presentations or a half pilot which I
would have directed written and then the
writers strike hit I ended up writing
that that script for for HBO so I was
about six months out from of the last
script I had written and I was like I
can't bring myself to go and pitch a
show I just couldn't to dumb the stuff
at that time and I had been shooting
some videos I think the that's
and this guy comes up to me at Netroots
nation
he says I'm Kyle I'm like Kyle right
from I remember you used to
I am us and he was the one who also had
reserved ad nags which became the secret
blog of Adam Nagorny in 2004 which I and
a couple other folks I think Kyle may be
a little bit as well populated as a way
of tormenting him back when when blogs
were something that were you know
magical and we made this blog as if
Nagorny thought it was his own private
blog that he was just writing to his
fellow reporters and it was a little bit
Kaddi
anyways Kyle said you know you should do
a podcast and I said well you know I I
would but I really one of the things I
really like about doing radio is taking
phone calls I wouldn't be able to do
that he goes oh I can set that up for
you
it's like we're really and he goes yeah
I'll do the I'll set up the website for
you too and I'll help you you know just
make the podcast all you got to do is
help really fun activity yeah exactly
he'll help with connectivity and I'll
just help you and all you need to do is
you know figure out how to actually get
microphones and stuff like that and I
said well I I lifted half the stuff from
Air America anyway so I mean I have that
sitting singing in a box and so the show
was born the first show was eight years
ago tomorrow on a Wednesday November 3rd
it was a you know we didn't we it was
basically a soft launch anything we like
even in the show description I'm looking
at now it was this was the show
description to the majority report with
sam cedar on Wednesday November 3rd 2010
now of course I had been doing this the
first the first first majority report
was in February sometime in 2003 on the
best show with Tom sharping who had
tweeted out something really disgusting
today about Andy Kindler his appearance
but we'll talk about that later but
meanwhile this was this show description
I will read it to you
it sounds pretty exciting shows will be
a bit sporadic for the next week or two
as we organize ourselves but when they
happen they will happen at 11:30 a.m.
Eastern podcast will be available
shortly more info soon
that was the description of the show
under-promise and over-deliver exactly
and then on Thursday the 4th things
really picked up on today's show what's
next for Democrats and George W Bush
torture criminal and dimwit casual
Friday was we just did a replay of the
original the first majority report on
air America and then
let's see no nothing - I didn't really
get into the show descriptions until
couple of months but so happy birthday
to us it's your birthday happy birthday
it's your bar
no this is public domain public domain
there we go there you go folks
happy birthday to all of you I want to
say thank you to our members I don't
think our members enough but it's not
because I'm not grateful it's just I'm
I guess rude and out of touch but I want
to thank our members I think we started
doing members sometime in February of
2011 and a lot of longtime listeners
stepped up and made it possible to do
this show and and at that time too I
want to thank Dorsey and Evan Dorsey who
I think now we're still works at
BuzzFeed is came to me and he was like
I'll help you set up the show I'm like I
don't know how much I can pay he said I
don't care he just did it and so it's
our members who make this show possible
and I am very grateful for the
opportunity and you know it's it's uh it
can be trying at times but it's a very
gratifying way to make a living excuse
me and someday I'll be more professional
about coughing into a microphone play
some music quick while I drink I'm not
getting choked up I'm just for whatever
reason something went down the wrong
pipe so what there's an interesting
dynamic that's going on
what's that yes and water would be great
thank you
our crew is getting really professional
too there's an interesting dynamic that
is going on with this election excuse me
and that is how much is racism going to
sell across the board we'll talk more
about this with Digby
but here is a student going and
challenging the Mike Pence not Mike
Pence excuse me could have been Mike
Pence
but Steve King the Iowa congressman who
has basically run on and been a
lightning rod for white nationalism in
this country and he's gotten more
explicit over the past couple of years I
think and of course he feels more
comfortable doing so now in the age of
Trump because uh Donald Trump
it's a white nationalist and so here a
student goes and asks Steve King at I
guess I'm not exactly sure if this was a
a press conference or candidate for him
a candidate forum Steve King could see
this guy walking in he was wearing
flannel how do you distinguish yourself
from the white nationalist who shot up
this synagogue in Pittsburgh killed
eleven people because he was afraid of
the immigrant hordes who were being who
were about to invade this country being
prodded on by the Jews how do you
distinguish yourself your your ideology
from his it's quite evident that Steve
King has not shot up a temple full of of
Jews he's a congressman but how do you
distinguish your ideology he's asked and
I guess Steve King didn't feel
comfortable answering the question
and the terrorists who committed this
crime he was quoted as saying they bring
invaders and that kill our people
I can't sit back and watch our people
get slaughtered you Steve King has been
quoted as saying we can't restore our
civilization with other people's babies
you and the shooter both share an
ideology that is elegantly began tight
and the gray do not associate me with
that shooter
I know you're an ambush or when you
walked in the room but no no basis for
that and you get no questions again I'm
doing it how does that tell you what
dumping which you don't use here i it's
about tell what - Stingo jaws are across
the line it's not tolerable they accuse
me to be associated with a guy that shot
11 people in Pittsburgh I am a person
but you do it with Israel from the
beginning that to the length of that
nation is the length of my life that was
nuts and women are all along and I will
not answer your question do not listen
to another word from you if you don't
have a Western Ohio's worldview than why
have you travel to Austin over the white
a stock organization I think he's given
up I think he's given his answer I think
that that his answer is his answer
yeah but do you identify as the wings
search stop it Sharon why don't you meet
with the whites from the store an
ex-analyst air time I would ask whoever
it's dark in this go or leave this man
out of the world yeah
there you go Stevie King traveled was it
- a Poland to visit I think it was
Dachau maybe it was Auschwitz I'm not
sure and then also just to get the other
side met with a Holocaust denial er a
denier just do you know fair and
balanced and uncomfortable though
describing why his or how his ideology
is any different from the one that led
that shooter to his to kill those people
this is well that's a different one
right that's neem night so there it is I
guess we'll know if King gets reelected
he is in a very tight race with a pretty
progressive guy and there is you know
the the Republican Party has expressed
at least some people in the Republican
Party have expressed a little
uncomfortable 'ti with just how
outwardly fascist Steve King is so
that's there's a slight slight movement
there but it also could be the case that
they need to redeploy some of their
assets and other races so this is a good
way to sort of justify not saving Steve
Kings seat
we're gonna take a quick break when we
come back
Digby will be joining us to talk about
what's happening out there
three well three business days before
the election we'll be right back
you
the girls
we are back ladies and gentlemen it is a
casual Friday and well we've had a
recent spate of musically talented
people providing all sorts of fare for
just a moment like this well you know
that's a it's a little am talk radio ii
from like 1971 I think Heather Parton
Digby welcome to the show thanks for
having me
AM radio 1971 is probably just perfect
for me actually I I have to say that it
reminds me of my early youth it's around
that time I started recording recording
stuff off of radio with like one of
those Panasonic do you remember those
like moulded almost looked like one
piece of plastic cassette players oh
yeah I think I had one of those actually
because that's we're kind of cool right
I mean they were they were the big new
thing I mean that was exciting small you
know no more eight tracks
yeah well you know what I never had an
8-track and I have to say I mean I am of
the age that should have but you know I
was too cool for that I went directly
from vinyl ticka sets that's how that's
how forward-thinking I was all right
well okay that's pretty impressive
but all right let's um let's get to I
mean I think my folks had the 8tracks I
probably just went to cuz that's - so
Digby let's start with this because it
seems to me there's there's a
fascinating dynamic that that's
happening in terms of these House races
right and let's just it and and folks
you're gonna hear this refrain I think
multiple times going forward but they're
the Democrats need 23
there are you know and my numbers are a
little bit loosey-goosey here but about
15 of these seats or so are you know
districts that Clinton won but you know
suburban Republican voters on some level
or with a propensity of vote Republican
they have a Republican Congress person
and they seem to be those are races that
seem to be more of a lock for the
Democrat lock maybe too strong a word
but certainly Democrats up and then
there's like another like two dozen
maybe even more thirty seats that are
you know it's nobody can call their it's
too close and those tend to be ones
where they're it's not as suburban maybe
the districts are not as wealthy and it
seems like Trump is focusing on those
and because they also sort of track a
little bit more with the red states
where there are Senate races that Trump
wants to hold is that is that your sense
and what do you think about the idea of
the way that they're going about trying
to salvage that seems to be to just go
all-in racist
quasi fascist but yeah not so quasi at
this point but yeah I think you're right
I think you know I think most of the
analysts sort of see that Trump and from
what I'm reading and there was an
article in Vanity Fair this week that
was kind of interesting where they were
talking to where they were quoting
Trump's pollster who I think is named
Tony Fabrizio I think I'm sorry if I've
got that name wrong so fab Rio or
Fabrizio something like that anyway he
had sort of convinced Trump that there
was that they had a chance to take back
the house and and and most and the
article sort of implied that they were
kind of blowing smoke at trout bright
kind of making him feel better because
they sort of knew that the chances were
pretty
even at this point which was maybe a
month ago then and so Trump was all
excited and very happy and feeling
really motivated and he was out there
real quick pushing you know doing his
rallies and and and going up against the
press and being very you know doing his
thing and then this this these two
horrible events happened last week hard
to believe it was just last week I mean
you know when you think about it
Pittsburgh hasn't even been a week and
that happened and yet you know what it
but you know life comes at you fast in
the Trump era but when that happened he
got very upset and about his momentum
which he mentioned last night in a rally
again that you know it really ruined his
momentum ruined his plans and that was
really upsetting and they came back to
him and said hey look you know the house
is gone and I think some of that was
probably his people saying look this is
the way to sort of you know break it to
him that the house isn't going to happen
so basically I think what you're talking
about with his strategy where he's going
it's it's into these red states where
they think they can hold the Senate and
maybe some of those seats that are
within that sort of region an area where
though he'll get a lot of coverage and
maybe he can help out some of those
people now I heard it I read an
interesting quote the other day I read
an interesting sort of analysis that
that Trump had doubt when he went to
Texas to stump for Cruz and he had that
big rally in Houston the Cruz people
think he hurt them
because the polls started to move up for
a better O'Rourke after he came so you
know even in Texas maybe Trump is
starting to get a little toxic which I
found kind of interesting but you know
he's doing his thing I mean he's going
out there and yes his his strategy
entirely is to just double down as
hardcore as he can on the anti-immigrant
xenophobic anti media you know every
every kind of harsh ugly you know sort
of strategy that he that he thinks got
him where he where he is I mean he said
that he in this interview with Axios
which I guess is going to premiere this
weekend on HBO they you know published
some excerpts from it and he just said
well you know this is what people want
from me and it's my only way of fighting
back
this is why I won and I think that says
it all for him I mean I think that's
what that's that's the you know he's
just has a very very limited sort of
understanding of politics and it's I won
because you know I'm a nasty bastard and
I fight back and you know every day
everybody hates the media and it does it
doesn't really get any more complicated
than that
the problem is is that you know Trump
had an up you know you hate to say it's
an opportunity but he had there was a
moment that he could have potentially
reached out to some of those suburban
voters that you were talking about at
first you know the people who they think
are probably gone and some of these
these people who you know may have been
in you know districts that Hillary won
or maybe some of these you know white
suburban women who have been Republicans
their whole lives but now they're voting
Democratic they say they are in this
election because after those two
tragedies last week he had you know he
could have and hit parently his staff
approached him and said you know we
should do an oval office speech where
you talk about unity and bringing the
country together and everybody would you
know think about it people have been
shocked kind of like geez Trump doesn't
do this you know if he could have pulled
it off and acted it halfway decently who
knows maybe some of those people are
some of the independents who lean
Republican could have done well you know
maybe Trump's not so bad you know and in
the as you know when when the chips are
down he can come through and he's not
quite the you know horrible jerk that we
thought he was certainly there would be
a lot of media people who would have
said like this is the day he really
really became president he made the
pivot right I mean honestly we know that
would have happened I mean he's just a
hearing for it he's not constitutionally
capable of it and and I wonder I mean
here's the thing I don't know that he's
wrong like you you know that's I mean
that counter sort of like factual
scenario that may have helped him but it
also may have heard him like you know I
mean I I don't I don't know
I mean that's the thing about this
midterm that I think has the potential
to be super super dark I mean aside from
you know the idea of the Republicans
controlling the House and the Senate the
way in which they win if they were to
somehow maintain the house let's say the
winning in that way would be really
disturbing I mean let's look let's look
at this video it and the like clearly
Trump is all in on this strategy of of
basically set of like a sadistic I
promise you I will be the guy to oversee
the US government
shooting you know snipers on some type
of imaginary wall shooting would be
asylum seekers you know as they try and
coming the wall I mean this is basically
what he's going on and doing it's all a
complete straw man
right we we know the caravan to the
extent that there's going to be anybody
left in this so-called Caravan by the
time they reach the Mexico border
they're not going to be here for months
there's no doubt in my mind that we're
not going to hear anything about this in
two weeks unless the Republicans win the
the house retain the house but here is
Donald Trump talking about what the plan
is
I hope not
it's the military I hope I hope there
won't be that but I will tell you this
anybody throwing stones rocks like they
did to Mexico and the Mexican military
of Mexican police where they badly hurt
police and soldiers of Mexico we will
consider that a firearm because there's
not much difference when you get hit in
the face with a rock which as you know
there was very violent a few days ago
very very violent that break-in it was a
break-in of a country they broke into
Mexico and you look at what's happening
in Guatemala
just to mention Guatemala along with El
Salvador and Honduras it's disgraceful
that those countries aren't able to stop
this because they should be able to stop
it before it starts and the United
States pays them a fortune and we're
looking at not doing that anymore
because why should we be doing that when
they do nothing for us so now it turns
out that the military was not aware of
this change in orders that most of their
weapons were not going to be used like
literally their most of their weapons
we're going to be under lock and key
like that you know this is clearly
maddis is saying ok we'll send 5,200
military personnel to the border and
they're just gonna hang out like this is
gonna be like an are in our situation
but put that aside for a moment he is
calling for the u.s. army to fire on
immigrants in the event that they have
rocks in their hands yes that is what he
did and in fact he later went on in that
same sort of Q&A after his silly speech
yesterday he went on to say that he had
told this hold the the military to
change that order and that he was
telling them consider it or he said
consider it a rifle if somebody's
throwing a rock at you now I mean you
know this is obviously I mean there are
a million laws that are going to be in
him in
at this the idea that and I don't even
know what what the thinking in the
military is from what I read yesterday
and saw people sort of talking about
their of different minds within the
military about the about whether or not
this this operation what are they
calling it patriotic Eagle or something
I don't know it's something should be
called Operation white supremacy right
but you know they they're of different
minds about whether or not this is you
know a good use of their of their time
effort and resources and it's going to
be very very expensive it's going to
cost billions of dollars you know did
the only thing Trump will ever write a
blank cheque for is is the military and
you know this the idea that this could
that something terrible could happen as
a result of this is obvious I mean you
know look I don't want to you know
digress too far here but do you only
have to think about you know the Gaza
and the West Bank to think about how
rock-throwing turns into tragedy but
even on our own borders well in the past
there has been there have been incidents
like this with and with the military
back in the late 90s said the military
shot a data they hate I mean they used
to send troops to the board this isn't
the first time a presidents done this
but it was always under the auspices of
trying to stop drug trafficking never
before has it been to stop a bunch of
you know ragtag group of mothers and
their children at the border I mean
that's just never been done before but
there have been troops there and there
was a terrible incident in the late 90s
where a soldier who was deployed on this
drug mission accidentally shot a young
goat herd unarmed you know Mexican kid
who accidentally crossed the border
tending his goats and it was a terrible
thing and you know it really made people
think twice about whether or not you
ever want to do it now George Bush did
he sent a bunch of troops down to the
border it's out mm I think or maybe it
was 6,000 I can't remember but it was a
lot and it cost billions of dollars his
his operation did so you know this
gambit isn't new which is why I think
maybe mattis is going along with it he's
a little more acquiescent than people
sort of expected him to be because it
has been done before and but this but
you know this is a different atmosphere
I mean we are in a people he Trump is
building people up into a frenzy and I
don't know if he's building US military
troops up into a frenzy he probably is
building the Border Patrol up into a
frenzy and I can guarantee you that all
these militia guys who were going to
come down I quote help
he's definitely building them up into a
frenzy so you're you're setting up a
situation for something very tragic to
happen and which I really think and I
think maybe he wants that to be honest I
I think that's very possible and we
should also say you know there are even
there are greater implications and we
you know we're starting to see more and
more of this right bolson are ou elected
in Brazil now he's moving the embassy to
Jerusalem in in the the Brazilian
Embassy and just today the Nigerian Army
which this week shot and killed multiple
protesters who were throwing rocks under
investigation this is their their
biggest defense they tweeted out that
video that we just played please watch
and make your deductions essentially
saying look the president the United
States says if you throw rocks it's like
firing weapons therefore we you know we
cannot be held to account for shooting
unarmed protesters and and and this is
you know for for you we had been asking
for you and I had been talking about in
the lead-up to you know after the Indo
to the inauguration and sort of
contemplating what are the implications
of foreign policy you know this is one
of those things we see this time and
time again where you know I don't think
as citizens you know just going about
our daily basis particularly you know
people who may be a little bit jaded as
you know a lot of folks are we're
conscious of that the United States in
many respects maintained even though
there was times we were certainly
hypocritical about it but maintained
some type of you know
of values in the world that had some
type of restraining impact on other
governments around the world and we're
seeing what happens when we sort of let
go of those the you know where we create
a little bit of slack in in those type
of normative values Oh a lot of slack I
mean I would say it was alert you know
it was kind of an abrupt change you know
that that yeah I think you and I have
talked about this a lot you know this
kind of that the scary sort of aspect of
this you know it's all scary what he's
doing domestically is very scary but we
don't know yet whether or not our
institutions have the resilience to be
able to resist this and we'll see on
Tuesday our first sign of whether or not
it's actually possible because the
Republican Party of course is you know
they've proved that they are not going
to be part of that they're not that
institution is dead so we can't really
kick count on them but maybe the vote
will do do something anyway to give us
hope that we can bring that back but on
an international level we just do not
know what the result and the
consequences of this man being president
is going to be it's very very up in the
air it's unknown and that is a very
scary thing because as much as we
thought you know many of us have said
for years that you know hey the u.s.
being the policeman of the world I'm not
a good position to be in being the
world's only superpower blah blah blah
you know that that this is it's putting
the country in an immoral position it
empowers you know all kinds of terrible
consequences around the world but you
don't pair that up with nothing to
replace it I mean the idea was always
okay we need to create new institutions
we've got to find new alliances we've
got to build on you know some kind of
global understanding you can't just walk
away and that's basically what Trump has
done and not only as he walked away in
terms of you know giving any kind of
respect toward the international order
that had been built after World War two
but
you know he's also just sort of joined
the petty tyrant Club you know he might
as well be do charity or I think he's
going to be a lot like Bolton ro I mean
these are these are the kinds of ugly
you know sort of sort of you know petty
sort of international relations that
lead to Wars I mean that's the sort of
thing that he's doing and you know we
have to keep our eyes on that all the
time because we don't know where the
chips are gonna fall with that it's very
very dangerous and here we have him you
know modeling for the rest of the world
the United States of America be you know
doing things like you know saying the
new rules of engagement are to shoot and
rock throwers and and we're seeing the
results instantly in place like Nigeria
I mean this is really this is really
exciting
extremely dangerous it's one reason why
you know the Congress if they can't do a
lot but they do have a voice and if they
do if we do manage to take back the
house and you know I guess there's a
long shot that they might take the
Senate unlikely but you never know that
suddenly there's another force within
the United States that can be you know
use its voice to somehow project out to
the world hey look this guy does not
have unlimited power he doesn't it or he
shouldn't but under the Republicans of
course he has there's been zero
oversight and if anything they've been
working as his accomplices in the
Congress I'm not as I I'm not as well
look I think it's obviously a Democratic
Congress mitigates what Trump does but
in terms of the message sent to the rest
of the world I'm not sure you get the I
don't know I don't think there's any
takes these backsies on this one do you
know what I mean I think like the the
the the the message to the world is I
just don't know that we ever regain that
type of you know even the illusion of
that type of moral authority you know I
and and I don't want to overstate you
know I say that with all the caveats
that are involved in that right but it
just makes
did a harder argument for you know
there's a reason why Ben Salomon is is
is really gonna just be okay in Saudi
Arabia in you know another three or four
weeks there's a reason why the the the
the business class in Brazil didn't feel
too bad about electing an out-and-out
fascist the Nigerian military they're
they're all getting their justification
and and we should also say there's also
like domestically right like this stuff
we're watching it with our own eyes
they're all the data points are that
there is more racism hate groups are
acting out maybe there aren't more
racists but there are more who are
crossing the threshold in and out of the
shadows as it were and I don't know how
you put that back in the bottle like a
society can do that I think over time in
terms of those racists and xenophobes if
if things turn over the next couple
years but in terms of the rest of the
world like I think once you sort of step
down as that you know providing that
normative value it seems to me very hard
to sort of regain it you know what I
mean yeah I mean the most we can hope
for really I totally agree with you on
that things that you know I mean I hate
to say this because it's scary but you
know it's not it shouldn't be too scary
is that things are never going to be the
same okay I mean that this just changed
this was it and it had been happening
for a long time right I mean our
democracy has been in trouble for you
know at least thirty years probably
longer our institutions have been you
know corrupted I mean we know all that
we've been watching this happening
through our lifetime that something was
wrong we knew and this is just sort of
the zenith of of that and we're seeing
it happen but that doesn't mean that
it's necessarily has to be a completely
negative
you know horrific Mad Max
replacement right I mean they're
theoretically could be some kind of new
world order put in place that you know
could it could actually be better and be
better for the United States I mean the
United States should not after this much
time after the war it made sense for the
United States to sort of bear the burden
and be the you know the the single power
that sort of kept the world on an even
keel but that made no sense after a
certain time and certainly after the
Soviet Union broke up so you know it's
fair to say that something news should
be in place and it's not impossible to
believe that something new can be built
that is actually good and better than
what we had before but there's no
guarantee of that and with Donald Trump
in office it's impossible to believe
because he's an incompetent imbecile
who is you know driven by a bunch of
primitives and motions and that's about
it
so it's not going to happen with him and
the way that the world looks with these
you know these people in power I mean
you've got Putin you've got XI you know
you've got look what's happening in
Europe I mean that is not a good sign
you've got both an arrow here and you've
got us and and this is you know this is
bad sign these are very powerful
countries that are all kind of going in
the wrong direction so you know I don't
mean to sound like you know kumbaya that
oh gosh everything is fine but it is
it's theoretically possible but you know
it the problem is is that the United
States it's an economic and military
powerhouse it's it's the one it's it's
it's got the you know the biggest
military in the world we'd spend more on
our military than all the other
countries combined
it's that still is real and that's a
very dangerous thing for us because you
know but if we become a threat you know
bad things can happen and I think a lot
of people in this world is starting to
see us at best a competitor rather than
an ally and at worst an enemy and you
know this is this is not a good thing
and and I don't know you know it really
requires people to be you know take this
seriously it's not you know Donald Trump
seems like a clown but he is he is a
clown but an evil
clown and he has to be taken seriously
even though it's kind of you know hard
to do so sometimes all right well let's
but let's pivot to just how seriously
people are going to take things in five
or six days I mean the midterm elections
obviously the the there was a there's a
tremendous sort of like generic secular
if you will
disadvantage to Democrats in this cycle
in terms of the the Senate there are I
think it's two-thirds of the of the
incumbents who are facing re-election
are Democrats so the Democrats had far
more to defend the a lot of the races
though in terms of the Senate are not
you know we go back two years ago we
talk about people who we think could
have problems right like sherry brown or
you know in Tammy Baldwin in Wisconsin
you know folks you know in the Midwest
broadly speaking I mean you know
Donnelly still in trouble Manchin seems
to be okay Heidi Heitkamp obviously
having some problems but sort of the
solid Democrats in the Midwest in states
that are sort of purply states that
people thought might be problematic or
not and I don't know what that tells us
about their candidacies as much as it
might tell us about the states or people
you know being disaffected with Donald
Trump but there's a there's definitively
a hardening it seems to me of people's
positions right his Trump wouldn't feel
like he could go out and do this
he thinks he's strengthening himself at
least in terms of of the Senate right by
doing this or at the very least
hardening the the ramparts or you know I
guess
fortifying the Alamo as it were and and
I mean by all appearances it's gonna
it's going to work
you know Brett Kavanaugh did not hurt
them it seems to have of helped on some
level at least in the red states well I
don't think there's any doubt that you
know if you look at the polling and even
Donald Trump's approval rating I mean he
just he's really strange that way most
most presidents have some play in their
approval rating depending on what's
going on and he has been very very
narrow I mean the only the only good
part about that is that he starts out
very low for a president you know right
around 40% and it just stays there so
that says to me that you know I mean his
his base of support is just pretty solid
I mean it really is but if somebody
pointed out I think maybe it was James
Fallows from the Atlantic that you know
Herbert Hoover got 40% in 1932 in the
depth of the depression there's always a
base of the opposing party right no
matter what is happening so we shouldn't
be too surprised by that and the fact
that you know the way that our our
politics are shaking out in this
polarized era is in these red states I
mean they tend to be sort of states for
the big rural population and that is a
place where you find you know the
hardest core Trump voters the people who
really like him and are you know
approving of the Republican Party's
acquiescence to him which is why they're
voting for Republicans they like that
and you know as we know going into this
election and we knew this two years ago
we knew it four years ago that this map
was going to be very very difficult for
Democrats and I even remember and you
probably recall this - two years ago
looking at the house map people were
really you know pessimistic about the
Democrats ability to take the house
because it with all the gerrymandering
and all the districts the way that they
were laid out it did not look very
likely that Democrats could do it if the
present the Republican you know
president was able to you know have hold
on to at least a few of his coattails
and the Senate of course was just
considered right off there was never any
chain you know what are we talking about
let's forget that we were we weren't
just going to the Democrats weren't just
going to not gain any seats they were
going to lose a bunch of seats as you
just pointed out and that would have
included somebody like sherrod Brown or
Tammy Baldwin after 2016 because you
would have thought that was Trump
country so you know this is it I don't
you know I think it's hardening but I'm
not sure it's hardening in a way that is
to their benefit and I'm not sure that
Trump is doing them any favors because
you know one of the things that he just
does not understand is that for every
every one of his you know redheads at
his rallies you know there's a couple
other Republicans out there that are
that are repulsed by what he's doing and
he you know he needs to think a little
bit about that now most Republicans are
backing him but what is it it's like 80%
I mean that's not unanimous and and I
suspect his big problem is the
Republican leading independence right
and they're falling the other way this
time well I mean there there's a couple
of things about this that strike me one
is that it's fallows is right right
forty percent although george w bush
fell below forty percent i think if i
remember he was in the the mid to low
30s at one point for a considerable
period of time it suggested me a couple
of things one Donald Trump might be
sweet generous in terms of the threat
that he constitutes in terms of like our
status around the world or our ability
to get into a sort of knee-jerk horrible
conflict but fundamentally he is aligned
with the Republican Party like the he is
not distinct from Republicans in any
shape or matter I mean it appears to me
because he's doing quite well in the
most Republican of areas I mean you know
we talked about his national approval
rating is going up and inching up a
little bit but in some states like he's
well above 50% because they are
Republican Tom
in states on top of which I mean the the
other thing that occurs to me about this
is that those Republicans suburban
voters who are abandoning him or
supposedly abandoning him they've got
their tax cuts right and there's a
couple of social things that they say
hey I I think this has gone too far but
I wonder how you know obviously we need
those voters for the for the midterms
and I hope though that Democrats and you
know Nancy Pelosi has an agenda that is
you know for Congress that didn't maybe
it's in there I didn't see voting rights
you know that there's not the the the
things on the agenda are not those
things that should defy democratic power
to the extent that there is democratic
power now obviously they can't pass
anything if there's a Republican Senate
but you know you're setting the table
there's a reason why you do these things
they should be edifying democratic power
within their democratic base right like
ensure voting rights let's try and help
out unions and I I worry that the those
Republican voters who are with us today
because Donald Trump is an offensive
human being won't necessarily be there
two four six years from now if there is
an attempt to sort of reprioritize where
let's say the money expended on those
tax cuts go well and let's just look at
it from a purely you know cynical
political basis the bigger the tent gets
right the bigger the Democratic
coalition you suddenly start bringing in
a bunch of you know former Republicans
into the into the tent you suddenly got
a bunch of conflict within the tent
because these aren't people that
necessarily they're not Bernie Sanders
people okay
so you know we're going to have I hope
everybody's prepared for this I mean
this is going to be a big battle now I'm
hopeful that it's not going to happen
within the next two years my suspicion
is is that the focus will be on Trump I
suspect that you're you know you'll have
an agenda that includes all those things
that you're talking about as well as you
know stuff like you know reversing the
tax cuts and doing a bunch of other
things I mean they can't actually do it
but they'll talk about it you know yes
you're shredding it up right you're
setting it up and of course you've got
simultaneously you've got a very what is
going to be a contentious presidential
primary among a bunch of Democrats who
are running from all over the country
everywhere and that's all going to be
sorted out and it's going to be very
public and we're going to have that
argument going into the presidential
race but I think that people will be
focused for two years on defeating
Donald Trump in 2020 and that will
probably you know somehow sort of sort
of tamp down whatever you know true
disagreements exist on you've got a sort
of vitriolic level I just I mean I'm
hopeful anyway because I think it's
probably better I think we should have
the argument but I think it should be
pretty you know hopefully it will be
something that's kind of you know civil
and understandable there's not a lot of
hard feelings this time and Donald Trump
I think both tend to focus the mind
better than than anything else but you
know this is going to happen I mean when
you when you bring in a bunch of
Republicans into the Democratic Party
there's going to be a bunch of you know
there's going to be definite pressure to
adhere to to take on more conservative
policies a more conservative people
right I mean so that's gonna happen and
and it's fine you know that did we can I
think that the party can handle it but I
think that people like us we're going to
be in a position of having to fight very
hard for what we believe in on the
progressive side and make sure that we
don't get into that thing because money
plays a big part in that
yeah and that's one thing where I think
is really important what we're seeing in
this election for the first time I think
and it's really setting an example of
how powerful this grassroots fundraising
is I mean
Democratic candidates a lot of them are
not taking any kind of PAC money therapy
I mean I'm not saying they're not being
helped on some level by outside groups
that are putting doing ads and things
like that but just not a pure
fundraising level these people are doing
really well just with with grassroots
fundraising and it's it's providing a
model for how the Democratic Party can
go forward and if progressives that's
one area I think progressives should
push hard which is you know no pattern
none of this corporate you know
corporate fundraising we're not doing it
anymore
and that will take some of the pressure
off all right taking on some of these
conservatives views they won't be quite
as likely to be you know running around
catering to you know CEOs and Wall
Street you know you know hedge fund
managers not quite where we're up
against it but I want to touch on this
for just a couple minutes because I have
a feeling we're gonna be talking about
this you know we talk again in a couple
of weeks we're gonna be talking about
this the other day benjamin witness
another guy from law fair another guy
bates who was on the ken starr
investigation they were responsible for
a FOIA request maybe it was a FOIA
request I'm not exactly sure where some
archives were released they were they
and they were from the Nixon era and
these archives it was the Watergate
roadmap
it was notes from Leon Jaworski I think
and it also it was Jack Goldsmith and
Benjamin witness those are and Stephen
Bates and the US archives released these
court documents that show a federal
grand jury in February of 74 was
prepared to indict Richard Nixon talks
about the subpoenas talks about the
draft of the indictment and there was a
roadmap that was developed
part of it was with the help of
Archibald Cox who at that point had been
had been you know fired by by Nixon part
of it was by Jaworski and part of it was
a written by the judge who was
overseeing this stuff and all this stuff
had basically been put away archived and
these guys worked they petitioned for
the documents to be released now I don't
know why they were released now right as
opposed to like this is a weird time
couple days before the election but
everybody anticipates Jeff Sessions to
be fired you know after the election and
maybe other things happening there's
another piece out there that suggests
that maybe Muller has subpoenaed already
issued a subpoena to Trump I think you
told me before we got on that Marcy
wheeler and I neglected to read Marcy
before coming on the air today which is
always a huge mistake but that Marcy
wheeler is not as convinced but
nevertheless in the next I mean I have a
real sense that in the next six weeks as
we get closer to Christmas in the new
year there's gonna be a lot of like
civic activity that is going to have to
take place right I mean do you have that
sense to yes it sure feels that way I
mean there's a lot of news starting to
trickle out about Roger stone and that
whole side of that speed band was called
back in to the grand jury but as for the
Nixon thing just to briefly touch on
that that was really fascinating because
what that document really what that
document had been handed over to
Congress at the time and that was the
basis that they used for their
impeachment that their impeachment you
know what about was the word I'm looking
for impeachment documents and articles
of impeachment right that had been used
for that and it's been kept secret this
whole time I mean nobody from caught
they wanted it to be secret they kept it
secret it was grand jury stuff
right I mean you don't normally I mean
that is the way it's supposed to work
the grand jury stuff is not supposed to
be public ken starr didn't care about
that he actually put bill clinton's
grand jury testimony on television right
are actually newt gingrich did that but
regardless and normal people you know
they have respect for the secrecy of the
grand jury and this is very interesting
and what those but witnessin and company
say is that what this does is provide a
roadmap for robert muller
which is very different than the Starr
report which i think is what people are
kind of expecting to come out that it's
going to be some narrative you know with
it you know like ken starr's body
ripping romance novel that he wrote but
that's not what this is this is just
just the facts ma'am it's very very you
know Jack Webb it's is just very laid
out the grand jury they laid it out
point by point by point and the
simplicity of it is what impressed all
the legal beagles who look at this and
went whoa you know this is devastating
on a legal basis and they didn't make
any conclusions they didn't say you know
look this is what we think is
impeachable this isn't blah blah blah
they didn't say anything like the Ken
Starr report it was just these are the
crimes that we think are are indictable
and we would indict him if he were not
president I mean that's basically
because Jaworski had had convinced that
many of the grand jury apparently
majority the grand jury wanted to indict
the president they felt there was
evidence there and Jaworski convinced
them to call him an unindicted
co-conspirator instead which is
devastating enough for a president and
that's really what put him over the edge
and made it necessary for him to resign
but you know this is a pretty amazing
document I sort of you know I'm not a
lawyer so you know looking at it I
couldn't really tell how devastating the
actual legal implications are but just
the volume of it it's like 52 pages very
spare but it's one thing after another
and these are many of them are things
that we are aware of most of them are
that of what what Nixon's crimes were
but when you see it laid out in that
sort of a legal document it would really
it's like oh you know and if he does say
smaller have something like that in mind
for what's going to happen I think this
could be you know it could be a real
shocker it seems to me though the
argument I mean what we're seeing is
lobbying that is taking place
in a legal community for the legitimacy
of something like this right and so the
idea is in the minds of these people
right who are not necessarily my
favorite people anyways but in this
instance they're they're carrying a
fairly important flag I think that the
idea is they're putting pressure
it seems to me right like they're
putting prep this is like an audience of
like one or two right like they're
putting pressure
this is them trying to put pressure on
either the DC Circuit Court or probably
the Supreme Court right like Suzanne I
think it's John Robert right and then if
you like they're basically saying to
John Roberts this is this is it and now
like you know we all knew these
documents were out there not and you
know it none of its particularly new
except for the sort of the legal
principles and the the the boxes you
have to tick off along the way to do
this and John Roberts you should be
aware that history is now aware of this
so you're gonna be going against history
against what happened last time to a
Republican president you know in a much
less not a partisan era and if you do
this understand like I don't know I
remember some like after-school special
or something on the signing of the
Constitution or I can't maybe was the
Declaration of Independence I mean it
was really you know stuff for like kids
but there was one guy I can't remember
if he was from Maryland or what at the
time the representative where he was
like do you really want to be the guide
known for throughout who's who who was
the one who who didn't sign because
that's who you be and on some level this
is like the the the legal establishment
saying to John Roberts here's your bar
are you going to you know this is you
can you know you can lean on precedent
or you can be the radical who down the
road in American history you're the one
who led
Donald Trump get off like this I mean
this is gonna be are you gonna be a hero
or a villain I mean I think that's
that's you know pretty pretty simple
stuff and I think that you know one of
the things that that this one of the
people who came out with George Conway
Kellyanne Conway's husband he wrote a an
op-ed with Neal Katyal who was you know
a Democrat although he's you know very
sort of centrist and weird but
nonetheless they wrote they wrote an
op-ed sort of you know defending Muller
on this basis as well this is it you
know I think this is big and I think it
I think it's meaningful and you bring up
the timing and I think it was the
circuit court judge
it wasn't Howell who actually ruled that
these had to be released right now I
mean I think you're right that it feels
as though the legal establishment itself
is kind of you know they're sending out
signal after signal after signal that
somehow or another you know they said
that this is important and if you want
to preserve the the justice system that
the country in any form of legitimacy
and credibility with you at this
institution of our judicial system you
better take this seriously and and I
think that you know I'm sure that Muller
and his people are reading it and you
know trying to figure out whatever their
their strategy is going forward I mean
Marcy wheeler has always said that you
know that maybe Muller wouldn't even
write a report that basically what he
would do is he was going to indict
people and and and lay out the case much
as this case was laid out against
Richard Nixon in this thing just in pure
you know legal terms no you know no
editorializing whatsoever about the
meaning of it or anything else like Ken
started or basically you know it was
actually Brett Kavanaugh it was one of
the authors of the Starr report so you
know we know where he stands but you
know this is I think this is a very
interesting development and like you I
also believe that the minute that the
election is over that we're going to
start seeing some major activity on this
front and it's going I think it's going
to be very turbulent because you know I
don't think any of us really know you
know the depth of Muller's
evidence and where he's going with this
I mean it there lots of little clues but
I don't think we really really know so
it could be very
very interesting over the next couple
months well dig me I'm sure we'll be
talking more about this in the future
thanks so much for you bet
Howell thanks everybody vote on Tuesday
for sure yes all right thanks dig me all
right folks
we're going to take a quick break head
into the Oh head into the Kindler zone
Andy Kindler will be joining us in just
a sec
you
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen it is Friday we are
three days away from at least three
business days away from a very very
important election I know there's a lot
of people who are out canvassing as we
speak who are listening to the show on
their phones and we have given them more
reason to continue their hard work as
they go about trying to make sure that
their neighbors and people in their
community vote and now it's an
opportunity to reward them with this
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
Andy Kindler can you believe it I cannot
believe it sir I am so glad that you're
here with us how are you Andy I should
tell you I'm good I am I know what
you've heard okay I'm not going to be
funny I can tell thank you I should tell
you right now both Jamie and Michael are
out of the office
Jamie yeah what is this I finally tagged
someone I mean God forbid I don't even
don't know anybody's name I barely
remember your name
now I tagged everybody and everyone's
out of the studio well Jamie had you
know long time plans to to be on the
road today and Michael just you know
didn't feel like coming in today so
right right what come in today well I
come in today when he biggest
you come to New York we have to have
coffee when you come to New York but
nobody can't show up on the day that I'm
on the show right now well he I mean I
don't want to make you not feel special
but there is no one who has ever been on
the show where he hasn't tried to hook
up with him socially
that does not make me feel special oh
well I heard that when when Goebbels
came on the trip years ago he thumbs up
just about just about anybody who has
been on the show or has mentioned on the
show I think Michael has reached out to
for coffee well I wanted Sun believable
that Jamie's not there because I sent in
the new Dennis Miller I mean this is a
business I don't want to talk about
Dennis Miller but his new Dennis Miller
information he's no longer gonna be the
political guy he's going back to his
roots making references that aren't that
funny but people still laugh well that's
the you know that was the story there
was he's been doing all these interviews
it seems like I posted one from today
there was one today three hours ago from
the Kansas City Star yeah that was the
AP there was a story from the Wall
Street Journal I think this was about
three weeks ago now and everybody sent
it to us and they're like you got to
talk to Andy about this and I I noticed
that right after he had done that after
he had given that interview in The Wall
Street Journal I think it was you know
he's still tweeting things in that
interview Dennis Miller plans politics
break after fake news special which of
course why wouldn't you break from
politics now because there's not much
going on folks I'm trying to be topical
nobody wants to hear about the world
blowing up now click the topical click
that real okay so here it is this was a
story that was back here send it to me
because I'll be able to open it up or
but the headline is after years on the
right Dennis Miller wants to find comedy
middle ground which is just I mean first
of all I has there been a time where
comedy has been more political like it's
like that that politics are more
relevant more important for comedians to
talk about or or people are pissed about
you know you know it's just what a
fossil retreat from like the damage this
guy has I don't know if you can say that
he's done or contributed to but
certainly tried to contribute to in this
country yes and he's a rich guy he's a
guy I mean he's got his finger on the
pulse of what's happening Society from
his mansion up in Santa Barbara where he
hides from everybody and he says in that
the interview that's released like he's
he's he's socially liberal but butkin
fiscally conservative which is the
dumbest dodged like this is something
that could actually fly I feel like you
know maybe you could get away with that
like 15 20 years ago but that's such a
joke now everybody knows that first of
all how can you support if you're
socially liberal how could you possibly
support the Republican Party today well
I mean I'm starting to question whether
well I you know what he used to say he
used to say that he was uh he wasn't
anti-gay now all that kind of stuff
that's what he was that's his idea of
being socially liberal right right like
I don't have views from the 1950s and I
also believe that it shouldn't be
illegal for white people and black
people to marry yeah I don't think was
gay like if I used to listen to him all
the time on when he was on that
right-wing show on am because I just
loved I was so fascinated and he was
still he was still was afraid to even
say that he's not anti-gay you know I'm
saying when you got a barrage of calls
he still tried to be nice to horrible
people well and he also doesn't seem to
have you know he seems to have still a
problem with like maybe
immigrants let's play his like is this
is his his special and I gotta say like
this is from that Wall Street Journal
piece why now special well yeah this is
what he said like why now I don't think
you want to be the last guy suggesting
we play charades at the hatfield-mccoy
cookout and I didn't understand one word
and one word in that sentence and I know
references he's explaining well let's
let's listen to his you don't want to be
the last guy at the hatfield-mccoy Dodge
City I'll get out of Dodge by 10:00
meeting right well let's play here's a
clip of his new special and then we'll
talk about why he's getting on the other
side yeah okay here we go this is what's
the name of this special is a comedy
dynamics or is that just the name of is
it's a fake name how many dynamics fake
news real jokes reference comic yeah
I think social medias allowed us to all
come together as one and realize there
was really no reason whatsoever for us
to all come together as one
I have an idea for a reality show about
hoarders with impeccable taste quite
frankly they shouldn't throw anything
out my nephew ACTU a small tiny local
circus it was very disappointing turns
out it was just a house that had been
tenant for termite proofing posit isn't
a circus closed with the circus closed
right well there is no more circus
doesn't it sound feel like that joke was
written like literally like 35 years ago
yeah I went to a flea circus and I
didn't know there were that many fleas
at the door don't you don't you get this
sense that Miller was sitting in his
study in a big leather chair and he says
to his probably poorly paid intern to
assemble like he goes like Kevin go go
down into the basement go to the file
cabinet pull out all the stuff from the
file cabinet that Eddie Driscoll wrote
for me in in 1989 and make that
investment in John rivers card catalog
cabinet payoff finally it's not like
let's pull out the old ones who gives a
crap I'm too tired for this and God
let's think we make it as hard to get
into our country as it is to get off
your plane when it arrives early at the
turn
that's a good one positive there it is
fake news I like that they put fake news
up after that because now I know you
shouldn't hold him to any type of
standard about truth but that's what he
says he's up there right I'm
truth-telling and the fact is it's very
difficult to get into the country
legally or without documentation I mean
no matter what and but he's he's
socially liberal yeah as horrible as it
is about people getting into the country
it's like he wants he knows these people
are going crazy about the idea of
keeping keeping the brown people out of
the country they love that part of his
act who's ever coming to see him but now
let me put that aside now and let me
talk about do my Copernicus material
exactly I'm brought out the airplane
stuff but I wanted to make it sound
racist too so yeah he's feeding what any
point oh he feeds that he lies so much
he feeds right into their fears it's a
 again to this country than it is to
log on to a Mary oh hey I mean he's he's
he's Donald Trump with a lot more sort
of glibness cleverness and a past where
he exhibited some modicum of talent and
but at the end of the day the messaging
is exactly the same your continues there
more fake news you can't trust
journalists you can't trust the New York
Times
you're better off trusting the odometer
readings in the auto trader for God says
posit people don't really use the auto
trader anymore that a metaphor that a
metaphor
do they actually did they still have the
auto trader he still imagines people are
buying this stuff from their local
Piggly wigglies instead of looking
online but let's see we might as well go
to the penny saver from 1973 and try and
buy a chest of drawers yeah you're still
looking into classify oh wait a second
you want to know how little a journalism
degree matters I have one you know I
like to that they they did the old thing
would they maybe that by stopping the
music watch this here we go yeah either
punch it ready traitor for god sakes you
want to know how little a journalism
degree matters I have one
I see Trump's obvious outside I think we
all do I think he was born in Kenya
who could love
I wouldn't even laugh that loud if I was
being tickled he's born in Kenya you
know where he's two weeks away from
going Obama's like that fifth guy from
Star Trek who goes down to the planet
and then ensign Pulver is all of a
sudden disappears let's let's go to what
he wrote here I mean that he said in
this interview Wall Street Journal cuz
it's really important good but all
strange
he confesses sometimes he dreams about
escaping America's raging political
divide which we should be clear he
certainly helped create right here
immense how polarized every spoken word
of public discourse has become I mean
grab me that frickin doll that we have
over here and just listen to what he was
saying twenty years ago when you know
the idea that we shouldn't go and invade
Iraq for no reason thank you you know
all right so there you see that joke um
I mean he sets up the joke he tells you
the joke ya know his joke is pretty
straightforward this was him twenty
years ago the the socially liberal guy
telling my economy that's for twenty
years ago this doll was produced during
the run-up to the Iraq war my he's
always been a jerk this is the guy I
mean when he talks about polarization in
this country he's going around saying
like you can't trust the French who
incidentally were like hey why are we
invading this country again
I mean I everything I'm telling there's
a lot of young people who have no idea
the toxicity that this a whole and I'm
not
I'm handing him here entered into the
popular bloodstream he was such a hero
for the right they made a doll about him
you're so angry you can't even call him
a reference comedian that's right they
the US has a long fuse but it's attached
to a big bomb
we killed hundreds of thousands of
people in Iraq by our own Defense
Department numbers oh yeah there's
laughing about the button that you press
in the back of the dull alright so he
writes I'm going out I'm getting I'm
going to get out of the nodding applause
business and back into the involuntary
laughter business we saw what what you
know what that that entailed like hey at
least he's not Canyon
I'm trying what's called the reverse
Marcel Marceau where I imagine myself
not to be in a box
oh my god why now why now I don't think
you want to be the last guy suggesting
we play charades at the hatfield-mccoy
cookout that's that's I'm still having
that one looked up I know what the
hatfield-mccoy thing is supposed to be
yeah but they didn't have a cookout
that's what I'm saying well first of all
not only did that hatfield-mccoy snot
have a cookout
but hatfield-mccoy is supposed to be a
fight that is meaningless right it's
just as opposed to a fight as to what
the future of the country is and then
what's the charades reference I think
you even do it hey it's like saying it's
like opening up your act with I'll buy a
vowel and he's not suggesting we play
charades
he's one of the he's what you either the
Hatfield or the McCoy and he's shooting
at people he is true though it's a
little-known historical note that the
Hatfields did win because they did
invite the McCoys to a fake cooker
unbelievable all right and then when
they will rather sit down
blam-blam-blam- oh he's the most unhappy
person in the world and it makes me so
thrilled that he sits around still
steaming what happened why am I not back
on the top of my game I shouldn't have
got too political
why he said he's not funny anymore
because he went Pulu he's not funny
and the reason why he's not political
anymore is because his gigs are drying
up like his is Bill O'Reilly Cinna cure
is is is folded and now he's just tired
of everything here he is on this is
really amazing this is him on the Larry
King program as to why he became a
conservative think of all the reasons
why you might become a conservative and
early 90s all right like I I started to
dig into sort of economic questions or I
felt like there was a cultural problem
in society this is right around the time
when in 1992 at the Republican
convention where Dan Quayle is is or
where I should say Pat Buchanan is
talking about a culture war in the
country Dan Quayle is railing on Candice
Bergen because her character on Murphy
Brown was a single mother okay and this
is why he decided to become a
conservative you any wait
I want you to try and guess because I
would say taxes within my first guess
right okay here he is explaining to
Larry King and this is actually present
day though right like with him and Larry
King back three weeks okay here it is
he's explaining why the prostate he's on
the prostate show he's a conservative in
the early 90s one year after leaving
Saturday Night Live okay Rob M on
Twitter at what point in your career or
personal life did you switch Ollie ollie
from a political perspective you did
switch well no I've always been a
pragmatist but I do remember during
Stockdale that was a big thing for me
Ross Perot chose James Stockdale and
this guy was a guy who worked got a tap
code system in the Hanoi Hilton kids who
wanted to die overnight I was there with
that whole summer craze with him
great American okay he runs Perot picks
him because pros like yeah to me pros
crazy is like I want to see him as
president hat for half I want to see how
crazy is when he meets the Queen of
England go are you Ruth Buzzi you know
he's just crazy so when he picked
Stockdale I think I looking at
I read about Stockdale to the extent
that I can then they start making fun of
him because he has his first press
conference and he looks wide-eyed and
he's a deer in a headlight and he said
well I don't even know why I'm here boom
the Liberals just weighed in on a make
fun of him and I thought this is getting
too flash card II hear it they should
invest a little more time in this and I
remember thinking I'm not sure if I'm
certain enough of my guesswork to be
liberal anymore
I just started reading on things listen
positive way ii know what wow
so first of all Stockdale said it was
during the VP debate Who am I am I here
Who am I Who am I why am I here right he
decides to become a conservative because
Saturday Night Live mocks the Admiral
Stockdale
wouldn't that be why he would become a
member of the Reform Party maybe no that
would make sense
he but he's also simultaneously saying
liberals just look at a flashcard they
don't do any depth and that's why I
changed though I changed my political
ideology because they were making fun of
Stockdale that seems to me to be like a
flash card brazen no yeah he he but she
just does show up show that he never
really had any political bones anyway
because I think I told you like Kevin
Rooney wrote all of this a lot of his
platoon out all of them with a lot of
this political story I think he's always
been an Inc I'm beginning to think he's
always been nincompoop but you told me
this was a recent interview and he used
Ruth Buzzi well to be fair he was
talking about Ross Perot saying Ruth
okay
I got that's better but I like how he
says Ross Perot is crazy and I left I
decided not to be a liberal because I
thought it was all just people making
fun of Stockdale I mean I can't even
believe I am a Presta that he can
remember that many details from 20 years
ago you still plugged it he still
plugged into the H Ross Perot campaign
this is this is his political progress
prognosticating on that same Larry King
show your Dennis Miller is you know he's
getting ready he's giving all these
interviews I want to get out of politics
whatnot and this is what he thinks is
going to happen in 2020 some social
media questions Michael James on
Facebook in your opinion who will be the
2020 Democratic nominee
I think it's lava knotty as president
and either Kamala Harris or Cory Booker
in the two slot
I don't know I'm honestly the experiment
but can you imagine if last time on the
Republican thing it was a demolition
derby what's it gonna be like on a
Democrat like this side can you I would
it's so funny now I tune in to TV shows
for serious political discourse and I
watch press conferences and debates for
comedy because they had yeah they
flipped roles now it's actually there's
no news anymore it's so when I think
about who's cueing up already but there
they are saying and I you know that
avenatti might be one of the
frontrunners oh my god at least he's got
some astute political he's really
plugged in he he tried that is you know
what's amazing he tried that as a joke
and Larry King doesn't laugh and I go
come on could be avenatti right exactly
he almost can't stop
laughing as he says that and Michael
avenatti and camera as if as if Tamela
Harris is like is it like a joke person
to bring up oh yeah what have the Camela
eras okay
oh boy it is weird that he's sort of
fixated on Kamala Harris and Cory Booker
will be there his VP havin a tease and
he backed the big he expected a big
laugh from that I think should be
Michael avenatti with Tamela Harris that
one killed in my last special so I don't
know why I love that he's done though
don't you think
oh yeah I like that I like but here the
best part about is this how long do you
think it will be after I mean supposedly
cuz Tori's gonna be over right and then
I mean her specials gonna be out there
in six weeks nobody's gonna be talking
about his special anymore his touring is
to promote the special it's not gonna be
how long do you think it's gonna be
until he's back into politics again
because he realized that that's the last
place that he's selling any of his his
his stuff oh that's a good that's a good
bet and I would say I say six months and
we back into the politics or he will be
retired
you're totally retired totally retired
Lee never hear from again but no he's to
egomaniacal he's gotta be he can't do
that he can't do that although um maybe
the other choice would be he goes back
to the bath the bathroom shows to the
watch or the bathrobe shows yeah is he
still doing the the Dennis Miller option
or did a opted out on that I think yeah
you know what's amazing
there's nothing that he's probably done
that you can't get now on YouTube I
think he was holding this stuff out yeah
you have you subscribed to my show you
get some my special never-before-seen
Basement Tapes
I've noticed on your on your Twitter
feed that you you may have watched the
press conference with Jake is a Jacob
wall the press conference the smear
Muller oh we don't actually did wash it
but I hadn't watched it and so I didn't
know that name that was like someone got
me with a name like I still quite I'm so
low confused okay so here's here's the
story
this guy Jack Burkman who is a
Republican operative and another
Republican I guess operative or
conservative like pro-trump Twitter guy
jacob wolf who's 20 years old we're
announcing that they have a woman who
claims that she was raped right was it
raped or sexually assaulted by robert
muller 20 or 30 years ago and they got
the information from surefire
intelligence which turns out to be jacob
wools creation where he created a
website with all pictures that he stole
from the internet to supposedly be his
investigators like there was it be the
the chief of the israeli bureau was a
israeli supermodel Bar Refaeli
the head of Zurich who is the actor
who's the head of the Zurich branch
I'm sure fire was a Christoph Waltz yeah
Christoph Waltz and he took these
pictures that didn't realize that people
couldn't identify who they were and then
at the Prescott to do that the press
conference know here he is at the press
conference he did something like it
where he supposedly had a picture of him
with the woman who claimed to have
written this affidavit claiming she was
assaulted by Muller and it turns out
people searched it it's his girlfriend
[Laughter]
yes and it's also it's taken two girl
friend in her like fifties right cuz if
this happened 30 years ago in 1974
presumably that woman would had to have
been you know over 20
he said O'Keefe he's an O'Keefe
territory now Oh totally it's on up that
tree what is this clip of him this is a
clip of him at the press conference
there's a few clips of the press
conference yeah okay this is him talking
cuz people are giving him grief like you
say you're a longtime experienced
investigator you're 20 Washington Post
reported that mr. Muller they read
reported that mr. Muller was at jury
duty as to discredit this accuser that's
why they rerecorded it that's why it's
going around real quick real quick
excuse me excuse me
rather than double-checking and saying
wait a second was the only a jury duty
sometimes people go to jury duty but
they're also somewhere else was the only
no one set up is hang on it's not funny
this is not a laughing matter
there you go he anticipated your laugh
here Andy he's got Ricky Gervais since
haircut from the eighties here is when
they start asking him about his age and
how he could have so much experience as
an investigation
experience and where did you get this
honorary Harvard Law degree I think it's
a finger finger speed he apparently
claimed the ED an honorary Harvard Law
degree and of course that's a figure of
speech
right yeah oh I hope this never ends and
I mean like how many times have you used
that figure of speech that you have an
honorary Harvard Law degree if you were
if he wearing something from Star Trek
The Next Generation he should have had
it sunglasses on it's like the
Terminator all right let's go he's the
harbor what Andy just help me out here
how would you use honorary Harvard Law
degree as a figure of speech in a
sentence you know it's like it's like I
have a you know it's like a you know
what I couldn't do it it's an expression
it's an expression that's what it is
stop being such a Harvard honorary law
degree that doesn't work
are you hungry god I'm like honorary law
degree I'm so hungry I ate my honorary
Harvard Law degree are you hungry
are you tired I'm so tired I could get a
Harvard honorary law degree I also have
an honorable fake mentioned from yell
there you go all right here we go it's a
figure of speech
[Laughter]
like I said I've done a handful of
matters I've done a handful of matters
like this over the years my you know my
mission here is not to establish a
narrative it's not to follow an agenda
is to bring forth hang on hang on excuse
me it's to bring forth the facts and let
the facts speak for themselves and
that's what we've done here Jack Burkman
steps in and he is giggling like I don't
understand what the hell this is about
he who's using the excuse that the trump
patent did excuse me that's what s
Trump's signature line they're all a
dummy it's all gotten insane Andy I like
this I love this Jake a wall now look at
him wouldn't you go from this where does
someone go from there
I where does he where does he go uh this
is amazing so he he he put on where is
this is this on Twitter that he put it
up it looks like he blogged this out so
he like did like Microsoft Paint over
her face and put it up on his blog okay
so he says below is a photo of wall and
leaked user who at this time is fearful
of her life and request to remain
anonymous
this is upon arriving in Washington DC
she panicked and boarded a flight to
another occasion he posted this picture
of him with the accuser and then
somebody again found that same picture
and it turns out to be his girlfriend
and there's also a lot of interesting
saluting going on the ceiling was
identified as in LAX and not in any DC
airports this guy should never leave the
hangars green screen is all careers now
when do you think I get what point like
do you think like what do you think
happens to this guy cuz am i I would say
I would bet within a couple years this
the guy who's gonna be making a boatload
of money doing some right-wing thing
like project sort of Veritas or
something like that I mean we're so
Keith now so Keith is though keeps
tearing it up well on it O'Keefe had
apparently got a volunteer of baito
O'Rourke's
on camera saying something to the effect
of like what was it was a bait
O'Rourke's or gillum's he got some
volunteer he did a Heitkamp person to
those I think he's got he's got he's got
volunteers for candidates saying stuff
that's inappropriate you know like
people who sign up to volunteer like
literally one of like a thousands of
people and then he refers to them as
staffers but they're usually like their
unpaid volunteers oh god please let this
be funny
next Wednesday morning yeah no kidding
alright so we play one clip of O'Reilly
sure we've got a clip of O'Reilly in his
basement complaining about sensitivity
training at Michigan State or O'Reilly
freaking out about Soros which one don't
like him freaking out I like I like him
oh all right this is the one about
O'Reilly this is O'Reilly defense right
after it turns out that Soros was the
target of essentially an attempt to bomb
him to death here is Bill O'Reilly
remember Bill O'Reilly was one of the
pioneers in demonizing Soros and he's
gonna I didn't know that even I didn't
oh yeah back in the day back when he was
like talking like I went up to to Harlem
and ate and you didn't hear anybody say
mofo this or mofo past the grit say that
it was all normal and this is what a
great guy right Jason silverstein what a
great guy financially supports democracy
and human rights closet he's he's
reading off of a
Pease yeah yeah that's our us and he's
really upset
he's themed what a great guy financially
supports democracy and human rights
causes more than a hundred countries ah
this is what I mean you can't trust a
word now no mention that Soros was
convicted of a felony in France posit he
was convicted of insider trading was
that what it was in France
he's got the century book tab don't mess
with them they've got the century he
knows it all from last century but it's
last century okay no mention that
Hungary the country hungry usually
passed a law against him intruding in
their internal politics didn't mention
it posits a second now there's the
right-wing did not cede occasion isn't
it it is full-on fascist these days and
they they don't like the Jews you know
there's a long history Gorkhas little
badge of ratsy or whatever that is the
tezur0 des Iran is is all about
Hungary's passing laws about the Jews
hungry usually passed a law against him
intruding in their internal politics
didn't mention it I guess Jason didn't
know tempting to sort of to knock Soros
so this is the way this is this is the
way he tears apart this this piece
mention it I guess Jason didn't know
yeah yeah you know makes me you CBS
News all right and then he writes a bit
down it's a great show
but the Soros score and hit a fever
pitch in the early 2000s once he became
more involved in American politics
specifically opposing george w bush he
compared the Bush administration to the
Nazi and communist regimes saying Bush
had improved on the techniques of
governing by fear and Soros spent more
than 27 million unsuccessfully opposing
Bush's 2004 re-election okay so that
this this guy saguaro sees he's a hero
he's supporting democracy so everything
goes alright quote deserve it he just
lays the predicate he doesn't come back
now the other half of the sentence it's
like oh he's supporting democracy and
then he runs out of Leary doesn't have
like a he doesn't he doesn't have a
criticism
hey meanwhile Soros the Nazis in his own
country hey them that's that's what they
think of Thoreau
they said to him the Nazis in his own
country said don't end interfere as a
hero supporting democracy it's over
seeing goes on a right quote the
conservative movement responded by
unleashing fury on Soros and he became a
constant target for Fox News and other
right wing commentators Bill O'Reilly
ran a ten minute segment on Soros
calling him an extremist and an
off-the-chart dangerous person accusing
the funding propaganda and manipulating
liberal politics with his fortune
absolutely true I did more than 10
minutes you pinhead accumulation couple
hours is absolutely true what I said
okay
propaganda tank manipulating liberal
politics here's a proof Jason Silva seen
get a little pen write this down yeah
okay I think David pinhead he's bringing
back pinhead I don't think he said that
I mean I haven't watched him a long time
but I think he stopped saying that on
his uh Fox show maybe he said it more on
his radio program back in the day
because he found out as an actual
condition because it wasn't actually
it's based on that's someone once told
me a lot of those words are actually
based on old things so they're really
more insulting than he knows wow I had
no idea
no but that's it but I mean even the
Letterman's use it but I just found out
all these things like imbecile
they were all used unless you saw that
documentary about eugenics no but yeah
they all those words were all used by
this idiot to decide that people were
feeble-minded and I don't want to bring
us down though Andy what's the latest
what are you up to these days well I'm
coming here's another chance for you to
avoid seeing me Saturday after
Thanksgiving at Union Hall tickets with
your name on them I I may come back from
Massachusetts early for that well I was
hoping Michael would go but apparently
Michael can't even go to this when I'm
on the Mekong you can take it to the
show never mind you out of your show
yeah daddy's gonna yeah I like to see
his story yeah so that's that's all I
really have going and also thought
spiral what spiral is is charging up the
me in jail this weinstein is our what is
it called a podcast well the way to
support your only you only have one show
scheduled shows on the Saturday after oh
you mean like other shows in the future
regular comic hey wait a second did you
get a new website what that you didn't
get a new website did you know my
website still has for the people who
like the classics my 1997 tour dates I
was gonna say like I'm actually on your
website right now looking at the and it
only goes out like three weeks we can't
we're very busy over here
we can't constantly update my date I
mean what do you think this is let's see
there's a big gap between yeah well
that's because I'm working on I'm
working on my union hall shows now who's
know what's going on
yeah yeah a breakfast thing
things will things will turn around for
me Sam you know that I'm on the majority
report everything's gonna happen for me
your own thoughts spiral toward spiral
and it's just me and Josh Elvis wants on
just two people that's all we do there's
no guest case that helps wait and I
don't you on Twitter I feel like you've
been like calmer lately oh you know why
because I'm on but I'm Prozac and I've
been in a therapy for two years since
that rising finally kicking in know the
prozac kicked in a long time ago
but I'm actually getting better a
healthy more healthy as a human being
like used to be I see something on CNN
on wolf
I watched somebody say something on wolf
and I run to the computer what's this
idiot Mukesh Mukesh McGee from you know
I was just crazed and now I have an
actual life Sam I mean I'm looking at
like your Twitter feed and it seems
completely like completely tame I mean
at one point you like people I like
people
you just you retweeted Eddie Glaude
saying thanks for the great conversation
with four or five other people that you
weren't a part of he was great not fiery
unless you've watched me down flyers
yeah he's really good but I mean he just
all he did was thank other people you
know also is great that breaks it
deepens oh he's so inspiring Bret
Stevens no yeah I ate them from if he's
a guy I hate the New York Times guy oh
yeah you think it yeah I know you're
talking about
yeah Bret Stevens um people don't even
know he's not even on anybody's radar he
said no I love I'm obsessed with the new
conservative voices that are supposed to
be moderate like well the guy at MSNBC
Charlie Sykes or something yeah Charlie
Sykes yeah who you know with all due
respect to him as responsible and
supposedly he owned some of it but he
was very responsible for where the
Republican Party is today yeah yes all
these things now a couple years ago I
don't like the tone you set the tone
right
let's see oh and you did you you bought
I see back in a couple of days ago you
bought a bucket of generic prozac for
three dollars at CVS that's great this
is some of the hilarious tweets I've
replaced does not look like Dennis
Miller has adventures you can tell it
does f benchers right yeah I was a boy
who wanted to have dentures so bad yes
you know I could eat all I want now with
uh and then do commercials for dentures
yeah I mean you know it happens
everybody's gonna get their one point
another I have a fake tooth what a
hilarious Twitter feed I have Sam you're
right yeah this is good stuff Trump is
like Hitler if Trump is like if Hitler
couldn't find Poland on a map I'm proud
of that one there you go laughing in
studio oh I forgot
nobody's you're staying in studio today
no nobody's here today well Andy so
you're gonna be you're gonna be a union
hall is that it where is it yeah where
are you gonna be you're on the road well
I go to Massachusetts for thanks oh
that's right landed out there but maybe
if I'm back in time I'll go we should
socialize those Sam amel where are you
coming in a studio or something or I
would love with your climate in New York
are you gonna be there for a while no
that's the only thing not on
Thanksgiving but I'll make a make a plan
or we'll all do over a road trip to
Denis Miller's newsstand up I'm looking
forward to the new chapter now it would
be great to see what happens after this
well Andy I Love You Man I love you too
thanks so much for coming on and it's
always a good oh well I guess one thing
that we had a problem with Tom sharply I
mean this is good thing what he says
right it's gusting you you said
something very benign in eight hours
I'll be on the majority report
unbelievable maybe I should try sleeping
in between and he go and sharply came
back with I know that in eight hours
something will put me to sleep
unbelievable how far back we go I'm
below that's where it happened watch out
for the people with the knives or those
closest to use
ah Andy Kindler
always a pleasure thanks buddy okay have
a great weekend man love you bye bye
alright folks gonna head into the fun
half of the program wherein we will take
your phone calls and your IMS we'll play
a little more sound just a reminder you
can become a member of this program by
going to join the majority report com
just for pennies a day you can support
this program that has been members
supported now for well 7 years and 364
days so thank you so much to our members
really appreciate it
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority they've been with us since day
one
check out the Michael Brooks show on on
YouTube patreon this week you should
listen to about bowls inaros in
particular because this guy is going to
be a real problem I think for for Latin
America and and really in many ways is
like you know gives an indication of
just how contagious Trump is I think
there's a very strong argument that
segments of Brazil would have rejected
this guy if they thought there wasn't
somebody even you know as ridiculous the
president united states really have
lowered the standards here in this
country also check out the anti fada you
can find that at patreon.com the anti
Fattah and for a real quality plug
there's gonna be a patreon only show
this weekend that's for literary
hangover members come on it's gonna be a
bit casual because the full show is
gonna come the following Saturday mmm
I'm gonna read a poem by Bertolt Brecht
I think very depressing one and talk
about the book called Gotham it's a
history of New York have you heard of
this book it's a giant
it's like 70 hours long and audible Wow
talk a little bit about that but no it
sounds good no it's like the power
broker but for the colonial New York
interesting and you're gonna read the
whole thing yep gonna read the whole 70
hours no no just gonna talk about it
casually a little bit it's gonna be more
relaxed thing for members so I see all
right pontificating on some things fair
enough
I'm in speaking of casual it's casual
Friday you're wearing your shirt that is
stained by your backpack pretty
impressive
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty seeing the fun
half oh we do have a reefer cake song
it's only 90 seconds long let's hear it
it's a diss track of Michael and Ronald
Reagan I think I call you a and
the only thing worse than a
[Music]
Oh
[Music]
[Music]
no no gjqr knows when it is 90 seconds
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
there you go
Wow I think the gauntlets been thrown
down I'm not a hundred percent sure
something's been thrown there something
has been thrown down all right quick
break fun half
[Music]
you
[Music]
it's the fun half ladies and gentlemen
welcome to the fun half hey this is
super fun and we'll get right to the
phones after this you know back in the
day when I was on traditional radio we
would play we would talk about crazy
laws that were proposed by right-wingers
in the state legislature across the
country and I remember criticism from
some people like why you cherry-picking
these guys you know and then then about
five or six years later the law gets
adopted by you know three or four states
or that politician ends up being a
congress person or I don't know the vice
president United States here is so
Washington state representative a guy
named Matt Shay a document that was
associated with him in some way I know
it's a four-page outline some manifesto
sorts I don't know what did he draw this
up or he wrote this and then a local
sheriff found it and it's basically
outlining I guess you could call it a
holy war that this elected state
representative is planning for seeing
here we go here's the report from local
channel NBC 6 in Washington state like
you fight to win so you don't have to
fight again make an offer of peace
before declaring war if they do not
yield kill all the males posit a second
this is from the document God is a
warrior you fight to win so you don't
have to fight again that's actually also
I think Machiavelli said something to
that
fact maybe Sun Tzu to make an offer of
peace before declaring war and if they
do not yield kill all the males kill all
the males those are lines from a
four-page document the Spokane Valley
representative Matt Shay has taken
credit for writing and tonight because
of that document Shaye now finds himself
at the center of a potential FBI
investigation that four-page document
titled biblical basis for war is a
radical Christian call to arms outlining
14 steps for seizing power and what to
do afterwards in explicit detail it
calls for an end to abortions and
same-sex marriage saying everyone must
obey biblical law and if enemies do not
yield quote all males will be killed we
reached out to shave multiple times to
ask about this manifesto contacting him
on Facebook calling his legislative
offices in both Olympia and Spokane
Valley as well as his Spokane law firm
so far he has not returned our calls
but his legislative aide didn't tell us
that our message was being passed along
to representative shade what I'm about
to expose he did however post this video
on Facebook in late October in it Shay
admits to distributing the document but
calls it a summary of a series of
sermons in the Old Testament or a quote
Just War Theory philosophy tell me what
this is this right here is the biblical
basis for war the manifesto which was
only given to a few people close to Shay
was made public by this man it is quite
frankly one of the more horrific things
I've ever read as far as somebody's
agenda I don't believe that this type of
thought process has any business being
in our government and quite frankly I
mean it just goes against the philosophy
of everything that liberty is meant to
be you don't kill people because they
don't subscribe to your religion you
don't advocate for that and I think it's
necessary that people understand the
mindset that they would be voting for if
they voted for Matt shape
uhh there you go folks we're gonna have
in a couple of weeks somebody on to talk
about Mike Pence the guy who literally
wrote the book on Mike Pence and I don't
know if he has done a I got one of those
like the crib sheets what he called
monarch notes of all the reasons why you
can wage war
if you're a Christian theocratic
seems like it might be close failing to
prepare is preparing to fail there you
go
you really got you want to be able to
access that stuff quickly that makes
sense to me that makes a lot more sense
you think about it that way let's go to
the phones call from a to10 area code
who's this where you calling from
good afternoon Sam is Jonathan San
Antonio John from San Antonio how are
you sir I'm good
yeah I'm watching Maddow on tuesday and
she goes into a segment with Kornacki
about house races and as the segment
goes on i realized he's saying almost
the exact same thing i said on the show
a week earlier
the basics are democrats need to slip 23
seats and to have a to 218 217 advantage
it'll give them control of the house I
said there were 18 districts that were
very likely to flip 16 Democratic and to
Republican he had it one race to the
list and when I paused the DVR noticed
it he had the the same races listed on
the big board that I had on my list with
the exception of Katey Porter who's
running in the 45th District of
California against Republican incumbent
Mimi Rogers Porter is endorsed by the
progressive change campaign committee
and supports Medicare for all she's a
law professor and a consumer advocate
and as a protege of Elizabeth Warren CNM
University is currently live polling her
district and has poured her up by two
points with a four hundred ninety nine
already polled but the real difference
between my forecasts and his is that he
says that there are 50 districts outside
at the top
19 where there are toss-up races and I
would put that number at a much smaller
25 races Dave Wasserman of the cook
Political Report put out a tweet on
Sunday where he looked at the analysis
of the 2006 and 2010 wave elections and
saw that the party of the wave held all
of their own lean likely solid districts
150 percent of all 57% of all toss ups
19 percent that leaned towards the
opposition party 9 percent that were
where the opposition party was likely to
win and if those trends continued in
this election
Democrats would pick up 40 seats and
would have a 235 to 200 advantage which
is two seats over the amount that 538 is
currently predicting in their classic
mode most aggregators have at least 18
races as being highly flippable and dims
lead 16 to 2 for a pickup of 14 seats so
they just need nine more seats to take
the house I'm a little concerned that
the Democrats don't have more leads in
pulling in individual House races
considering all the fundamentals that
favor the Democrats the historic
flipping of 30 seats to the opposition
party after 1914 the fact that Trump has
one of the lowest approval ratings of
any modern presidents approaching the
midterms only Truman in 46 when the
Democrats lost 55 seats W Bush in 2006
with the Republicans lost 30 seats
Truman in 50 when Democrats lost 29
seats were lower Trump is at 40%
approval in Gallup 42 and 538 the
generic ballot where Democrats are up by
9.1 not a one on 538 giving all of these
factors Democrats should have leads in
in more individual House races the range
of these seats Democrats are predicted
to win go from 226 to 235
I definitely think Democrats will take
the house but considering the fact that
the mail-in ballots will be in the
filing tallies and six races will have a
factor in the tallies and six races in
California and in the eighth District of
Washington I think
is about a 30% chance that if the
Democrats flipped the house it won't
happen until about a month afterwards
you know because we just won't know on
the day after the election because of
the mail-in ballots do you have any
comments or questions and also if you
have time I can give you some some news
on the Senate races and some governor's
races yeah I want to hear about the
Senate and governor races but let me ask
you this there's there there's two
things one I share your concern about
that like why and the the second sort of
tranche of races right like there's the
first tranche where the Democrats have
opened up a certain leads and those tend
to be if I'm not mistaken ones where
you're looking at like you know
so-called moderate Republicans right
we're talking about like maybe maybe the
you know the the people who've been
disaffected by Trump how would you
characterize is that accurate and how
would you characterize the other tranche
in terms of those districts hmm it's
hard to say I mean a lot of them
actually had people retire you know I
mean a lot of them did those those that
are retired those are retired tend to be
more moderate Republicans right not
necessarily like July so retired I mean
yeah some of them did retire feeling
house and was you know fairly moderate I
mean if you can call any Republican
moderates like Leonard Lance which is
which is in a lower tranche within the
the the 26 he's like one of the most
moderate that's in the seventh District
of New Jersey and they just did a Siena
poll that was you know they had to live
polling in New York so he was down by 7
so that was one of the best results from
the recent live polling
you know I mean but there's just a ton
of races you know they're blue state oh
that's way lose state all right so let's
put it this way
you know like Clinton districts what how
would you address the other tranche of
people of races like the young ages yeah
I mean there's like six out of the top
twenty four that are actually states
that Trump want
I mean districts did Trump won like
Iowa's first district I mean the guy rod
Blum he's just he's just real
conservative and Iowa is just trending
towards Democrats I mean New Jersey
second district Franklin Biondo just
decided not to run the two people in
Pennsylvania decided not to run Ryan
Costello and forgot the other guy's name
but they were redistricting they knew
they couldn't win in the 17th district
it just became more more democratic
Arizona's second district data and fit
stats and Kirkpatrick who's been a
congresswoman before I mean a lot of it
is just a trend that has continued from
the special elections which has been
about a a you know 11 to 12 point swing
and also there's been some recent
polling where they're just pulling all
the top 70 districts and if you look at
you know from the 2016 election there
was all of those districts in
head-to-head you know a Republican
versus Democrat not not Clinton Trump
districts they led by 15 now Democrats
lead by four so that's a 19 point
turnaround so that's why I'm so
confident that we're gonna win in these
districts another one is this guy at
Kansas third district Kevin Yoder he's
just losing badly to Charisse David's
I'm being consistently losing by 10
points the two in Minnesota I think I
mentioned before third districts I mean
those okay all right so
I'm sold the Senate and governor races
what do you think where are you on the
chances of the Democrats picking up the
Senate well I feel still think it's
really really slim but it's getting
better I mean because you know as we're
getting closer to election day you're
having better results from from from
basically almost every state except for
Florida and there's very is a very
slight difference so you see better
results in Indiana where Donnelly has
had had some leads just recently within
the last few days better results from
McCaskill and in Missouri better results
from from Jackie Rosen the last few
polls have been plus three leads over
Heller and also I think that you know
finally we're starting to see polls that
reflect all this craziness that happened
last week you know because obviously
there's a lag period and I think that's
what's happening is Tennessee's out of
reach you know yeah I think it is I mean
but I mean it's I don't know I mean it's
it's it is improving you know I try to
put two different you know a two-week
window and a four-week window so they
are have improved to six points on the
two-week window but it's still I mean
it's still down six points you know - I
mean Bay those last two polls have just
been four and three so things are
looking looking good I mean Digby was
saying that Trump actually hurts Cruz I
mean I think that's right I think what
hurt him more is all the bad publicity
from last week but yeah I mean this so
we're winded if the Democrats are to win
the Senate what's going to be the race
that's going to do it right they're
gonna lose height camps race right yeah
yeah they're gonna even though there's
one poll with under ten but I mean yeah
they're still gonna lose that very
likely you know she does have a lot of
money to throw out and now with the
Green candidate dropping out or I should
say endorsing christen cinema Arizona
yeah I mean it
if they win the Senate it's going to be
because they won Arizona they win Nevada
they win Texas and if we're one jacket
right no no you you have to hold note
they win all three of those and they
hold Missouri and they hold Indiana and
they hold a Florida yeah that'll take
them they'll take the Democrats to 51 so
- so all you need is - if you drop all
you need is - if you drop North Dakota
well now you need three that's what I'm
saying so where do we have Arizona
Nevada Oh in Texas okay right okay all
right so I see what you're saying so I
mean that's the way it will work I mean
if it if it happens that's what's gonna
happen it's really basically about Texas
isn't it yeah I think so I mean I mean
I'm just hoping that you know as an
election day cloak gets closer they'll
still be some closer polls I mean
because there's still a poll that came
out that it had you know Cruz winning by
10 points it's not a great poll some of
the other ones are better but yeah I
mean just just if that trend can
continue where he's continually getting
closer I'll have a lot more hope I mean
again I said this about six months ago
you know technically Mississippi with
with the dad Cochran going out you know
that you have to hit 50% and so if all
the things go right you know they will
Rd Democrats already win but even if
they have 50 49 and you know like I said
Chris McDaniel and Cindy hyde-smith of
the Republicans that are gonna split the
votes and so there will be a runoff very
likely on November 27th in three weeks
after the election and that will
determine who wins the Senate
unfortunately Cindy hyde-smith is up by
14 over Mike St when that does happen
and so that's everybody's probably going
to be talking about it but the actual
odds of
Kratz winning are going to be extremely
small in Mississippi so it's gonna
happen it's probably gonna happen you
know on election night or you know a day
or two afterwards if we have some close
races that have to be counted all right
John same thing is gonna happen okay
we will talk to you on that election
night all right sounds good
thanks Mike looking forward to it all
right bye-bye thank you bye
what is this verb or Shep's nein
so um Seema Verma who's the what is it
what does her position do you know it's
really mr. she had this tweet about the
scariest Halloween costume and then she
got to Iran Sinclair's
bottom line with Boris commentary to
like sort of talk about it yeah now she
is an official at the Health and Human
Services right or what is CMS is the I
think that's Centre for oh I'm sorry
she's Health and Human Services but she
is at the center she is current
administrator of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services
she is the government basically official
of Medicare Medicaid on Halloween she
posted a tweet this is the scariest
Halloween costume goes to and it's a guy
wearing a t-shirt medicare-for-all I
mean just contemplate the hostility that
she has towards her own program stunning
and so she gets a visit to borscht
Epstein on the Sinclair media empire
borscht Epstein I wonder if she is to
Medicare and Medicaid like borscht
Epstein is to broadcasting I will say
one of the few people who I think is
worse at this than May poorest Epstein
and so I hope he never goes away in some
ways
medicare-for-all has become a popular
slogan for many Democrats on the
campaign trail I spoke to the
administrator of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services Seema
Varma about whether Medicare for all is
a feasible notion here's what she told
me well as a head of the program I deal
with Medicare program day in and day out
and I can tell you that there are a lot
of problems in the Medicare program so
Medicare for all is simply a bad idea
what we need to do is focus on
strengthening the program you try to
expand it that's gonna really threaten
the program for the people that it's
supposed to serve you know we've heard
about the price tag on this some thirty
two trillion dollars it's not something
that our country could afford and I
think it would really threaten the
solvency of the program another area is
fraud and abuse people talk about how
Medicare has low administrative costs
well that's because we're not doing a
great job on fraud and abuse we only
review half a percent of all the claims
that are out there so you know I think
what we want to do is strengthen the
program make it work better for seniors
not trying to dilute its focus here's
the bottom line
the slogan Medicare for all may be
useful to Democrats looking to fire up
their base but it is an absolutely
unrealistic idea single-payer health
care would cost way too much and would
actually hurt American people throughout
the country there you go so first off
shoot the lie that Medicare will be
somehow diluted if more healthier people
enter the risk pool is absurd in fact
there's every reason to believe that
people will have more opportunities to
see more doctors if you're in Medicare
now versus versus a program of Medicare
for all because virtually all doctors
would be within the program and prices
would come down is there Medicare fraud
of course there is there's also
insurance fraud heck
one of the biggest Medicare fraud stirs
is running for governor
of Florida but it's true administrative
costs are incredibly small we didn't
making it a universal program sort of
eat into that whole fraud part of it
though like I mean I you would
presumably there would give more
opportunity to those people who are
committing fraud against insurance
companies now would would still commit
fraud they would just find it through a
different Medicare it's conceivable that
the quality of the policies you put in
place to fight fraud would get more
robust because it wouldn't be so
Byzantine with two different systems but
the idea that that fraud with Medicare
is a problem with the Medicare as
opposed to the criminals is just bizarre
there's health insurance fraud in the
private industry Medicare I think the
big number that they throw around was
like two hundred and fifty billion
dollars I'm not sure about that but
that's off the top of my head
but even still that's that's not
necessarily a huge number relative to
the fraud in the private health
insurance industry her place seems to be
towards seniors to galvanize them to say
hey if we give this to everyone you're
getting less of this pie and it's going
to compromise your health care yeah
colonise the most consistent voters that
that's what that's what the the
administration has been pushing and it's
it's fascinating to me that they are
this afraid of it
she had a follow-up tweet after that
Halloween one where she said did I get
your attention
good Medicare for all isn't a joke it's
a multi trillion-dollar draining on the
American economy and that will bankrupt
future generations it's government
controlled health care that will strip
choice away from millions it's a bad
idea and it is scary and of course we've
already talked about that thirty two
trillion dollar number actually
represents a two trillion dollar savings
that for the American people that's
right
that's right overall but they're they're
worried about it let's go back to the
phones you call him from a 607 area code
who's this where he come from
Oh clays calling from Athens across the
water from Cairo you know I was calling
up first of all I'm a physician and and
I won't call I talk about something else
but you know the relevant statistics on
you know the fraud and and all that is
30% of all medical costs in America or
paperwork and that paperwork is largely
devoted to denying patients coverage for
visitor that or denying reimbursement
for doctors and and doctor and you know
they've always tried to improve Medicare
by you know cutting reimbursements to
doctors and and of course also the other
relevant statistic is the third leading
cause of death in America is medical
mistakes and that and that that happens
nowhere else in the in the English
civilized world or at least the Western
world and what is the function of what
is that a function of what uh what's the
what are we talking about the thing I
liked last mentioned yeah like what why
is it that there is there is more that
that the cause of death is actually
being let's say in hospitals higher than
other Western countries
well because doctors are you know
doctors are no longer in private
practice were you know my wife and I are
a dying breed they're you know they're
treated like McDonald's employees they
have to see X number of patients think
they really encourage to maximize
Billings and do this this this test or
refer somebody to another doctor and
you know this diffusion of
responsibility with you you don't
recognize the patient when you walk in
the room with them you spend you know
five to six seven minutes with them
while you're staring at a screen filling
in filling in blank so you can
facilitate building and then you send
them off to some other specialist who
you know may or may not assume correctly
how you've worked up this patient and
you neglected or relevant tests or or
you know not looked at the obvious
diagnosis so just just just just fumble
this fumbles and and and trying to and
going through the motion fumbles and
going through the motions that's what
that's the way I'd characterize what we
think talk to you about example in any
case I was I was I wanted to talk to you
I was the phone call was motivated
I thought Digby was a lawyer up until
the point where she said she wasn't a
lawyer and I was you know and a couple
of things I want to talk to you about
either your choice originalism or
fashion and what's your what's your
inclination
well my inclination is always to talk
about
originalism in these situations but
happy to talk about fashion as well
whichever one you want
well we're starting this if mat I
believe if he could please look up the
Wikipedia article on the on the ninth
amendment and then I'll they were
motivated this is a do you remember a
kill me Tom are the Sterling professor
of law or something like that
he's a yale law professor he testified
at the Cavanaugh hearings he said how he
wrote a letter of recommendation for
Cavanaugh because they were both
original and he was the distinction was
he was a liberal
whereas Cavanaugh was a conservative but
they were both they were both
originalist
and you know then he withdrew it I think
equal time right can you do it while he
was part
well he was on again on NPR on on point
and he was and he was saying the same
thing where he says you know that what
all that matters is in interpretation of
the the the law is history plus plus the
text text in the text is the text and
this you know gets back to in when you
have logic you know if you're you know
making an argument and you don't defer
to logic or reason you know you violate
the laws of reason in reaching the
conclusion that sophistry and in law you
know it's the same idea any
interpretation of the law that doesn't
refer to you know ethics defer to
fairness reason its Pharisee ism right
so but in any case read the reads it's
one sentence the Ninth Amendment read it
it was it I have to top my head it's
about rights that are and any rights
that are not or I'll read it the
enumeration in the constitution of
certain rights shall not be construed to
deny or disparage others retained by the
people that is right you know what
that's interpreted by some as being like
right rights that are specifically of
the state I mean so the idea is that
just because the Constitution addresses
certain rights does not mean that that
it is exhaustive in its list of rights
that people have right and you know
should not be designed to deny or
denigrate that right so and in keeping
with and I mentioned the Declaration of
Independence in this context they're not
just exclusively were referencing the
Constitution because we'll we'll proceed
to next but the idea any you know in
terms of enlightenment ethics any
behavior that is not unethical is a
like that's the whole idea of freedom
and pursuit of happiness and everything
else that's generated in it now Google
Mountain now straight down I don't know
if that's accurate though I mean I don't
know that that's necessarily accurate
you know like yeah I I mean I I think it
is I I think it is I mean it was it that
was a listen if I I mean I think it is
but you can you can argue differently
but in any case Bruegel down or search
down for scalia missing comment upon
upon that
well okay so well let's get to the point
the point is is any any interpretation
of law of whether it's unconstitutional
or not is it's based upon the principles
the Enlightenment ideals ethics upon
which the Revolutionary War was was was
thought as elucidated by the Declaration
of Independence but look at Julia's
characterization of that that that quote
he says that he says just because it
says we can't denigrate or abrogate
those those laws it doesn't mean we
can't it's it's it's it's it's totally
opposite interpretation of any any
reasonable interpretation do you find
the Scalia reference in the article no I
can't I can't you know if you're going
to assign me reading you're gonna have
to do so in advance I can't right now go
and find the article did leave the
articles that you're talking about oh I
thought of course there's a much easier
way to make this argument it's like you
don't know like the original text it's
absurd because the idea that a
constitution yes in general in general
and in particular I agree with you it's
absurd but the point of it is is that
it's Pharisee ISM instead of deferring
to two ideas of fairness and reason and
justice you defer to this ideological
mode of analysis you know which is as
you say a Shibboleth imaginary but in
general it's instead of instead of
basing your argument on the rules of
logic you base it on you know some sort
of conservative ideologue ideology
what's also it's also like it's there we
see this all the time that it's
interpreted right like the idea that
there's no interpretation that goes into
the Constitution is absurd the idea that
these guys can divine the the intent I
mean the Constitution is well written
and generally I I agree I agree with you
it's internally inconsistent and it's
externally inconsistent you know it is
not it is not the idea that you're going
to base a law interpretive law right I
gotta get a jump you're right we're in
agreement we're in agreement
I this we're in agreement originalism is
it's basically it's it's a it's a it's a
fundamentalism and it has as much as
much monopoly on the truth as religious
fundamentalism does and no one would
design a constitution that has that
level of rigidity if they wanted it to
be durable it's just absurd I mean and
these are also the same people who you
know the the originalism like the
original I click Excellus there's Texas
who think that they can divide
you know but we'll still say there's a
right to bear arms even if there's not a
rail will a well-regulated militia or
you know originalist
who try to divine there's a reason why
it's called divine the original intent
it is there's a modality of thought that
is similar to liberal libertarianism
where it's like there is some truth that
is out there and we're just gonna find
you know the best example I could use
when we were talking to what's-his-name
the the guy we just replayed Walter
block when it was like wait a second
your property rights if property rights
are Murali's why don't we respect the
property rights if they proceed if
they're natural right how do you justify
us living on land that would have been
under your notion of property rights
belonged to the Native Americans well
we're gonna start with the concept of
property that the French had when we
landed here wait what
that's not those aren't natural rights
in that instance you're just deciding
when we're gonna start to pay attention
to certain man-made constructs
arbitrarily based upon what ends up
putting you in the driver's seat and
that's what originalism is as well it is
a completely arbitrary pronouncement
that oh I have access to the original
intent and so we need it it's the
original intent I don't have to argue
yeah it's fundamentalism shifted from
the Bible to the Constitution yeah it is
it's a belief system yeah there's a good
quote in a m+ one piece that I like
which is the Constitution governs not
because it's intrinsically good true or
beautiful it isn't it governs because it
is an institution in the form of a
document in which we the people agree
would no it would not evolved for Scalia
having a rock is a lot better than not
having
and that's the original ISM yeah III
mean I think at the end of the day it's
like you know what what the institution
determines it's going to mean it at any
given point and the idea of legal
thought is to basically provide the best
metaphor I can give you is like you have
a spine and doctors say that if you take
a an x-ray of most people's spines they
are all structurally damaged on some
level but what's important is the
functional strength the muscular the
muscles you have around your back around
your spine throughout your body sort of
hold it in place and in many ways like
legal fought is an legal convention is
designed to maintain the integrity of
the structure and that's why I like when
you see the Supreme Court do stuff like
they did in 2000 where it's like what
you're starting to see like the
functionality the functional strength
breakdown and it starts to uncover some
of the weakness that exists structurally
the Constitution is not like you don't
go to it and get all the answers from
the Constitution that's why you have a
body of judges who interpret it and why
they have the ability to disagree is
because it's not an Oracle that just you
drop your question in a bucket it goes
down to the bottom of a well and the
answer comes up in you know somebody
down there puts their answer in a bucket
and it comes back up why did we move
away from the Oracle method I mean I
don't know that we have it's just that
we went to one that's a little bit more
ideological call from a six one five
area code who's this where he come from
I Sam this is Matthew I'm calling from
Nashville hello Matthew what's on your
mind
well gearing up to do a couple more
door-knocking sessions for Phil Bredesen
here for the vote comes in and God first
thing you see whenever you wake up this
morning is a new ad of his where he's
you know something his chest about how
he's heat whenever George Bush called on
him to send troops to the border in 2006
he didn't wait to ask question he was
right there and you know obviously this
guy is better than Marcia Blackburn
there's no question about that but just
kind of wondering about what your
thought is on maybe the attack we should
take with bredesen it should he get in
to office or more generally you know
it's kind of a mansion situation you
know right okay we're going to get
judges and whatnot but you know this
guy's a healthcare executive that's how
he made his fortune he's not going to be
somebody that's going to be up there
stumping for Medicare for all you know
I'm not gonna let the perfect be the
enemy of the good but I guess overall
what I hope is a story that comes out of
this election is that you know having
built some of these structures I did you
know I'm I didn't vote in the 2016
election I uh I didn't think it really
mattered I was in Tennessee it's gonna
go for Trump but it's like maybe we can
build some structures to hold some of
these people accountable if we can get
Bredesen in you know I know how bob
Corker is gonna react when I call him
right with constituent concerns but you
know at least with bredesen there will
be some accountability there and so I
just you know I want to encourage
everybody to go out there even if it is
a mansion or a bredesen because like the
slide to fascism is real and god god
help us if we don't win something next
week right I mean the idea where the
bredesen is really just you want to stop
Trump for the next two years and then
you are hoping to get more Democratic
pickups
who can provide more progressive ballast
I mean that's basically it right like it
you know Bredesen only is you know
empowered when Democrats have 50 or 51
or 52 or up to 60 you know
seats right and he's gonna be a problem
but it's like you know what's the option
I don't want to go any other thing you
know people understand this
intrinsically you know you're you're
being chased by you know the bad guys
and you come to a cliff and there's a
ravine you know a deep ravine and
there's a rickety bridge that you got to
go across you got one or two choices
you know you take the bridge yep so
appreciate get out there canvas and you
know one last thing is if we can you
know here in Tennessee we have not
expanded Medicaid or Medicare and we can
make a real difference in people's lives
so please anyone who's listening get out
there and vote and thanks for the show
guys left his best Thank You Man
Michael's very antagonistic to the
callers bye-bye he certainly is that's
why we put them put them put him on the
bench today call come from a 2:03 area
code who's this dan this is Jay Jay Jay
from Connecticut ain't meant well
yeah I usually say from New Haven Jay
loser right okay hey sorry but I was
really to answer your phone but I say it
was really tickled to hear you know you
are notching or eight years of
continuous podcasting today or tomorrow
it seems like it was much longer frankly
but I mean I don't I mean that in a good
way
but a lot a lot has really changed in
these in this in this past eight years I
remember when I was always trying to
help you find a position on radio back
then how that seems so quaint no yes
look at how things turned out initially
I was hoping that this show could get
picked up on radio and in longtime
listeners will remember in 20 2013 or
Fort maybe was the summer of 2014 I got
offered a three to six position on radio
by a guy whose name I will not say Ron
heart bomb and the guy who wasn't gonna
pay you well initially the deal was this
you're not going to get paid for 90 days
we're partners you're not gonna get paid
for 90 days but we've got ads coming in
and then you know about 30 days into it
he said so the show is sustainable we
can definitely continue to do this but
you will not get paid until January and
it was like June what he told me this
and I'm working I'm doing this show and
then I'm gone
I'm like running literally running like
about ten blocks north to go into a
studio and do three hours of radio and
then going home you know completely
fried I I was getting into it I enjoyed
it but there was no way I was gonna do
it for six months of no pay not even
back pay this was not a deferral
situation and I go this is not
sustainable and it and he was like oh no
it's sustainable we can we can continue
to do this and I said that's because
you're not paying me and not doing it
and and so I I said I'm gonna have to go
off and then basically he told all of
the affiliates that I had gone crazy
they basically beige yeah and I called a
lot of my investments at that time to I
no offense oh and is that I instead
but I'm surprised you're not playing the
greatest hits oh I guess Matt wouldn't
know where to look for stuff but a
greatest history of bloopers or
something they were hoping that someone
would put them together J yeah
yeah that must be where Michael is
today's at-home editing now I didn't
know I didn't even realize it was our
birthday until I came in and Kyle had
texted me my favorite bit was when the
one-year guys called in to protect
pretended to be Chris Rose and that I
think Howard Kyle staying pal yeah that
was very quick Oh Kyle did that yep and
the best was when we had with Chris
Rosen come on with his impersonator and
Rosen thought it was him being played
back to him he didn't realize it was an
impersonation yeah that's what Howard
Stern does to tan mom I think that's
what he probably stole the idea from you
yeah probably now that I think of it
well yeah J it's been great making a
stroll down memory lane yeah
thanks for the call buddy have a great
weekend
you too bye-bye let's go to four seven
eight area code who's this where you
come from
Sam this is Jefferson Georgia Georgia
all the greatest hits today yeah man oh
hey I was not aware that collars could
just just call you up and tell you to do
their bidding I got completely
hoodwinked that was like okay wait wait
wait wait I got to go down and I'm
supposed to be doing research for your
point here no no I mean I thought that
that was the thing though I mean I was
gonna tell you this I'm gonna be in
Brooklyn on February 1st to see Michael
so so if you're looking for an excuse
not to meet neither you're gonna need to
start thinking some real good like right
now well I definitely won't be there
I definitely will not be there but I
would hopefully you will you will come
into studio but I have to say this now
look the other day was Halloween I'm
sure if you were aware that Jeff and
during that we had some mishap in the
fun half of the program well you don't
say well you know look you're dealing
with a lot of electrical wires in a
studio like this a lot of cables and
something happened and then for a moment
and fortunately you know there I don't
want to get to the back story of this
but there was there was a remedy for
this but the show turned into something
that was completely different and we got
a phone call during the course of that
show when that was ostensibly from me
now I want to tell everybody that was
not me who called in and I think you
know people who paid a lot of attention
could tell that was not me but that was
I don't know in real time if it was the
funniest part of the show there were
other flirty parts of the show that that
call was very funny the funniest part of
the show came from somebody who felt
that they were being mocked by the show
who thought that the show all right well
that's not being so obtuse so we did a
fake version of the show you know a fake
version of show I hate it hate to break
it down to people and and I played sort
of a sidekick to Michael's a version of
a of a show of I wouldn't call it the
dum-dum left I was called the dum-dums
and in one of the I wasn't aware of the
show I didn't realize it existed until
somebody I got caught up in a Twitter
argument about it and for people who
don't know you called in and did an
impression of me and the only downside
is it sort of sat on the joke where my
character was going to make fun of me in
some fashion but the
the some other some other show thought
it was real and that Michael got very
uncomfortable when I was being made fun
of which shows a fundamental of
fundamental lack of understanding about
what happens on the show there was
nothing that Michael would want more
than to entertain a call making fun of
me but he was trying to be in character
and apparently ushered it off but this
guy thought do you have the video I
can't remember the name of this the show
the video has been delisted the last no
did someone grab it son of a gun that is
so upsetting that is so upsetting so
this guy what's the name of him what's
the rest of soapbox I believe
okay so progressive soapbox the
apparently this guy thought it was real
and didn't occur to him like why is
Michael wearing a fedora why is he
wearing glasses for the first time ever
and why is Sam and I don't think he knew
it was me or maybe he did why is Sam in
a closet with a light shining on his
face not wearing his glasses and he
thought that I had signaled did he think
that I sing or did he even know who I
was I mean and the whole thing is making
fun of how dumb they are somebody keeps
trying to call me here how dumb they are
hello did I accidentally answer that
phone who's this no you have the wrong
number you gotta stop calling this
number please oh sorry about that okay
thank you now I don't know if I'm still
connected with with Jeff and Jeff I
think that would have been for me but so
I'm gonna tell the story Jeff if I'm not
there anymore I apologize it kept
getting called by this person and
they ruined the call and although I can
resume that call he's still there Jeff
Jeff he's still there hey hey sorry
about that
instead I'm still here so the guy who we
were not necessarily making fun of him
but making fun of people who are dumb
and have a youtube show did not realize
the whole thing was a parody I mean yeah
I'm still an absolute shot and people do
not realize that that was beat it your
voice was very different but the idea
that somehow we were upset by this by
that call was hilarious and I guess the
guys they listed the video but it sort
of proved our point in and in our way
like you know the idea there is that is
exactly what I was thinking actually
because you know like when you do a
parody of these people of course like
the the only thing that they're going to
latch onto is of course like it you know
if you if you do the parity in the
parody right like they don't get
it they're like oh look he's calling in
and he's making fun of the fact that sam
says vote blue no matter who not dude I
love social security Sodus Sam
yeah Republicans are gonna kill it like
what the are you talking about this
is all a joke man and there's total
obtuseness of this guy federal a he just
did not understand was then and
literally as comments to film people
saying exactly this it was so how do you
like the show I take the video down I
mean it just goes to prove our point
they don't even do the slightest bit of
homework not even the slightest bit by
Jeff I appreciate the call sorry I get a
jump but I appreciate you had in a happy
birthday to you to report thanks Jeff
alright folks I'm sorry we're really
behind the gun I'm gonna have time for
one more phone call Oh somebody sent the
oh great somebody actually did pull
the video maybe we will make fun of that
later but all right let's take a couple
IMS and I'll take one more column that
we got to get going
astha Congo I'm at work now not seeing
the show live but I just wanted to write
in to thank Jamie for constantly
reminding us that another world is
possible as someone who has suffered
from severe depression anxiety is really
only through remembering the fact that I
can get out of bed in the morning I have
been listening to the show going up for
years and I have to say this is the best
crew yet thanks to all of you
solidarity Jamie thank you old school
new rules
please get O'Reilly ah-oh on the sound
board yeah let's pull that secret
identity politics Dennis Miller trying
to explain his conversion of
conservatism took about as long as it
took to Nero to die at the end of heat
bah-bah-bah spoiler for heat it's not
very good indeed we span remember when
meth out guy made Alex Jones
uncomfortable at the bar with Milo
trying to sell them on Infowars music
well unfortunately I can't accost you in
a bar while hopped up on amphetamines
but I do want to say majority report
music is going strong also I'm from
Spokane where Matt Shay is and he is
such a joke even our Republican Sheriff
turned on him as the mom's left his best
space and a armed individual in the high
school behind my house in Aurora
Colorado district 6 may have small
impact here despite a lot of early voted
gosh hold on one second
dumpster fire are we stuck with Trump is
a big part of our politics until he dies
we're stuck with Trump even if he passes
away folks
this is not going to go away I'm afraid
sizzle chest the collar is a snooze
producer Lauren I understand dennis
prager on the same talk rat network as
Hugh Hewitt and noted Messianic Jew
Michael Medved and doesn't Joe Piscopo
proceed hewitt on New York radio very
well may JJ cool hey Sam it's good to
see your face looking back to normal
today do you have a Jeb Bush Cup though
is there a confession you'd like to make
not in color there's a reason why Gilman
jealous were 10 points down and their
primary polls do prior
the vote but ended up winning their
races everyone should keep in mind that
most polling uses a likely vote oma
voter mom'll model campaigns that excite
new large blocks of constituents do not
fit neatly into the typical polling
models you may be right you may be right
but you may be right James O'Keefe I got
I got paid volunteers to mimic okay Oh
queef all right yeah yeah left the
master hey Sam sorry about the language
of the day been in my defense the words
smacking can be heard on TC and
PG by the way I don't understand it
yeah Yemeni villain out cam has seen got
eight family members to vote Gilliam to
this show has really inspired me to do
my part good for you thank you three
more great leap forward midterms I have
real concerns everyone's touting massive
early voting I see nothing other than
Republican advantage I can't see Florida
going for Gilliam based on early voting
as with Georgia we'll see I mean I
there's some truth to that
early voting we just don't know though
folks I'm sorry we don't have time for
any more calls I'm sorry we're doing a
pre-taped and I would just don't have
the time
DX fault you know I thought Andy was
funnier and Wilder on Stephanie Miller's
happy our podcast but that's my opinion
bok-bok-bok vote for Victoria Jackson
and the final I am of the week
[Music]
if the Democrats don't win the Senate is
there any value in it being 50 finis and
50 enforcing pence to vote on everything
every little bit helps all right folks
see you Monday in thats it goes through
that guy to get
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid before
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
