it is clear that the Republicans are
afraid of Medicare for all not just
there they're not afraid I mean of
course they're afraid of it as a a
policy prescription but it has
incredible salience as a political issue
right Donald Trump gets out there writes
an op-ed full of lies
here's Paul Ryan getting up in front of
the National Press Club I guess this was
yesterday also delivering out the lies
and I have to say that like I want you
to be very careful as I mean listen
carefully to how Paul Ryan juxtaposes
these sentences like he is playing off
the ignorance that is not only in the
Republican Party but frankly across the
electorate as to what Medicare is you
know we we've heard those stories where
Republicans are saying you know get the
government off of my hands off of my
Medicare and this is more of that in
many respects and it is incumbent upon
all of us in media outlets and and to
explain that governments not hands are
not only all over Medicare government
its entire body is all over Medicare it
actually emanated from government your
communion with government indeed and
here is uh Paul Ryan lying in practicing
you know how Republicans you can try and
push back on the idea of Medicare for
all they now call it Medicare for all
because it sounds good but in reality it
actually ends Medicare in its current
form posit now Paul Ryan years ago came
out with a proposal to privatize
Medicare and
Democrats push back by saying it's not
Medicare and Paul Ryan says no I call it
Medicare and the press also sort of
bought well he does call it Medicare it
is Medicare it's just changing it and
people were like well but the essence of
Medicare is that it is government
provided health insurance and if you
privatize it it is no longer that so it
is not Medicare in its present form it
is expanded Medicare I mean this is why
like you know when you know there is
value in in sort of the the way you
present this stuff like Medicare for all
could just be Medicare Part A let's say
we're gonna call it Medicare Part A
Medicare for all I mean just so that he
can't do these rhetorical tricks because
people frankly are not savvy about this
q my book blame the electorate but I
continue with the Paul Ryan it ends
private insurance all together all right
so he juxtaposes it's not Medicare as we
know it it ends private insurance as we
have all together implying that Medicare
is private insurance now there is there
is a component of Medicare which is
private insurance that is the Medicare
Advantage program and that was shrunk
for the from the ACA because they were
getting overpaid but the service is
delivered we're not shrunk and Medicare
for all incidentally it's very unlikely
that it would end all private insurance
there could conceivably be private
insurance that is issued in as a
supplement to Medicare for all certainly
we have that in places like France and
just about every place that has a
medicare for all type program a
single-payer there is a supplemental
private insurance if people want that
wealthy folk it's called Bupa in the UK
apparently Bupa I'm not sure what stands
for the British something okay but so so
but again Medicare for all resolves a
lot of the issues
the almost the idea of medicare-for-all
is to get rid of private insurance but
correct it ends private insurance all
together including for the roughly 180
million people who count on health
insurance coverage through their
employer everyone no matter how much you
like your plan would have their plan
take it away
instead you will be put into a
government-run plan where you have no
say in the cost or in the coverage posit
oh well you do have a say in the cost
insofar as it won't cost you anything
now you could theoretically say I want
it to cost more but that would be very
atypical of an individual and in terms
of the plan there is no plan there's
you're not there's no plan insofar as
you're not limited you get to see all
doctors because they all take Medicare
because what else are they going to do
continue Obamacare meant fewer choices
Medicare for all means no choices no
competition posit that's right
you won't have to make any choices it
will all you'll just be able to do what
you want to do in terms of seeing your
doctor Obamacare limited choices because
it's based on the private insurance how
much do you get charged for this that's
a good question
a nonpartisan study found that a spas
it's a great question because you won't
know what you're gonna get charged for
it because you're gonna get it zero is
the answer you'll be charged zero maybe
there will always be like a copay like a
$20 copay I think when I was in
Australia visiting Australia 20 30 years
ago they had a similar style program and
I'd go see a doctor
and I have to pay like 12 bucks I wasn't
a citizen I was just going in to see the
doctor nonpartisan study found that a
single-payer program like this would
cost the government a whopping thirty
two point six trillion dollars over the
next ten years just to put the
price tag of this idea in perspective
posit let me let me put it in
perspective for you
the Mercatus study that he's referring
to Marcus thirty two point six trillion
dollars over the next ten years I will
be able to put that into perspective for
you that is two trillion dollars less
then that study says we will as a nation
spend on health care if we don't go to a
single-payer thing so it's it's just it
is almost like eight percent less we'll
have eight percent savings on what the
national cost the not the nation as a
whole private and public sectors will
expend on health care so it's a it's an
eight percent savings how's that for a
perspective we could double all federal
taxes yours mine families businesses
everyone's taxes and still not be able
to pay for this the only way you could
control cost would be to ration care and
restrict access to doctors and
treatments all of these decisions would
be made in Washington of course this is
absurd whatwhat does that mean ration
care in this context the care is there
that's not there's not there's nowhere
else to go you're not saving it for
anybody else does he think that care
isn't rationed now by the market care is
of course rationed now and what he's
talking about is you're going to
actually buy rationing it means like the
doctors may not get paid as much get
plus the costs would go down because
when you have one payer right the
government they can say they can tell
the drug companies to charge less than
they don't have a choice like Deal or No
Deal the ration the the rationing is
first of all I think he's he's lying
about the double the federal taxes I
think if you double federal taxes I
think we pull in about three
point five trillion dollars annually
somewhere around there and I think
people can do the math 10 times 3.5 is
actually 35 trillion dollars now of
course people will be saving more
because they expend that in terms of
private care but that doesn't even
imagine like the increase in
productivity that we would get under a
single pair I mean I don't know how many
hours a week a month
does someone spend on dealing with their
health care it four five six hours a
month maybe more what about all these
the doctors and all the paperwork I mean
the anxiety to anxiety but there's a
Paul Ryan they are nervous about the the
not only the policy of Medicare for all
but they are nervous it is a winner for
Democrats and that is why I would
imagine I don't know this for a fact but
anecdotally I think probably a majority
of Democrats running for office now are
are embracing Medicare for all what what
that means individually to each one of
them I don't know but that is a nice
starting point for this election well in
the lead-in to the Trump call on Fox and
Friends yesterday I think one of the Fox
and Friends said that it was the number
one issue basically everywhere health
care is is the issue that everybody
seems to be running on finally and this
is so much better than the ACA was
because some of those Republican attacks
on the ACA stuck they were valid it was
still really expensive to get health
care in the marketplace and it didn't
cover a lot like I didn't like my plan
that I could only afford because full
disclosure my parents were helping me
pay for it that I was forced to buy like
it sucked so like you can't make those
attacks on Medicare for all it's so
simple and it's so clear they're they're
I think extremely nervous
of something like that being rolled out
