[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam it
is Monday December 31st 2018 my name is
Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today folks
it's one of our best dubs as we continue
our vacation 2018 this is a great one
fascinating story with Professor
annalisa Cox America's forgotten black
pioneers in the struggle for equality
fascinating story of a forgotten piece
of history that shows that when you hear
I mean you probably know this but the
racist the racist tropes of black people
under performing in society which which
you know supposedly is the basis of much
of the racism that we hear well here's a
story of black people over performing in
society that also spurred white racism I
know surprise surprise but it is a
fascinating story
that it's important for all of us to
know and then following that Matt's
picks special compilation of some of the
fun hat stuff so that you can all get a
taste of it and folks just want to say
obviously it's New Year's Eve day New
Year's Eve day and I can't on behalf of
everybody on the crew and frankly on
behalf of you know the listeners too
because you know the the thing about our
audience is not only do I appreciate
beyond words the support that you have
given the show and frankly me over the
years
I appreciate your listening but I also
it is it's super gratifying to hear from
you about how much the show means
whether it's emails or phone calls or
whatever but it's also when there are
stories of people who listen to the show
and the community that is formed around
it when members of that committee
community are going through difficult
times or when members of that community
have a cause that they are working on
this community has risen to the
challenge I mean not even the challenge
they died only there's not didn't we
don't even have to issue a challenge
it's not I mean they people respond
within this community in a way that is
incredibly gratifying and really I mean
it's just gratifying being part of it
but it's it really frankly you know has
less to do with with me and us and more
to do with you and so I'm not very good
at showing gratitude over the course of
year I'm a little bit you know remote
sometimes I've been told not that I
listened but I do
wanna just thank you and express my
gratitude since it's the last day of
2018 and hopefully I can get through all
of 2019 and just a way to the last day
to do that again but seriously thank you
so much for all your support
and-and-and for listening and you know
2019 it's gonna be great
meanwhile what if 2019 was all about
slowing down and being mindful I feel
like Michael should be here for this but
imagine how many goals you could
accomplish then that's why the show is
excited to partner with calm the number
one app to help you meditate sleep and
relax practices like meditation and
prioritizing sleep can leave you feeling
more rested so you have the energy to go
out and achieve your goals I'll tell you
something for me
2019 is gonna be the year of sleep so
all I think is done
penis bed and that means I've got an
open I've got an open opportunity to get
some sleep and I need it and if you head
to calm calm / majority you're gonna get
25% off a calm Premium Subscription
which includes hundreds of hours of
programs like guided meditations on
issues like anxiety stress and focus
including a brand new meditation each
day called the daily calm sleep stories
which are bedtime stories for adults
designed to help you relax before you
doze off head to the lavender fields of
France with Stephen Fry we're exploring
New Zealand with Jerome Flynn from Game
of Thrones for a limited time majority
report listeners get 25% off a comprar
Miam subscription at calm CA LM dot-com
/ majority that's calm dot-com /
majority get unlimited access to all of
coms content today at calm calm /
majority give yourself the gift of calm
and start 2019 off right and lastly even
if we all skimp on that full night of
sleep or skip a workout
brush our teeth with a tire load to the
toothbrush we can do better folks we're
not perfect but we can do better and
quip is the better electric toothbrush
that can help guess what I just got well
not not when you're hearing this but a
week before your hearing this
replacement no afford it in all black
the handle all black Wow
the all black toothbrush I'm super
psyched I can't believe I'm this excited
about getting it toothbrush put some
electric toothbrushes are too abrasive
quip has sensitive sonic vibrations for
an effective clean that's gentle on your
sensitive gums folks this is hugely
important believe me you get to be my
age you start to realize like totally
messed up 15 years ago when it came to
my dental hygiene plus it's got a
built-in two-minute timer pulses every
30 seconds to remind you when to switch
sides the multi-use cover works as a
stand it mounts to mirrors it slides
over your bristles to pack and protect
your clip on the go
no wonder quip is one of the first
electric toothbrushes accepted by the
American Dental Association with
thousands of verified five-star reviews
you know why I love my quip because I
say this time and time again it doesn't
matter what kind of fancy electric
toothbrush you have if you don't use it
the quip is convenient it has all the
same features that that a an electric
toothbrush has but it's designed in a
slim way so you can actually put it on
your narrow sink top or you can travel
with it the key to brush to getting get
to good dental hygiene is to use your
toothbrush that's why I love Mike whiff
and with 1 over 1 million happy healthy
mouths they do to quip starts at just 25
bucks and if you go to get quip dot-com
slash majority right now you can get
your first refill pack for free that's
the other great thing about it they keep
sending you refill packs every three
months so you never have a crappy brush
head that's your first refill pack free
at GE tqu IP comm let's get quip comm
slash majority all right we're gonna
take a quick break come back
America's forgotten black pioneers in
the struggle for equality with an Alicia
Cox we are back Sam cedar on the
majority report on the phone it is a
pleasure to welcome to the program a
fellow at Harvard's Hutchins Center for
African and african-american research
and the author of the bone and sinew of
the land the unfairly forgotten story of
African American pioneers annalisa Cox
welcome to the program thank you it's a
pleasure
so let's and I should say it's actually
your subtitle of your book is America's
forgotten black pioneers and the
struggle for equality but it is a
forgotten story of African American
pioneers nonetheless and so let's just
talk let's just start where where we
we're talking about what period of time
are we are I have you have you sort of
examined here well it's much much
earlier than anyone has acknowledged or
recognized so this is right after the
American Revolution so you know for all
of those Hamilton fans out there this is
this your bag so this is the period
right after the American Revolution all
the way to the Civil War so the
assumption has long been that this
region of land which honestly I know is
often called the flyover zone right for
all the coastal rivers in America but
more commonly called the Midwest but at
the time that this history is taking
place it is called the great west
capital G capital W it's actually our
first free frontier if you look at maps
from the 1790s this is before the
Louisiana Purchase so this space makes
doubles the size of the 13 colonies it's
a massive piece of land and in 1787
there's an ordinance written for it at
the same time that our National
Constitution is being written but in
many ways this ordinance
is the best ideals of the American
Revolution put down on paper it's only
four pages long and the people who wrote
it had to deal with a lot less cooks in
the kitchen people who wrote our
national constitution so they had a lot
more leeway and so to the things that
they did that were truly revolutionary
is that they made it free of slavery
which made it the largest piece of the
new world to be set aside as free from
slavery up until that point the previous
one being Georgia but that's a whole
different story um so this is the
Northwest Territory and not only is it
free from slavery it has equal voting
rights now you know to be fair yet to be
a man you had to be over the age of 21
you had to own land but it didn't matter
whether you were white or black you
could vote and this may sound really
strange for the 18th century right
except that we've lost so much of our
American history that another fact that
we've kind of lost is that by 1792 when
George Washington ran for president his
second term the vast majority of
American states had equal voting rights
for black and white men including a lot
of slave holding States so unless we can
unbury uncover and reclaim this lost
history not only of the Revolutionary
move forward that we're being made for
equality and freedom in this nation
early early on but also this massive
first great migration the movement of
tens of thousands of free
african-americans onto this free
frontier starting in the late 18th
century we lose a lot of guideposts
about where a nation has been and
honestly where it's going today well the
the the thing that really I find
fascinating about this and I have you
know just the half a dozen questions
just on what you what you just said but
the thing that I think it really shows
is that you can go backwards you know
like we have this perspective
of history and of I guess some sense of
enlightenment you know moving slowly
forward but you can you can go backwards
and and that that's what I find it's
absolutely fascinating about this so we
should just say so when we say Northwest
Territory just so that we're clear we're
talking like whoa Wisconsin Michigan
Illinois right Indiana
right and and and so that you know it
was Northwest Territory in the late
1700s as opposed to you know I think
people today when you hear Northwest
Territory they assume you know who must
be I don't know like Washington State or
something like that
uh and so okay so how is it like how did
were with these african-american
essentially pioneers who were
homesteaders
what where did they come from
like were they all were they freed
slaves were they had they were they were
they were they folks who had purchased
their own freedom
I mean who where did this population
come from well this was a really really
fascinating group of people and they
were so diverse there there were just so
many varieties of people now very very
few African descended people arrived on
these shores free all right so let's be
really clear about that
but for some of these pioneers they had
been free in the new world in America
long before there were the United States
by by you know starting the 1600s there
are people who are arriving on this
frontier whose fathers fought in the
American Revolution as Patriots who they
themselves fought in the war of 1812 all
up and down the Wabash River including
in the Battle of Tippecanoe and so these
are these are incredibly patriotic and
deeply American individuals many of them
were a fascinating group which
I have termed freedom entrepreneurs so
these are people who were working
overtime in slavery and as enslaved
people to gain extra money in order to
purchase their freedom and this was a
really tough thing to do because you
can't exactly negotiate with a person
who owns you and your labor right so
oftentimes they're being charged usury
rates like double the market value for
themselves and once they came up with
the money it could just be taken by the
person who enslaved them right and and
the entire thing I mean it's the whole
thing was set up for corruption but
actually there were thousands of these
freedom entrepreneurs who were coming on
to this Northwest territorial frontier
long before the civil war and as I
described in my book the bone and sinew
of the land they are rejecting the
culture that they came from so they're
coming from this culture this enslaving
culture some of them are actually being
sold by their own family members by
their fathers by their half-brothers by
their their own cousins all of whom are
white and who consider themselves owners
of these blood relatives of themselves
but they are prioritizing profit over
family so these whites are selling their
own kin in order to make money and those
can those those kinfolk are then
deciding to reject that culture and
prioritize family over profit so they're
coming to the frontier having purchased
their freedom and then they are
homesteading land purchasing land from
the federal government really good land
they're farming it well and then as they
make money as farmers they are
purchasing their family's freedom
they're their daughters and their wives
and their mothers and they are putting
back their families again
and we're talking about is it 63,000
people at this time yeah I mean though
this is by 1860 there are over 63,000
African descended people in this region
who are counted and I want to stress the
word counted because this is a federal
federal document and problems with the
Census and race are not new right and
problems with the federal government and
racer not new so there were some of
these African descended pioneers who
refused to be counted on the federal
census record especially after the
horrific law the 1850 Fugitive Slave Law
was passed which took away their right
to habeas corpus and a right to trial by
jury and there were some people like
John Langston who was the first African
American to be elected to political
office in this nation in a free and open
election and yes he was living on a
successful large farm that he owned in
rural Ohio he wasn't living in Boston or
New York that that first was from this
region and he refused to allow himself
to be counted in the federal census even
though he was a young lawyer the first
african-american lawyer to be to become
a lawyer in the state of Ohio he did it
out of protest too for what the federal
government was doing so I want to say
the number 63,000 is very conservative
it's also a states worth because the
Northwest territorial Ordinance of 1787
clearly outlines that in order to become
a state a region of the territory must
have at least 60,000 non-native people
living in it in order to become a state
so this is over a state's worth of free
african-americans living integrated and
scattered across this region and the
fact that we have lost this history I'm
still it's just still baffled me I
love talking with high school students
about this history and the other day I
was in Brooklyn talking to a group of
brilliant young high school students at
boys hope girls hope and we were talking
about how we could compare this law
history and saying it would be a little
bit like and in a few weeks okay
just imagine this is just pretend don't
be alarmed folks but if in a few weeks
the federal government decided to make
it illegal for anybody of African
descent to play professional sports in
America say somebody got upset about the
take any movement or something and this
law was passed so all of a sudden no one
of African descent is allowed we're
imagining right isn't is no longer
allowed to play professional sports then
spool forward a century or 150 years and
the fact that there had been successful
athletes the fact that there's been a
Venus Williams or LeBron James has been
forgotten amongst the society at large
and historians are now arguing that
african-americans have never been good
at sports right and that's what the
textbooks say too and so if then an
historian all sudden says oh there was
this person called Venus Williams this
person called LeBron James who were
extraordinary sports folks and athletes
150 years ago what if what if the nation
at that point said oh well so what you
know what does that mean well when you
lose an aspect of the American past that
is this large that a nation loses a
sense of identity of what it can be who
it is now and who it can be and so this
this history I've done my best to unbury
it and it took a lot of work took a lot
of digging but he also has to be
reclaimed let me let me ask you I mean
just what is the analogy to that in in
in in the analogy and the analogy you
just gave what what was analogous in
that time
- that law that said african-american
people can't can't play sports I mean
whoa hey what was it that so you've got
you know a 70 year period of of what
appears to be you know almost full I
mean would you describe it as basically
full rights that are afforded black folk
during this time no so here's the
interesting thing so that the Northwest
territorial ordinance and if anybody
wants to look it up so I'm up on the
Library of Congress website and if
anybody can find the word white in that
document I'll give them five bucks I
promise I'm good for it but it's the
word white is left out of that document
deliberately because entire state's
recent colonies are removing the word
white from their state constitutions
including Georgia which is really
shocking in in order to open up equal
rights to people of African descent and
this is all happening in the late 18th
century so this is the this is the
founding law for this entire region but
as each state is carved out of this
region the white majority in those
states Institute prejudice into their
laws so Ohio's the first around 1803
they add the word white into their state
constitution thus excluding the African
American pioneers who are already in
that region who are already succeeding
and and this is what I want to stress
that the erases embedder was in this
region arose in the face of black
success not the face of black failure
this is really really important for us
to remember today especially when we
think about mmm things like anti
immigration laws and the way and
boundaries and borders because the first
anti immigration laws passed in this
nation were passed against African
Americans in the Midwest before the
Civil War
entire state of Illinois and the entire
state of Indiana banned further
african-american immigration after
whites in that region started coming in
and discovering that african-americans
had come in early had gotten really good
land and were succeeding massively I
mean these were hugely wealthy and
successful farms scattered across this
region Wow and and and so as these as
more white people enter into this
territory they hit the threshold to
create a they have the the density I
guess to apply and and then get
statehood they they're adding this
element to their constitution and to
their laws a race-conscious
I guess the element and and so what what
what are the series of laws that begin
to I mean do these folks by by the late
1800s by the time we get to the you know
our mid to late say 1800 we get to the
Civil War are they have they been
dispossessed of this property I mean I
mean it's an amazing story because when
you look at you know the one of the
fundamental disadvantages that black
people have had in this country in terms
of building wealth has been you know an
inability to own their own homes or to
own essentially you know land and
property and so what happens once Ohio
does that in in 1803 and they do it as
you say in as a basically to as a weapon
to like you know to gain a competitive
edge it feels like absolutely and so
what what are they what are those laws
that are passed well you know this is
this is the really painful and difficult
part but it's a two-part it's a two-part
story right it's a story of rising
beyond what we have ever recognized or
acknowledged and the American
cast of african-americans writing and
succeeding as a group across this region
and you know it's I was talking to
somebody Detroit the other day and she
said she was thinking about the book and
she said farmers farming like what does
that have to do with anything today but
actually in those days the American
dream was to own good land and farm it
well this is before there was a city of
Chicago before there was a City of
Milwaukee right this is this is frontier
this is our nation's earliest frontier
where well now wealth is built right and
why sniff exactly and we're watching it
you can watch it me in in the book and I
want to be really clear you know you and
I are having this kind of theoretical
conversation right but this I want to
encourage your listeners that this book
I promise it's not boring right it's
these are really heroic individuals I
felt people are interested right now I
mean I of course that's that's I be
professionally deluded on a daily basis
but I mean yes and and you you you tell
the stories of individuals and you know
that you have you have dug up but I
think it's Amin it's it's it is it's
fascinating to to to know to that you
know broadly speaking there's this
dispossession and and so I mean what are
the laws though that I mean what what
type of laws are passed that that fall
from the these rights being limited to
white people like what because I wanna
be one of the earliest laws passed in
what is a certain point called the
Indiana Territory but included the
entire Northwest Territory except for
the state of Ohio so we're talking
Michigan Illinois Wisconsin Indiana like
this is just massive region and this is
really early to before this region even
had states carved out of it
Governor William Henry Harrison passed a
law with what I would say were some
corrupt judges
not his own father-in-law who was trying
desperately hard to preserve liberty and
freedom for all in this region but the
young William Henry Harrison managed to
push through a law which said that
people of African descent could not
testify or take to court a white person
so this is called your word or your oath
right but this means that if you're a
wealthy African American farmer on 900
acres of land you're basically a
millionaire by today's standards you're
hiring almost everybody in your County
to harvest your wheat every fall I mean
white or black you're kind of landed
gentry right
but you and your large family they're
all african-american and say a group of
men come up to your house one evening
and they walk into your barn and they
take out your four best milk cows and
they walk away with them well if the
only witnesses to that act are you and
your family members you cannot take them
to court and you cannot testify against
them it's extremely difficult to run any
kind of business or be any kind of an
entrepreneur if you if you lose your
privilege to the court right so that's
one of the earliest and then there
starts being anti-immigration laws and
these are always coded right
the language mmm fake news isn't new I'm
just going to say this but the language
in the newspapers is oh well we want to
keep fugitive slaves from the state
right or from our regions so there's
things called black code bonds that are
passed and these say that if you're of
African descent and you enter a state
you have to be registered of the local
white county clerk and you have to
promise or even pay a five hundred to
one thousand dollar bond now in 1810
1820 1830 this is a fortune to put this
into perspective five hundred dollars in
1825 was what it cost the city of New
York to buy
a fire engine admittedly it's not a big
motorized vehicle right so wagon with
brass buckets and a pump and hose that's
going to be pulled by horses but it's
still an immensely expensive endeavor
for the city of New York to do but
meanwhile you're an african-american
pioneer trying to make it and you're
being told if you're going to come into
the state and come with the money to
purchase land you also have to make sure
you have five hundred dollars just lying
around for your bond and we should and
presumably this person has somehow
managed to raise the money to free
themselves right I mean so there's a is
is there a I mean so you're you you are
severely limiting the people that can
enter in and what I mean what impact did
that have I mean because you've already
got right by 1860 sixty-three thousand
people in that region what impact did
that have
by keeping I guess more
african-americans out from that region
it so that is the million-dollar
question right that's the what is
questioned historians love to ask these
questions we can't really know but I
think there's a map in the front of the
book that starts to give an indication
the three border states which are all
along either yep yeah there are all
along the waterways this is before
highways and trains and airplanes so the
way you want to get to where you're
going is water so the best land is going
to be the one to land closest to the
river and the border states of Ohio
Indiana and Illinois are the ones that
are filling up with pioneers the
quickest black and white but by 1860 the
state of Illinois has half the number of
African American farming settlements
that Ohio and Indiana have and Illinois
was the first to institute a $1,000
black code bond
these absolutely had an impact they had
an effect and we can't know could there
have been double I mean I found well
over 300 of these settlements scattered
across this region by the Civil War
could there have been 600 could there
have been a thousand could there have
been you know over 200,000 African
descended people or more living in this
region if these laws had not been passed
I don't know if we can know that right
but they certainly they certainly had an
effect so so what happened to this
wealth I mean was it where there did
this wealth survive I mean you know you
you've described at least in one
instance where you have lost essentially
the ability to protect your property
right I mean it was like people could
you start building on your land I guess
theoretically and if you can't take them
to court and you can't testify in court
you know you don't really have a way of
of protecting your your your your wealth
and your source of wealth I mean what
what happened to this wealth did any of
that survive or was it where people just
dispossessed did where did these folks
go or where did there I guess
descendents go well some of them are
still there and I want to be clear the
Midwest the the Great West the Northwest
Territory is not monolithic each of
these states each of these regions even
each of these counties are different so
some had large large settlements Cass
County Michigan had over 600
african-americans living in it the rural
county in southern Michigan by 1860 and
some of them there were people there
were white neighbors who came in after
the these early african-american
pioneers who were tolerant some were
actually welcoming some were allies so
while there was this kind of prejudice
and racism that was rising they were
also resistance to it and resistance in
ways that the Northeast had already lost
so there were revolutionary schools
being built in Indiana corn fields in
the 1840s which were pre-collegiate
Collegiate boarding institutions that
were not only integrated racially but
they were integrated with gender I mean
the idea of educating young women for
college in the 1840s is also
revolutionary but then it's also black
and white teenagers all boarding I mean
they've got their own you know there's
the boys dorm and the girls dorm but
they're dating and this is all happening
in in the 1840s in rural Indiana at a
time when in rural Connecticut such a
school for wealthy african-american
girls was almost burned to the ground
with them in their beds in order to shut
that school down so there was there were
spaces and places for that wealth to be
used and that school was not started by
white it was started by African American
farmers wealthy farmers using their
money to start that school these farmers
were helping to found and run the black
convention movement now this is a
movement that's been almost entirely
lost to history but this these were
annual conventions where African
Americans from across these states would
gather and organize they write articles
for newspapers they petition their local
politicians they would protest the loss
of their voting rights and the loss of
their equal rights and in Ohio they were
so successful but they actually had some
of the black code laws reversed by 18-49
in that state this is not a story just
of overwhelming horror this is a story
of resistance to that so for example
John Langston who was that black she
happens to be Langston Hughes his great
uncle the famous poet but when he ran
for his position in rural Ohio in the
1850s
he was elected to that office by a
mainly white electorate and just
complicates so many notions we have
about white versus black and North
versus South all of this just gets
hugely complicated in all the variety of
things that were happening but there's
so much by losing this population by
losing its history we've looked all of
that and and but but I mean what do do
we have numbers on what survived I mean
what you know you know would that school
that you described
he had that been founded by white people
and had it been for white people would
that school now be a prestigious
national you know well-known school you
know I mean I get this is what I'm
asking is like yeah you know to what
extent was was was all this well you
know again like it do do we have a sense
of whether or not this wealth was was
was lost can we track it I mean dude do
you know that is I end my book with the
Civil War and I'm really curious about
this Sam I'd like to know I mean I I
wish I could say that in the bone and
sinew of the land that I was able to go
right up to the present day but that
would have probably been about ten books
and write it yet so but what I can say
is not all of these communities are gone
but what arose in this region after the
Civil War and particularly with the rise
of the Klan in rural Midwest in the
1920s I think that the word pogrom is
not inappropriate and so the level of
violence once they got their rights
after the Civil War and I often say you
know I know that Abraham Lincoln was
shot by a southerner but I often think
about that speech he gave in which he
you know he thinks it's his first speech
after the Civil War we all know it's his
last speech but he starts talking about
opening up the vote to African Americans
and it could have just as
a white person from Illinois who shot
him as a white southerner because that
that kind of equality was being resisted
so fiercely there had been such a fierce
backlash in that region against those
kind of what right I mean in fact we
just earlier this week from the time
that we're recording this
we spoke to Linda Gordon who has wrote a
book about the second coming of the KKK
in the 1920s and the broad-based support
somewhere around six million people
maybe who were identified as KKK at that
time we're and many of them were in this
region and they are they're sort of an
unbroken chain back to the Copperheads
movement of the civil war which was a
pro Confederacy pro-slavery whites in
this region and even before that the mob
ik rats what Abraham Lincoln in his
first speech truly his first speech as a
young man in his 20s in Illinois called
the mob ik rats right that the the the
these this is a movement in the 1830s
that was sweeping all of the major urban
areas of the north to destroy was highly
organized but it was to destroy
african-americans rising in the cities
of the north so it was burning down
schools meeting halls churches
middle-class neighborhoods even an
orphanage this is this is sweeping most
of the major cities of the north in the
1830s I mean this this is an aspect of
the Jacksonian period that we've almost
completely lost but certainly is do some
more similar looking at so when we talk
about the resurgence of the Klan in the
1920s I would argue that that was maybe
its third or fourth manifestation right
but the Klan wasn't just southern and it
wasn't even just southern right after
the Civil War as I noted in my book
there was at least one case I've come
across in Ohio right after the Civil War
in 1870s were a wealthy African American
farmer in Darke County Ohio what
asleep in his bed and a group of men
gathered around his home with white
masks over their faces and started
shooting into it and killed him and his
two children only managed to escape
because they hid under their beds and
they were on the second story but the
local newspaper called it clan activity
so this is this is we really it all I
can do and I can say is it in the bone
and sinew of the land I've done my best
to start to resurrect this history but
it is going to take people picking it up
reading it listening to an audio book
asking questions starting discussions
for us to really understand what we've
lost and what we can learn about it
today but in terms of their wealth where
they are today
who they are today that's something I'm
really excited to see come to light what
I know is that some of these farming
communities are still in existence there
are still Morrises in Illinois in the
Wabash River Valley farming in the same
County the Moores family has farmed for
over 200 years
mmm same in Southwestern Indiana Lisle
station Indiana african-americans are
farming the same land that their
families have farm for over 150 years
and there's a history of
african-american land ownership and
farming in that County that goes back
well over 200 years just I could just
start listing them you know western Ohio
I've got that map but Cass County
Michigan there's there are they are
still there and despite despite the
levels of violence that their
communities experienced well I mean it's
it's one more I guess
chapter in the the the I guess the
repeated dynamic of the expansion of
black rights or wealth in this country
met with a
and equal and sometimes overpowering
response by whites to attempt to sort of
like reverse those gains and Minh ating
to know - about how successful because
it sounds like they were pretty these
white folk are pretty successful in in
in in inhibiting and-and-and I guess in
many cases just stripping this
accumulation of black wealth and rights
yeah I mean there's a reason this
history has been buried I'm beginning to
discover this you know the book has only
been out the bone and sinew of the land
has only been out about a month but it's
been really interesting to see the
response because in some of these in
some of these communities in some of
these communities in Midwest that are
overwhelmingly white the response has
been sort of to shut their ears to this
to ignore it because histories like this
don't stay buried without work right I
often say to people you know diversity
is the baseline in this nation it's it's
a monolithic sort of the idea that the
Midwest is or the rural Midwest is
homogeneous right if is a a myth but the
be a violently created homogeneity I
mean there's there's the fact that there
are whole swaths of the Midwest that are
now rural Midwest Intermountain now
mainly white happened to violence - for
a reason and so then it's going to take
work to reverse that whether you're
talking about a fortune 500 company or a
county in Michigan it or a school right
we're a community or a neighborhood the
lack of diversity takes it takes real
work to create a lack of diversity it's
amazing how how easy diversity is if
it's not resisted
it's funny because a lot of people I
talk to act as if well you know that
ever diversity training got to work on
making the workplace more diverse okay I
wanna say well maybe maybe if you know
we have to look into why there is a lack
of diversity in the first place because
and that's I think this book really
starts showing the roots of that but so
much is is lost if we if we reverse
reverse diversity thank you Anna Lisa
Cox the book is the bone in sinew of the
land America's forgotten black pioneers
and the struggle for equality we will
put a link at majority dot F M and thank
you very much I really appreciate a
fascinating piece of history well thank
you for helping to reveal it appreciate
it is Dave Rubin
at Oxford University in London right or
is this in Oxford I think it's an Oxford
yeah there you go and speaking to some
of those hardscrabble folks in in Oxford
and this guy is a fan of Dave Rubens
they're all you know I don't know if
they're all fence but this guy's a fan
of de Rubens he's coming up and he says
he wants to ask Dave Rubin a challenging
question right and I know yesterday
Michael played the the Jordan Peterson
clip with the that civil rights the yeah
Jim Jefferies where he's asked one of
the most fundamental questions you could
ask someone like Peterson as to you know
like a question that comes up in almost
every debate that I have with a
libertarian calls in and Jordan
Peterson's construct is basically
libertarian I mean I don't think he
perceives it as his arguments as being
economically founded but but the
construct is the same it is the the
world is fine as it is in the imposition
of government regulations to help people
who are disenfranchised or less well
situated then then me is oppressive to
me I mean that's basically his argument
right and and to people like me
and so here is Dave Rubin being asked a
question from an ally but taking on a
sort of slightly contrarian for the sake
of you know the devil's advocate and
just like Jordan Peterson who couldn't
answer the most basic fundamental
question that you would imagine since
he's been interviewed but you know a
million times by by Dave Rubin alone
would have had to have dress that
question he couldn't do it Dave Rubin
does not seem to you know maybe and I
know people say he's just not up to the
intellectual challenge here but this is
not that challenging of a question but
he doesn't seem to even know the
slightest bit of what he's talking about
it is fascinating let's listen to this
question and answer its proper type of
progress isn't fast enough and so in
nowadays and the politics of kind of
getting things done and people vote for
people who can get that affirmative
action that changed on how would you
still kind of come back sorry come back
with your point about being local yeah
well the first thing I would do is I
hope some of you have seen this I would
send them to my video with Larry elder I
posit it's so the question is is that
the guy says and we get the the the
question is like you know do you think
there's still systemic racism and people
want to vote for people who would
address that type of systemic racism and
basically you know give them the
material benefits that they want who is
I hope some of you have seen this I
would send them to my video with Larry
elder which I suspect some of you guys
have seen I I went this is when I was
still a lefty and I asked Larry elder
who happens to be black he's a
conservative I asked him about systemic
racism
all right positive for one second let me
just tell you Larry elder is he's a
right-wing talk radio host out in
California and I used to listen Larry
alder back when I worked in LA you know
for brief periods of time and totally
follows the the conservative script i
sat down with larry elder had an
opportunity to to meet him at the
the Democratic convention 2004 and I
remember you know and I took what I was
doing very seriously at the time I was
you know had been a comedian and a
director and a writer and I just taken
the time off to to deal with the I
thought maybe I'd probably end this by
November of 2004 we started in April and
I remember larry elder sat down with
Janeane Garofalo and i mean he's like
i'm we just sort of like we're like hi
we were off air how do you do this and
he's like oh come on guys we're off the
field and we're like what is that come
on we're off the field we don't you know
no need to have game faces on and we
were just like wait what like you you
think what you like you're just this is
just a job to you was that him how he
reacts generally or just because he
didn't want to get into it with you
off-mike I don't know I don't know but
he was he was almost surprised that we
took it that seriously like larry elder
doesn't take ideas seriously maybe I
don't know but uh but Dave Rubin is
really touting this but so let's hear
what he's got to say
he basically beat me senseless I mean
it's a violent it is a violent video on
YouTube he beat me senseless with facts
systemic racism let me just talk about
America here so I'm not I'm not going to
talk about the UK here systemic racism
does not exist there are no laws in
America meaning the system doesn't mean
racism doesn't exist racism exists there
are people who are racist and you should
do everything you can to show them that
their ideas are wrong and that you
should not be judging someone based on
their race of course but the idea that
there is systemic racism meaning that
there are laws in place that treat black
people differently or Asian people
differently or white people differently
simply doesn't pause this okay now what
Dave is is is showing here is that he
doesn't know what the word systemic
racism mean I think it would be
virtually impossible to find anybody who
defines systemic racism as a function of
laws systemic racism means that society
is structured in such a way that
institutions behave in such a way
that they prevent people of certain
races from or they disadvantaged people
from certain races because of their race
and not just because of their race in
that moment because they are descendants
of people of a certain race because
their race has in some respects defined
their their circumstances now it doesn't
mean that there they can't break out of
it doesn't mean that it is but but that
largely speaking the structures of
society the system works against them
not that there are laws he's just simply
either made that up or just so ignorant
about it I don't know or maybe just miss
remembers what larry elder told him or
maybe that's why he got beat up by larry
elder in that interview but you guys
concussion from he it was it it was a
just he wasn't that bright at the time
or something something happened but
let's continue only your white people
differently simply doesn't exist now
that doesn't mean that we can still do
better on certain things so for example
often black people will be incarcerated
longer for simple crimes that if a white
person committed won't be now that has
to do with more with socio-economic
reasoning which is why i would be for
treaty if you can get an economy that's
as free as possible you will have more
and more people regardless of the color
of their skin being able to partake in
an economy posit okay so if i had to
understand him the reason why there are
more black people incarcerated can we
just go back and listen to this again
because he seems to be saying the reason
why there's more people uh black people
incarcerated is because of
socio-economic reasons and that if we
had an economy that included everyone
then they wouldn't be forced
he doesn't say they wouldn't be forced
to commit a crime but that's the
implication so and this is why this is
so difficult he at once is saying
there's no systemic racism but then he
says that the economy does not include
everybody okay and presumably those
people
the black people that he's talking about
who are disproportionately in jail so
he's both saying that there's more
people in jail black people in jail
because they they can't participate in
the economy sort of saying like that
that they're forced into getting
arrested for drug crimes at a higher
rate even though we all know white
people have as much if not more the
drugs then black people do he's ignoring
that aspect of it and then blaming on
the fact that black people can't
participate in the economy which
apparently to him is not a function of
systemic racism it's a function of
somehow I guess an economy that just
quits it out league left off the people
who have been historically a racially
oppressed in this country so let's just
go back and listen to this because this
is just this is the his inability even
to maintain his own internal logic for
the course of a sentence and a half is
almost artistic but differently simply
doesn't exist now that doesn't mean that
we can still do better on certain things
so for example often black people will
be incarcerated longer for simple crimes
that if a white person committed won't
be now that has to do with more with
socio-economic reasoning which is why I
how is it that if black people are
committing the same crimes as white
people but they're incarcerated more how
does that deal how is that socioeconomic
how is that not systemic racism and even
like what does that mean it's
socioeconomic well he is dumb and I
don't want to describe any kind of good
analysis to him but yes if you want to
go back to the beginning the creation of
race and racism that arose from
capitalism and wanted to make money off
of human beings who were enslaved but
that's clearly not the argument he's
making no it's not I I don't know what
it is he's making maybe he's arguing
that because they can't because that
that black people don't have the
resources to get good lawyers that get
them off they they turn to crime it's
it's that whole thing like as a true
libertarian I would think you would say
maybe hey are the are we policing these
groups of people more vigilantly than
other groups
people for instance that might explain
but that would be the systemic racism
wouldn't it that would be yeah I mean he
but the thing is he concedes that that
black people are not treated equally by
the justice system in the first sentence
and that he says but it's socio-economic
reasons which it's almost impossible to
know what he means by that except for
the only explanation later is that there
are people who are systemically kept out
of the economy which would also be an
instructive of systemic evidence of a
systemic racism the problem with our
economy is it's not libertarian enough
right now or if you can get an economy
that's as free as possible you will have
more and more people regardless of the
color of their skin being able to
partake in an economy but oh you know
it's so funny because this is where the
Democrats have sort of owned a lot of
the minority communities and I think
Candace Owens and Kanye believe it or
not are are the leaders out I mean I
really think they are but if you think
about this you learn about the worst
places in the United States for black
people to live in terms of economics in
terms of shootings it's Chicago it's
Ferguson it's Atlanta its these places
that have been run by Democrats almost
exclusively for 80 years yet the
Democrats keep saying we're for black
people so it's sort of like saying I'm a
progressive I'm for progressive it
sounds good well I'm for black people
everyone's for but and unless you're a
true racist you're for black people the
same way you should be for everybody
else
so they've tricked you into thinking I
mean Chicago I would guess someone
should check the numbers on this but I'm
gonna guess about 50 to 80 people black
people were shot in Chicago this past
weekend weekend
you never hear a deposit now for a
second so here he is this is the guy who
decries making everything political
right here he is trying to explain that
there's no systemic racism but somehow
because Democrats have controlled
certainly not Ferguson but in Chicago
and I don't know for how many years it's
been Atlanta there's certain attributes
I think I associate with Georgia that
may also indicate why there might be
some long term problems there but that
somehow that is indicative of why
there's no systemic racism because those
city
which have been controlled he says by
Democrats nominally speaking but proves
there's no systemic racism
well affirmative action is the guy who
asked the question mentioned in his
question someone asked Dave Rubin if he
considers that structural racism that if
the actual I think that British guy was
not using affirmative action in the in
the way that we use yeah I think he was
just saying like actual action that is
proactive in some way but wait is there
more to this one yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah this is this is great now okay so
so he goes through the sort of the tired
analysis of Chicago you know is not
there's a lot of murders in Chicago
therefore there's no systemic racism
because that's controlled by Democrats
which of course makes absolutely no
Democrats have sold out working-class
people of all different races that's not
because they weren't neoliberal enough
right exactly black on black crime well
if the Democrats are so good at fixing
these problems why is it that in their
cities it's always always the worst and
it's because they create these
incentives that are actually
disincentives and if you give people
things it becomes very hard to not want
those things anymore and and I can give
you I know that antic gödel stuff isn't
isn't always the best way but I can give
you one posit first of all it's not
antidotal but whatever I misspeak to so
now he's moved to trying to prove that
the problem with a city like Chicago
controlled by Democrats is that the
reason why things haven't why there's
such a high murder rate in Chicago is
because people when they get things they
don't want to give up these things right
now so like the idea is that there's
been such goodies for black people in
Chicago to protect the Obama phones that
they but there is a high murder rate but
let's see where he's going because you
know anecdotes aren't necessarily as
good as data but sometimes they can they
can they can some qualitative texture
yeah
oh that antic gödel stuff isn't isn't
always the best way but I can give you
one very good example
my sister lives on the Upper West Side
of New York City it's a nice area she
pays a ton to live in a nice area with
the doorman building in New York City a
good portion of her building I think it
might be 50% is rent subsidized meaning
that they're keeping rents low for
certain people and ethnicity let me
explain this to get certain zoning
variances buildings in this city
sometimes and I imagine it she's she's
in one of these Westside like Far West
Side buildings on the Upper West Side
right you know the Trump building very
possibly to get those zoning variances
you're required to have some apartments
in these buildings it's usually not 50%
but whatever let's call it 50 percent
usually like 20 or 30% whatever that are
that are rent stabilized so that people
who are either living in well it's not
really I wouldn't say living in poverty
but I would say lower-income people
relative to New York City have the
opportunity to live in the building
because you we don't want to drive too
many people out but go back a little bit
because it is you have to have earn you
have to earn a maximum amount right like
if I earn a hundred and fifty thousand
dollars a year I'm not eligible for this
one-bedroom apartment because my income
is too high that is it
Dave perceives that there's something
else going on with what why you have
these rent stabilized listen carefully
see if you can pick this up on the Upper
West Side of New York City it's a nice
area she pays a ton to live in a nice
area with the doorman building in New
York City a good portion of her building
I think it might be fifty percent is
rent subsidized meaning that they're
keeping rents low for certain people of
certain ethnicities to live there so was
very nice they're not keeping the money
the ranks low for certain ethnicities
this is wholly made up in his mind okay
he has completely made up the idea that
there's now by ethnicities I'm gonna be
generous and he means the Italians the
Polish the Greeks right certain
ethnicities that's why the rent is kept
low so here's a guy who's arguing
there's no systemic racism and can't
even get through this conversation
without saying that they keep the rents
low for blacks or Porto Ricans well he
means there's no systemic racism against
people of color come on now that's okay
so it can do rents low for certain
people of certain ethnicities to live
there
to live in a very nice area in a very
nice building now imagine if that was
you for a minute and the guy next to you
was paying $3,000 to live in the
apartment and you are paying $400 would
you ever not want that to be you you
wouldn't it's just the truth you
wouldn't and then it gives you a
disincentive to make more money because
once you make more money they're gonna
take away your benefit we're gonna keep
going right Oh does it where they says
he's gonna move so here he is saying
that the problem with Chicago is the the
that they're getting a benefit that
they're getting to live in a nicer place
than they can afford because it's being
subsidized by the state now he could
argue I don't want to do that money but
he's saying it's like creating a
disincentive for you to make more money
and then look where he goes with what
this ultimately leads to in terms of
this disincentive right here it is he
goes and says this is gonna be a problem
with lengthy black on black crime well
if the Democrats go a little to go a
little forward and so he's saying now
that there's a disincentive for you to
make more money I don't know what how
this leads to the fact that there's not
systemic racism I don't know how we got
from is there systemic racism in this
country - my sister is oppressed because
someone in her building is not paying
$3,000 a month
for the for an apartment well he
believes in systemic racism against
white people I think exactly in New York
City a good portion of her building I
think it might be 50% is rent subsidized
meaning that they're keeping rents low
for certain people of certain
ethnicities to live there to live in a
very nice area in a very nice building
now imagine if that was you for a minute
and then the guy next to you was paying
$3,000 to live in the apartment and you
are paying $400 would you ever not want
that to be you you wouldn't it's just
the truth you wouldn't and then it gives
you a disincentive to make more money
because once you make more money they're
gonna take away your benefit and then
what are you gonna have to do you're
gonna have to leave your nice area and
you're gonna have to move a hundred
blocks north if not out of the city
altogether so now he's arguing that the
the the the rent stabilization should
not exist for these people because if
they make more money just a little bit
they're gonna lose their thing and
they're gonna have to move out of New
York City which is a horrible fate
apparently so he's basically saying like
like only rich people should be able to
live in New York City and people aren't
gonna want to make more money but if
that's the case then why is his sister
why doesn't his sister just say I'm
gonna make less money so I get the
cheaper apartment because his sister
might also want to go out to dinner and
his sister might have a kid and want to
spend 150 bucks it's gonna be for a
babysitter to go out to dinner because
it's better to be rich than to be poor
even with that subsidy and why is his
solution to take away subsidized housing
instead of just giving it to everyone
because almost like you've got the
malaria agenda if you get subsidized
housing you're going to enjoy it
and then the murder rate will go up
because you're of a certain ethnicity
it's bizarre where does he go wait wait
where'd you just go after that exactly
where the road to hell is paved with
good intentions I don't believe these
people are evil I don't believe that the
Democrats that put these policies yes
some of them I think are evil and
actually and want to control people but
that's that's a small sliver I think the
average person who's voting for these
policies they think they're doing the
right thing and this is where I would
say watch my interview with Larry elder
and then and then especially watch my
interview with the great Thomas ol
and read every book by Thomas ol and
understand that every time they have
tried to make things better for specific
people they make it worse for every
posit those read stabilizations are not
for specific people they are not for any
specific ethnicities well it's weird the
way he's substituting race for class
here because I think that's the thing a
lot of American dog dogs do not limited
to Dave Rubin but like it's almost like
a dark mirror I don't wanna compare him
in any way to the left cuz he's an idiot
but like it's almost like a dark mirror
to like the class reductionists who
think that if you can attack capitalism
that will solve racism and sexism for
everyone only his solution is to make
the economy even more neoliberal and
less a fair and all go to fix it I just
think he thinks the problem is that
we're giving the ethnicities certain
ethnicities too many benefits and the
problem how do you think those
conversations with his sister really
went I mean these damn crow ops next to
me yeah can't stand up ah pasta all the
time I can't stand these high tide
folks speaking of guys from from the
Boston area
I believe Joe Rogan is from that area
that is where I first met him and last
saw him probably he played softball sake
but this is really I mean there's this
is really something so Dave Rubin This
Is East got off tour and which one
should we start let's start with the
building codes I got to tell you you
know a lot of times we will play a clip
of someone and the the reason why I play
the clip is because I want to point out
some of the falsehoods maybe or the
misapprehensions or the ignorance
they're cleaning up the public record
cleaning up the public record in this
instance I have to say Joe Rogan already
did it in many respects and in some ways
this is just simply hilarious to make
extremely funny
what's that no not yet we're gonna well
let's play this clip and I may stop it
now I also wanted to say that there was
a clip from the same interview about the
post office that still is bouncing
around in my head and Michael played it
yesterday
I should have should have embargoed that
because I have never seen the depths of
ignorance that were contained in such a
small amount of content almost not every
word because of course every word words
themselves cannot be ignorant they need
to be paired with other words so that
they turn into even just brief phrases
which would reveal the ignorance the
level of ignorance in his talking about
the post office
you you could almost take any three
words if you were to take the transcript
and choose any three words in that
transcript there would be something so
ignorant embedded in that those three
words that it would be impressive but
his ability to put them together into
clauses and into statements and into
sentences it's almost like if it was in
our project but we do have him
continuing on talking about building
codes in rank we after the and I imagine
you know Rogan may have spent a little
bit of time you know with with folks who
build stuff and anybody knows anything
about building knows why you have
building codes
anybody who's bought a house too would
probably know maybe we watched homes on
on homes rented an apartment yeah it's
in an apartment been in a building yeah
walked inside or or as referenced in
this now where's the thing about into a
country where there are not tough
building code regulations writes another
we read about countries where there are
red well right let's play the clip X
that's the way you get them down for the
US Postal Service like I'm getting to
UPS I'm pretty sure though that if the
USPS stopped it didn't exist anywhere
you'd still get chickens delivered and
Amazon could probably do it even more
effectively that's my point it's like
I'm not saying these things have to be
eliminated tomorrow's it positive
deposit okay so Dave Rubin we're
catching the tail end to the post office
thing where Dave Rubin doesn't realize
that Amazon relies on the US Postal
Service for a huge percentage of its
deliveries but he's just saying that
Amazon would pick up the cost of that I
guess theoretically understand that
Amazon's retail business does not make
its money I don't know if they're
they're net cash negative still but most
their money comes from their server
their electronic server thing the the
delivery mechanism
there's so much stupidity just even
involved in the tail-end this is not
even part of the clip and there's
sealant that you're catching there is
him just basically using an example to
bash the post office 10 min ago then
Rogan Bullock oh no wait you're actually
talking about the post office and him
being like oh yeah but I still think it
would be better if not right like so
much ignorance in it it's just it's just
stunning and yes he's saying like well
I'm not even talking about what I'm
talking about is what he's saying here
yes this one is similar this isn't even
the clip that we wanted to talk about
this is just the tail end the last clip
but god I'm really calling for them to
be eliminated but just generally what
problem would you everything you're
building here right now right do you
want the government to tell you how to
do all these things and all the
regulations that you got to have your
electric thing this far from this and
like all the regulations like that for
construction are important though you do
have to make sure that people don't do
stupid shed but emission of a power
lines near a water line yeah there's a
lot of but I would put most of that on
the builders though they want to build
things that are good now I get high oh
that's not true
people are gonna corners all the time
like you have to have regulations when
it comes to construction my oh that's
true
most people know this but if you didn't
you could watch like like I say like
homes on homes like there are multiple
TV series uh-huh
on the Home Improvement network that are
just about builders not either not
knowing code not building to code
building stuff that there's like mold in
the walls
the electrical system keeps shorting out
because it's too close to the water they
haven't done the drainage system
correctly they haven't done the air duct
system correctly I mean this goes on and
on and on I mean there is there I mean
you don't have to have listened to the
show to talk about the massive lawsuits
in terms of of builders cutting corners
in fact the whole bedrock of regulations
is because in the pursuit of money
people will cut corners
and they will do so even if it means
harm to other individuals even with Yelp
reviews even with Yelp reviews and
apparently Dave Reubens not aware of
this at all but the best is to look at
the expression on his face because if I
was to critique and we still have a
little bit more of left to this and
there's a lot more of you but if whiff I
was to critique this clip at all I would
say to Joe Rogan release the just the
camera to shot I want to see Dave Rubens
reaction throughout all of this when
Rogen speaking when Rogen speaking
because the look on Dave Reubens face
every time they cut to Rogen because
Rogen just completely shot him down is
like a lost puppy a lost puppy that
realizes he's drowning and is trying to
to sell say it's a lot more salvageable
but but continue that's not true let's
say people people are gonna corners all
the time like you have to have
regulations when it comes to
construction methods or people are going
to get far they cut regulate they cut
corners when there are regulations
anyway they do they would cut a lot more
if there weren't regular I'm not totally
other third world countries and look at
construction map pause it for one second
so Rubin uses the defense well you can
have laws but people are gonna break
them so under that theory right there
would be no laws because every law has
been broken at least once so why have
any laws why not just have the purge
24/7 right exactly it's just a constant
rotating be incentivize not to purge
because you'd want people to hire you to
build HDTV needs a purge I go back a
little bit I'll invite a lot more if
there weren't regulation I'm not totally
the third world countries and look at
construction methods they're
dangerous yeah that's why schools
collapse on kids in foreign countries
sometimes like well I'm not complete I'm
not telling you that I'm against all
regulation period that's where but
that's where I said intellectually I
like that argument because you're good I
think you can make a very sound argument
that competition would force people to
do better work posit in
we have now moved to Jay Reuben saying
that maybe someone else could make a
sound argument that competition would
force people to self-regulate I
apparently don't have the ability to do
that but I'm aware that there are people
who do do that but I have shown that
even though I have I am paid I am paid
on my show by people who professionally
profess this right he gets money from
the Koch brothers the the Koch brothers
raison d'être as a political force is to
unshackle their businesses from
regulations that prevent them from
maximizing their profits at the expense
of society to expend to put their
externalities out on other people in
other words consumers are going to pay
citizens are going to pay for our profit
by either you know paying for the health
care they need for their asthma or you
know paying for the cleanup that they
need to make sure that their rivers
aren't poisoned or whatever it is I'm
going to externalize these costs in my
profit making Dave Rubin is paid by
these people and Dave Rubin can't even
make the most basic argument to it
in fact he can barely escape by saying
I'm aware that there are arguments about
this I can't articulate them I mean
here's the thing about Dave Rubin that
is most appalling to me
I don't think Dave Rubin has read upon
any of the topics he's talked about for
more than five minutes maybe ever like
if you know you're going on on a show
and maybe he thought that that Rogen
wouldn't in any way question him
whatsoever
but if you if you're gonna go and make
an argument that Oh private enterprise
could do better than the government you
don't choose the post office which is
arguably one of the premier examples
of the development of civilization that
we have like the Postal Service is what
it does is so amazing that it provides
postal service to almost every single
corner if not every single corner of
this country is amazing and it does it
with zero tax dollars and it's such an
enlightenment slash free exchange of
ideas idea of an origin anyway it is
like it should it's the pinnacle it's
like the foundation of everything that
he pretends to argue for like the it is
you know I could see you sing like you
like the DMV just because that's the
most hack thing that's the hack one well
but the problem is of course there is no
federal DMV right there's only the
states which he would like to answer he
doesn't know no he doesn't know I'm
surprised but the post office as a
federal agency the only thing that is
inhibited the operation of the post
office ladies and gentlemen is the
Republican Party and their attempts to
force the post office to privatize is
the only thing that is inhibited the
operations would you make a very sound
case that with like Amazon and drones
and blah blah blah that like things will
like prices will lower yeah you could
but I can't are you one good but I can't
I'm not other people there's a knows
arguments which I just completely
humiliated myself
it's exciting to me do five minutes of
reading like you know I like you know
Google some of the words that you intend
to use and just read what you find at
the end of that more interested in ideas
at least go to your Liberty University
you know who gives you your funding or
whatever it is you know the the Liberty
foundation Freedom Foundation and watch
one of their videos so at least you can
regurgitate their their their points and
you know practice it practice it with
somebody so that you cannot make a total
ass of yourself for gosh sakes you make
a living at this
you make a damn living espousing this
 don't you feel some obligation
to read five minutes into an argument so
you can avoid the most bait you you want
to talk about Building Code and by the
way pick both goes top and let me just
say this is low and if these videos
upset you think of them as Yelp reviews
to incentivize you to yeah yeah
businessman yes in fact I mean I feel
like the government should step in and
regulate what you're doing because
obviously they clearly like you're not
doing your job there needs to be a
federal bureaucrat who says look you can
advocate all the demented nonsense you
want we have a First Amendment but if
you're gonna do it in such a recklessly
incompetent way you need an example of
why a builder might cut corners and
deliver a subpar product
what's your videos of yourself you want
an example of how someone could continue
to make money hand over fist and not
know what they're doing look at your
YouTube channel look at your bank
account look with it exactly the truth
lies with interests your patreon page
the truth lies within your patreon
analyst exactly my gosh let's go to a
509 area code who's this where you
calling from
Samuel Feder I presume young time
listener first-time caller from the owl
of presidents in sunny Orlando Florida
Wow at Disney resorts tis I Franklin
Delano Roosevelt oh well hello Franklin
Samuel yesterday I tuned in to your show
late and could hear you were quite
distraught about something but I did not
hear the news tell me was there a
collapse of the global markets leaving
tens of millions of Americans homeless
jobless and scrapping for their next
meal no no the Japanese engage in a
surprise attack and believe me it was a
complete surprise which resulted in
thousands of dead
Americans while plunging us into a
bloody global war over the future of
civilization ah no it was and tell me
Samuel do your legs still work they do
yes then pull yourself together for
Christ's sake in my day when they tried
to own the lids I lined up all the
Republicans in Congress shoulder to
shoulder and had Eleanor push my chair
down the line while I whip each of them
square in the balls with my cane yes
they did everything they could to stop
my greatest accomplishments like say I
don't know a little thing you may have
heard of what's it called social
security right I've heard of that that's
one of my favorites yes yes and things
are bleak and now you've had your day to
mourn to wander the streets of New York
like a sad pathetic dog with your tail
between your legs but today you sharpen
your shoes because you're on a
 prison yard fight Sam now
go bury that toothbrush handle and the
jugular of the biggest meanest man in
the clink metaphorically speaking of
course yes well I I appreciate now i
must jump as they say before the more
troubling parts of my legacy get brought
up like the japanese internment camps my
treatment of the Negroes or that time I
 my cousin
[Music]
double or you know yeah that was very
agitating but yeah you know I got was
not a New York area code to that was the
odd part or a Florida one he might be
down taking the springs that's right
well I mean he is from the Halle
presence I mean as far as we know he is
dead calling from a 2:08 Eric
