[Music]
so on a day when I guess the CIA is
leaking and I can't quite the this story
just continues to confound me a little
bit I mean one gets the sense that these
leaks from the CIA if they're coming
from the CIA and presumably they are in
some fashion that there is this much and
and so detailed of information maybe
it's coming through the Turkish
government but it seems to be maybe
through our intelligence services the
level of specificity in terms of the
information that we have about MPs
directing and getting reports from the
killers that were sent to chop up a
Khashoggi to kill this guy it's pretty
extraordinary there does not seem to be
much consternation in the Bush
administration to these leaks which is
odd right I mean this is around when you
would start to hear Trump administration
yeah and they excuse me the Trump
administration you would imagine the
head of the CIA would be troubled by
these leaks if this wasn't in some way a
mechanism in which to convince Donald
Trump to to do something well so I don't
know but but we'll see meanwhile one of
the subjects of those leaks of course
Mohammed bin Salman the crown prince of
Saudi Arabia he was at the g20 and I
don't know how to describe this I don't
know that I've ever seen two world
leaders ever shake hands like this never
mind
I mean this is being cool it's called
having this well camaraderie there's a
handshake between Barack Obama and Kevin
Durant that looks a lot like this yeah I
guess our world leaders don't kill Oh
check this out
this is MBS and Vladimir Putin shaking
hands like they
just I don't know like they just
blatantly clipped a couple of
journalists I want to congratulate each
other you don't need to search to
explain this crazy we love it now wait I
want to go back and slow it down a
little bit I want to go down and slow it
down a little bit because you can see
Trump in the background Trump is right
there boom oh those guys are so cool
they'd probably be giving me the same
kind of force you have but the problem
is I don't get to kill journalists wait
fair I'm telling him guys you think we
can we hang out later maybe can I sit
where am I sitting
can I sit next to them later oh my god
they're so cool that's just bizarre it
really is a little bit bizarre isn't it
is it nobody isn't it I mean isn't that
just sort of like a bizarre like we one
ride old excitement at seeing each other
I mean I don't know I think this they're
just living in the world with a fascist
they're just living in a world where
they can't even like contemplate that
what they're doing is even remotely like
over-the-top they're just like that's
the way we roll it's pretty crazy people
have also been sharing this about MVS
sort of being just walked past and like
a sort of handshake line just nobody
really wants to shake it yes is like
it's fine
literally has blood you know he's
looking at them and he's going worth it
I'm not here to make friends
let's meanwhile Trump is is at the g20
and really doesn't seem to enjoy it
there's been all sorts of reports that
world leaders are sort of mocking him
behind his back apparently he met with
with Putin sort of casually and yet the
next day
Russian media has come out with all
sorts of stories about Trump being a
goof and unclear where he is and
completely lost and you know and and
sort of a clumsy oaf which I imagine
would upset him and so here is Donald
Trump and which one is this is this the
this is the Pena opinion eaten yet or
he's signing with pena nieto and Trudeau
and then the the Macri here yeah
mockeries the President of Argentina
okay well which one is okay yeah there's
just the my pick is the is the Trudeau
that's number six yeah okay all right
well let's look at this this is their
signing the the renamed NAFTA with
slight changes mostly just NAFTA again
with TRO a Trudeau and Pena Nieto and
Chris the France that's super funny over
Mr I guess Krista Freeland yeah she's
behind Justin Trudeau and here this is
one of Matt's picks cuz he likes how
awkward things get from Trump you can
get a sense of what he would be like in
a sort of a high school exam here social
poise who's going first
and then I like Trudeau here cuz he's
the most professional looks up to get
the photo shot and the rest of the guys
don't
well it takes Trump like ten minutes to
sign his name
I like how Pena Nieto's looking at him
like wow I've like I'm doing this
version in a way they can't trace me as
if you mix up your signature they can't
trace it for bank fraud alright now here
is Trump and he's meeting who's this the
president of art the president of
Argentina and at the g20 they're hosting
this g20 Trump obviously feels
uncomfortable because he's around other
human beings particularly ones who do
not know longer it appears kiss his ass
they've all basically realized like it
doesn't matter anyways he can't deliver
even when you're buttering him up and so
here is Trump and unfortunately for him
with a hot mic which reveals which we
all know what he was thinking
went the wrong way
he's having anxiety that get me out of
here look I got a I got too many steps
my crease I'm alpha lose like macri's
like what's the problem like I'm Asha
Stax in Latin America selling off my
country's assets your campaign
contributors what are you saying you get
a little bit afraid by some stairs yeah
dude you're in Buenos Aires a very nice
City home of tango like just walk up a
step or two it's okay it's like a horse
if you care if you're a fascism can't be
comfortable in Argentina right folks the
big chopped me down here big
corporations are getting
