re/code who's this where he come from
let me it is you oh hey Sam this is
Fernando from Mexico and I just want to
say how I'm like very grateful for what
you guys do you think you guys do great
stuff over there um and well I would
like a year ago I was a libertarian and
you guys helped me like get out of that
but actually something that helped me
like really weave libertarianism and
actually liberalism in general was
actually going out and reading Atlas
Shrugged an danger and there's any
libertarian hearing go out and read that
book Fernando how old are you how old
are you I'm 18 years old okay well I
mean I think generally I would say that
if you're 18 you should probably wait
until you're like twenty-two because you
need to sort of get out of like that age
eighteen can be a dangerous age to read
it a lot of guys get hooked on Iran at
about that age yes now you you obviously
you're maturing at a more rapid rate
than most perhaps that's because you're
not you're not in America which I think
it tends to arrest the the development
of of men on some level but but good for
you yeah and you know we're gonna in in
in a week or two we're gonna have a
another libertarian debate on the
program and it should be interesting
yeah um I actually was calling about
something else oh that's okay um Lisa
it's more about theory rather than
actual policy but like tell me if is ice
trees like off-topic or something but
it's about how like conservatives
how's this narrative about loss of
meaning thanks to post-modernism I
haven't heard you talk about that tell
me more about what the the libertarian
mikhyl II the rehash of the cultural of
the moral relativism or what I'm not
sure what the what the libertarian
argument is yeah no no it's not a
libertarian it's more like conservative
in general but like people like
obviously not Donald Trump but like
people like Johnny Pearson but also now
like people like Steve Bannon and stuff
are talking about
yeah like moral relativism but more
generally how like younger generations
have lost meaning and how we really are
like on top of just like moral stuff we
don't have like a way to lead our lives
and like that's what I see that's one of
like their main points for returning to
things such as like Christianity and
like yeah conservatism
yeah I mean look they the this is a this
is a classic reactionary argument right
that we it is hip to return to the the
order that existed back when
coincidentally we were in power or we
had completely unquestioned or
unchallenged power you know the there is
no doubt that there is a transition
period when you when large segments of
society are emancipated whether it's
women yeah really dangerous right like
um it starts with it just like oh
there's a loss of meaning right but then
like the the argument extends itself to
in the case of Durham PDS and it's
basically so your meaning should be
identity it should be the fact that you
are a white man right when is is that
there there's not a loss of meaning
there is a change in meaning right and
so it is no longer that you are you are
destined as a white male in in the
society that you it is your
responsibility and your destiny to lead
as opposed to any other demographic
profile and you are of you know an elite
you know it's like it's basically like
saying too used to be like saying - I
don't know the you know some part of the
the the airforce like where they where
they they go to the Rangers right and
they say you know the Rangers are an
elite force within the context of the of
the army and but then you can get even
more elite from the Rangers and so white
males were like you know think the
Rangers and you have the ability to
become the real elite elite nobody else
does the average grunt doesn't and yeah
the meaning is lost because it's like
you know what you're no longer the only
people who can hold these positions and
you have to yeah white men have to
redefine their role in society and
accept it and there's definitely a
transition I mean I've talked about this
is where the whole this whole zero-sum
zero-sum game stuff comes from
on some level which is it's inevitable
it is inevitable that the meaning of
being a white male in a society that no
longer systemic Lee suppresses women and
no longer systemic Lee suppresses people
of color and I'm not saying that we're
there yet but but where we are moving in
that direction it's going to change and
that adjusting to that is you know
traumatic on some level for society it
in and and maybe the left is not as
because the lefts project is to
emancipate there is not yet the energy
to address you know the the new role for
the the the white males but that to me
is a secondary project you know
sometimes you have to just grow you know
this is I think that parents need to do
with their kids and basically tell them
like look you know yeah like I I agree
without but like I still think that
there there is like like to a different
degree and like in a different context
but they are tapping into something that
is actually happening like with like
this is an actual loss of meaning in in
in in in like for younger generations in
the sense that that the things that gave
us meaning previously like now we
acknowledge that no longer work things
such as religion or such as like
honestly capitalism in general like we
are coming to realize that that that
doesn't work and that leaves um I kind
of like existential space there
obviously the answer is not to return to
sort of like the white identity as a
result but I do think that there is a
loss of meaning I agree I agree of
course and yeah they frame it as if this
is a this is post-modernism doing this
because if they said their real problem
is with like modernism everyone would
look at him as if they're insane well
that's the point there was a loss of
meaning when all of a sudden like you're
no longer we're no longer an Ag in a
Great Society you go back to like the
1930s and they're talking about how
we're entering the Machine age and it's
all going to be this like terrible right
so this happens all the time
and I mean it I mean it is it is
literally the most the definition of
time you know like like when when the
written word develops and you know the
storytellers that you know the oral
storyteller is is left a little bit like
what it was my new meaning here like
this happens all the time it's just that
and I would imagine in each of those
eras
there is there are forces that are
saying this is unique we have hit a
unique
it's like postmodern we have me we have
we have this is such a unique time that
this has never happened before and they
jump in to fill the vacuum with bathe
basically a return to the status quo but
dress it up as if it is something
radical I mean that's the definition of
reactionary and but I pre and like just
like lastly sorry for taking up some
time so - post-modernism and it's like
more of a symptom rather than a cause of
this loss of meaning like what
post-modernism is pointing out that yeah
like the previous thing things that gave
us meaning before no longer work and we
need to find something new so
conservatives are actually being
counterproductive like they are talking
about a real problem but they're being
counterproductive when they when they
say we should return to those things
those are those things no longer work
they're unstable their move is to
mythologize the past into a way that
seems like it's more appetizing to
everybody and then say we can just
regain that when really we never really
had the type of especially when you
think about it like inclusivity we never
the past was never what they say it is
but it's easier to frame something is
we're going to just regain what we had
then what the left tries to do is just
we're gonna achieve something that
hasn't been achieved before appreciate
the call Fernando thanks for listening
