the activity on in the essentially the
the Trump crime docket was rather
intense this week there were multiple
stories sort of almost following two
different tracks one dealing with
Manafort and another dealing with jerome
corsi and stone and then they converged
in a sort of a third track in a story
from The Guardian about metaphoric
meeting with Julian Assange we will talk
about that I want to put a pin in that
for a moment because that story may we
don't have as confirmed as at least what
what's going on here and what I'm
talking about is the essentially the
collapse of the Paul Manafort a plea
deal which as you know Heather was a
massive plea deal it basically took all
of mana forts assets something like
forty two million dollars which pays for
the entire Muller investigation it
involved men afford essentially giving
Muller everything and if he ever held
back if he ever lied then mana fort
would not only be dealing with the
charges that he found guilty on but be
facing other criminal counts that he
hadn't yet been tried yet and this week
Heather the deal falls apart
tell us what's that about well it's
interesting I mean we had expected mana
for it to be sentenced just before
Thanksgiving and they came in at the
final moment and said we need ten more
days and the judge granted it and a lot
of people you know who followed this
sort of thing said that was weird that
you know to just ask for a 10-day
extension meant that something was
happening now you know the assumption on
a lot of people's part was that this was
you know meant that there were
indictments coming down as it turns out
and we had there'd been some reporting
to this effect that they were that mana
fort was not being cooperative and that
the Muller team was getting upset so we
kind of knew that that was a possibility
but I think we were all sort of
you know going you know hoping against
hope that it was something less
I don't know less complicating that they
were actually going to be indicted a few
people and that they were waiting for
the sentencing for those indictments to
come down but as it turns out it was
that and it was that the Muller team
said came in and just said he's been
lying to us and you know you cannot do
that you go into a plea agreement with a
cooperation with the government and you
say that you're going to cooperate if
you expect to get a sentencing reduction
or any of the other sort of you know
kind of appeasement you're gonna have to
cooperate 100% they say it very clearly
you cannot lie you've got to tell them
everything they basically own you at
that moment
in fact prosecutors call it they were
there working for Team USA now right
it's kind of silly but that's what they
say so you're on the prosecutors team
from the moment you make that agreement
then we've seen evidence of that from
others you know from you know in in this
instance and in other instances so it
turns out metaphor it's been lying and
we don't know what specifically he's
been lying about although the Muller
team did indicate that when they
submitted their sentencing memorandum to
the judge which will ask for very harsh
penalties for all of this the lying may
actually be added on to what they are
are claiming for him and he's got a
previous conviction and he pled guilty
to this other these other crimes I mean
he is in and as you pointed out he's
already forfeited all his property I
mean its millions and millions of
dollars worth of property that he
forfeited he and he is also within that
bodies could even he's subject to state
charges on all of this that he is now
officially pled guilty to it was one of
those plea agreements where you kind of
went there's no way this guy is not
going to spill everything he knows
because everything is on the line
everything he owns his future and the
fact that it really is kind of pardon
proof because of this fact that he's
pled guilty to crimes that can now that
evidence of his guilt can be applied to
state charges in places like New York or
or I guess Virginia and others where he
committed these crimes so no one
expected him not to cooperate although
it's possible that Robert
did because mana for has been lying and
cheating from the very beginning of this
he's been he you know he he had a bail
agreement and he violated it you know he
was witness tampering I mean the guy has
shown absolutely no indication that he's
going to follow these instructions so
perhaps Miller understood that this was
going to happen now the big complication
here now is back in October it was
reported Rudy Giuliani was shooting off
his mouth after Timoney limoncellos
again and he said he mentioned that the
Manafort team had a joint cooperation
agreement with the truck team now that
sounded very weird to a lot of people at
the time because he was cooperating with
the government and you don't do that
when you're when you have a cooperation
agreement weirdly though there were a
number of lawyers who also pointed out
that in comparing the rick gates plea
agreement metaphorce associate who pled
guilty months ago
and man afford that once there's one
thing that was different between the two
of them rick gates had to agree that he
would not share any information with any
third party that was left out of the
mana ford agreement nobody knew why
seemed odd but it was so it's clear that
Muller knew from reporting from Rudy
Giuliani you know shooting off his mouth
and the fact that it was in that
agreement and by the way it was brought
up to the special prosecutor's office
one lawyer on Twitter showed his his
text messages or emails to the special
prosecutor asking for comment about this
and they replied we won't have any
comment in any case they knew that man
affort was theoretically anyway talking
to the Trump team and that Rudy Giuliani
was telling was telling the press that
he was well this week's New York Times
reveals this on Tuesday night they
reveal this in a big splashy news story
as if they just discovered it those of
us who've been following the strike
already knew that but they took credit
for it didn't give credit to Reuters or
any of the other people who'd been
questioning this and
indicating implying anyway and I looked
closely at the story and they didn't say
it directly but the implication was
clear that this was a big part of why
Muller pulled the plug on the plea
agreement I don't believe it
I think it's because Matt fort was lying
and we don't know again we don't know
what he was lying about but we're going
to get some information from this
sentencing memorandum well under video
as well we got to take a break here
because there's a lot there's a there
where there is so much to unpack in just
what you've said and going forward but I
want to do this okay as a as a little
bit of a tease the notion that the
Muller team was aware that manna fort
ostensibly going to become a witness for
the state more or less was sharing
information with the Trump team the
notion that Muller was aware of that
opens up some very very intriguing
possibilities as to what's been going on
and when we come back we'll talk about
those in addition to what you are
suggesting about Muller offering up the
facts that must be determined as to
whether or not Manta fort broke this
deal we got to take a quick break when
we come back Digby and I will address
this stuff and this is it folks this
stuff I think is really the fulcrum of
this investigation we will tell you why
when we return
