Wow let's go we have this ongoing
situation now with the the shutdown and
it is ostensibly about Donald Trump and
his sort of pathological desire for not
even a wall but to say that there is a
wall now I understand why Democrats are
not constantly raising the issue of
Mexico paying for the wall because
that's not the only problem with the
wall for a lot of reasons it sets a bad
precedent it is a lot of people find it
morally reprehensible the idea of
building this wall aside from the fact
that a wall is an effective in certain
areas it's unnecessary in other areas it
is contrary to really what our
immigration our overall immigration
policy should be and of course 5.6
billion dollars will not get you any
semblance of what he's talking about
this is all performative I contend as I
think we did last year at this time
maybe a little bit earlier in the year
that trading five point six billion
dollars and let him have his his ability
to say to his people like I'm building
the wall is worth permanent status for
daca recipients a path to citizenship
and permanent protected status in this
country that is a trade I would make
don't know if it's on the table because
you got to remember for Trump the wall
is everything just for whatever bizarre
reason but there's a lot of people in
his administration who really genuinely
don't want any more Brown people coming
into this country and want less brown
people here that is why there is a
lawsuit to protect fifty thousand
Haitians just steps from where we are
who are here largely as a function of
a 2010 earthquake and caught was a
cholera outbreak that followed that
earthquake and they've been in this
country under a protected status and I
just said a human created cholera
outbreak having to do with foreign
forces there so but regardless you know
a human suffering and I don't you don't
hear a lot of people walking around
going like man everything would be so
much better in this country if it wasn't
for those 50,000 Haitian people who we
allowed to be here because their homes
got destroyed and have now built
families here in roots here that aside
here is Donald Trump talking about the
wall and now it's really like it's
getting so granular that he's literally
getting into the materials here it is
and as I told you it's going to be a
steal the border and that's going to
give us great strength
[Applause]
they don't like concrete it's awesome
discussion was what why do you think the
Democrats are gonna be okay with the
steel border and I don't know what it is
I don't know if it's because like you
know he was a he would visit building
sites and so it's just like concrete and
steel those are the two things like if
they had worked with brick maybe it
would be a brick wall just trying to get
the deal done here we go they don't like
concrete so we'll give them steel steel
is fine steel is actually steel is
actually more expensive than concrete
but it'll look beautiful and it's very
strong it's actually stronger it's
unbelievable and and and there was a big
story in The Washington Post about
apparently no one in the administration
was really aware of what would happen
with the government shutdown they all
believed their own sort of delusion that
it's not relevant we we have a situation
where government workers at this point
they have not they have not missed a
paycheck as of yet they get paid
bi-weekly excuse me bimonthly
so my understanding is they have not
missed a paycheck but they also all know
that their their paycheck at the very
least will probably be delayed at this
point and people live paycheck to
paycheck and there's no guarantee
they're all gonna get paid back who
knows how long this is gonna last but as
we get closer to February when you have
farmers who have not been able to get
their loans haven't been able to get
their slush funds you're gonna hear
people like Joni Ernst talk a little bit
more about this you're gonna hear
Republicans maybe in Kansas talk a
little bit more about this Shelly capito
in West Virginia when food stamps and
other gut federal assistance starts to
get undercut
you're gonna start to hear about this
you won't hear it in Kentucky even
though that they will be suffering
because Mitch McConnell is not a human
being and Rand Paul has to pretend like
the federal government doesn't do
anything you're gonna hear Susan Collins
talking more about this and at one point
that they're gonna they're gonna they're
gonna break pull-up so we will continue
to follow this what's this next one is
this him talking about the yeah let's go
to number two because here is known
Trump saying something that I don't
think anybody believes even his own
people I'm not even sure his own people
would be happy about it frankly but it's
a little bit but listen to it
many of those people
did you hear that I mean it was hard to
hear but he said yeah I can relate to
not having that money and people who
make do they always do they always do
and in fact many of those people who are
not getting a paycheck agree with me I
can totally relate to that it's like
when Dad says give me a couple of days
before I come in and cash out your
casino and you're like whoa I'm in a
tough spot here because I have a couple
of assault victims pay off and there's
about a 48-hour window but you make
adjustments I get so many letters and
oddly from Pete from my own stationery
and people who support everything I'm
doing
the handwriting says similar you know
there's a lot more unity in this country
this is not unique to Trump that notion
of people will make do they always do in
other words like nobody's come and tried
to burn down my house there isn't like
masses of people who have come to try
and burn down my house or pull me out of
my home or there I don't see the people
you know if I don't see the suffering in
front of me it must not happen they must
be able to just deal with themselves I
mean that is that sentiment put aside
the the the complete total lie that any
of the people not receiving their checks
are in favor of this but that sentiment
that they'll work it out they always do
that is exactly the sentiment that has
been shared by the wealthy in this
country largely speaking for decades
that it'll be fine they'll get by look
we all have struggles and you know I
remember that time where that person
broke up with me or I had that argument
with my my mom that was hard and the
idea that like well they're not sure if
they'll be able to pay for their kids
dental appointment next week or don't
know if I'll be able to buy presents for
them for Christmas because we may not
have money coming in for weeks or we got
to cut back on the heating or you know
it's just going to be rice and beans
because we only have so much money or
they're gonna repossess my car or we're
not gonna be able to make a mortgage
payment I mean all of these things
they'll get by they always do millions
of people lost their homes in the wake
of the financial crisis because there
were thousands of bankers who were like
yeah Society will absorb the problem
that's the mentality that is not unique
to Trump he's just he's just too stupid
to realize like I shouldn't say this out
loud all right we got to take a break
when we come back Julian Zelizer
