[Music]
anytime I use a piece like this I
anticipate I know from some people look
yes he's talking about social democracy
this is not the farthest reaches of
radicalism but that's totally fine this
type of work needs to be done if that
word is going to be used and we're going
to decontaminate it and we're gonna get
people to think and amateur and UMaine
way about politics this is a good piece
socialism worked anywhere it's been
tried in one country that socialism has
ever worked
the answer is everywhere wait why
socialism is pulling our resources
together and using them for the common
good and it's been successfully
implemented all around what that could
mean things like publicly funded health
care so if you live in Britain and you
like the NHS then guess what you're a
socialist Oh me Oh believe me
look at how they describe publicly
funded healthcare in America the
socialist idea of universal health care
Britain's socialized medical system
health care all government provided god
forbid like England
do you like publicly funded teachers
police firefighters schools roads and
libraries think wealthy corporations
like Google and Amazon should actually
pay some tax to pay for these things
well then you're a massive socialist
so next time you hear someone trying to
scare you about socialism the ugly
destructive Marxist militant socialists
remember it's talking about you
socialists that's a good ad and and I
have this and you know in a UK labor
context that is more formally true that
means you know it then it is in the
United States like we have significant
social democratic great social
democratic reforms that happened in the
New Deal and even the Great Society
including things like that are making
your life tolerable today for past in
the 30s and sort of protected in the UK
with things like the NHS they have
actually achieved some advancement of
dica modifying parts of society and
generating much better human outcomes
and part of the evidence
you know the counter veils all of the
lies and fear-mongering about the end
jes that you hear on fox is the fact
that there was a poll that came out a
couple years ago that british people
rated with the NHS over winning world
war two as an accomplishment now
obviously they probably would have had
the NHS if they didn't defeat Hitler but
that should give you some sense of what
like actual people think of being able
to go and see a doctor when they need to
see one and the whole waiting list thing
there's waiting lists here too for
non-emergency care and tens of millions
of people get no care and even people
with health insurance go bankrupt all
the time so get real get socialism it's
a wait listening is such a joke at this
point it's when it when it's clear like
that that it's like there's just not a
list because people just can't afford to
it like I can't get on a list to buy a
Bugatti right right I'm on the list
never where's my name is finally gonna
come up on the phantom list there are
some problems with the NHS I'm not gonna
lie but all of them have to do with
underfunding it over as the Labour Party
slid into a modern neoliberal party well
the modern cuts I mean one of the things
I have to say that kept Blair and Browne
and power for a long time is they
actually Tony Blair tried to introduce
privatizations which was a big problem
they actually put huge amounts of money
in the NHS which had been bled under the
Tories before them so even neoliberal
third way labour put a ton of money and
even in 2005 at the height of the Iraq
invasion and discussed with them I mean
look again I always say communication
matters and political skills matter and
even at his least popular Tony Blair is
an effective very effective campaigning
politician but Gordon Brown had this
thing that he said the red lines the red
lines our NHS and there was one other
public spending thing that I don't
remember but NHS was one of their even
at their most right-wing to the point
where when David Cameron came to power
he lied he said the Tories would never
cut NHS spending he actually said that
they you know he was trying to actually
rhetorically attack
from the left on the NHS that is the
power of universal programs right there
without a doubt it's also the power of
universal programs that even to this day
I mean there's a new book that's coming
out from zero books I think called ten
steps that destroy the NHS it's not that
like they won't try but the NHS is still
standing even under the Tory onslaught
post financial crisis
yes Universal programs are very
effective yes
