[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it's Thursday January 24th 2015
[Music]
2015
majority report for broadcasting live
after a brief technical delay in the
steps away from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program Brian Muir of Brazil wire the
descent of Brazil into a fascist mafia
state and its connection to the ongoing
coup in Venezuela than Ava Gallinger
former legal adviser to OBO Chavez gonna
be speaking with us about what's
happening on the ground now Turkey China
Russia rejects the u.s. Canadian backed
move to recognize another president and
militarily threatened a sovereign
government with the support of many many
Democrats and the silence of others
Mexico and Uruguay and the Vatican are
looking to negotiate some type of peace
arrangements as we are mid coup attempt
in Venezuela ROH Khanna honorable
exception and a few others we'll get to
that and more Trump's gonna delay his
State of the Union address more relaxing
next Tuesday for those of us in this
studio Senator Cory Gardner
of Colorado he's saying he'll vote on a
democratic deal
to open the government furloughed
workers are staging sit-ins outside of
senators offices and 12 have been
arrested where's the arrest warrant for
Mitch McConnell who could end this at
any time he wanted and where are the
nationwide strikes we need over this and
actually a whole lot of other things
Schiff Adam Schiff Cara and Maxine
Waters are looking to do a joint
investigation into Deutsche Bank which
is an important Bank to keep track of
for all Trump related irregularities
well maybe not all Jesus Christ I don't
want to think about all Trump related
irregularities the Pacific Standard his
reporting that Trump is set to cancel a
fifty-year-old environmental law and air
traffic control Union leaders warned of
unprecedented safety risks as the
shutdown continues strike now strike now
all that and much much more on the
majority report folks I don't know what
that problem was I think we're good to
go now but we're gonna have a shortened
opening block no actually we can't play
this clip because I told I told Brian to
give me an extra five minutes so
actually I guess we're only at 1216
sometimes enlightenment comes from
unlikely sources a lot of people beef
with Chris Cuomo I actually think Chris
Cuomo for what it's worth is not I mean
there's a network that has Jake Tapper
who is consistently outdoing himself in
whack and whole you know cavalcade of
well guess that I'm not particularly
impressed by but here is Chris Cuomo of
all people first he's parlaying some
right-wing I don't even was the
guy's name did we was born a sore toe
Steve Cortes I don't even know this guy
they're talking about the border and of
course completely artificial fake crisis
to build on people's racial paranoia's
it signifies absolutely nothing other
than the suffering created by this
policy
Cuomo is parlaying that and first he
goes in the right in a brilliant
direction it was like actually I could
tell you in a national emergency we
could deal with poverty boom then that
of course sentence off the Pavlovian
response and all of these idiots which
is po do so to bother you about that as
well and then Chris Cuomo as a shocked
Paul Begala looks on has a more
effective answer on Venezuela than like
over 90% of professional Democrats I see
in media let's check this out it will
fall that doesn't mean crime will be
eliminated it will fall and look here's
the thing about illegal alien crime
there you're right we have a lot of
crime in the United States and we've got
as ways we can't can and should address
that but illegal alien crime is 100
percent percent preventable in every
single case we just had over the weekend
the arrest of an illegal alien who
killed an elderly 80 year old couple in
Nevada I mean this is very real world
pain that these people have to deal with
one of the tools to fight that kind of
illegality and that kind of pain is a
border you apply no other type of crime
prevention in this country the idea that
something's a hundred percent proper you
know what's a hundred percent
preventable poverty you know it's a
hundred percent preventable hunger in
the richest country in the world no
urgency like that I was poverty though
you get promoted are you gonna say
social economy up because you take a
look at Venezuela Venezuela cuz look cuz
that's a great strategy going there
right you starve these cobras of support
pop then you create environments on the
ground where they can blow up and then
you stand back and watch and burn what
are we gonna do there now what are we
gonna do in the Triangle if he cuts aid
to them come on Steve look blaming
blaming the United States for the
problems of Central America I'm doing
that I'm saying that cutting funding
will only make it worse and I I what I
love about that clip is is nothing
really is no analysis I need to do
around it he nailed all of it the only
thing I would add is I do blame US
foreign policy for a great deal problems
in Latin
folks big corporations are getting rich
by selling your data and Congress has
completely failed to save net neutrality
or protect online pry or protect your
privacy online now internet providers
and mobile carriers like Comcast and
Verizon are free to restrict websites
spy on your online activity or sell your
browsing history to advertisers but with
one-click expressvpn shields your online
activity from internet / internet and
mobile providers expressvpn has
easy-to-use apps that run seamlessly in
the background of your computer phone
and tablet expressvpn secures and
anonymizes your internet browsing by
encrypting your data and hiding your
public IP address get VPN protection for
less than seven dollars a month Express
VPM rated the number one VPN service by
tech writer and comes with a 30-day back
money guarantee if you ever use public
Wi-Fi and want to keep hackers and spies
from seeing your data expressvpn is the
solution as I always say with this
service which is indispensable you got
to protect yourselves I but I it was
incredibly easy to install which is my
sort of basic maker break with any
technology seamless easy to install no
way changes your experience but just
protects you somewhat from this stalker
economy of Silicon Valley to take back
your internet privacy today and find out
how you can get three months free goto
Express VPN comm slash majority that's
expr e SS v pn dot-com / majority for
three months free with a one-year
package visit Express VPN calm /
majority to learn more we'll be right
back with Brian Mayer
[Music]
you
Jesus Christ when you play the sounds
ROPS during the break it's like there's
no escape
so can I have one minute of my life
before I go on air or I talk of my
friend Brian mirror or I don't have to
be reminded that Mark Zuckerberg exists
Matt Jesus Christ it doesn't stop it
never stops joining us now is Brian
Mayer he is the co-editor of Brazil wire
you can also find his work at Telus or
and any other reputable outlet dealing
with Latin America Brian thank you so
much for joining us thanks for having me
so Brian we've been talking for a long
time on both the majority report and the
Michael Brooks show people can see you
in a variety of outlets both telling the
actual trajectory at least a modern
trajectory of how we got where we are in
Brazil today which obviously has
ramifications for what's happening right
now in Venezuela with this attempted
coup and across really I would say you
know kind of east west and east west
north south politics and I want you to
actually do that again for us briefly
just a reset could you get us to really
the the you know basically the rise and
successes of Lula in the Workers Party
and Dilma and the imprisonment of Lula
and how these forces from u.s. foreign
policy makers Wall Street Sergio Moro
converged to bring a current and it
looks like faltering fascist government
into power in Brazil okay well in honor
of the failed coup attempt was underway
in Venezuela right now I will use
petroleum as the narrative threat in
this version of the story okay so
basically you know there is a
dictatorship in Brazil until 1985
despite petroleum interests being behind
the dictatorship the military never
privatized Raziel State petroleum
company then around two
and six after Loula had been in power
for a couple of years Brazil discovered
the world's largest offshore petroleum
reserves and announced that its state
petroleum company Petrobras had
developed very cheap technology and
efficient technology for extracting
deepwater offshore petroleum reserves
right at this point we know from Edward
Snowden can you hear the Thunder that's
going on it's pouring out you definitely
can hear the thunder this is the it adds
the prophetic resonance of your yeah
this is good it's like there's dark
clouds hanging over South American
democracy today right you do not all
right
so basically this point we know that the
the NSA started spying on Petrobras
petroleum company you know suddenly
Brazil was positioned to be transformed
into one of the world's leading
Petroleum Producers okay now this had
ramifications because as we know as we
can see by what's going on in Venezuela
right now when a country gets too much
petroleum the United States starts
getting very interested and so we know
through leaked State Department cables
from 2009 that the US government started
engaging in a partnership to ostensibly
to fight corruption in Brazil with the
with a local public prosecutor's office
in the city of Curitiba in southern
Brazil led by a man named Sergio mortal
okay so this led to this huge
anti-corruption investigation called
lava shot or operation car wash in
English alleging that millions of
dollars had been embezzled through
Petrobras some newspapers calling it the
biggest scandal of all times and then it
bled into a bunch of other major
Brazilian industry
many of which had big holdings in the
United States like jbs meatpacking
company which bought Swift a couple
years ago like older black construction
company here we go again
oh the brushed thunder okay so anyway so
they started these investigations and
not to say that there wasn't corruption
in there wasn't a lot of corruption in
fact the oil industry the petroleum
industry is one of the five biggest five
most corrupt industries in the world
right bye-bye accounts you know like
it's like the drug industry like the
pesticide industry if you scratch under
the surface in any petroleum company
you're going to find all kinds of
corruption right look at shale for
example in Nigeria bragging about
placing cabinet ministers yeah things
like that so you're not okay so anyway
despite the fact that they were unable
to prove any links between Dilma
Rousseff and corruption Petrobras it was
used as an excuse to commit character
assassination against her in the media
and in in the US media in the new york
times during the week before the 2014
re-elections or when she ran for
reelection 2014 the new york times
connected her to corruption in the
Petrolia and petrol price likes in seven
different moments and articles leading
up to the election john oliver connected
her to corruption in Petrobras petroleum
company on his show you know and the
basically none of that was ever they
couldn't ever find any evidence of this
so she was impeached on a budget
technicality she was removed from office
on a technicality by a Congress that you
know most of the members of Congress had
corruption charges open against them for
other things anyways you know including
the head of Congress at the time is now
in jail for stealing tens of millions of
thoughts so she was thrown out
then they started moving against Lula
once again
driving the idea that he was involved in
corruption with Petrobras petroleum
company in fact the Guardian on that day
Lula was arrested lied about this and
said that his corruption charges were
connected to forty nine million dollars
or something of embezzlement in
Petrobras
Petrobras Petroleum Company which Sergio
Moore himself said in this sentence was
absolutely not the case they couldn't
find any evidence surface so you see in
this ongoing process in which they
removed a democratically elected leader
on a budget technicality that was
legalized a week after she left office
and then arrested the leading candidate
in the 2018 presidential elections after
spending years publicly associating him
with corruption and petroleum in the
petroleum industry which didn't exist we
get to this point where the far right
wing government of Jerry bolster was
able to take power and he appointed the
man who was the prosecutor and the judge
in the charges against Lula as his
justice minister or in other words the
same man who removed Lula from the
elections when he was leading with a
double the popularity of any other
contender is you know got a present in
return for that you know now he's
working to protect all snarl song
against corruption charges so yeah so I
and I just tend to be clear when you
said legalize it a week after what just
just to spell it out for a second the
budget technicality and to be clear
everybody should go look at this up I
mean literally they removed Dilma
roussef for you know the essentially the
equivalent of if Obama gave like a a you
know some type of budget projection
score that you could say oh that wasn't
you know no there's actually more in the
AG department than he's saying
right like if Republicans removed Obama
for a bad CBO scores essentially what
we're talking about and then the
maneuver that was technically illegal
that they used I guessed
they specifically made legal a week
after they used it to remove her from
office so and I want it I want to touch
though on this theme of corruption
because it's gonna get us into the
genuinely jaw-dropping you know
corruption allegations that are now
swirling around the bolsa narrow
operation and potential stories are
connecting them to a cartel gang that
assassinated Mariela Franco but I think
you know more and on a bigger picture
there this use of corruption politics
has been the friend of fascism across
the globe Donald Trump ran a generic
drain the swamp campaign in India
Narenda Modi has talked constantly of
corruption and you know and it spells
out a couple of things
so one it's the enormous double
standards look if if in Venezuela or
Nicaragua which again I'm you know I
think we could be intellectually honest
there's problems in these places and we
still of course obviously oppose us
interference but if there was a
left-wing government that was perceived
of his anti United States and the
leading contender was thrown in jail by
a guy who then became on spurious
charges that could never be spelled out
or verified and then became justice
minister in a left-wing government that
he put into place because he took a
internationally recognized icon and put
him into solitary confinement that would
be well I mean as big as any
international story is in the United
States but it would be it would cause
quite a huff here and there be a lot of
official sounding statements from you
know the State Department and so on
right so there's that obvious
contradiction then there's the fact that
these governments and we're gonna get
into bowls in our own in a second have
their own you know just draw dropping
corruption allegations and then there's
the bigger context of how are we even
defining corruption anyways I mean okay
you discover kickbacks at an oil company
who as you said I mean you'll discover
that anywhere that there's an oil
business may be the least of which in
Norway
maybe I mean right but what is balsan ro
appointing a set of ministers that are
gonna privatize the country and sell it
off to Wall Street and Canadian logging
firms like that's not corruption anyways
I just want to you know take it in any
direction you want to go in but I just
think it's very important that these
generic terms like corruption that are
thrown around and are always leveraged
in the modern context by the far right
be really interrogated because people
constant like oh well corruptions bad
you know and we got to be really clear
about what the hell we're exactly
talking about here yeah I feel like
corruption has become a mind stopping
cliche right the way that the media use
you hear the word and your mind stops
functioning oh he was corrupt Shh
Brian fellows Brian no we're
reconnecting a little real-time little
real heck of a thunderstorm a
thunderstorm
it's very apocalyptic today Cooper
apocalypse rainy here - all right let me
just try them right back
see if not I might have to call him on a
lamp not good folks not good folks oh
sorry about this sorry for all the tech
problems but you can't fight with nature
use some dinner key or the apocalypse
all right drops finicky course all this
plate of a fish all right I got to get
his
I gotta go landline for him
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
hey everyone we are live from my
backyard where I am smoking a brisket
and some ribs I am a make meats now
smoking these meats here smoking it's
smoking so I'm the meat chef yeah
someone asked me do I smoke meat
smoking meat smoking these meats smoking
meats earlier in the day smoking these
meats just set the charcoal up and you
set the the woodchips up and then
smoking meats grilling grilling meats
good smoky flavor smoke a brisket for
like 12 hours you smoked lemon chicken
smoked salmon you'll love it bison
sirloin ribs and sausage so I'm looking
forward to it to that today we got a
brisket on the big guy and some pork
ribs on on the green egg
meat like a brisket I got ribs in there
finishing off the brisket in the rib now
to just sit in our backyard finishing
off this brisket and these ribs but
hopefully for Canadian Thanksgiving you
get to eat a lot of brisket ribs how
many of you guys are using brisket and
ribs tonight brisket and ribs they taste
doubly better when when you hunted the
animal yourself so what are you guys
making for dinner brisket ribs I hope
delicious we're skinned rib the ribs and
the brisket need to be eaten I want to
try your brisket I want to try my
brisket it's a pretty tough cut of meat
ribs and the brisket or your I want my
baby back baby back ribs yeah that's
what I'm talking about sweet baby Ray's
barbecue sauce that is going on the ribs
sweet baby Ray's sweet very sweet baby
Ray's is very good sweet baby Ray's we
have just applied the sweet baby Ray's
sweet baby Ray's sweet baby Ray's they
throw some sweet baby Ray's on the
radisson take it from there
she's waiting for her ribs I mean she
she knows what's coming and the sweet
baby Ray's so that's that's that's
pretty good who doesn't like ribs
everyone likes ribs everyone likes
rescue me yeah no this is this is what
Facebook life is for just hanging out
while you're sitting in your backyard
waiting for your brisket and your ribs
to finish smoking
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
hey folks sorry about that we cannot get
back through the Brian I know that the
storm is really serious there that
really sucks bad tech karma today we'll
see if we can get Ava on the line in 10
minutes but I do want to say yeah just a
second but I just want to finish what
was gumming out of Brazil just for a
minute so oh okay let me try this Brian
hey Brian hey there really rains and no
worries I'm I'm glad you're back you
were it's just you know what let's just
take it from where you worry we have
about another 10 minutes you were saying
corruption as a thought stopping cliche
please go from there it's a mining
cliche I feel like basically since the
United States doesn't have any more
moral authority on human rights issues
even though it still tries to use them
as excuses for justified interventions
it has to it has to use other
justifications to take down governments
that don't completely suck up to all of
their demands you know so corruption is
an easy thing to accuse people of the
Mussolini loves to accuse leftists of
being corrupt it's a constant theme it
was used corruption was a theme used to
try and take down the left in brazil
leading up to the 1964 military coup so
that's why I think it's used so much but
I think you have to look at what's
really going on when these charges come
about and the way that the media is
using them because in the case of Lula
there's there was never any material
evidence presented against him and they
couldn't even create a formal charge he
was he was charged with undetermined
acts of corruption based on one clear
in testimony from a man who had already
been jailed and received huge reduction
of his sentence and transferred the
house arrest and partial retention of
millions of dollars in assets for
basically delivering the script the
Sergio Mora could used to put him in
jail you know and then you compare that
to the charges against Sharples Naro son
well let's spell those out what are the
charges against zai Jiao Abelson ro son
and what has been happening in terms of
de revelations I mean we already know
that JR bolson ro is a you know a
far-right bigoted autocrat client of US
interests but in the past couple of
weeks it's been just the speed at which
some of these incredibly serious
corruption allegations particularly
around his son have come out spell those
out for us what's happening here and
then of course how is this great
crusader against corruption Sergio Moro
who created Lula as a political prisoner
and now serves in this government what's
he have to say about all this I'm
assuming he's resigning in protest but
okay so in Rio de Janeiro historically
large swaths of the city have been
controlled by organized crime groups by
drug gangs in the early 2000s groups of
off duty or retired or former police
officers got together to try and drive
the drug dealers out of one favela on
the west side of the city called here
das Pedras and it's what started out of
kind of like noble goal of like making
the neighborhood safer and stuff quickly
turned into this kind of extortion gang
that operates on the same principles
like as the Mafia they charge protection
money from local businesses and they
wreak out very brutal justice in their
neighborhood which is very similar the
kind of rhetoric Olson are used to get
elected which is that they kill petty
thieves
you know they kill rapists and they
shoot people for smoking marijuana and
things like that
and and so basically the leader of
they're their paramilitary militias
basically and they've spread to other
neighborhoods around Rio de Janeiro now
but the first one is this one from rio
das Pedras and so the civil police just
conducted the civil police anti
organized crime unit just conducted a
raid and arrested a bunch of their
leaders and as it turns out the biggest
leader is this captain former captain
from the military police Special Forces
who has been honoured two times in the
City Council by Flavio bowls Naru he's
received like honorary Awards in the
city I air Bulls Neuros son has Jerry
Boston our son who was just elected
senator and so then it subsequently come
out that this militia leaders mother and
wife were working as employees of Flavio
bowls Amaro and there's another know
there's another employee of lovable
snarls supposedly his driver
who's been busted in this huge paper
trail of making dozens of illicit
deposits into Flavia bull snorts bank
account at one point he gave twenty five
thousand reais Shire bulls Neuros wife
and so there's now this whole paper
trail of what appears to be money
laundering activities going on and it's
come out that the this militia leaders
wife and and girlfriend have been
working for Flavia bull Sonora without
actually having to show up to work and
kicking back like ninety percent of
their salaries every month to the driver
who then transfer that into Flavio's
bank accounts along with other of
phantom employees it's come out that
Flavia bolster had a full-time job in
Brasilia working in the cabinet of his
father when his father was congressman
at the same time that he was doing an
internship at a university in Rio de
Janeiro that he had to show up for work
at so he was supposedly working at two
places in the same time and now okay
it's also come out that there were these
two twin brother military police
officers who were arrested for being
militia members a month and a half ago
their sister is the treasurer for gyre
bowls now
political party in Rio de Janeiro the
PSL she's a political party treasurer on
the books as an employee of Flavio bowls
Nara as a member of his cabinet until
like two months ago when these
investigations be done
so as this all thickens as this plot
thickens is it's come out that this
militia organization called the
escritura decree me from here las papers
is the number one suspect in the Mariela
Franco assassination City Council one
woman Mariela Franco who was brutally
assassinated last year for yeah
apparently you know one of the things
that she was doing before she was
assassinated was heavily criticizing and
trying to get investigations underway
into the connection between the military
police and these militias okay so and
Jerry bolster was the only candidate for
present who did not make a public
statement on Mariela Franco's death and
so meanwhile as this is all going on
Sergio Moro was hailed as this impartial
non-political anti-corruption Crusader
in the New York Times and all the other
hegemonic media in the north as he was
arresting Lula for nothing he's now
taken all kinds of legal measures to
protect Flavia bowls narrow from
prosecution including firing the guy who
announced all of the that all of the
evidence had been found on these illegal
bank transfers and money laundering
was fired from his office and replaced
with someone and he's also saying well
this office the AH it's like an office
of auditing from the federal government
of competitions and stuff co AF it's
called anyway but now he's saying well
they they're not allowed to communicate
any of their information to the press
which is ironic because Sergio Mora was
busted illegally wiretapping Lula and
Dilma Rousseff and leaking that to the
press when he was going out after going
after them and he got a slap on the
wrist for this from the Supreme Court
for that so his whole modus operandi is
leaking information on allegations and
rumors and
against the PT party but now he's
blocked his own government from doing it
against the bull snarl family right and
now so and and yeah and I think is in a
mile so is it correct that as bolson
arrow has obviously announced this wave
of austerity measures in keeping with
his Wall Street aligned advisors that
one area where there's a pay increases
for the judiciary that was of course so
helpful in blocking the democratic
process and jailing Lula yeah well one
of the first things that happened after
the coup was that tammer gave a big
raise to the judiciary but now yeah
basically there's it's very confusing
because they're using Trump style
cognitive dissonance psyops
techniques well though one member of the
government will announce some huge
change everyone in the media starts
talking about it and then a week later
someone else says no it's not really
gonna happen the guy was wrong you know
so but the economics minister Posner is
a former is a University of Chicago
trained super neoliberal economists who
lived in Chile during the Pinochet
dictatorship you know was friends with a
bunch of people in Pinochet's in their
circle and he's trying to do all kinds
of crazy austerity reforms and they're
gonna they wonder if they want to do a
Chilean style reform of the retirement
system and both snores announced he's
gonna spare the judiciary and the
military from that of course you know I
know they're obviously the ones who
create the biggest drain on the
retirement system so right so even if
you were following that really narrow
logic that would be the place you'd want
to cut um yeah are we a couple minutes
more but I do want to touch on obviously
there's this attempted coup happening in
Venezuela and again there's like the
nature of the Venezuelan government is
is a completely secondary conversation
when the United States attempts to you
know remove a neighboring government
from power so you would also have just
done an interview in Brazil wire and one
of the reason we Brazil wire is
indispensable for Brazil and one of the
reasons is frankly I mean in addition to
very smart analysis
from people at Brian it's also one of
the only places in the United States or
in english-language media where you can
just read interviews with people who I
mean look not only the left in Brazil
but in fact still one of the maybe
organizationally still the most
important political party in Brazil the
Workers Party the PT and you just did an
interview with the head of PT who she
had just returned actually from a trip
to Venezuela so is there a way and of
course bolson ro is completely signed on
to this Trump CIA effort what is the
sort of PT what is the Brazilian dynamic
left and right in relation to what's
happening in Venezuela right now well
it's very clear you know regardless of
what I like to compare Venezuela to like
the afl-cio you know because I could
look at the afl-cio and say oh look
they've done all these problems they
have all these they've done all these
stupid things over the years but you
know in general I still support them and
I support their autonomy when the
self-determination of their base-level
members to elect whoever they want ed to
afl-cio leadership right I'm not gonna
terms and so glazy Hoffman was attacked
repeatedly by a bunch of reporters from
The Guardian for going to Maduro Rose
inauguration you know and Chavez and
friends and everything so she's
especially Tom Phillips he spent a whole
day ridiculing her on Twitter Tom
Phillips is like the Latin America
editor of Guardian though and so she
made a statement to the press you said
anyone who criticizes my visit to
Venezuela doesn't understand the the
concepts of Safa sovereignty and
self-determination and so when I
interviewed for I'm like I said look I
actually don't think a lot of Americans
and British people really understand
those concepts very well because both
countries have such a long imperialist
history even a lot of progressives and
liberals think that for example the US
should if they see something going wrong
and another country should step in and
solve human rights issues or whatever so
so she said you know she said basically
the PT had to go and participate in
maduras inauguration because they
respect the sovereignty and the
self-determination of those of the
Venezuelan people Maduro was elected
with 67% of the vote you know the
opposition the opposition guy who
declared himself president didn't even
run for office because he knew he was
going to lose
okay so Chavez and Maduro whatever their
faults were they did a lot to strengthen
the the third-world left you know and
the PT is in full solidarity with them
at this moment just as the governance
the governments of China and Russia
Turkey and Mexico have all announced
that they refuse to recognize Guindon or
whatever as the president Venezuela so
basically I think that it's important to
know that all of the labor unions and
all of the social movements in South
America right now are on the sides of
the Maduro administration there's a
class divide at work and as I'm saying
this I'm sure there's going to be some
people are going on comment and say no
I'm from Venezuela you don't know what's
going on down there whatever it's
important to know that the middle class
whites from these countries in South
America have a long legacy of slavery
like Brazil and Venezuela are generally
they generally act more progressive than
they really are when they're in the
United States if they're up there living
in the United States and there's a huge
amount of racism this is a very entitled
social class the working class and the
poor in countries like Venezuela and
Brazil don't speak English English is a
sign of being a member of the elite and
we're talking about people who grew up
with armies of servants and kitchen
maids you know women washing their
underwear for them and stuff you know
who are now acting like they care about
the fate of the poor people in their
countries just as when I start talking
about Lula
I get trolled by Brazilians up in the
u.s. even man I saw boots Riley was
being trolled by Venezuelan whites
yesterday
I'm Twitter too so just keep in mind or
keep in mind one of the most stunning
and I know you you have obviously one
more experience in images of this but
I'll just leave it with this I saw an
image and I'll admit I mean I think
actually I did do a little bit of
coverage of the coup in real time and
and we called it right although I think
you know at that time particularly
before the coup I had more room for
talking about you know a sort of broader
analysis of the dynamics in Brazil but
still recognizing the achievements of PT
and opposing the coup but one of the
things that really brought it home for
me just at the outset before I even did
more research was just a photo of you
know a light-skinned upper middle-class
family in regalia going to an anti PT
protest and literally like a black woman
maid walking behind them looking pissed
I was like all right I think I know what
side of this equation I trust and you
know there's a lot more to be spelled
out and I'm not gonna you know carry
water for anybody but the basic dynamics
are in place and you know it is what it
is we have to oppose it although that
being said Brian I recognize Lula as
president of Brazil your tweets on my
Facebook page yesterday in the night
hundreds of Brazilians shared it and
everything everyone was greatly approved
awesome
well Lula Libre Brian Muir I appreciate
your time as always please everybody
read and contribute to Brazil wire it's
indispensable and follow Brian's work
really all over the place now one of the
one of the sort of positive things that
have happened over the last several
months is now a lot more people I think
are reading you in a band is a wire yeah
well thanks for your support with it as
well I'm sure you've contributed to that
being a you know happening it's my
appreciated thank you Brian talk to you
soon all right all right folks we are
gonna take a very brief break and come
back with Eva
Jerr
[Music]
you
welcome back to the
ERD report joining us now is Ava
Gallinger she is the former legal
adviser to ago Shabbos she's a
journalist television host investigative
reporter author of confidante of
quote/unquote tyrants which is a memoir
of her political work in Venezuela how
she came to play that role and her
meeting with many other people including
Fidel Castro Gadhafi and others Ava
thanks so much for being here thanks for
having me on the show so Ava just I mean
to the extent it's possible where are we
right now in and by the way I mean I've
been calling it an attempted coup would
you use that same terminology and then
as well you're on been attempted coup I
mean it well it's a coup that's still
developing it's an coup in development
because there's still no final outcome
you know it's not a coup that's been yet
sorted it's not a coup that was
successful it's still playing out in
real time and there's really no clear
end game at this stage and I think that
goes to show even further the level of
improvisation that we're dealing with
here with this particular government in
the United States that of course has
been backing this and encouraging it now
for a while but particularly over the
past few weeks as things have developed
in in Venezuela that have given way to
this as well open the doors to it but
it's really the improvisation that
that's terrifying because we're you know
we have that in the United States we
were seeing we're living that daily with
with the Trump administration and
everything all their policies and what
they're trying to do what he's
particularly doing the way he operates
and now we're seeing it play out with an
incredibly volatile dangerous foreign
policy issue and so you know and and the
opposition in Venezuela has a history of
improvisation I mean this it's also part
of the culture in Venezuela but you know
they did this in 2002 when they tried to
overthrow go Chavez in a coup that was
briefly successful and then was defeated
by a popular uprising of the majority of
Venezuelans
and also loyal military forces but at
that time the opposition had done the
same thing they had convinced Washington
they could do it and so Washington
backed them in every way possible
funneling millions of dollars and all
the political and diplomatic support and
even military support they sent in you
know there were ships there they're a
Black Hawk Black Hawk helicopter I mean
they were all in for this and then at
the last minute they realized oh man
these people they're not gonna be able
to do it so the u.s. tried to back out
and it was too late you know they went
forward they failed so now we're seeing
it once again although this time the
stakes are higher and the situation is
is different there's you know at that
time I think it Chavez was also more
fresh in his role as president and
people were just horrified that that was
happening in the country it was you know
outrageous and and but now it's been a
prolonged period of crisis in the
country Nicolas Maduro is not Chavez he
doesn't enjoy the same level of
admiration from his supporters they
basically put up with him because he's
the guy that Chavez asked them to elect
and so they did and he's the one the
only one so far who's shown the
leadership to carry forward you know
that particular project the Bolivarian
revolution even though it's been
disastrous under his rule but at the
same time and you know it's different
the the level of morality is low people
are suffering a severe economic crisis
the number one problem is corruption in
his government
you know he's constantly making promises
that he can't keep can't follow through
on nothing's gotten better the economy
is is really just completely devastated
and so I think there's much more support
for change in the country and when this
guy wond why though who's completely was
a relatively unknown faith piece of the
opposition took on this very charismatic
stands and doesn't have that same
tarnished history as other opposition
leaders do as participating in in past
coos and violence and you know just
corruption corrupt political parties
this guy is very young fresh-faced
charismatic making also big promises of
you know stability and and transition
and
and reconciliation so I think there's
more openness to hearing him out but at
the same time we have a change in the
region you know just a few years ago a
majority of countries would never have
backed a situation like this they would
never have endorsed any kind of regime
change in a neighboring country and that
has the tables have turned entirely it's
it's really astonishing to see how the
transformation in Latin America just a
few years ago was a unified front
against foreign intervention it was you
know proclaiming their independence and
sovereignty and as a regional power
unified and now of course it's
completely divided on ideological lines
and a majority of countries in South
America come out against Maduro and are
supporting this coup and so that
combined with with the Trump
administration's unwavering and very
enthusiastic support that could include
some kind of military intervention is
what could push this over the edge but I
would just add you know before
concluding this summary of events is
that you know the major game changer
here of course is the Venezuelan
military and at this very moment they're
backing Maduro and they would be it
would be hard to see them cross the line
to back an opposition that's supported
by the United States because that would
clearly be seen as treasonous and it's
not you know most of these military they
may not support what Maduro is doing but
they certainly support the defense and
sovereignty of their nation so there
would have to be a different sort of way
out that wouldn't be seen as aligning
with the United States and then of
course we have to factor in Russia and
China's support for Maduro which creates
Venezuela or it turns Venezuela into a
geopolitical battlefield that's a
struggle than between the west and you
know Russia and China over this country
with the largest oil reserves on the
planet how about the second largest oil
reserves on the planet the largest or do
you largest oil reserves on the planet
so so ok well I want to just for a
minute deal with the like that basically
the Bulevar own project and the social
formation around it and I like that you
outlined it and again I keep saying like
you know if ever there was a time to be
able to hold
multiple thoughts in your head at once
it would be now obviously right so of
course there are failings of Nicolas
Maduro and of this present government
and there's also massive accomplishments
of particularly Hugo Chavez which we
have no discussion of in the United
States right and obviously during an
attempted coup the primary
responsibility of those of us the United
States is to actively and vehemently
oppose a coup and so all of that being
said in terms of like the social
formation around Maduro you talked about
obviously the popular surge that
protected Chavez from the bush 2002 coup
I've heard and you know I I'm talking to
you because you're a source I trust
right there's a lot of sources I I don't
even know enough to trust or not trust
frankly but one of the things I've heard
is that unlike in previous efforts there
are poorer parts of Caracas as an
example places where the traditional
social base of this pala of Bolivarian
politics have rallied before to defend
this project from foreign intervention
and domestic oligarchs but that there's
actually like some of those demographics
are rising up as well because things
have been so bad and I guess my quote I
have a two-part question one I mean is
that true and secondly what is the
combination here of internal failings
versus just like the relentless US
pressure of sanctions and an investment
in opposition as well like what's the
kind of fusion of innate failings versus
ongoing relentless u.s. interference
this is really a type of what you would
call low intensity warfare or asymmetric
warfare it's been going on for a long
time it does that does not discount the
role that the government itself has
played in their own dysfunctional
policies and their you know allowing
corruption to basically become a
malignant force within the government
but at the same time you know the
there's no question I mean
the particularly the us through their
different funding agencies like USA it
or National Endowment for democracy even
just directly through State Department
think tanks like Freedom House others
that are used as fronts to channel funds
to you know and even in some cases
creating NGOs that work to undermine
governments that aren't favorable to us
agenda that this overtime is a way it
just tires out the people you know it
becomes an independent rates so deeply
into civil society that it's
unrecognizable as being something
imposed from external you know interest
so I mean that is that does play a huge
role in what's gone on in the poorer
neighborhoods but the same time I mean
the primary reason that you know a
majority of lower income areas supported
Chavez in the first place was because of
his policies oh yeah he was a
charismatic guy he cared about people
but you know if they wouldn't have
supported him for so long and put their
lives on the line to defend him for so
many years in the face of so much
destabilization and you know different
attempted coos and and aggressions
against them if it wasn't for the fact
that his policies were servicing their
basic needs people were the quality of
life improved dramatically under Chavez
so all of that now has been rolled back
under Maduro in part because of
sanctions and economic warfare from
private enterprises and abroad but I
mean I have to say no I mean I know
what's going on there you know there's a
lot of corruption
they've been embezzling a lot of money
out and it's mismanagement you know so
there there are bad people in place in
in in charge of a lot of the finances of
the country and they've been stealing
money I mean that just straight out so
you know that's also a combination of
what's been going on and so yes this the
support from the traditional grassroots
community bases in Venezuela for the
government has dramatically eroded over
the past couple years because of the
economic crisis primarily because of
that because in general people don't
care as much if they're president
has Authority and tendencies or not so
long as they can eat and earn a decent
wage and you know pay their for all
their expenses I mean it comes down to
that most people are not highly
politicized and aren't thinking about
that on an everyday basis they're
thinking about how much money do they
have and can they afford everything that
they need in their lives so once that
start the tables start to turn on that
you know you think with your stomach
that was always something said in
Venezuela before Chavez and afterward is
people think first with their stomach if
you can't eat you know you're you're
gonna get angry yeah so you're gonna
blame who's in charge who's preventing
that you know you from being able to
meet your basic needs and in this case
it is Maduro so I mean I think that that
is absolutely true and I mean I've been
talking nonstop to people on the ground
in in different areas around the country
and last night was a night full of
protest bullets you know people got
killed there was a lot of commotion and
in in all over Caracas particularly and
in the poorer neighborhoods as well
in popular sectors and then at the same
time Maduro as people call it and he
himself called for his supporters to
rally around the presidential palace and
protect him nobody was out there at
midnight it was empty so that would
never have happened during Chavez people
would have slept out there if they
needed to so I think that's a huge piece
we're not seeing kind of support for a
Maduro I mean is that do you think that
might change just as the United States
continues this and there's like an
actual threat of military action like
does that logic start to shift back of
wait a second whatever like the same
logic that you said the military
officers might have that whatever else
we say about him we can't have a coup
here and incidentally what opposition
realistically in any way is going to you
know my sense is that the people that
oppose Maduro that would be backed by
the United States all of the same
problems whether they be corruption or
embezzlement or you know cartel
connections whatever sure there'll be
all of that and they'll be a complete
elimination of the social advances and
autonomy that this government has the
well and let's not kid ourselves though
I mean the opposition is comprised of
political parties primarily that ruled
before are some kind of hybrid of those
that had power before the Bolivarian
revolution extremely corrupt you know
embezzled billions of dollars out of the
country were responsible for the
skyrocketing poverty in Venezuela and
the marginalization of a majority of
Venezuelans so I mean that is obviously
an concern but at this stage people feel
as though well we don't you know if we
can get food on our plates then it may
not matter who's in power and so I think
it'll come down to that there certainly
is a hard core base of supporters you
know Chavistas I would say they're not
necessarily mad Ortiz doesn't you know
like the Maduro hardcore supporters but
they believe they're following through
on on that project which is really about
Venezuela's sovereignty and a you know a
project of social justice and they would
fight to the death so you know there and
there are people there are civilian
militias that are trained and armed I
mean it's not a country that's
defenseless and you know they do have
the backing of Russia they they do have
powerful equipment doesn't mean they
could come up against the US military in
any sense but they wouldn't go out with
you know like their heads between their
knees I mean there are a lot who would
fight that said I think that hopefully
it won't come to that and there could be
some kind of negotiated process out of
this situation but what's happening now
is completely unprecedented violates
every concept of international law
sovereignty
you know rights to self-determination I
mean essentially the legislative breath
the head of the legislative branch has
has declared himself the head of the
executive branch is being recognized by
you know powerful foreign nations and is
somehow is working presently out of the
Colombian embassy in Caracas to set up a
government I mean he has no control over
anything in the country he doesn't have
control over institutions he doesn't
have control over the finances you know
so it he doesn't have control over the
oil industry so that it comes down to
what is the next step here this is all
developing in real time and seems highly
improvised
and it doesn't seem as though they
really have a clear path forward if they
think that Maduro is gonna just walk out
of the presidential palace I would say I
mean I could be wrong things could
change but as it stands right now I just
do not see that happening I mean
obviously they've been trying to
instigate something for quite some time
right I mean and going back of course I
mean Bush threw Obama you told it to
like load the Intel high intensity and
you know the economic warfare against
Venezuela but specifically with Trump I
mean that was one of the reasons that
you know that ridiculous John Oliver
commentary on Venezuela that was such
you know nonsense from a year or two ago
because he was you know dismissing the
idea that the Venezuelan government was
putting forward of us interference
literally at the same time that Mike
Pompeo when he was head to the CIA was
actually publicly saying this and of
course Trump has said any number of
things threatening Maduro and Venezuela
publicly and I think on some level I
mean obviously there's a bigger history
behind this but I'm like I mean this
might be the time to Institute instigate
this because the government shutdown
strategy is totally failing right like
that really is the level of just total
nonsense we're dealing with in terms of
Trump in addition to like the
traditional US interests that would you
know and have instigated like over
40-something coos in Latin America in
the last you know a couple of dozen
years so like if you were back there
advising what would like I mean first I
guess it was before we get to like your
your potential solution space I mean do
you actually think that it could get as
bad as some type of military invasion
and as that specifically have to do with
Maduro expelling diplomats and then
refusing to leave well there could be a
standoff that certainly seems like a
provocation on the part of the United
States to you know refuse to obey the I
mean that that's international law
that's the you know the Vienna
Convention on diplomatic and consular
relations that every country has the
right to make that kind of decision
that's a sovereign right at the same
time you know the US Embassy in Caracas
the US residents
in in Caracas for its diplomats those
are sovereign territories of the United
States that's how it works so like
Venezuelan forces can't go into those
spaces and forcibly remove them I don't
think that they would do that anyway I
think it would just be a very you know
volatile standoff however if were if
they were to be provoked and something
were to happen I foresee a like a
Grenada type situation where the US
would then say we have to go in and
rescue our people so we're bringing in
the Marines you know and then and that
could open the door or they could do it
with special forces I mean the Colombia
is right on the other side of Venice
Maas border that they have a massive
military presence particularly of
Special Forces in Colombian militant US
military bases so you know this has been
the US has been preparing for a regime
change in Venezuela now from from the
time pretty much the coup failed against
Chavez in 2002 it's a state policy it's
not partisan
you know it's button so this is just a
culmination I think that as we're seeing
with most of the the Trump
administration Trump particularly
himself he's just sloppy with his you
know agenda he just blurts it out I mean
most of them would have kept it sort of
under wraps this is what we're doing
they've just been open in notorious
about you know we want a regime change
you know and he's a trump himself has
said now at least three times publicly
that that he's considering a military
option in Venezuela so there's really no
clear indication of how that would play
out except for the fact that it would be
extraordinarily dangerous and messy and
it would probably result in a bloodbath
I mean what else is gonna happen
what good home event the US intervention
anywhere in the world you know I'm and
then if the Maduro if Maduro and his
inner circle decide to bunker down as
they're doing so far I mean then we're
looking at a similar you know like an
Assad situation like in Syria and it
wouldn't be the first time Venezuela has
already been mapped out by who knows how
many military strategists particularly
in the US but also in Colombia and
around the world to divide the country
because the oil reserves are in are in
certain areas they're not
you know all over the country they've
mapped it out they could take it it's by
Brazil it's by Colombia you know they
could take control of those areas and
carve it out and and into pieces just
like has happened in in other countries
where there have been similar situations
Libya you know for example I mean where
they go in they create a disaster
because there's really no plan and and
unexpected things happen that they
didn't account for and that could be the
case in Venezuela I do think that if
there's not some kind of like pause put
on this as soon as possible and some
more measured voices involved as we're
seeing are like the UN Secretary General
is making statements saying you know
this needs to slow down we need to have
dialogue to prevent disaster in
Venezuela we're hearing it you know
there what we're hearing more in the
media are the more sort of been L
opposed the more aggressive voices like
the Trump administration and and the OAS
secretary general who's like salivating
over a military intervention in
Venezuela for regime change but you know
we need more measured voices Mexico is
playing that role of trying to calm the
situation and encourage dialogue even
Spain even France macaronis has not
endorsed the opposition he's calling her
you know dialogue and negotiated
transition or something of the sort
space specifically said no we don't
recognize the opposition if I understand
correctly I think it was more a call to
dialogue cause it wasn't a sort of
assertive no but it was more you know
we're not going down the path right now
and I mean I think that that's
respectable at this stage it's not as
it's it's not a solid position but
that's because they don't have you know
a fantastic relationship at the moment
the Spain as a more right-wing
government in place it you know so you
know there's the there are countries
that are taking a more measured stance
and there are those that are taking a
more aggressive one
and so we just need to look at the
interest behind those countries the US
has a direct interest they want
Venezuela's oil you know Venezuela is a
geostrategic nation they want control of
it again like they had before you know
Russia's there you were
they're China's there they want the US
wants them out so they have a very
specific and direct interest in regime
change and other countries are more
measured Mexico you know even Bolivia
that backs Maduro but you know every
more Dallas just wants peace in the
region I mean they want stability and
and the same I think would go for you
know even China China didn't come out
and say we back Nicolas Maduro they just
said we do not back externa foreign
interference and Venezuela spares right
well Ava Gallinger I really appreciate
your time as always I recommend that
everybody who uses Twitter as an example
be following Ava because this is a main
source for understanding what goes on
we're gonna talk more about this in the
second half of the show but I mean you
know this is a time not to be
puritanical about it but I mean you know
ROH Khanna has stepped forward and
opposed this there's been some sort of
signal boost for that I think from Ilan
Omar and Alexandria Cassio Cortes but
this is a one that everybody's gonna
need to get on the map on if they have
any kind of claim to any type of sort of
left-wing leadership because this is a
coup and could be I mean yeah like
Grenada except even worse because of
just the stakes right not the grain it
wasn't horrible and of itself
Ava College er I really appreciate your
time thank you so much as always thanks
for having me on the show appreciate it
alright folks so become a member of the
majority report today you get content
like that I mean I don't even know how
cable news is covering it independent
unbought unbossed less pennies a day
click the become a member link and join
and also subscribe to the show on
youtube if you haven't already all the
other ways we cover this sort of thing
in depth on the Michael Brooks show and
a lot of the history in the context
around this as well as an example we
just did an illicit history of Chavez
and the Bolivarian revolution with a big
ol injure for patrons of the Michael
Brooks show become a patron of it today
at patreon.com slash the NBS
also go check out the Patriot the
YouTube channel for the Michael Brooks
show overlapping but distinct content
there and it'll give you a flavor of the
show good running thread on the track
suits I'm wearing as well and there's
some tickets left legit not many at this
point but some to our first live show
Bell House February first snag them
while you can and become a patron
patreon.com slash DMBS Jamie what it do
I'm sorry so this week on the anti fada
we have the second ever edition of
history as a weapon with Sean KB and
especially yes Matt Chrisman from Chapo
Trap House they talk they get a little
bit personal actually they talk about
why both of their brains have been
broken by history and their personal
connections to that also they answer the
question why of all advanced capitalist
countries is the United States unique in
its historical failure to form a
bonafide labor socialist party that's
organically tied to the Union labor
movement as an institutionalized
political expression of working-class
interest sounds like Matt Crispin might
be an American Exceptionalist well
America is exceptional in maybe some bad
ways yeah that's true but it actually it
turns out that America was ahead of the
curve on that on like this uh this
division between the labor movement and
any kind of left political party right
because Europe for a while had them and
then they those parties all turned
neoliberal at the end of the day like I
mean labor is trying to realign right
now but it's sort of interesting that
the u.s. got there first and then the
other countries to kind of a roundabout
journey so they they go back and forth
about about that about history they both
know a lot about history yes I'm I just
listened to it and I learned a lot
actually
awesome Matt
yeah literary hangover we did the House
of the Seven Gables by Nathaniel
Hawthorne a very weird story about how
sort of Puritans can lived on through
basically inheritance into the 18th
century beautiful alright folks we will
see you on the phone half wait what was
that we'll do this we're gonna do this
song again this is a Sam cedar remix so
just it would be a shorter into the fun
half but people like this instead
alright okay let's just do this exercise
super sick saga super sick oh yeah right
you don't need to means s no security
you don't need to means that it's not a
kid nobody cared the way that you pedes
has to tax wealthy people boards that's
just simply not enough
did you stick in access that we already
do universal naive access right there's
a weird weird weird time for politics
right now just legit balance and Brian
this is a friction ah finally get to
fulfill his destiny burger Somalia
this was a true
I mean
yeah
I think you're really
[Music]
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you idiots we're
just going to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint
yes do you feel like you are a dinosaur
 exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's win-win oh yeah five times eight
four seven nine oh six five oh one four
five seven six five everybody dance
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
seafood I'm hoping to add more moves to
my repertoire all I have is the dip in
the swirl yes this is a perfect all
right take quick break I want to take a
moment to welcome to the fun half on the
majority report had to go longer in the
main show because of all that's going
down I learned a lot yeah those are very
good guests both of them you're calling
from an 8 for 7 area code who are you
where you going from hi Michael it's
Josh from Chicago Josh what's on your
minds I want to talk about this Kamal
Harris okay um so I don't know about you
but it's actually made me appreciate
what Elizabeth Warren has been doing so
far in the race of and I think of the
people who are in the race she is by far
the best mm-hmm but um I think the the
thing that like really bothers me about
the this Kamala Harris stuff and I still
might even prefer Gillibrand although
the brands messaging Rock children I
think dr. LeBron sucks he does suck she
does suck but like people's lives were
affected by Kamala Harris those policies
that's true I guess in in ways that I
don't think children's were and that's
true in terms of yeah like moms who are
people who were sent to jail for truancy
right they got sent to jail fraternity
but um Steven minuchin didn't and I
think we're kind of that's kind of a
form of white supremacy all right I mean
look I
I I don't know if you have anything else
I mean you know I hear you I agree I
mean I think we've already I did a
segment for tmes which I think like it
did I don't wanna well I'll repeat a
little bit of it I think that we got to
be very strategic about how we deal with
comel Harris I think the common law
Harris is I think she will be the one
that dominates the centrist lane I think
that I could just tell you by anecdote
of normal people quote unquote and as
always I define that in a positive way
and that basically just means people who
are not like on Twitter and thinking
about politics all the time
I think the people on both saw it both
like the left and both other people who
like as an exact like some people people
who support Carmel Harris are I actually
think in a very reductionist and
condescending way going like oh yeah
toca whatever word you want to use
they're gonna say oh this part like this
is a black woman so she's gonna be
excited about Kamala Harris and then
conversely you know I think that there's
some of us who are correct I mean
there's an objective record here on
prosecuting a calmly Harris's which is
abysmal not surprising not exceptional
but the function of that job is one of
oppression and abuse and she was an
active participant in it and also on all
sorts of other things from you know sex
legislation sex registries I mean just
yeah really really really bad really
repressive stuff and sets the FASTA and
everything she's bad on these issues
objectively now there's a context of why
she's bad which we could talk about but
the reality is she's bad okay but I
think that people need to to play it and
do it with a certain degree of class as
Anna Navarro would say I agree and you
have to acknowledge you know the obvious
appeal look look who amongst us would
not on some level and I mean this of
course I could not mean this more
metaphorically and more figuratively but
on some level a black woman killing
Donald Trump
in 2020 figuratively would be um an
immense pleasure watch for any
right-thinking human being so what I
would say is you have is that the people
who are making the condescending
reduction is the you know well people
just support her because they share an
identity is condescending it's wrong and
it's not validated again I've talked to
people where it's like oh that's really
cool that's interesting I'm of course
I'm fascinated by a you know an
intelligent interesting candidate who
might be the first black woman president
but what are her plans on health care
what are her plans on jobs like that's
where they go to the natural obvious
place that most voters would go and then
conversely I just think you always have
to stipulate you know the obvious
aspects of her appeal and then just get
to work on why but you know her donors
her agendas insufficient and her records
profoundly troubling which is objective
reality and I actually think frankly
like I've tried to do that I mean it's
harder with some of them but I I think
you got to be clinical about all of them
I think as pure political products they
all have strengths Biden has strikes
baito has strengths Gillibrand actually
are her strengths honestly or less
apparent to me but Harris certainly has
strengths and so you just gotta you know
keep the relentless focus on the policy
and then that when people you know if if
people try to come at you and say that
you're you know negating her because of
her identity so like well actually I'm
talking about X I'm talking about
criminalizing truancy what are your
thoughts on that and it's a disturbing
thing I've noticed is that you know some
people's thoughts on that are shockingly
disturbing and retrograde yeah and so
people revealing themselves they're
defending locking up nonviolent drug
offenders they're defending
three-strikes laws they're defending all
sorts of retrograde policies and then
that's beautiful because then we're on
the terrain we should be in which is
actually hashing out these policies and
explaining why we support restorative
justice and
and radical systemic reform of the
criminal justice system so that's you
know to me that's all there is to it I
can't wait to see her get interrupted
with a protest from black lives matter
we'll see yeah and you know just from a
tactical standpoint maybe white Bernie
bros shouldn't go as hard on camallo
harris as some of their black and brown
comrades I mean go heart it's to me it's
just so it's like if you acknowledge the
obvious parts of her appeal and you go
like a laser on the policy then all
right you know whatever there's no
objection to that you know amongst any
right-thinking you know commentators but
yeah I think yes I think that people
have to be quite mindful about you know
how they go about it yeah and don't say
gratuitously offensive things that might
be construed as racist or sexist I heard
she had I heard she had a sickle
cell
she had sickle cell like I don't want to
believe that Bernie bros are real but
like there's single movement in every
single part of society and you know
unfortunately the left is not a being
firm that's true but we don't need to
also bend over backwards to feed into
that mythology either so well let's just
see how it you know let's just see how
we do how we play out but I mean I agree
with you I'm I'm not a supporter of
common law Harris but that is just for
the simple reason that I have politics
that she doesn't have this is some level
it's crystal clear stuff I want radical
prison reform I want Medicare for all I
want the United States stop backing
cooze I don't want to support Israeli
Apartheid
oh god the Israel stuff is insane but
it's terrible it's terrible it's total
but she's worse than Israel than the
average Democrat I don't know I don't
agree with that I think she's totally
representative no she's not
there's what daylight does she have from
any other standard-issue Democrat if you
look at what Elizabeth Warren was saying
about the Israeli bombardment of Gaza in
2014 it's essentially the same thing and
that's actually a good example I would
say of being very careful because I
think that her record and what she said
about Israel Palestine is abominable
I think it's depressingly barely not
even distinguishable from pretty much
any other major frontline politician
besides Bernie Sanders and maybe if
Warren is pivoting and an in the third
point which is like there's a context
here the context is Kamala Harris when
she was getting her start a cynical
pragmatic move to being a national
political figure as both someone who's
going to be called liberal not to
mention a woman of color is to appear
quote-unquote tough on crime that's the
calculation and everybody has made the
calculation that it is so safer from a
media donor and voting base to say well
you know maybe I have a little bit of
concern about you know Netanyahu you
know demanding that all you know I mean
I'm not even analogy I thought it was
actually kind of an theis emetic but I
won't say that but you know they will
defend anything Israel does Anytime
Anywhere anyplace and that's been
typical of the Democratic Party until
some symbolic gestures that Obama made
like in the last year it was an office
so I don't I wouldn't say I mean I think
she's abominable but I don't think she's
exceptional look of Christian Gillibrand
record Chuck Schumer says that part of
his mandate for being in the Senate is
protected is Hashem has sent a message
to Israel I mean this is not normal
yeah I guess I was kind of measuring her
against Obama and I will admit that I
only recently really began paying
attention to is real stuff Obama is was
obviously on the whole supported Israel
anytime anywhere anyplace but Obama
slightly was willing to at the very
least as you talk to any Israeli policy
person who's on even the center-left
they would say
could you at least like in the same way
that like theoretically Democrats
support like the Labour Party over the
Conservative Party in Britain could you
like at least support us can't like the
vague center-left in Israel versus any
fascist government and fascist
politician in Israel and Obama was
slightly willing to do that
partially compounded by the fact I think
that you know he genuinely opposed
racism and also the fact that he had to
deal with Netanyahu for several years
and after City I just I mean in a
certain point you could just be like
dude you he's a profoundly
unlikable person but no I don't know I
think yeah I mean we're gonna play
Kamala Harris is Israel clip and I think
at some point the Democratic Party as a
whole is gonna have to reconcile the
tension between you know embracing a
very particular type of narrow
multiculturalism which is clearly
obviously preferable the white supremacy
should go without saying I don't know
how that fits well there's actually one
way that that fits for blind support
with Israel which is actually another
manifestation of the toxicity of a
certain type of identity politics
frankly and one of the reasons that I
have a real allergy to essentialist
arguments and identity over all else is
growing up partially in the Jewish
community and being like I know my
having a certain part of my identity be
Jewish doesn't mean that I support
dropping white phosphorus on children
and not allowing people have freedom of
movement because of an identity code or
even the fact that of course Jewish
people historically are one of the most
oppressed abused and genocided people on
the planet so you know maybe some people
will reconcile it by just sort of you
know the same kind of shallow identity
plays of any other move but if you're
really fundamentally running on
overcoming supremacy race hari's race
hierarchies and structural racism you're
gonna support a la cude government in
Israel yeah that doesn't work and for
what it's worth I think Obama who has
some at least in I think on that front
some very
genuine commitments actually he at least
intellectually recognized the tension
most of these other people are just
getting the script Hillary Clinton's
just getting the script Joe Biden is my
god just getting the script oh my god a
doe O'Rourke slightly deviated once when
there was the bombardment I think in
2014 and then was you know cattle prod
it back into line so you know what we're
gonna actually little play this , thanks
to a call Josh let's play this calmly
Harris look now but again I mean this is
terrible and this should be making the
rounds and I think that there should be
a clip and by the way look Bernie is
getting better on this you could I'm
sure you find some clips of Bernie
saying stuff not as bad as this but some
pretty bad stuff and defense of Israeli
actions but this is horrible but it's
emblematic of a you know well I I would
in my estimation I don't think calmly
Harris is much of progressive but this
is you know progressive except Palestine
is what they used to call it so here is
calmly Harris in the midst of
uncertainty and turmoil America's
support for Israel's security must be
rock-solid
[Applause]
and as Iran continues to launch
ballistic missiles while it arms and
funds its terrorist proxy Hezbollah we
must stand with Israel as Hamas
maintains its control of Gaza and fires
rockets across Israel's southern border
border we must stand with Israel and as
Isis and civil war in Syria destabilized
the region displacing millions in
threatening shared security interests we
must support all those affected by
ongoing violence and terror and we must
stand with Israel our defense
relationship is critical to both nations
which is why I support the United States
commitment to provide Israel with 38
billion dollars in military assistance
over the next decade
it is why I support full funding for
Israel including for the arrow david
sling and the Iron Dome missile defense
systems which save lives and that's why
I am fully committing to maintaining
Israel's qualitative military edge so
this is the usual pablum and we're gonna
get to another candidate in a second but
I just want to be really clear about
this I mean look this is the rhetoric
even in Israeli context that is just
delusional and and of such an extreme
far-right position this isn't 2017 by
the way we're already there's been a
touch of a crack at just like basic
incoherence of blindly supporting this
Israeli government and professing any
type of commitment to
anti-discrimination or not
indiscriminately killing civilians so
you've had 2009 you know 2014 both of
those massacres in Gaza that were both
recognized internationally as such in
Israel though a who'd all murd as an
example
former Israeli prime minister look him
up definitely committed atrocities in
Lebanon and Gaza also put the only
legitimate two-state solution plan on
the table and is an interesting figure
just got out of jail for corruption but
we all know how I feel about corruption
I don't care and but he said read he's
like look Israel needs to understand
that we are not under threat we're not
they have nuclear weapons they have
complete military supremacy over any of
their neighbors and their primary
military responsibilities are policing a
Jim Crow situation in the West Bank and
having a siege on Gaza like you can talk
to Israeli intelligence and military
people they'll say you know it's very
bad for us
that
main workouts that our soldiers get are
harassing Palestinian civilians
terrorism was a very real issue at one
point and there's atrocities definitely
in the early aughts of like Hamas
blowing up pizza parlors and examples
like this first of all you could put a
security barrier inside 67 borders the
fact that they put it wael well into the
expansion of settlements says a lot and
then furthermore because they've never
stopped constructing settlements and the
demographic realities two states is out
the window as a matter of practicality
and if you have any type of democratic
commitment you would support the joint
list Arab parties which is a coalition
of secularists and communists both
Jewish Arab as well as some Muslim who
are advocating for and across the board
democracy that's it
so uh that being said you know in a
moment like this
I'd really like a leftist a progressive
uncompromising crusader for the rights
of all to step forward and man we just
found a great Tulsi Gabbard clip talking
about Palestinian human rights just in
the nick of time this is from a Sunday
so this is fresh this is really exciting
oh wait no this from 2016 okay this is
from 2016
well whatever December 2018 okay so this
is this alright well all right all right
we'll figure it out but anyways this is
Tulsi Gabbard laying it down for the
rights of all
that is a complex question that requires
piece being able to have those
conversations to build a path towards
peace and the short answer really is
unfortunately with the current
leadership in place we are getting they
are getting farther and farther away
from the possibility or the path
building that pathway towards peace and
towards that that two-state solution
recognizing the respect they quality in
the humanity of all the people who are
living within that region
pablum what was this December 2018 in
New Hampshire yeah so this doesn't mean
a thing and I and again I love
that map pointed out right the the see
the prevarication is who which
leadership of course because that can be
signaled to anybody what she's signaling
the audience is obviously Netanyahu and
the far-right in Israel because it's a
pro Palestinian human rights question
but anybody else could say oh well
obviously of course she's talking about
Hamas which controls Gaza now of course
there's only one faction the Palestinian
Authority in the West Bank are the only
formation there that still is doing
anything to support a two-state solution
everybody else has moved on except
actually Hamas is kind of prevaricated
on that but that is not like by 2016
Bernie Sanders was willing to come out
and give a speech where he spoke at
least frankly about the humanitarian
toll on Palestinians yes this is she did
nothing he turned down his invitation to
AIPAC which is huge
in the context of American politics and
like you know people want to criticize
Bernie from the left and I have plenty
of left criticisms of him myself but I
on this particular issue like he is by
far the best that we are going to do as
of now with a viable presidential
candidate and like he actually has a
chance
so definitely let's not mess that up
also he's very well-positioned to combat
charges of anti-semitism because the man
is undeniably Jewish whether or not he's
Jewish in the way that these people want
him to be and like honestly that's I
don't have a pole in front of me but
that's a lot of Jews in America now we
don't all support the things that Israel
does we know particularly younger Jewish
people are definitely pivoting on that
issue also her answer she says you know
we basically have to tell students have
to be peaceful before we try to work
towards peace she says everybody and I
and by the way that's a hundred percent
right and just to really put a fine
point on this okay so and I agree that
you have to reject of course things like
suicide bombing in any tactic that
focuses on civilians period you have to
have full stops on things right I'm not
drawing an equivalency but there's
certain thing certain things you have to
reject if you want to have a position of
getting to adjust place and killing
Israeli civilians of suicide bombings is
totally unacceptable obviously now
there's other tactics and guerilla war
that I'm not going to comment on and
I'll just say they're a lot more
complicated but anything that targets
civilians we can discard including of
course Israeli indiscriminate killing of
civilians and every side here has blood
on its hands it's just one there's a
total asymmetry of power so you can't
draw a false equivalency but generically
every site has blood on its hands but
what's amazing about this talking point
and I don't know where Tulsi stands on
the attempt to criminalize BDS movement
the boycott divestment and sanctions of
Israel which has been happening across
the United States it's an actual
real-life First Amendment issue the one
the Palestinians have been lectured by a
government that runs an apartheid state
on them and a superpower that supplies
that apartheid state with weapons and
money and exports people from Brooklyn
to build settlements there while they do
that they've had the temerity to lecture
Palestinians on how they should conduct
their struggle and you know the same
people upholding an occupation or like
well you know where's the bows to you
Gandhi we're supposed to be Mandela
well actually interestingly enough
Mandela said that South Africa wasn't
fully free through
till Palestine was free just a little
point of reference so excusing that just
monumental grotesque hypocrisy than
anybody that has any role in the
oppression of Palestinians has anything
to say about how they conduct themselves
they did generate a mass global
nonviolent movement modeled on the South
Africa model it's called boycott
divestment and sanctions of which you're
criminalizing and ik waiting to
terrorism so you know I mean just the
complete fusion of immorality delusion
paranoia and racism and that people
bring to that discussion is just
awe-inspiring Lee discussion disgusting
and actually yes a good early preview of
gist yes the profound dead end of
nationalism the profound that end of a
certain type of reductionist identity
politics tip to be told that because I
share an identity with somebody that I
can support them in demolishing
somebody's home as a form of collective
punishment or dropping white phosphorus
on them on children is disgusting it's
offensive to me as a person alright
let's take another call you're calling
from a five 100 area code who are you
where you're calling from
are you there 5:1 oh you've called hmm
like a dog hiya bone gotta be tough to
be very tough you're calling from a 6-3
Oh area code who are you where you
calling from so I've been listening to
you guys every day and I've got beef and
that beef is sausage left is best
now listen to you gasps and what do I
hear but crapping on the greatest pizza
that there ever was
Chicago deep-dish all right no Sam is
gonna call it these objects are who are
robbing the proletariat of their culture
when you say New York Pizza is anything
other than a poor facsimile given to you
by a brunoise oppressor it's garbage
it's trash it's soaked in grease it's
unedible if McDonald's did pizza except
McDonald speeds that would at least be
edible all right dude what is your name
and where are you calling from
which bourgeois oppressor gave us pizza
the Italians know it Paul didn't eppley
Romans Romans then co-opted it robbed
you of the cultural heritage all right
what's every wrong what marionberry
cultural but Jimmy I asked what's your
name was Brian from Chicago Ryan from
Chicago all right Ryan well with that I
bid you adieu Thank You Ryan John
McCain's brain tumor solidarity with
Clint Kirk's blood clot I taught you
well no do your best
somebody is saying that they're doing
that remember that guy who I think is
your Kickstarter sucks guy said that
they were dropping chicken on the floor
and serving it to Trump supporters at
the restaurant some guy on Twitter has
been saying that he's the was the nurse
at the ER and he's the one who told
Charlie Kirk and that all the nurses are
laughing at him oh yeah
Shawn loves to jump into those threads
too and pretend to be like a baaga no no
he's like the
of anti-shah it's uh just just got to
check it out
are you audience Sean is having Mogga
sock puppets no no no very interesting
no he's like hey I'm the president of
Anti Fog we're gonna we're coming for
all you Republic whatever never mind
Mick myth myths nectar hiya gang this
week on the grocery store checkout
scanner my co-host Blom Tara Colossus
and I talk with Erik Blart and ask why
these cracka honkies in 2020 so people
know the black politicians have to hurt
black people in order to get into a
position where they can be a model for
kids of the black people they hurt that
is I mean that is a more eloquent
distillation of essentially the argument
that I've seen over the last 48 hours
and remember to donate 75 to the pod and
our great friend Josh our Binks we'll
send you a voicemail of doing the one
that Chris Rock bit that no one let's p2
in the office Jesus Christ aid uh jb
MSNBC seems to have strongly into his
terrace of course yeah she's already
doing a town hall with Jake Tapper on
Monday yeah that's the million is in
motion yes I mean she's that's what I'm
saying it's not it's you have a PAC
it's Booker and Gillibrand you know and
then bado and biden either of them
announced they'll be in the mix to some
degree but I mean Harris is it's just
Poulter I mean this really is where you
should just read like it says it's in
Bolivia but watch the documentary our
brand is crisis on literally like the
mechanics of how campaigns are assembled
and how the brand strategies developed
and you're I mean this is in motion I
mean this is this is a B product testing
and one product for a variety of reasons
is best so he's just gonna pop in I
cool all right easy I'm killing it today
rat-tat-tat-tat Thank You J Cole
what does Haitian Jimmy door think about
the Venezuelan coup I think you should
totally be asking it by the way I have
heard from my circles which include
people from the Haitian community that
that was not so bad so you you
and especially well you have no
impressions Sam is warning clearly you
do not listen to my show I thank you
oppression see you you have never
listened to a single episode of my show
fake news I've listed to your show
plenty
that's fake news I you have not done an
Alex Jones impression someone I've heard
I haven't listened to any year show so
quit I guess you just have to listen to
the auntie father boy I can't hear my
Alex Jones impression if you don't
listen to my show
that's competitive all right I'm working
okay what does Haitian Jimmy well no cuz
I don't actually I would say I probably
probably Jimmy's gonna have a decent
reaction on Venezuela that's the wrong
one or probably think I want that lava
jato t-shirt I don't know what to see
what tulsi says Yeah right if tulsi says
I think that turns gonna need to be
mediated talks and on one hand there's a
coup but on the other hand there's a lot
of heated rhetoric what I do at tmv as
it was like some say that Gandhi was a
leader of the peace movement who was
assassinated by a fanatic and others say
that he was a vegan who was way
too soft on the dirty Muslims so I think
we need to come together as both sides
do you figure this out I think haitian
jimmy dore will probably have a lot more
thoughts on the election though that i
can assure you
and sometimes ryan
kudos to chris cuomo for getting the
 after it yeah it was good Gleeson
next time you talk about AOC in the next
and 75% rate mentioned how conservative
it is she's starting after 10 million
won
for it started around three million in
today's dollars indeed speaking of which
I think this is a good transition um so
I was actually I was I sometimes go on
i-24 which is this global I mean it's a
guess because it's Israeli I don't I
mean not David Shuster is not right-wing
but I mean there's Anand I have not
always realized how unbelievably
insanely far right a lot of the
editorial it's around me and I always am
debating people who are like they have a
lot of troubles is how I'll put it and
and the host yesterday he was just like
well how do you think IOC and rush eat
its liver doing they've both been
getting into a lot of trouble I was like
and I said well I think they're both
doing great as evidenced by the
Republican total shambolic response to
them and as if on cue right at the round
the same time I was doing that hit Sean
Hannity was having a full-blown psycho
emotional breakdown on Fox News about a
OCS billionaire comments now without
further ado I present to you Sean
Hannity having a breakdown a world is
going to end in 12 years if we don't
address climate change and your biggest
issue
your your biggest issue is how are we
gonna pay for it and like this is the
war this is our world war 2 to better
make that bucket list
12 years that's all we got left and she
recently called the American Dream she
actually called it immoral call for
oppressive taxes on private businesses
and wealthy individuals oh the top 20%
of Americans pay almost all of the taxes
already and she actively supports the
nationalization of the health care
industry the energy industry just like
Venezuela and recently bashing America
closet I'm gonna change my twitter
handle to just like that's already an 8
o'seas bio oh yeah right that's well
that's it that's actually the you know
how they release like those boring like
campaign books that should be her book
it's like she's like in front of
American flags just like just like that
is what health care policy see Venezuela
the energy industry just like Venezuela
and recently bashing Americans who are
quote living in excess I thought that
was the American dream take a look so
after you make ten million dollars in
one year your dollars after that start
to get progressively taxed at a much
higher rate and really what that is is
that it's the tax interpretation of one
answer to the question of how much is at
what level are we really just living in
excess and what kind of society do we
want to live in let's empower the
government to confiscate it all you
better hide you nice things because here
come the excess police congresswoman's
new policy advisor changed his twitter
handle to quote every billionaire is a
policy failure even vowed to convince
his boss that a 70 percent top tax rate
is too low and he talked her up to 90
percent exactly after state tax is there
nobody gonna work in the twisted world
of what is now the radical socialist
democratic party apparently making money
and being successful is evil but Venna
whele is a heaven on earth opportunity
for us right we recently said on Fox
News contributor Lawrence Jones to
Acacio Cortez's district to see what her
constituents actually think about these
socialist fantasies let's take a look
she believes we should tax the rich 70
percent so 70 percent of what they make
should go back to Uncle Sam do you agree
with her sure why not
I am all for it too low to lows what
would you suggest 90 percent they make
so much money that some 70 percent
nationally 10 percent New York 4 percent
city then add property sales taxes and
you get to keep nothing I would say in
John Kennedy's case he literally should
get to keep nothing I want a complete
abolition of homelessness except for a
little bit of homeless time for Sean
Hannity I will make an exception that
would do him some good
I mean what does Sean pull in the year
20 million 20 mil second 10 million yeah
that's second million yeah that would
actually put him in some trouble yeah I
don't know how possibly he's spending
this that's true I mean apparently he's
living in excess but I think look I mean
I don't know how what's so funny is it's
like they clearly that segment idea the
ideal is you go to her neighborhood and
a bunch of people that's crazy because
my dream is one day I'll be Steve Jobs
or some other nonsense right but then
when you encounter like real people or
like yeah of course I'm not a demented
lunatic obviously there should be higher
tax rates on above 10 million a year one
thing well no that was innocent right
that was my thing I was like well yeah
just well you know what put that sassy
latina on there and then that'll like
the ideal is what you have is something
who would be like I'm surprised they
didn't pay somebody to be like I came
from Venezuela for freedom man so but
that but that's just amazing because the
whole dynamic we've talked about this
for a long time but the whole dynamic
for so long has been Sean Hannity
basically doing the same segment when
Obama's like what I think you should
have graded a health-care pay scale
which may attack sup today which can be
taxed on
surcharge on every third private jet
flight and he's been going like that's
like having a you know having these
conniptions about these profoundly
modest centrist initiatives that people
like Obama have put forward which are
really hard to explain so they're easier
to terrify people about and they also
usually do come with a lot of annoying
catches like you're forced to buy
private health insurance and then you
have to deal the subsidy system it's
better than nothing but it sucks because
private health insurance sucks then when
you're confronted with yeah well what
about we just tax useless people like
Sean Hannity and give everybody Medicare
the thing is actually happening so the
freak out is that much more intense and
then you encounter reality and most sane
people are like right of course yeah
every single time they put her on Fox
News and try to make her policies look
bad like I don't know if it's that
somebody sympathetic is working there or
her policies are just impossible to make
look bad to the majority of people who
are super wealthy but like like they now
people who watch Fox understand top
marginal tax rates a little bit better
yeah this yeah absolutely so this is
apparently and everybody should follow
him this is at Dan riffle he is policy
for a OC he's the every billionaire a
policy failure and he tweeted out in
most other offices for most other
members I've been shit-canned on the
spot for that Hannity segment last night
I'm grateful that I work in the very
best office for the very best member and
then he has a link to the O to
Alexandria Cascio Cortez's tweet these
they're so good at this so she tweeted
tempted to frame this and put it on my
desk with a laughing emoji at the
Hannity segment and the Hannity segment
says Alexandria kasi of course has this
policy guy every billionaire is a policy
failure you know how we talked Chuck
horse it is their right is basically
just interested in only in the libs yes
it is a lot of fun to just own people it
is and they have no idea how to own
someone like this know especially that
screenshot Sean Hannity
because when you talk about specific
policies and you talk about economics
like it's a lot harder to do the SJW
red-baiting cultural Marxism yes
you're on better terrain when you're
talking about giving people health care
than debating somebody's stand upset
what'd you say he's calling it now is
that damn hear me yes
be careful I've heard that there is a
lavender outbreak in Brooklyn Sam thank
you Michael oh that's a good stuff
everybody first of all the idea of Sean
Hannity making $0 is very appealing to
me but I mean Sean Hannity more like
over the years I have seen this guy just
blatantly lie in a way that you know he
knows what the truth is right like I
mean there's tiny things that I have
seen over the years that he has done
that have been that have impressed me
because I'm so aware that he knows the
truth of what he's saying like at that
moment where he talked about you know
between city taxes and state taxes
you'll you'll get $0 see really he he
knows that he will make exactly what
he's making today up in his first 10
million dollars and then after the 10
million dollars it will be largely gone
and and he knows that but he lies to his
audience the one time I remember seeing
him do that before was was years ago
when he would talk about Bill Clinton
and Monica Lewinsky and he kept getting
Monica Lewinsky Sage wrong and like he
clearly knew but he kept saying like she
was 19 and you know it's not a big deal
but it was like I heard someone call
correct him on the air and he continued
to do it day after day after that and I
was just like that
the guy knows he's lying like he's not
you know it's not like he's coming up
with a fact or a figure that one makes a
mistake on
right he knows he's lying and he
justifies it that's always what I found
disturbing about Hanna fortunately he
lacked the talent to be as destructive
as he could have now of course he's the
senior adviser to Donald Trump right oh
I was gonna say he's one of the most
important policymakers / propagandists
in the world today all right look I'm
gonna call back in with just one other
device okay one second all right all
right back okay all right oh this is
good news and clearly this is more in
the space that's being created by this
aoc conversation by the way Josh from
Chicago was right I mean look I think
Bernie's gonna run and I'm obviously
very eager but I 100% as of now as has
been said from the beginning Elizabeth
Warren's definitely the best candidate
so far in the race this is a good
example of it she's proposing a wealth
tax on those with more than 50 million
dollars in an attempt to combat soaring
income inequality the tax would hit
those above 50 million with a 2% wealth
tax should be higher be modest yeah
super modest and those above 1 billion
with a 3% of all tax I mean I would
obviously at the very least throw both
of those numbers up at least and the
double-digit but that's great great and
that's how the terrain ships and that's
also really how I mean again I think
someone like Hamlin Harris is frankly
gonna be savvy ER but that was why that
exchange with Gillibrand yesterday was
so beautiful because it was like all
right well now you know cool you've been
voting the right way on Trump nominees
you've been embracing all these great
policies the main institutional
mechanism that's gonna block a green new
deal Medicare for all free college all
these things which apparently here now
all of a sudden strongly support is
getting rid of the filibuster if we're
in power what say you and she says
nothing and you know and I think there's
another thing I want to know a Camilla
what you think about a wealth tax you
know hey Cory the baby bonds thing is a
cool idea actually if you crunch the
numbers it doesn't really generate that
much money this would do something what
I think about that what do you think
about you know a wealth tax on all of
your hedge fund buddies it's also just
nice to get more ideas onto
the into this space with more IDs we're
here because we get to focus on things
like income tax which obviously needs to
be raised but you also need to tag no
but it's actually really true you need
to target wealthy ourselves in a certain
way even like of course if you're making
more than a couple million dollars a
year obviously ninety percent no doubt
but even just the broader principle that
like any form of wealth that's just
sitting there as distinct from money
you're generating actually we should
really be talked about if you want
capitalists have less power start taxing
capital precisely yep
capital gains used to be taxed at a rate
more in line with people's uh wage labor
and that's been rolled way back that's
insane that it's not like way higher no
way it should be the exact money know
precisely and that and that so there's
even something to be said I again
there's no contradiction but just even
having like a conversation in itself
because we need to start doing things
like certain forms of well it just needs
to be like a hundred percent and way
jacked up Sam Sam's back I don't know
that there's ever been a wealth tax in
this country no the closest thing would
be an estate tax right where wealth is
taxed but it's a done upon the transfer
so it's I don't know that we've ever had
a wealth tax in this country well it's
the difference between talking about
poverty and talking about inequality
right I think this is gonna be one very
clarifying split within the Democratic
Party because wealthy liberals are fine
we're talking about fighting poverty and
bringing up the floor for the poorest
people but when you draw the connection
between the people who have the most and
the existence of an economic underclass
and you start talking about fighting
inequality and the relationship between
those things that's where some people
get off the train and I also think that
that you know I don't know that you want
to I do think that there's value in
creating incentives with certain things
to do with your money the the wealth you
have
and I think the key thing in terms of
capital gains to me would be to have a
have multiple tiers of what the value
capital is I mean I think like the idea
that in some respect the stock market
should be taxed at the you know at the
same rate as if you invest in a piece of
machinery is just absurd to me and sell
that machinery or precisely I mean I
think like right and so I mean I think
we could have different tiers of capital
gains but if you you know if you tear
those in the proper way then at the very
least the wealth that you do not claw
back that has already been accumulated
you can simply say like you're just not
going to be able to make as much if you
hoard that money you're gonna actually
have to legitimately plow it back into
into system into society as opposed to
just sort of putting it in in vehicles
that does that don't help anybody I mean
it just doesn't really help anybody when
a billionaire and you know buys 50% of a
controlling interest in the stocks of
any given company oh I thought that was
the goal yeah it really will be nothing
left
I'll just have a stick of gum I would
buy futures in Sean Hannity making no
money though that would be great
be so awesome as I said I've want no
homelessness but temporary homelessness
for Sean Hannity his family would still
get to live sure in a moderate home he
can live in one of the HUD houses that
he bought yeah he lives right he live in
a hut house in Yonkers and he will be
homeless for six months all right I'm
off hopefully the second one was a
little bit better I don't know why I
felt like there was a little bit less
cuts in the second one for some reason I
don't know if anybody else noticed that
but there's a little bit of sometimes I
think the the stream might get a bit
behind so some bits of words are getting
cut off but it's I mean it sounds good
so the second one was actually better
this time I thought it was I mean not
radically they're pretty close okay
everything
all messed up today no it's it was good
it was good
all right talk to you guys later all
right bye
all right let's actually loop sorry no
we can do it then we'll do we have both
the Brazil related pictures and the
Venezuela stuff after cuz I want to do
those art but we can do boat Oromo first
yeah and then the ones from Davos with
balsan are oh what's the Bartiromo one
this is just more a fox free okay and
wait she had on Lee Carter oh I was
gonna say whoa Lee by the way I just
want to say as I like is unfortunately
she has Lee Carter to the lesser on from
Davos it looks like I just want to say
that um another person and all this is
we do our sort of list of shout outs of
people who you know Lee Carter State
Assemblyman in Virginia amazing doing
incredible work and also an incredibly
excellent Twitter presence and also a
great interview it's already been a
while knows a class summer but he was on
TMDs one of the things he said in that
interview that was so brilliant to is he
was like you know when I was out
campaigning I wasn't talking about
getting people jobs I was talking about
getting them be able to work less
because most people some people do need
jobs of course they need to be put in
the labor market but a lot of people I'm
talking to they're working two jobs and
they don't have enough money and they
really just need to work less and get
more it's beautiful alright Maria
Bartiromo she's freaked out about
Twitter she's freaked out about this and
that and now at Lee Carter I mean there
is something just amazing about
literally sitting in Davos where
apparently in the in the span of one day
the AOC tax proposal I think was
literally like booed at a session of
Davos right at the same day they also
had in some type of organizational
consultant do a exercise where they
pretended that they were refugees and
they crawled on the floor and got into
the experiential space tell me all right
so this is actually still happening this
thing that of course should be
absolutely thrown into the trash heap of
history which actually ironically it
already is we're just still wasting
this is Maria Bartiromo she's in Davos
with Lee Carter to the lesser and
they're bitching and actually what maybe
I should say maybe not maybe he'll turn
out to be cool though I doubt it
Oh leak oh yeah it's definitely Lee
Carter the lesser okay Lee Carter less
ursday is a Republican pollster I
believe and they are gonna all have
another conniption about a Oh see what
we speaking about money I mean a oh she
had the idea to tax anyone with ten
million dollars at 70% do you think
that's gonna go over how does that go
over so it goes over well with a segment
of the Democratic base and we actually
have a new poll that shows most
Democrats would be willing to vote for
her to consider voting for her for
president if she was old enough
obviously she is a president for
president and we actually have a second
poll that's coming out later this week
that that asks people how they view the
idea of socialism and Young Democrats
actually view socialism a little bit
more positively than they view
capitalism so this is this is a there's
a segment of the population for which
this is you know the right direction to
take things this is really interesting
Lee Carter what do you see from your
dials in talking to people about
socialism versus capitalist you know
what I'm gonna say is that if we dismiss
Acacio cortes and socialism right now
it's at our own peril it's very much
like what happened in 2015 when people
are dismissive of Donald Trump coming in
saying that his policies were overly
simplistic but they were missing and
lacking substance that they wanted
something deeper and they outright
dismissed him I think that people who
are dismissing this is something that's
short-sighted absolutely aren't getting
why people are rallying around her and
around these policies there's a lot of
hopelessness out there there's a lot of
people who want a better life and this
sounds like an easy way for them a quick
fix and something that sounds like a
different new way of doing things and I
think that if people want to win against
this they're gonna have to take it
seriously and understand why it is that
so many people are gravitating towards
these policies into her or explain the
effective of socialism explain the
effect of socialism versus capitalism
Marie I want to point that out it's a
great liberal lie that the people in the
Republican Party need to push back on
is that somehow the rich are rich enough
to fund all these grand spending plans
by these socialists and by these people
on the far left they're not they most
certainly are read each year's Oxfam
report on the shrinking ever shrinking
number of like 25 people owning more
than most people on earth as an example
I don't usually go in for this type of
thing as much but hat tip to Jamie and I
and like clapping hands emoji were not
liberals you said it yourself we're
socialists and we don't want to just tax
it we want to take all your so yeah
but what is astonishing about that and
actually she's still Lee Carter the
lesser but she's sort of ok as
particularly if you're a Republican you
should be listening to her strategic
advice although I don't know how you
circle that square but that being said
on you know what is funny about it is
there's no doubt that especially in the
center not in the periphery but in place
like the United States if these people
in the oligarchic class had come
together and actually said you know what
we get it there needs to be some form of
public health care there needs to be
some provision so people don't graduate
into a completely depressed job market
there needs to be some sense of
continuing mobility at least for these
sections of essentially the white
population that have always except I've
always expected it the extreme poverty
and repression we need to continue to
push into the peripheries of race and
geography and class you would probably
not I mean I'd like to think otherwise
but you probably would still have a lot
of people who would be I think a bit
more to the left
and hopefully a bit more socially
progressive there for ian's towards
Democrats but there wouldn't be a
socialism conversation if they weren't
so pathologically predatory and
committed to stealing every single last
bit and I think one of the interesting
things right now in a beef inside the
elite is I think there are some members
of the you know if I'm George Soros who
all give credit for George Soros is a
liberal and George Soros understands
that
there's an element of luck to his life
and he understands there needs to be a
social safety net but if he sat down
with his fellow oligarchs it would be
him and Warren Buffett talking to the
cokes and the Mercer's and all and being
like you morons like we
literally were getting away with having
multiple homes and being billionaires
which no matter how good a person you
are just shouldn't exist it's
incompatible with life on earth and
democracy but we were getting away with
it we can fly anywhere we wanted in the
planet we didn't even need to carry our
passports with us we can influence any
government we wanted and all we needed
to do was keep people in the dominant
you know parts of society continued to
be able to rise into the middle class we
needed to up the ceiling for everybody
and we needed to be seen of as like
basically decent non pernicious people
but you idiots needed to steal
every single cry like you'd sit down in
your 15th home and think about how you
could take headstart out of a kid's
mouth and now they're looking at
socialism you yep that's how we got
the New Deal right it was a compromise
definitely to save capitalism basically
and FDR got all the captains of industry
on board with it even though not all not
some of them consider having a coup
we're not a lot of them worried but you
know eventually you got the sensible
ones got the deal through and the
sensible ones knew that you know they
might get their throats slit in the
night if they didn't do this and you
know I think we have a lot in common now
with the 1930s more so than the I don't
know the last tumultuous times right in
the 60s I think the new left of today
well okay the left of today has more in
common with the old left of the 30s and
the new left of the 60s and they they
need to pay attention no doubt
speaking of Davos uh well I guess I mean
I'm for fresh viewers i we this was so
good we did this on tea MBS we need to
do this on majority report it's so good
because a non jaded artists
our Dardis I was doing that better
before jeered artists you know what you
know the problem is actually somebody
who really does know these
pronunciations corrected me and I have
the really right one in my head which
I'm totally failing at but anyways he
wrote a book what is it what does the
name of his book in
I think it's winners take owners take
all heezy he is he's a very smart
persistent critic of the Davos class of
our style of capitalism and he because
of his pedigree and his connections he's
invited to participate in forums like
Bloomberg or Davos where he humiliates
people and in this case he's gonna turn
Tony Blair who is one of the worst
people on planet earth the fact that
Lula is in jail and Tony Blair is free
is the distillation of the sickness of
our times he I mean he is aware to start
with guy but he could lead it you could
leave it frankly if you want help lie UK
into the invasion of Iraq was a co
architect of that and has spent his post
Premiership lobbying for Central Asian
Middle Eastern I mean just doing some of
the most immoral oil based profiteering
imaginable in addition to the JP Morgan
work and for the last couple of years
has been a persistent irritant and past
to undermine Jeremy Corbyn and labor and
we're not done on him yet but first here
he is responding through the conduit of
Christiane Amanpour to a very sensible
question from a non giad artists about
why do we even have Davos anymore and
it's gonna turn this this you know sort
of smiling tight jawed sociopath into a
gibbering mess let me just play you this
little sound bite from a guy who's kind
of gone viral right now and I'm geared
at us who's just written this book you
know winner takes all the charade of the
global elites look what he just told me
I think Davos should end I think it
should be canceled this year and and
should should end going forward it is a
family reunion
for the people who in my view broke the
modern world I mean you can't argue with
that right I can I currently it's the
easiest line in the world to make by the
way you know there are tell me what I do
when I come to Davos so later today I'll
be meeting three of my presidents from
Africa I do want to note my presidents
from Africa there were several won't - I
won't belabor it what does he my African
American my African Americans my African
presidents I would be meeting with my
African presidents but what what because
he possibly meet their clients of his
consulting practice he has a so he calls
them my ok yeah here's a governance
project in Africa where he teaches a
deliver ology by the way you know there
are tell me what I do when I come to
Davos so later today I'll be meeting
three of my presidents from Africa I
don't think they broke the economic
system I'll be meeting a whole lot of
people from multilateral institutions
who work in the developing world I'm
here because my Institute which is a
not-for-profit Institute works in in
some of the poorest parts of the world
trying to help them and you know to be
fair the people who come here they're
discussing serious issues so it's the
easiest play in the world say oh you
know all these people are coming along
here the global elite and so on and by
the way you know these arguments about
cultural identity and nationalism in my
experience you've got elites on either
side of the argument so you know Davos
it is what it is it's it's it's an
opportunity for people to come and
network on issues of importance and you
know some people you know may come here
who are billionaires from different
parts of the world but other people come
because some of the issues that they're
discussing here are important because
they were invited by the billionaires do
you discuss those issues let me just say
this first of all um the part I like is
it is what it is um if I'm lobbying for
the Kazakhs or Rupert Murdoch's
wife and a hot tub while he's away which
is by the way if those reports are true
by far the coolest thing Tony Blair has
ever done it is what it is and let me
just add a few more cheap shots on top
of that Tony Blair's a war criminal
sociopath and should be banned from
media we have one more Tony Blair thing
to get to but for
I believe do we is is their return here
is Sam back on the line again Sam
either yeah I'm trying just one more yes
I am here
yes electrifying radio do you see you
call yourself a leftist and yet you're
calling us that we hear you can you okay
yeah yeah I've been hearing you I'm
pathetic yeah I the one of the best
things sorry about that no no from the
basket pieces I think I've ever read was
on Davos was by Chris Hayes and that's
worth checking out when I'm out he he
wrote it years ago but the fractal
inequality oh that's you know and that
that's um that's actually it's a good
Tony Blair anecdote because I remember
there was a piece that came out about
Blair about a year ago and it was like
Tony Blair charted his own yacht in
Italy and his whole career had been
built unlike it was always like hey he's
on some Oleg Ark or some movie stars
yacht like who's he currying favor with
this week and the article is like his
consulting practices and PR advice for
like Kazakhstan has gotten so lucrative
that he can get his own yacht now and so
he feel you know he feels like less
resentful of all of the elites he's
around in terms of because that is his
experience of that fractal and equal
yeah that's important yeah yeah yeah
that's very important yeah alright
Michael listen to me can you count to
five for me because I think there might
be a big latency problem with this
version that I'm using right now one two
three four two three four huge five huge
yeah that was not good all right Wow
okay all right thanks we'll try
something different okay hi guys bye Sam
I don't know what happened that time
yeah that was crazy all right we got to
get to this now so Tony Blair
continued on him for a second this guy
so don't forget you forgot this was this
was the darling
until he became he's become so odious in
the past couple of years that even sort
of respectable Democrats don't want to
be seen with him although he still
provided advice to Hillary Clinton over
the phone in her campaign but Tony Blair
who has and now is starting to rebrand
himself because for a couple years it
was like oh he's the one advising the
Saudis and the Kuwaiti s and the
Kazakhstan and the Kazakh government
he's you know just purely running a cash
business and influence-peddling off of
his position in a way that was even
unprecedented in modern UK politics in
the past couple years he's come back and
now he has this Open Institute in the UK
and he's you know back to I am
high-minded and I'm trying to stop
brexit and blah blah blah and in this
process he still has almost a total
inability to criticize Donald Trump and
he is constantly undermining Jeremy
Corbyn now if you wanted to say hey you
know what he has that American
allegiance thing he doesn't want to lay
into Trump sure although he's laid into
Bernie but then there's another weird
question here there was even a story
that in the beginning of administration
that Tony Blair was lobbying Jared
Kushner to bring him back into the
Middle East peace process which was his
total fail he if you know if you recall
when he left office he was the head of
the quartet which was a as Middle East
peace envoy which he apparently mostly
used to like run interference for Israel
and pressure to Palestinians to accept
deals on behalf of corporate clients he
had it was sleazy and failed but he's
trying to brand himself as the anti
extremism guy first of all of course
he's gonna draw a total insane
equivalency as many centrists do between
a Corbin and a Trump which is self
negating in and of itself but even
taking on his own terms
first you have the report of an outreach
to Trump then a couple of months ago
there was a photo of Tony Blair with
salvini the fascist Deputy Prime
Minister xenophobe in Italy apparently
they were meeting because Blair was
lobbying him on an oil pipeline or a
natch
gas pipeline and now in Davos and I got
to say like Tony Blair said at the time
when Lula was president he called Lula
one of the most extraordinary leaders of
the modern world this is Tony Blair with
juror bolson ro who again let's even
just stipulate of course Tony Blair's on
board with the looting of Brazil for
Wall Street and austerity and the
destruction of all of the gains of Lula
and the Workers Party but he is still
theoretically a voice against extremism
and for things like gay rights that was
one of his big things he was on the
cover of a gay lifestyle magazine in the
UK a couple years ago because in you
know he was good on those issues he's
posing with probably now the most
certainly inside this hemisphere the
most globally recognized anti LGBTQ
leader on the planet and a guy who on a
daily basis now we have revelations of
his family's connection to a mafia
cartel that assassinated one of the most
promising and leaders in this case an
afro-brazilian lesbian in the world Tony
Blair should be expelled from the Labor
Party he should never be invited on any
show or outlet besides I guess Bloomberg
or Breitbart uh and we should learn
frankly from the British who loathe this
guy and people are constantly protesting
him and trying to make citizens arrests
and we should apply that same spirit to
everybody in the Trump administration
everybody in the Republican leadership
and a whole host of leaders and you know
maybe Hillary Clinton for backing the
coup in Honduras Tony Blair yeah
talk about fake friends that's
unbelievable
no disgusting this this is going we're
gonna keep seeing this though as things
become more polarized worldwide and
there are fewer and fewer examples of
viable centrist candidates right the
people who've been trying to paint
themselves as these reasonable centrists
when there
actually like free-market fascists who
are socially liberal in the context of
you know the societies in which they
live they're always gonna break for the
right always no doubt
speaking of always breaking for the
right remember I mean look we're all
slaves in a metaphorical sense I
actually want to be more careful about
the use of that word but anyways all a
lot of us are caught inside the Apple
matrix and anybody who's informed
obviously knows that Apple is an
incredibly problematic company in and of
itself then of course just the monopoly
power and influence that Apple
represents along with Google and
Facebook or pernicious and problematic
in and of itself but but this is a good
example of somebody who especially a
couple years ago I mean Tim Cook credit
where credit's due its historic he's the
first openly gay man to run a fortune
500 company and that is specifically
relevant in this case because let's be
clear here I mean Tim Cook is quite
public on calling for deregulation and
allowing Apple to get away with dodging
and stealing tax money from the Treasury
which is another major cause I mean talk
about the money that Fox supposedly
thinks we can't find I could seize their
Irish tax shelter alone would do a
beautiful dent in dealing with hunger in
this country so Tim Cook you know major
problem as a company and as a guy but
that being said he spoke in eloquently
you can hear him in interviews quite
eloquently speaking about his experience
as a gay man it even had and of course I
mean look the reason they D platformed
Alex Jones is because of no ethical
commitment it was just too much heat but
that being said um flowing from that
this is also a guy who did it the only
sort of overt political stand he's
contributed to Republicans and Democrats
but he D platformed Alex Jones
supposedly because that was beyond the
pale now what if you had a head of state
who was both variant ly homophobic he
said he'd prefer his own son be hit by a
car than me gay and who had on advisers
who promote conspiracy theories like
cultural Marxism which are
indistinguishable from Alex Jones in
fact one of his advisers is an
english-speaking astrologer living in
Virginia this is one of the prime
intellectual architects of bolson ro
and no hate on astrologers but hate on
fascist quasi mystics which this guy is
you might think if you were Tim Cook
maybe at the very least I shouldn't dine
with and be photographed with gyre
bolson ro but of course if you're savvy
and you watch this show you know better
and here is both are in a row I'm sure
Tim Cook could pronounce the name this
is Tim Cook dining with Jerry Belson ro
in Brazil disgusting and I do have to
say though it's funny because if you
follow Lula's Instagram and Twitter
accounts like bolson ro got panned for
his speech by even just like the
mainstream press because it was just you
know he's not a good speaker and it was
uninspired and also you know he's going
there and saying Brazil's open for
business and we're fighting corruption
while his family and administration are
just being engulfed in wild extreme
corruption stories so it doesn't really
work but just unlike a level of just
political skills and dignity of
representing your country I think that
was one of the things that Dave said
about like putting Persil back on the
map these clips of Lula just owning the
room like walking in and Obama's look oh
 look there's Lula I don't know I
made him sound like Bill Clinton but
like everybody is basically thirsting to
get into a photo with Lula and
apparently the only person really
thirsting to get into a photo with bolsa
Nara was Tony Blair so Satya Nadella the
CEO of Microsoft was also seated at that
table I don't think he's pictured I
don't see it but but he was reportedly
across from it's a big it's also less
commented upon and I know a little bit
less about it but one of the things that
actually workers party did too is they
were pretty good on supporting things
like Linux and open software computing
so I'm seeing with so I would assume as
with all the other areas ripe for
privatization and theft the tech
companies are excited about what they
can do to commandeer Commons in Brazil
under the fascist leadership of
jerub-baal Cynara all right we need to
get to
one more segment and then we will we got
to wrap up really soon but this is
important let's just do these tweets
there's a coup ongoing in Venezuela I
think we outlined it with Ava Gallinger
if you didn't see that part of the show
go watch it it's really important all
conversations about the nature of the
Maduro government or secondary as soon
as the u.s. puts a coup into motion
we need to oppose it and this is a test
of left-wing leadership so let's just
start with i mean just one of the great
mediocrities of the senate and just bear
in mind first of all that a lot of
people in the Democratic Party are
co-signing on this coup eliot engel
susan shillelagh and many others in
congress including actually introducing
legislation to put this forward and
again not a position which you could
track was separate from the coup the
coup needs to be opposed a hundred
percent but there's no doubt you could
follow a Mexican or even French or
Spanish model and say there needs to be
some type of negotiated settlement so
they're rejecting a moderate tract and
endorsing a Trump far-right coup that's
what these Democrats are doing and dick
Durbin who you will see sanctimoniously
on TV whining about Russia I'm sure had
this to say yesterday or yeah was the I
believe this yesterday last year in
Venezuela I met with now interim leader
Juan guy Otto and many of his talented
colleagues elected to the National
Assembly during my visit they are brave
Patriots who see hopeful Democratic
future for the Brazilian people I plan
to speak with him in a few days ahead
and offer my support for his pledge to
lead a thoughtful peaceful transition to
a legitimate election that meets
international standards in the immediate
future my full statement on today's news
now look again this guy with the backing
of regional far-right governments in
Colombia and Brazil as well as the prime
corporate hegemonic interests in the
region the United States and Canada
Justin Trudeau is a hundred percent
behind this coup has declared himself
president that's not how it works
I mean I don't really know what's more
else I can spell out and thankfully and
credit due to RO Cana who really has
just been exceptional in this regard we
still need to hear something from Bernie
Sanders we still need C I'm certainly
like to hear something I'm look Bernie
Sanders I want to hear something from
and I will critique him if I don't but
we've already spelled out all the ways
in which Bernie has on his real
Palestine on Brazil on global fascism
Bernie's been there this would be a
great opportunity for somebody to
finally put some substance behind tulsi
gabbard supposed to the opposition to us
hegemonic interference I haven't heard
anything from her yet what I've seen is
as of this Alon Omar and Alexandria
Cascio Cortes have retweeted and that's
fine I guess they've signal boosted
though they all need to be getting
together and coming up with a statement
and an action on this to stop a coup and
a potentially van invasion but Rho Cana
has taken the lead and really immense
credit to rho kona and he's really
distinguishing himself here with respect
senator durbin the US should not anoint
the leader of the Opposition in
Venezuela during an internal polarized
conflict let us support our guei Mexico
and the Vatican's efforts for a
negotiated settlement and end sanctions
that are making hyperinflation words
done I mean it's really I mean we'll add
the other okay and Alexander Cassio
Cortes retweeted this so did Alon Omar
and then okay let me and roll Khanna
also said this yesterday and it's really
funny quick reading Rania Khalek
so it's interesting the really different
dynamic where you could see the types of
media just even that these you know the
the comms people are probably watching
shows like this and reading different
media that's significant role Cano let
me get this straight the u.s. is
sanctioning Venezuela for their lack of
democracy but not Saudi Arabia's such
hypocrisy Maduro as policies are bad not
helping his people but crippling
sanctions are pushing for a regime
change will only make situation worse I
mean look he that's it
one should study and explore more deeply
what's happening there but those are the
positions to have they're the only
positions to have and you should hear
that frankly not just from progressives
but really any Democrat and I mean of
course I'll just add for the hell of it
to the list I mean Rand Paul
mr. anti intervention I'd like to hear
something there all right
yes Justin Trudeau does not get to be
our woke Bay anymore he's gonna support
right-wing coos I don't think he ever
was yeah well he would some people's
woke Bay right I think for the people
who use woke Bay of they're not gonna
care about this don't but yeah that's
the truth is you're a woke bay at home
if you're gonna support right-wing whose
abroad that goes for all Democrats as
well that's the shame is I feel like he
I don't know I don't know how durable he
is compared to my Kron but what Crohn's
a lot smarter
all right last call of the day oh it
doesn't show on the polls though no but
well there's just structural forces that
it's like you know you can be as smart
as you want don't try to take away
French people's right to be lazy
alright last call from much left of
France Liberty plenty all right last
call day you're calling from a 6-1 Oh
Ariel code who are you where you're
calling from oh yes this is you with the
last holiday gotta be my tree quick my
friends yes what's on your minds okay
hey Mike I just was wondering if you
guys would talk about like dynamics that
Democrats can be hurt sometimes by kind
of low expectations in terms of the 2020
race because just talking to people I've
like encountered a lot of people who
just are concerned with policy but
pretty much are willing to support
anybody in the primary and they're less
concerned with policies and then they
were in like 2016 so yeah I'm wondering
if that will hurt Bernie because a lot
of Democrats who even like aoc will
still support still like an
establishment figure like Joe Biden and
it's kind of a interesting dynamic well
I I want to say I think specifically
with aoc that's a good thing about AOC
which is that right now everybody likes
her now that's gonna change because as
an example if it comes down to common
law Harris and Bernie Sanders she's
gonna need to endorse Bernie Sanders in
my view and right that's where the
rubber is because that's her politics
that's you know like that's the
commitment there's a clear choice there
and the rubber will hit the road and
some of the people who kind of
generically just liked certain things
stylistically are gonna you
freak out but that being said right I
actually think that twofold my my view
is like one is actually and this is why
cuz I think right now the polling is
like and I know I mean we'd have this
debate more but I think the polling
shows that most any Democrat is poised
to probably beat Donald Trump so take
that as an opportunity to vote for what
you actually want which is actual real
reform real change in real durable
contributions which leads to the second
point which is you know for the past
several decades Republicans come in
through combinations of thievery
intimidation racism discrimination they
take in power then they everything
up because at the end of the day unless
you're an oligarch this stuff does not
benefit you and there's only so many
people it's a chunk of people but it's
not a majority who will vote for you
purely just race based off of the
cultural racial gender resentments and
so then they lose and then the Democrat
gets into power and the Democrat and I
understand there's a lot of subtleties
to this bla bla bla bla bla but as a as
a basic premise the Democrats Clinton
and Obama tinker in and work within the
parameters that were set by the
Republican Party then the fundamental
dynamics do not shift and you still have
the profound prejudices that they can
tap into so the second part of the
argument is and that's why I think it's
like you need to expand it beyond 2020 I
think Trump very well will lose to
anybody but my question is what happens
in 2024 you know if you don't start to
actually implement some of these things
and deal with these massive disparities
inequalities the ecological crisis and
you're gonna keep having these resurgent
cycles of far-right politics and it's
already been shown that the center even
at its most enlightened and effective
and when it's not past its sell-by date
has not been able to reset the
parameters like jonathan chait writes
these silly columns every couple of
weeks where he's like you know but he
says they want a green new deal and
universal health care Obama already did
it and it's like well dude you know
that's correct I guess so you know like
if you want you and a couple of other
nerds being like well actually
the stimulus the Affordable Care Act but
in terms of reality and in terms of vast
majority of people's lived experiences
those were in those cases positive
reforms that sure to Obama's credit but
they dealt with transitioning the energy
economy and getting everybody
no-bullshit full health care and dealing
with the Terrorism of healthcare
companies so I would also say to them
where do you want to be in 2024 like
vote for what you actually want terms of
real reforms and then don't you want
somebody who's gonna govern with a
mindset of resetting the power dynamics
of the country and I think that even
center-left people can understand that
on some level cuz do you really want
like do you want 24 years of middling a
law I mean four years of middling along
and then in 2024 all of a sudden
Tom cotton is a legitimate contender
I mean jesus christ don't we
want to X these people out we got to do
what Thatcher and Reagan did they reset
the template and the all and I'm only
interested in candidates that are
committing to reset the template and one
more thing when is your book on the
ideas coming out of summer you know
coming out in the summer have more info
on it soon thanks for the call brother
sorry couldn't get everybody apologies
we are going way late final I am of the
day
name's Darwin Michael you need to clip
that clip that minute or two where you
and Jamie riff on how billionaires want
to want to end head start just to garner
their 15 billion and how they should go
 themselves I need it on a loop yeah
it was pretty good
alright thanks everybody we'll see you
tomorrow
[Music]
No
