[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday December 26 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA yes ladies and gentlemen ho
ho ho ho hope you had a Merry Christmas
today is the day after Christmas isn't
that it is that boxer day or maybe that
was two days ago I don't know this is
Canadian Christmas or something like
that right I think you got it right
and we are on vacation but we are
playing our best of so ladies and
gentlemen that's right maybe you missed
this the first time around maybe you
didn't and remember how great this
episode was but we have 5 of them for
you lined up over the next 5 days and
[Music]
today we have Julie Wilson author of
neoliberalism a textbook we hear about
neoliberalism constantly people throw it
around I would say 75% of the people who
use it on Twitter don't know what the
word means
they're close but it is more often than
not they don't know what they're talking
about after you listen to this episode
you will know you will be able to use
the term neoliberalism with the
confidence that you know what you're
talking about
not just blathering out of your your
backside I have no idea what's going on
now
speaking of as if it was the 26th
because I'm on vacation and I'm
recording this prior to that so I can't
see into the future hopefully Donald
Trump is at the very least in mar-a-lago
but who knows you know who knows what
could happen somebody an errant golf
cart something like that I mean I'm not
wishing ill or a budget deal a budget
deal we don't know we'll see hurt if
budget could be all right so sit back
enjoy this and matt has some bathtubs
now what do you what do you know what's
the plan for this best-of we go you
putting do you have clips that you're
assembling for some funny clips so for
instance there was a Arizona Republican
who was called out first in sexual
harassment oh that did so and he circled
the camera so some of these are going to
be visual so they're there's gonna be a
little compilation of some of the
funniest clips but that one specifically
is probably the most visual that's gonna
be on this episode okay and we're gonna
keep it open for everybody right there's
a freebie end-of-the-year freebies
yep Feliz Navidad so you get a taste of
what the you know a slight taste of what
the fun half is like and if you want to
join us during the year and become a
member go to join the majority report
comm and become a member support the
show also we still have up for our
members that debate between Brandon
strata and myself where I am admittedly
the most condescending a glib and smug
aggressive - oh no am i regressive
you're insistent that you want to sort
of up the ante I guess yes and what
trying to make you yes he's trying to
get me to admit to something and I say
oh not only while I admit to that I will
actually double down on it in some
instances maybe triple down so if you
remember you can check that out and it's
all its glory you can either do it
through patreon or check it out through
our membership at join the majority of
port comm alright quick break when we
come back
Julie Wilson on her book neo-liberalism
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program
Julie and Wilson she's an associate
professor at Allegheny College
Department of Communication Arts in
theater author of with Emily Yocum
mothering through precarity women's work
in digital media and also of the book
neoliberalism Julie welcome to the
program thank you for having me Sam so
okay now we've we have had many guests
over the years to talk about
neoliberalism we hear it in the
vernacular used quite a bit
give us a nutshell definition from your
perspective as to what neoliberalism is
and maybe perhaps how its misused it to
the extent that it is in I guess
colloquial usage particularly online
okay so I I really it was involved in a
lot of debates on the left in terms of
to what extent is neoliberalism a useful
term you know some people will say why I
call it neoliberalism it's just
capitalism and liberalism perhaps on
steroids why confuse it but you know
confuse things by by talking about
something new but in the book I really
try to present neoliberalism as a kind
of shift in the kind of logics of
governance and capitalism that happened
over the course of a 21st century and
into the 21st century but basically that
the idea is that with liberalism it was
routed and I liberalism liberal social
thought was routed the idea that you
have a state in a public sector and in a
private market and generally speaking it
was a kind of love a fare type thing the
state should stay out of the market as
much as possible but the state was also
there to guarantee kind of the rights of
individuals especially property rights
so what happens in neoliberalism though
is that the stuff that you kind of get
rid of this line or this idea that there
should be a separate public in private
and everything should become market eyes
and what that means for people then is
that they are not citizens with kind of
rights and property to protect but
simply capital that should be
appreciated and so in the book what I'm
trying to do is you know people talk
about neoliberal laws all the time in
academia especially but I really was
trying to kind of think about the ways
that neoliberalism has seeped into our
kind of culture and our everyday lives
and really powerful ways that make it
hard to organize and imagine a kind of
world beyond capitalism so yeah you know
and so and I should just say for the
sake of clarity when you when when
you're saying liberalism you're talking
about classic liberal I guess a thought
right I mean we're we're we're not
talking about the sort of the more
colloquial use of a liberal today
exactly so yes when I talk about
neoliberalism I'm talking about and
liberalism we're talking about classical
economics free-market philosophies you
know of Adam Smith's up through Hayek
who are the neoliberal thinkers and the
first thing I tell my students which is
who this book was written for was that
you have to we are so confused about
what we think liberal means and that we
have to throw out that kind of
colloquial sense that you know Oh
liberal is the kind of left side of the
political spectrum I said well bro
pretty much liberals in some way or
another view in the sense that we
I live in a capitalist free-market
system right in my understanding of of
neoliberalism as its traced through sort
of a Hayek and the the Mont Pelerin
group was this this notion that a free
market but we should also we should have
enough power within the state to sort of
tilt that market in a certain way right
I mean is that how I mean give me your
sense of that bad perspective yeah so I
mean I look at it as neoliberalism
actually wants a very aggressive state
but it's not a state that's doing things
like taking care of citizens or
providing a social safety net it's a
state that's aggressively promoting and
protecting private markets and kind of
free enterprise and without a lot of
concern for monopolies or kind of power
imbalances or anything like that so you
know for example with my students which
kind of and this goes to the point about
the colloquial ways we think about
liberal and our polyp like political
discourse like the Affordable Care Act
was a very neoliberal policy to the
extent that it's the government forcing
people into a private health care market
right and so that you have a state that
is doing things and is not less a fair
but is actually mandating people to
participate in a kind of private market
system of health care I mean that's just
one example of the kind of more left
forms of neoliberalism versus the more
right forms which tend to think that the
state shouldn't do anything except help
rich people get richer right and so in
an example of sort of a a conservative
form of neoliberalism would be one which
I guess you know a so-called right to
work legislation right or or ones that
inhibit the the power of labor let's say
over over over capital or promote the
power of capital alright and I think
that's important because I it is there
is so much confusion out there
about the these terms I'm curious as to
just an aside from the moment how many
of your students like when they come in
and they hear these things like where
are they when they hear this like how
much understanding do they have of these
terms that I imagine those who are
attracted to take your course in the
first place have had some interaction
with those terms yes oh and the reason I
wrote the book and started teaching a
class that was dedicated to the concept
of neoliberalism was because students
would see this word come up and and the
books that they were reading or the
articles that they were reading and they
kept just telling me they just still
don't understand it and the more I would
read the literature that came up you
know just unpacking the history and and
and all of that I just said yeah we're
gonna like really dig in what I found
though which is so interesting is that
by talking about neoliberalism from a
cultural studies perspective like it
does which routes it in people's
everyday lives which are very anxious
people feel very competitive with their
peers that they don't necessarily want
to feel that way they have a lot of
personal kind of pain and and these are
you know kids that you know some kids
that we might write off is like oh
you're privileged and you shouldn't
worry about that but in the space of the
class it was interesting to see how
students could all kind of find their
way into this and like from a critical
perspective while also not necessarily
saying everyone's the same under
neoliberalism we could start to talk
about racial injustice and like gender
and justices and those histories in ways
that people didn't get defensive because
they were starting to see that
neoliberalism was kind of like this
I don't know horrible thing that we're
all kind of caught up in and for the
most part you know I teach a lot of
economic students who are like majors in
economics and then take our more
cultural studies classes as their minor
and even at those students who tend to
be a lot more conservative and pretty
much taking neoclassical economics the
majority of their career
it really resonates with them and they
kind of you know stink you know we start
talking about debt and what's happened
on the financial markets and and you
know how that's connected to mass
incarceration and all those kinds of
things with it and you know they don't
really like they don't really I guess
what I'm trying to say is that students
generally don't like the idea of having
to think of themselves as human capital
right well that's that's very subversive
of you I imagine that's going to get you
in trouble at one point but let's hope
not all right well let's and I want to
circle back on that because one of the
things I think to the that that from a
cultural perspective is you know just
social media in the way that that
there's a certain amount of sort of
there there's been some work on on how
that is you know training for the
marketplace in some way but before we
get there let's talk about the the rise
of neoliberalism particularly in this
country a Mont Pelerin of course was a
European summit but what what what where
did we begin to see that change in the
states so I mean I think we trace it you
know this is really important for I
think people to understand it's like you
know neoliberalism is kind of born out
of you know at Mount Pelerin and out of
people that are really concerned about
the New Deal and what's happening in the
wake of the Great Depression with the
kind of rise of the social welfare state
and but it doesn't really start to make
it into kind of mainstream policy until
the late 70s early 80s you know with the
election of Ronald Reagan for sure but
that's because for years and years kind
of underground like neoliberal thinkers
and organizers were establishing think
tanks and producing knowledge that was
kind of built on their philosophies at
the market and so then when we have you
know the oil crises and political crises
you know people are looking for
solutions what are we going to do and
then here are these think tanks it's
like oh here's a you know a radical
wonderful new way to fix the market and
so it was but it was Reagan I think and
then I would argue that you know Clinton
pretty much all the presidents since
Reagan have done a lot to forward a kind
of neoliberal hegemony where in the book
what I want people to understand is that
you know we have a right a spectrum and
a left spectrum within our political
discourse but pretty much at this point
both of those whether you're on the
right or left are kind of contained by
neoliberalism so right now I think that
Bernie Sanders candidacy was probably
the you know only kind of mainstream
candidate to challenge that you know
chump was it's confused so yes
well I mean so but let's I mean from a
from a policy perspective you know and
you know aside from sort of I guess a an
economic ideology like where do we start
to see did first emerge as public
private partnerships was it more when
you see you know grow I mean was
taft-hartley sort of could that be
considered a neoliberal piece of
legislation in the sense that it
inhibited the the union's ability to
strike in certain situations where there
other larger federal policies that you
know specifically started to track in
that direction yeah so I mean I so to be
clear I'm a cultural studies scholar but
yes I said I might my history on the
policies is like the actual dates but
yes taft-hartley I think Reagan liked
going after the labor unions that was
like one of the first big you know yeah
I mean that was one of the first movies
to break the power of organized labor
and I think that where traffic
controllers strike and exactly thanks I
was yeah and then
but also the kind of what's happening
with the markets and when moving away
from the gold standard all those all
that the rise of kind of the global
financial market it's that kind of level
and then at the level where I think that
I spend most of my time thinking about
just in terms of the kind of Clinton's
dismantling of welfare and the kind of
three-strike rules I mean this is the
state basically saying that if you're
gonna promote private market competition
and the state ceases to really care
about its citizens but at to care about
kind of global competition in a world
market you know then you have to kind of
have this law and these law and order
policies that kind of lock up people
populations and police populations that
are that are disposable and not
necessarily desirable they're not human
capital right those are people that can
be relegated to social death and so what
do you do with them at that at that
point so I think Clinton basically
creating policies that tell people you
know they have to go to work giving tax
breaks to companies to engage in these
highly exploitative practices which also
of poor people would also help to break
the power of unions as well like I think
that's a real crucial moment and then of
course you've got you know NAFTA and all
the free trade deals and all of that
stuff that's happening around the same
time as well what what are the four DS
that you talked about in your book well
so I I kind of just was trying to
because this book is it's this kind of
big picture I want them to kind
understand like how neoliberalism shapes
our kind of social totality if you will
and the four Deezer I wanted to give
students a way to really see rise what
are the consequences the critical
consequences of living in a neoliberal
world and so the four DS are meant to
kind of capture those and so the first
one being dispossession right which is
something that David Harvey talks about
accumulation by dispossession but really
what I want people to understand is the
way that neoliberalism works to dis
possess
people citizens of basic rights of money
of security and in all of that and then
but so in a way with the Harvey talking
about is a very kind of economic
dispossession and that happens with
divestment and kind of neoliberal
policies but these but dispossession can
also we can also think about it as
political and and cultural processes as
well so I talked about the second D I
think is this imagination and that's
what happens when we can only think
about ourselves as human capital it's a
we kind of find ourselves in a state of
what Mark Fisher the late mark Fisher
called capitalist realism right and we
just have to think of ourselves as a
brand and it's about competition and a
growth and we kind of lose the ability
to think about a kind of broader social
world that we live in Konya we share and
live with other beings human and
non-human alike the third D was I think
indeed democratization which is
something that Wendy brown talks about
in her book on neoliberalism which I
heard her on your show and yeah and
that's just the way that neoliberalism
as she says hollows out kind of politics
and democratic process so that it turns
democracy and politics into a just a
market and this goes back to your point
about social media what it feels like to
be political at this point is pretty
much just sharing our opinions and news
and and talking on social media and we
really because of neoliberalism I think
shy away from from actually getting
involved in the hard work of collective
governing right and governing our lives
together which is what democracy is
rooted in and then finally I already
mentioned the fourth Diaz disposability
and the way that neoliberalism has to
draw lines between people that are able
to appreciate themselves to be
productive human capital in a global
economy versus those who can are
disposable and can be relegated to
social death and civic death how I mean
let's talk a little bit about the the
interplay of these from from a cultural
standpoint I mean you know social media
is the easiest I would say they're I
mean there's two phenomenons that I've
noticed particularly over the past
say 15-20 years that culturally you know
sort of I guess implicate particularly
the dissing and the the D
democratization and I guess also the
dispossession I mean all four of the DS
I mean and that is you know like social
media and then there's sort of like the
the rise of the of the how to of how to
a books I mean it seems to me that when
I was younger in the 70s all of the
how-to stuff was about your emotional
well-being and and finding your inner
self and maybe maybe this is wrong I
have no data to support this but but it
seems you're onto it on the past 20
years
all the how-to stuff has been how to
make yourself more efficient in
achieving some goal that is either
marketable or just make you more
efficient so that you can compete better
and in what are the other sort of
phenomena or they're you know it's that
are those reflective of other phenomena
that's happening culturally what what
are the things that help that help do
that or is it simply on some level just
there's less money to go around so
everybody's trying to figure out how to
make themselves more marketable and do
it more efficiently I mean I think it's
all of amazing it's everything that you
said I do think if I was going to hold
up what are the two kind of
quintessential cultural phenomenon that
like help us understand neoliberalism
and its kind of cultural power and I
would say the rise of self-help and then
also more recently kind of social media
but I think what you're getting at with
the kind of self actualization movement
of the 70s was a really and then the
transformation of self health into these
more like how to how to brand yourself
how to you know be more efficient all
those kinds of things but they're you
know neoliberalism pulled off this
really neat trick where it kind of
packed into the counterculture
and as well as the civil rights
movements of the sixties and seventies
to that we're all critical of the
welfare state in a way that it kind of
squashed individualism in particular and
so in order to kind of be liberated
right you need to kind of really get in
touch with yourself and not this kind of
bureaucratic oppressive state and then
but what it that does is it basically
turns that which which all those
movements in and there are some good
things about that you know that that
historical moment but it really taps
into that but then but then basically
puts it in the service of you know
neoliberalism creating a world where
people have to take personal
responsibility for your life so you
there's no more safety nets people have
to kind of do everything on their own
they're supposed to live their lives as
in competition with their fellow
citizens and and whatnot and so how do
you do that that produces a lot of
anxiety a lot of insecurity well then
you have self-help kind of stepping in
and instead of being forced for like
personal liberation and like you know
like you say maybe getting in touch with
yourself like those kinds of things it
becomes a kind of way to control and
govern the population as kind of a you
know they have to be these disconnected
alienated individuals solely focused on
their own appreciation in the market
yeah it's interesting I mean that that
dynamic of uh in the I guess the late
60s and maybe the mid sixties and and
certainly I think in like in the 70s
that that ran sort of I guess concurrent
with the civil rights movement but was
was you know one part of the the
counterculture you know the the the turn
on tune in and and drop out I guess you
know I guess it was Timothy Leary
but that attitude of like sort of of
create your own reality in and and
putting the individual outside of the
collective I mean
guess the that that's part of that
phenomena right like where the idea was
drop out of the conformity but it turned
into reject collectivism right exactly
and I don't think that it necessarily
you know there was I mean you know
history is wholly contingent I don't
think things necessarily kind of had to
go that way but I think that that
because there was that kind of
sensibility within the counterculture
that was very strong and very seductive
in a lot of ways that you could
understand and then to have the rise of
neoliberalism kind of writing you know
on the backs of those moments and these
kind of cultural phenomenon and you have
you know marketers you know this is also
around the time of the rise of lifestyle
marketing and new psychographics and all
that kind of stuff so there's just like
a whole convergence of forces I think at
work so you have so you have the these
competing philosophies as there is a a
broad feeling of you know of
individualism and and one is getting
heavily financed too at that time right
I mean this is the early seventies is
where you start to see a lot of money
you know I guess you know sort of
following the Powell memo you started to
see a lot of very wealthy people pouring
money into good groups like the Heritage
Foundation and others that are sort of
pushing these agendas and and now you
also talk about the hustle self
enterprise in the neoliberal labor this
is I guess sort of a a more of this you
know four hour workweek type of stuff
yeah so basically the way the book is
kind of mapped out is the first half is
supposed to give you kind of a broad
sense of the history and and what is
neoliberalism and like what are there
kind of big consequences we talked about
the four DS and and and then I use the
education system to kind of help people
see how this all plays out but then the
second part I really want people to see
and understand the kind of way that
neoliberalism kind of encompasses all
dimensions of our life so the chapter on
called the Hustle is about labor and how
our working lives you know we all have
to work we have to figure out a way to
get by and how does neoliberalism and
this kind of idea that we have to be
self branding and personally responsible
and appreciating our human capital all
the time how does that kind of you know
play out in our working lives and and
really what I want to do in that chapter
is to help students and readers draw
lines of connection between in the kind
of way that they feel that they have to
kind of you know be constantly doing
different gigs or kind of hustling or
working 24/7 or working on social media
to brand themselves so they can network
on linked under or whatnot to that's
like their people are kind of forced to
hustle they're disciplined and I have to
hustle that way to kind of get by
there's a fear of failure of flipping
but they're also ways that the state
it's not you feel like a free agent but
the state is also forcing people to
hustle to whether it's through the kind
of shifts and welfare which force people
into really crappy jobs or whether it's
on the way that we have rethought you
know for example how we finance higher
education so that you know young people
who are in my classes have all this debt
and that means that they're gonna have
to take certain jobs instead of others
or think about their lives in particular
ways and also thinking about the hustle
in terms of gender and the way that we
still even though things have changed a
lot we still had this idea that you know
for the most part women or naturalised
caretakers and the family has to be this
place you know this kind of landing pad
in this cruel world of neoliberalism
and-and-and the mothers are really
hustling and women are really hustling
you know when you don't have a strong
public school system when both parents
are working all the time so I was really
in that chapter really trying to think
about okay what happens to work in
neoliberalism
and what are the connections between all
these folks that might feel really
divided along perhaps racial gender
lines but we're all hustling that was
the kind of that kind of the the the
student debt thing I mean
is it seems to me is a great example of
how the state contributes to this I mean
the idea I mean aside from the the shift
over the years from providing a if not
free a very low cost public option in
most states across the country or many
states I should say you know through the
40s in the 50s in the 60s
versus now student debt being virtually
the only debt as far as I know that is
not dischargeable in a bankruptcy is
pretty it's pretty stunning I mean yeah
it doesn't matter how rock-bottom you
get you're going to always owe that
money for educating yourself it really
does for a you know a rat making it
right irrational for you to follow a
career trajectory that is not going to
allow you to pay off that debt great I
mean if you have that option which isn't
necessarily there and it's pretty
stunning and in and from an educational
standpoint and and and maybe we how else
is it is it primarily through higher
education or do we see this in in other
aspects in terms of the state in
education our charters a part of that
yeah I mean I think um you know
neoliberalism things that I mean and the
neoliberal thinkers think that you're
going to get a good and just society and
like a kind of true entrepreneurial
society by privatizing and marketizing
everything so that means schools to the
public education is you know you know
the idea that the state are collectively
in communities or however you want to
think about it
that we this is something that we do
together like education and we provide
resources and we you know that's it's
the idea is that like let's create a
competition among schools and that will
you know provide a better education and
the and
the cream of the crop will rise to the
top through through that kind of system
as opposed to again a bureaucratic kind
of top-down public education system so
yeah I think you know and again we're
fighting you know battles over this you
know to a you know how do we preserve
public education health care is another
example too of the way that the state is
kind of you know involved in
perpetuating neoliberalism and in it in
certain ways but I think again that
we're also still you know especially in
the realm of Education I think more and
more people are growing you know I don't
know like it's not acceptable to have
this kind of standard driven benchmark
test heavy system you know we see more
and more resistance there and I think
that that's a potentially kind of
galvanizing issue but again the hard
part is is that you know well if you
don't want your students in that public
education system then you put them in a
charter or a private school and then
you're still contributing to
neoliberalism in certain ways so it's a
really tricky thorny issue and and talk
about the you have a chapter the the
moods of enterprise neoliberal effect
and the care of self is that more of of
the way that we imagine ourselves in the
context of you know I guess what makes
for the better self and this in this
type of era yeah I was trying to think
about what we talked a little bit about
earlier the rise of self-help but how in
a neoliberal world where your human
capital are you supposed to care for and
kind of cultivate themselves and I want
to address head-on because so many of my
students you know struggle with mental
health issues and anxiety depression and
there's a lot of great research out
there on the connection and that more
and more is growing at the connection
between the rise of neoliberalism and
the rise of widespread anxiety and
depression so I wanted to kind of
confront that and then think about what
are the two kind of I guess you could
say trends within self health or what
are the kind of ways we could think
about what's going on there
and one of those is about the kind of
financialization of
the self that Randy Martin talked about
in his book the financialization of
daily life where and that's again how
are we suppose that change the way we
move through the world in a way we
relate to other people and think about
our bodies and think about our
possibilities for being with other
people or for social life when we have
to think about ourselves in terms of
Finance right so I kind of try to give
some examples about how that plays out
through apps and wellness absent and and
whatnot and then the other one I just
say that a minute because my my my
daughter is you know insisted on getting
sweat coin which pays her some type of
like faux cryptocurrency for exercise
that you know like basically coupon so
you can buy I think clothing with or
something I mean that is it seems to me
sort of a perfect example of we're you
know you're gonna be a literally a
prettier you're going to generate a
cryptocurrency if you're healthy I guess
is the is the message there exactly I
mean that's perfect
it's super disturbing and and and so
what I mean
and what let's I want to talk about the
the neoliberal citizenship and the
privatization of politics too before
like we talked about how you hope your
students will react to this I mean
because and I guess this gets to dis
imagination but before we get there I
mean tell us about the privatization of
politics and the the what it means to be
a neoliberal citizen yeah so I think in
that chapter I'm just and we've already
touched on a lot of this but just the
way that you know that that
neoliberalism kind of hollows out
democracy and I really like the way
Wendy Brown talks about kind of bear
democracy this idea that we can govern
ourselves collectively together that's
the promise of democracy and what
happens within neoliberalism is kind of
politics is is totally privatized so you
get the important political
actors are you know philanthropists and
donors and you as an individual kind of
you know donor perhaps or a consumer if
you think about things like product red
or green you know buying green products
all that kind of stuff and so yeah so I
think it's just a way that politics
doesn't become about democracy anymore
it becomes about kind of expressing
oneself through the market right and we
see that both in terms of consumption
and consumer culture and you know
celebrities endorsing causes all that
and then we also see it I think to you
know as I mentioned earlier on social
media where politics is about kind of
getting yourself out there and an
economy of visibility or like so you're
you're participating in this kind of
circulation of content which is
constantly being capitalized and
monetized and then fed back to you you
know so it's completely privatized it's
not about collective governance in any
sense it's about a kind of self
expression of your political beliefs in
in a kind of market that you are not
actually yeah you might engage in
conversation but it's completely
disconnected from that like hard work of
governing you know a kind of population
or a community or thinking about like
how are we going to kind of get things
done together on the ground
and so that's kind of what that what
that chapter is about before we get to
that question about about the students I
mean I I'm struck by there's been a
decent amount of reporting as of late
particularly like in the in the I guess
in the the wake of of Donald Trump snow
specifically in the wake of Donald
Trump's victory about the active ization
if that's a word activation of of
suburban educated somewhat older women
who are at least engaging in organizing
for electoral politics you know we
recently coming out of like you know and
I've mentioned this report a couple of
times but that a scopa land
and Putnam reporting from like research
from from Georgia and from Virginia and
in Pennsylvania I should say and I mean
what what do you make of that because
this is a group who I would imagine like
are these a group of people who who who
who who are not necessarily imagining
themselves you know have not been raised
in formative years with this like sort
of intense idea of marketing themselves
in the way that let's say my 12 year old
daughter certainly is and maybe even a
you know a 27 or 30 year old is I mean
is there what's going on there from your
perspective or is that I mean from a
cultural standpoint so I mean you know
it's hard to say you know what's going
on with specific people in communities
but I can't talk about where I am and I
see a lot of connection so it's funny
when I'm writing the books because a big
part of it is that like I want people to
see that like neoliberalism is not
working right and people are really
disaffected from it they're you know
like I said my students are sitting
there even though they've been pumped
with this ideology their whole life but
they're like oh my god you know I don't
this is not the world that I want to
live in and thank you for helping me
understand why I feel so terrible about
my existence and how I can start to you
know think differently I think that a
everywhere people are sensing the cracks
and the the fact that this is not a kind
of way to take care of each other I
think most people I know I'm one of
those people that believe that like
human beings you know are tend to be
actually really concerned about you know
their neighbors and want to take care of
people and you know we neoliberalism has
told the story that we all have to be
competing and and fearful of each other
but you know I do think that there's
something that that people are starting
to see like this is a not okay and as
neoliberalism continues to kind of
destabilize and rip apart the very
foundations that make for community or
make for social life or make for the
possibility of being with other people
who we need I think you're gonna see
people start to step up in lots of
different ways so you'll see people
running for office right and getting
involved in electoral politics or you'll
see what's happened I that's happening
in our community in northwestern
Pennsylvania but you've also see people
organizing for new economic systems and
basically saying Wall Street in like
global and I was they don't care about
this place so how can we create a new
economic system that's going to really
take care of people how can we kind of
collective eyes ownership of buildings
that have been forgotten or are in
disrepair because you know the jobs left
and and divestment and all of that so I
think that there's that we're in this
moment potentially of transition where
there's a lot of organizing happening in
a lot of different layers it's not the
state is you know the neoliberal state
is incredibly powerful and strong and
you see that in the use of executive
orders by presidents and all that like
again it's hard to think about democracy
and that formal way seems hollowed out
but then when you're in communities and
you're looking at what people are doing
and how activated they are and it does
you know I'm not sure where it's all
leading and where it's all going to go
but I do think that the resistance is
growing but we need to be able to draw a
lines of connection between every we
know whether you're working you know in
the black lives matter movement or
whether you're working in the labor
movement or whether you're working
you're a group of women you know we're
working in electoral politics or you're
working on kind of solar issues and a
community or food you know we need to be
able to see those as connected which is
kind of why I wrote the book because
unless we have a kind of common horizon
that's not neoliberal I don't know how
we're gonna kind of get out at this
place all right so that's it let me just
talk about the kids because I just like
I wonder and I should say students how I
mean what are we and because I have a
hard time sort of imagining you know on
some level like what I would do if I was
someone that age today how do I as an
individual you know
create a situation where being a citizen
being a member of the community you know
being involved in in in in in multiple
communities has that is not organized by
you know likes and assessment I have a
tough time imagining that for them
and then frankly you know III sit here
and on a daily basis the the number of
hits on YouTube or the downloads that I
get or you know are irrelevant to my
well-being and my kids well-being on
some level so how how do like once
they've they've read this once they have
sort of said oh wow yeah this I
recognize this in my life and it is a
bit of a drag like what's the next
what's the next step so we talk about
this a lot in the book I try to prompt
them to think about little ways that you
can in just in the course of your
everyday life that you can start to kind
of resist a stranglehold that
neoliberalism has on your imagination
and that could be in the realm of
friendships really maybe you know I I'm
a media scholar so I I'm kind of weird
when people say oh the problems all
media just get off social media but like
thinking about what are what are your
friendships like and what and we read
stuff and think about what might make
for more deep friendships where you
would start to trust other people again
because you know I feel very far away
from my students when I talk to them
about their relationships whether
they're romantic relationships or friend
relationships there's no sense of trust
and there's a lot of fear and and in a
lot of my best students you know that
are really critical and want to change
the world they're incredibly alienated
from each other right so in these very
little ways how do you start to forge
relationships of trust and and and what
not my college and you know I'm in the
Communication Arts Department I also
teach in Community Justice Studies we do
a lot of community-based research and a
lot of community engaged were
and so getting students into the place
in really meaningful ways where they're
interacting with folks that are
different from them kind of seeing the
process by which like how is the city
going to kind of deal with the opioid
crisis right now or you know there's a
huge amount of community organizing
going on and in one of my classes right
now we're having our students interview
those people and create podcasts about
the work that's happening in Meadville
and that stuff is incredibly
transformative and then thinking about
leaving college I mean they wrestle with
the problem like I'm gonna have all this
debt I want to say I want to resist and
you know whatever but I'm still I can't
do that it's going to ruin my credit
score and we just talked a lot about
like it's not a you know you're never
gonna be free from it you know I'm a
professor and like I have to worry about
the same things you do about how many
books might you know like and I social
media that I mean we live in this world
but other ways too I get to kind of be
part of things that are happening here
part of the education and helping us
think you know how can we kind of push
beyond it but I do think a student email
me just two days ago and said you know
Julie like she graduate a couple years
ago she's like I didn't understand what
you kept saying about you just got to
get involved in kind of your place in
your community in like the kind of local
again that kind of feeling for democracy
and working with people that you might
not like that are different from you
she's like I did that instead of being
on social media posting my kind of
feminist post and I'm so mad at the
world I got involved with my local
library and it's been hard and
frustrating and it's so much better than
like spending my time on social media
right so yeah I but I think you know
there's again it goes back to there's
just lots of layers of organizing but I
think we all have to you know Naomi
Klein said in her book this changes
everything it's all hands on deck so I
try not to say oh this is the right way
to do it or this is where you should be
but it's a kind of like you know we've
got to kind of everyone do what they can
do from where they are and lastly what
do you think that that fear and lack of
trust where does that come from I mean
what is it is it a function of of the it
mean is that a function of
the fact that as opposed to when I grew
up I had far more ability to regulate
what what parts of me I would share with
friends and what they could do with that
I mean it just seems to me that like as
I look at you know youth today they
can't escape their past because it will
live online forever they can't regulate
really in any meaningful way what they
share with people through the means in
which everybody shares stuff now right I
mean you could say I'm only gonna okay
certain friends but the stuff is digital
I mean is that what what makes everyone
somewhat I guess you know distrustful or
guarded or what is that i I think it yes
I think that social media kind of
epitomizes and it's kind of like a
neoliberal machine but I think it's all
I would say it's even more fundamental
than that so if you are kind of growing
up in a world where every day and
everywhere you look and when you're in
school you're kind of interpolated or
hailed as a capital as human capital as
a thing that has to constantly be
growing right then the possibility of
failure is everywhere and terrifying and
laying a petition exactly everyone is
competition so you can't trust them you
can't take those arrests and you can't
and you have to be constantly focused on
yourself but I think that what that does
what social media brings to that and
that's a terrible way to move through
the world right in terms of when you're
thinking about organizing but what
social media does to that is I think
create really kind of narcissistic
subjects and I don't mean mark
narcissistic in the sense that they love
themselves I mean that they're it's so
fragile because you can always get if
you're online you can always be looking
for that confirmation
growth right or confirmation of your
capital or appreciate I got this many
likes I texted this person that I like
and they texted me right back so it's
this constant you're kind of conditioned
by the technology then to kind of crave
and look for that constant
self-appreciation right or that constant
growth or that constant validation and
just kind of takes the inherent anxiety
of neoliberalism and this idea of human
capital and like you know technologies
that are operationalizes in a way so
that you know people are just so
constant in need of reinforcement and
validation but there's no but you know
the kind of I guess in psychology to
talk about a self-concept is really
fragile and that's what narcissism is
where you just need other people to
constantly confirm who you are right
because your own self is so fragile and
so and that's what I see happening a lot
and I think my students recognize it
which is a lot of them good but then
like you said it it's like our worlds
are so mediated at least you know here
that it's hard it's even if you see it
happening it's still hard to like not
participate in it right
Julie Wilson the book is neoliberalism
it's available through route llege press
thank you so much for your time today
well of course put a link to it at
majority dot F M thanks again for your
time thank you so much pleasure all
right
well at least this dude this is feel
good at least this is a little bit feel
good this is a representative Don
shooter not kidding not kidding
he is a Arizona state lawmaker from Yuma
Arizona
so Republican 65 years old he has been
accused of sexual harassment by what are
we up to now eight women
I think I saw nine nine women this the
last of which
I think was in November the we have the
classic contemporaneous talking about
the harassment etc etc and this guy is
is really opening himself up there's
nothing like a guy who's willing to at
least address these accusations remember
this is someone being paid by the
taxpayers and here he is he's being
asked about these accusations by a
reporter from Arizona's family
Arizona's family is that what it is it's
a political ad or Dennis Welch asked
them just this Friday about the ongoing
sexual harassment investigation in which
he's involved we want to ask you to
respond to all the women that have made
accusation
there is a ongoing investigation can't
comment well you've got a comment about
the women what the women are saying
about you know Dennis I don't have to
there's an ongoing investigation do you
think this is a distraction from the
legislative sessions there's an ongoing
investigation I will have no comment
there's an ongoing investigation I will
have no comment
any confusion no there's not a certain
point you are the one that's harassing
people posit now now the representative
Don shooter does not seem to understand
what sexual harassment is about but of
course as a Republican he naturally
adopts the conservative aggrievement
oppose it's all about how I'm getting
harassed just because I harassed in
quotes 9 in quotes women to rights don't
make a wrong to 10 wrongs don't make a
right now we could just leave it there
and he says look please I'd like to sit
and eat lunch I know you want a quote
from me but I'm not going to give you
one because I don't feel it's my
responsibility to even pretend that this
exists but that's not what
representative Don shooter does know
there's a certain point you are the one
that's harassing people I'm not
harassing I feel I feel harassed
yeah well I feel harassed in public so
anyway and here he is also now taking
the opportunity to say like oh I'm just
doing the same thing that all these
women do I feel harassed you say I'm not
harassing you're not harassing me but
the definition of harassment is if if I
feel harassed but that's not where it is
so you should be asking answering these
kinds of questions you've been accused
of some serious
nice wait for it wait for it this is the
best part it's coming and nice little
sip ice water so if you're just
listening to the show go to youtube and
watch our clip of this he yeah one point
decides that the right thing to do was
to alright well here you know let's play
it again here he goes so the reporter
asked him like look you got to talk
about this and shooter sort of walks off
and then he realizes like he's still on
camera and so he walks up into the face
of the camera and as the camera tries to
turn around from away from him he keeps
following the camera with his face right
in the camera and does a full 360 it's
like a dosey doe good questions you've
been accused of some serious
there he goes he walks up into the
camera into the face of the camera into
the face of the camera staring at the
camera and the reporters just like what
what are you doing
hey that's he doesn't actually a 720
[Music]
he's so confident seemed like a right
thing to do he just went over and maybe
just wet my whistle here little sip of
water cuz I feel like I might be having
a heart attack this what happens when
you like dumb jocks to office like
seriously he reminds me of the kid from
American vandal in this clip he's
totally trying to intimidate what's the
right thing to do
Jurassic get used to raster doubt you
there was a quality where he felt like I
think what he wanted to do was get into
a physical confrontation with the
cameraman and then he realized like I
can't do it
and so he's holding himself back as he
spins around like just like I'm gonna
count to 10 look at an existencial
moment is that for him just looking into
the dark land he's like really
humiliated never go in federal never
going statewide the girl Darby's wasn't
even that hot anyways that cameraman
went to the same school as that guy that
kept the camera on Trump after Dickerson
asked him about Obama being like worse
than Watergate and Trump went back to
his desk and liked to shuffle the pages
got papers not to work paperwork things
to be I've moved on with my life totally
over this interaction means nothing to
me definitely not having an impact on my
emotions
Jordan Peterson has now found his way to
Fox & Friends
I've arrived he's arrived this is the
you know and this is the professor the
Canadian psychology professor who has
risen to the top of the alt light heap
by basically this is the new and and you
know we mentioned this a while back and
it took a little bit longer than I
thought but when Republicans have
control of our government we end up
seeing stuff like culture war stuff rise
in prominence on the right and years ago
it was the war on Christmas and now
according to Jordan Peterson it's the
war on men or the war on traditional
gender I guess you know gender
assessment whatever it is but I'm
telling you whatever it is that they're
worried about it is happening according
to them and it's all over and it's going
to sweep us all up you sit there on your
couch Fox and Friends and I sit here in
my studio and we're just minding our own
business but it's beating down the door
just like the Muslims the gays used to
do and then somehow they're not there's
much of an issue anymore our priorities
not they used to be they used to be or
the secularists they used to be they
used to be coming for you and the Burt
the bra burners they would they burn
your bra right off you chest back in the
day but now now of course it's those
it's those trans people they're coming
for you now let's talk about something
else that builds on your premise this
whole father-daughter dance that are
being canceled around the country
because of gender guidelines
even Donald Trump Trump jr. weighed in
with this quote the father-daughter
dances inherently lead people out not
just because of transgender status just
life in general these can be really
uncomfortable with triggering events
that according to Jared Fox in New York
City Department of Education
all right the positive for one second
out now clearly dumb-dumb got his
teleprompter mixed up Donald Trump jr.
did not say these leave people out and
whatnot also I would be willing to bet
that if there were a hundred
father-daughter dances scheduled for
this year in this country or let's say a
thousand to the extent that any have
been canceled I would probably put that
number around one or two this is exactly
the same dynamic as the war on Christmas
there is a place in Wisconsin where they
changed V no silent night to first night
and Christmas is not gonna exist within
16 months
reminds me of what Donald Trump jr. said
about chappelle's new specials where he
said problematic can illustrate an
elucidate bigotry but all too often I
feel as if Chappell is using comedic
license it was interesting yeah John Jr
has some really interesting so go back a
little bit and so this clearly this
quote was not from Don jr. but because
even Donald Trump jr. weighed in with
this quote the father-daughter dances
inherently lead people out not just
because of transgender status just life
in general these can be really
uncomfortable of triggering events that
according to Jared Fox New York City
Department of Education so that's their
response to cancel the dance because
there's a lot of people they can't go is
there a problem with that well the
problem with that is self-evident but
it's part of this absolute onslaught by
the radical leftists on the fundamental
normative structures of our culture
posit one second all right now the the
good doctor says that the problems with
this are self-evident now I live in New
York
I have a daughter it is not totally
clear to me what the problem is is that
some dance that I've never heard of has
been called off
people can't or maybe if for all we know
maybe theaters don't even calling a
father daughter maybe there's calling it
parent kid that's not his father
daughter and maybe you're a kook frankly
and you're you're like I don't want to
do Mike did daddy die here's the part
Mike rotator cuffs it you had to explain
that to me so it's clearly not
self-evident continued boom of our
culture and if you're going to cancel
everything that's triggering to everyone
then you're going to cancel everything
altogether because there isn't a single
thing that anyone can ever say or do oh
my god if everything's gonna be Canton
idea that this is being done so there's
certain people's feelings won't be hurt
I think is absolutely absurd it's not
compassion and the carriers driving this
it's the desire to put forward a very
pernicious ideology and its benefits
being very very successful in this
application but dr. Peterson that they
say that they're doing that they make
things more inclusive yeah well they say
all sorts of things and they are a very
small noisy dangerous minority posit it
pause it
first of all I can tell you it is true
they say all sorts of things that I
think is self-evident and these danger I
mean what do we do we even know what
they're talking about like what dance
was canceled or was it just changed to
parents kids I mean these things have a
way of changing as they go down the line
until there's basically no truth left I
would like I mean if anyone knows feel
free to tell us it was changed to you
could only dance with your kid if you're
a because they want everyone else
not to dance anymore it's absurd you
know the one thing is true it's like you
know what you never hear about anymore
saw cops you never hear about anybody
going to the sock hop anymore see you
see that's how pernicious this is back
in the 50s everybody would go to a sock
hop but now there's no sock hops it's so
fact oh the professor is correct oh good
all sorts of things and they are a very
small noisy dangerous minority injuries
and it's really appalling that we're
bending over backwards
you too we are do their bidding none of
us is landing to go you have the name of
compassion a lot of my friends have been
posting pictures of the daddy-daughter
dance recently and I think the pictures
are so cute our little girl's gonna miss
out on on this on a memory mm-hmm
well yes for sure sure I mean I know
terminology when you're talking about
little girls or something that's going
to be increasingly forbidden as we reach
the classic gender ideas no one's going
to benefit from that
and people start a real catastrophe I
mean people what gender they they're
going to be as youngsters yeah well
that's happening all over it's all it's
an absolute epidemic and we've decided
that our children are you ready for the
absolute epidemic that he's talking
about it's an absolute epidemic yeah
that's happening all over it's it's an
absolute epidemic and we've decided that
children as young as 3 or 4 can now
decide what gender they are and then
undergo the appropriate surgical and
biological alterations to bring their
morphology and keeping with that and
it's a mistake of epic proportions and
what does it pay for it we do we we have
decided that children as young as 3 & 4
can begin to have a gender reassignment
so we need 3 5 check this guy now okay
well I hate to do this I hate to do this
because I know you know people's own
life experience you know people see the
gender reassignment surgery with three
and four-year-olds all the time so but I
mean can I have a fan on funny fact
check well let me do this the world
professional association for transgender
health say that one genital surgery
should not be carried out until patients
reached the legal age of majority in a
given country and that two patients have
lived continuously for at least 12
months in the gender role so that's 18
in this in in most of the states in this
country there are puberty blockers
which to the extent that they're used in
this country the average age is around
12 and a half years old all that does is
it slows down or I prevents someone from
hitting puberty so that they have the
option of of having less development if
they decide there's hormone therapy that
on average happens at age 16 and a half
for kids ages three or four who are who
feel that they are ID'd or their gender
is different than what it was given at
Birth they do stuff like dressing like
the other gender or styling their other
gender or living in congruence with
other gender in some fashion or another
but of course it's epidemic proportions
to seaweed I can't call my TA a fine you
know it is an epidemic suicide among
transgender youth so well sorry if I
don't find his price must be paid price
must be paid I maintain the true
normative a such a bozo it's our
type but then I think about that and
it's not even funny anymore right sucks
well that's what this guy's going out
there to defend well you don't think
it's funny that proves my other point
which is that many two women can't work
together yes in fact let's tune in to
Jordan Peterson just the other day said
he wasn't sure that they can be in the
same workplace here's a question can men
and women work together in the workplace
yes I how do you do it how do you know
because I work with a lot of women right
well it's been happening for what 40
years and and things are deteriorating
very rapidly at the moment in terms of
the relationships between men and women
sexual harassment in the workplace
yes should it stop that would be good
will it well
not at the moment it won't because we
don't know what the rules are do you
think men and women can work in the
workplace together you don't know
without facial bathroom we'll see well
how many years will it take for men and
women working in the workplace together
more than four in a sense we don't know
what the rules are
like what here's a rule about no makeup
in the workplace why would that why
should you wear makeup in the workplace
isn't that sexually provocative no it's
not no what is it then what's the
purpose of makeup some people would like
to just put on makeup why I don't know
why why do you make your lips red look
good because they turn red during sexual
arousal
that's why why do you put Rouge on your
cheeks same reason positive why is this
guy grease his hair like that cuz maybe
you sweat during sex
why is he why is this guy put on that
wear that red outfit why is he wearing
that sport coat Asians might might take
only 15 years for Asians because you
have less kilolitres of testosterone so
how about this
only black lipstick in workplace there
can be black gotcha and can
work in groups of women my heels
what about hire you what about them
they're there to exaggerate sexual
attractiveness that's what high heels do
now I'm not saying that people shouldn't
use sexual displays in the workplace I'm
not saying that but I am saying that
that is what they're doing and that is
what they're doing if you feel like a
serious woman who does not want sexual
harassment in the workplace do you feel
like if she wears makeup in the
workplace that she is somewhat being
critical yeah okay I do think that there
you go you know I'm sorry but I'll
explain the countdown clock on this guy
excuse me there's gonna be an unwinding
and it's not gonna be pretty
I need to go masturbate no this
conversations been extremely stimulating
and by the way while we're at it I think
Jerry Sandusky was innocent well here
Jerry Sandusky he doesn't say that Jerry
Sandusky was innocent no he simply
thinks that there are
some legitimate questions out there
there's a lot of attraction for it
it's not they were asking for it that's
a misrepresentation of those kids have
very flushed lips you know why would
they do that I just realized why would
that child be in Umbro shorts he's like
dr. Evil's like I don't assert cause
impression it's unbelievable
he did evil I did psychology and the
whole thing is absurd
I like how nonplussed the guy is who's
talking to him too he's like what did a
good job though yeah who's this where
you calling from hello hello hello hello
this is Canada's premier polymath Jordan
Pederson hello Jordan I've taken a break
from masturbating in the bathroom at
work to address some criticisms I've
received on this program as of late me
why why is my hair so greasy pomade and
other hair products that result in a
conspicuously slick she'd are reminders
of a previous hierarchy in which men's
hair could look like an orb and women
could be groped in a hallway for
dressing like horse and again I come
back to makeup in the workplace Michael
will make there the thread why do they
put Rouge on their cheeks where do they
wear high-heels to exaggerate sexual
attractiveness to their bosses pigs pigs
why do pigs have these cute little
upturned noses and why do they have
those cute little curlicue tails above
their pink perch pig buttocks why is
okay to open they talk about eating pig
butt as a cut of meat yet if I were to
tell my ta that I want to eat her big
pig butt at work she's black by the way
that's a problem don't get me started on
the absurdity of out leg of outlawing
daddy daughter dances the doggy does the
daddy-daughter dances and memories that
I have would have been erase from my
memory and some kind of Sam Harris
computer fantasy in this legislation
versus pass is just absurd and you ask
me why am i jerking off right now
why
major Knopf right now why why exaggerate
my sexual attractiveness ritual
bestiality with wine was common in
previous hierarchies and social
structures they are very smart very
loving very generous loving animals
thank you swimming just stop laughing
clean your room Michael I'm your father
daddy you culturalism that was a
killer yeah I always hoped then you
would call into the show yep
and that was actually Jordan Peterson
I'd have all my like what someone
that looks pretty good
