so professor in the last segment you
basically walked us through the the the
demise of the Obama administration
negotiated Iranian nuclear deal and a
vision of what could have come in the
wake of that deal were it not for the
fact Don Trump's hostility towards the
deal I don't know if his hostility was
ideological or he certainly had people
in the Republican Party were very
excited at the idea that he would crash
the deal I think it also he is
determined it appears to destroy
anything that is a function of Barack
Obama's legacy in any way and so he
sacked the deal and as you told us went
around the world to basically pressure
our allies to not do business with Iran
although there was no it was really no
legal framework for any of this it was
more or less you know thuggery recently
there have been overtures from Iran via
France in particular to revive the deal
tell us about those but then let's just
talk about this the most the the latest
incident where there is an attempt and
this is not the first in the past couple
months to argue that Iran has
essentially launched a war on Saudi
Arabia a direct one sure well yes the
European Union and and particularly
France and Germany wanted to try to keep
the nuclear deal alive partly because
they liked it and was working the Iran
was known to be in compliance according
to the UN inspectors and they also still
had lots of CEOs who finally dreamed of
getting into the Iranian market and
bumping up the European economy so this
is very inconvenient for them that Trump
acted in this way and so they've been
trying to find a way around him they
have set up something called insects
which would allow European firms to
trade with Iran not in dollars because
the u.s. claims that any dollar trade is
under the
of the Treasury Department and
sidestepping of the major bank exchanges
like Swift which the u.s. is influential
in so macro Emmanuel micro be the
president of France at the recent g7
meeting sort of took the surprise
initiative of inviting the Iranian
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif
who negotiated the deal originally and
and have consultations with him in hopes
I think of getting a meeting between him
and the Americans to start to start this
process of renegotiating some kind of
agreement and mackerel also suggested
that maybe he could sweeten the whole
thing within a 15 billion dollar credit
line to Iran to tide them over a while
negotiations are kick-started and you
know lo and behold it seems as though
Trump didn't hate this that my analysis
of him is that he felt as though his
predecessors were patsies and just gave
away the show and that he can make a
better deal than they did on China and
Iran and everywhere the way you do that
is to bring the pain to the previous
negotiating partners announced that
there's a new kid in town and and and
and make it clear that the only way to
remove the pain is to come to him and be
to go skate and he's done that with
China he's done that to some extent even
was with some of our European allies and
he's done it with you rot us and and
North Korea so you know in some
instances I think the North Koreans are
very clever and they figured out that
there's no substance here it's it's all
showmanship so and they said sure we'll
meet with you we'd love that the
Iranians you know are mistreated by the
West and their government was overthrown
in 1952 and they had a long period of
dictatorship imposed on
essentially by the CIA and so and then
they had a 79 revolution which was a
nativist revolution that put forward
Iranian Shiite values against global
capitalism and so they're not the kind
of people ideologically speaking to to
play the kind of game that I think the
North Koreans have started to play even
though the origins of the two
revolutions might be somewhat similar
and so the Iranians haven't come back to
trump and and this opening that we've
tried to make and McCraw seems to have
been closed down by Iran's leader
clerical leader Alex Remini who said
that sure we'll talk to the Americans
first they should rejoin the 2015
agreement and then we will talk with
them all they like okay we we have about
about three minutes left let's just talk
about the specifics of this latest
attack on the Saudi interest the
argument from the administration has
ranged from this was secretly launched
by Iran to this could only have been
done with Iranian weaponry by the hootie
this is the one party in the Yemen civil
war which you know Saudi Arabia is
actively fighting with our support and
the other version was you know there's
general support for the Hootie's so they
did do it it's basically like Iran doing
it are any of these claims a credible
and even if they were credible to what
extent are we is it necessary for us to
get involved in a war on behalf of Saudi
Arabia we have no agreement no mutual
defense agreement with them why would we
do this right well I think it's
plausible that there's some kind of
Iranian ticker fingerprint on all this
whether it's an Iranian proxy or
more direct President rouhani of Iran
has actually said that if Iran's not
allowed to export its petroleum from the
Gulf and nobody will be allowed to so
you know in a way I think a lot of
Iranians feel they've got nothing left
to lose if they're not going to be
allowed to sell your oil not going to be
allowed to trade they're going to be
reduced to a fourth world country then
they intend to bring the pain to the
people who are behind all this which is
partly the the Saudis you know I've been
big cheerleaders for the American Oh
economic war on on the Iran and an
economic war always holds the potential
for turning it into a violent war my
reading of Trump is that he won't want
to commit to a conventional sort of
warfare against Iran in response even if
Iran is plausibly credited with the
attack he might pull what he did in
Syria or Afghanistan you know there have
been two big instances and Trump's
presidency really just like bombed the
enemy wants right and there was a lot of
hoopla about it said he got the mother
of all bombs on Afghanistan which is
kind of an echo of Saddam Hussein's
dictator Arabic and and then then we
never heard anything more about it right
so III think the most that will happen
is that and at least initially but it's
dangerous even to do that because the US
has something on the order of five
thousand troops still in Iraq which is
Shiite territory and most the Iraqi
Shiites are pro Iran so at that point
where the United States is bombing Iran
the US troops security is in the hands
of the Shiites of Iraq and that's a bad
scene as it goes in this direction
presumably
thousand right I mean presumably the
Pentagon is telling Donald Trump this
well professor Wankel I'm sorry we're
out of time but I
you're catching us up on this dynamic
and I guess this is something that we
will see in the coming days and weeks if
if something goes further but I
appreciate your time
