[Music]
let's do this
Klobuchar thing this is pretty funny we
don't do a lot of coverage of Amy
Klobuchar candidacy in part because
there's 25 people out there running now
I think for the office in part because
we don't think that she's going to be a
major factor in this in this race the
Klobuchar factor yeah I would say the
Klobuchar factor is like basically nil
and I mean maybe we're wrong there are a
lot of people who are down
I'm sure who have less a share we don't
talk about them either
you know the we'll talk about the the
bad house and the Kamala's and the maybe
people just don't know about her tax
advantaged savings accounts maybe they
don't know about her tax advantaged
savings accounts cuz that doesn't fit on
a on a poster very well but things like
you know I don't know Amy for America I
guess it's a a I don't even know that
people like I wouldn't even a.m. a.m.
yeah but but in this one this could be
the only time that we actually even
discuss her on the show in any
meaningful way also I don't like her
politics particularly I mean they're
okay they're better than a Republicans
but I'm saying in the context of the
Democratic primary she's not offering
anything I find terribly compelling tax
advantaged savings accounts are not
terribly relevant for the vast majority
of Americans who can't save in the first
place what was that figure like half of
Americans couldn't get $400 in the in an
emergency yeah something like that it's
pretty bad pretty bad and that's from
the Fed ladies and gentlemen that's
that's a Fed study meanwhile aside from
that this type of stuff is very weird to
me as well like it
there's a couple of things about this
statement that I find bizarre but first
of all why do you need John McCain to
argue that Donald Trump is bad in
addition to the fact John McCain's dead
but why do you need John McCain to argue
that Trump is bad it seems to me it's
very weird thing to appeal to John
McCain as the voice of reason in this
context first senator mindset yes it
really is
but then listen to some of this which I
find sort of hilarious pause it for one
second I'm sorry to stop it so quickly
but when I first heard this I thought
like oh good for her
she realized that the problems didn't
start today this has been a problem
that's been growing for decades and
which starts about the arc of justice
I'm thinking like wow maybe she's going
back 200 years 250 years maybe she's
going back I don't know 40 years is
gonna be interesting when we start no
the arc of justice apparently is not
that our key it's not that long it's
just about you know 24 months the arc of
justice but I so go back a little bit it
starts after Trump won the election yeah
that's when justice had to start maybe
that was part of the problem with the
2016 election is that the arc of justice
was not kicking in yet
[Laughter]
and john mccain kept reciting to the
names of dictators during that speech
because I knew more than any of us what
you were facing as a nation he
understood it well how did he know how
did John McCain know Donald Trump so
well that seems weird but all of its all
that this just seemed super weird to me
maybe this military body language
training he picked Sarah Palin to be his
running mate yeah yes maybe that's why
it's such great insight into Donald
Trump well so of course you know
Klobuchar is gonna get some criticism of
this because it's just so silly but my
dad dad's name out of your mouth okay
well here is actually that in fact it
happened this criticism not just did not
just come from people who were sort of
like felt it was a little bit of pablum
it was also Megan McCain who I feel like
is going through some type of low-grade
breakdown a higher grade breakdown it
could be a higher grade and I you know I
I'm not rooting on anybody having a
breakdown but she Megan McCain took to
Twitter and said on behalf of the entire
McCain family Amy Klobuchar please be
respectful to all of us and leave my
father's legacy my father my father and
memory out of presidential politics
which is I mean it's pretty stunning he
ran for president his day I I don't
remember her ever speaking up like this
when the millions of times that people
have cited what Trump said about McCain
not just Trump but I'm saying everybody
who's cited it just seems like a very
weird hill to
died on I don't know what like what what
the fight is about there but apparently
maybe Meghan McCain does not like Amy
Klobuchar or I don't know what very
strange very strange thing for her to
come out at that time and is it she's
supposed to be one of those like
moderate Democrats who can reach across
the aisle and work with all the moderate
Republicans maybe like so much yeah you
hate to see the center break down like
this it really is a shame the center is
not holding the center is not holding
