alright let's briefly just talk about
megyn kelly for a minute okay
I mean I know I've seen you on Twitter
with this stuff and you know I think I
there's been you know people can go on
Twitter and see that you've been you've
been getting into it a little bit with
Jack youger who didn't think that megyn
kelly should be fired for her latest
insistence that it was okay for
blackface I mean I mean let's just start
with the let's let's start with the
blackface question just more generally I
mean I from my perspective like I've
gone on TV and I have said I remember
going on TV one time and saying you know
I can't remember what context but I was
saying somebody had gone off the
reservation and people on Twitter you
know we're like dude you gotta start
thinking about what you're saying
because yes and I you know I grew up
using that it was just a vernacular you
know it was a clear and and then when
you start thinking about it like you
realize like you know what I can
understand why that would be pretty
offensive to two people that you know
the idea that a group of people were
sequestered so that we could steal their
land and told you can't huh the
reservation and if you do and somehow
it's like as opposed to like you're
liberating yourself or you're taking it
is somehow you're you're you're doing
something wrong and and so I stopped
using it but I also think that like I
didn't have a history all right
maligning at Native Americans and so
people were you know okay they were
satisfied that I had learned my lesson
is it possible for anybody to take that
position with megyn kelly I mean let's
just put aside for a moment that it was
clear somebody made a very very bad
professional bet on megyn kelly okay
they made a very bad bet and it was a
very expensive bad bet and they were
looking for any reason to get rid of her
that could make it seem like it wasn't a
function of them making a bad bad
okay so putting that aside for a moment
because then the question is do you give
megyn kelly the benefit of doubt who
could possibly give megyn kelly the
benefit of doubt why you know that's
what made me so upset about jinkx
segment because he framed it in the
sense that it was that she just maybe
don't know people don't know and the
thing is it's like if you don't know and
you want to imitate a black person you
don't go get tar baby black coal and put
on your face
because that is a direct harkening back
to to Jim Crow to the Klan using it in
their movies and Birth of a Nation
that's the the imitation and the
insulting of black people with this tar
baby if you want to look black you get a
brown hue and and and I'm making that
distinction because ignorance would tell
you that if I want to look black I'm
gonna put on a brown face this is not
done in ignorance this is done
intentionally to irritate to racially
irritate the black community now we've
insulated ourselves from it to a certain
extent where it's like we expect this
because every Halloween we have this
conversation so not only did I do I not
extend this grace to megyn kelly and
neither should have JQ gur but i don't
extend this to anybody anybody because
you had to research blackface for you to
say oh i'm going to get this tar baby
black color instead of a brown
pigmentation which most African
Americans in America are brown versus a
true black you had to have done that and
when you come across it
you make a conscious decision and and
this this Sam mind you is going
underneath the grace of ignorance we're
giving them extending them the grace of
saying they're ignorant about it when
you come out of your house and your home
and your ATAR baby black with white lips
you are intentionally going back to an
era of Jim Crow and you're doing it for
the purposes of I don't know well I
don't your show on on radio because I
don't want to cuss if no you can at this
point about you're doing it for shits
and giggles you're literally doing it
for shits and giggles with the Trayvon
Martin murder you know one of the first
images that that are still being
circulated right now is a guy in
blackface tar-baby blackface
with the hoodie on with skittles with a
Arizona iced tea and with a bullet wound
in his chest
this is never done in ignorance it's
done intentionally and megyn kelly above
all people who made sure that she
reassured the children who are watching
Fox News that Jesus was white and Santa
Claus was white I mean are you okay I
know fine she is well aware she's she's
50 something years old she's paid 23
million dollars a year she's gonna walk
away with 69 million dollars a year
she is not ignorant and two infant eyes
her in that way in order to insulate her
from criticism or being fired is not
something that a progressive leader of
the independent media should be engaged
in I like Jake I actually tried to get
on The Young Turks when I first got in
in this game I mean who else was I gonna
try to get on their shelf with but but
come on man you he knows this and I
don't get it I also don't get his move
on this one I mean all right well I mean
putting aside you know what what what
Jenk was thinking the I think there's
the idea that like look if you're gonna
go on television you know and this is
what this is you know this is you know
almost almost distinct from race I mean
there or I should say broader than race
if you're gonna be on television and and
you know some people are defending or
saying like well why can't we have a
conversation about race it's like well
if you're gonna talk about something
that is clearly a sensitive topic and
very important to society you have a
responsibility to do a certain amount of
research so I mean like even if she was
to say like look I'm a little bit
ignorant about this well then you know
what you're really really almost
criminally bad at your job and you
should be fired and you should give back
all the money that you're earning
because you should be so embarrassed
that that as a professional you would go
on without researching the implications
of blackface in American history right I
mean you know just I mean it clarify
like you're saying like if people are
going out for Halloween right people who
are not on television promoting
something but they're just going out for
Halloween like I don't know I feel like
you could go out right as a Holocaust
victim
Jesus people what I mean but honestly
it's like and people would be sort of
like I think right to be like a little
offended like hey man yeah that's yeah
not funny or right like what's going
right on there like and you know to go
as a to me it seems like the same thing
and it's not like you know if you go as
a Holocaust victim it is it's very
specific if you're go to specific to not
have been researched like you thought
you put some thought into this and you
had to have known that this is going to
ruffle some feathers and and and Sam I
don't mean to cut you off but that's
literally the point the point of
blackface and all these insulting
costumes generally yeah I mean of course
you have something you do have examples
of people who just clueless but we're
not talking about clueless items we're
talking about people who picked
something that is most certainly
offensive no matter how you cut it
they put thought into it and this is the
point the brutality is the point and I
that's that's what makes this so
insidious all right well let's say I'm
going out as a Idris Elba or however you
pronounce that guy who should be bond
that guy right what I mean what like and
I put on like bronzer where am I on that
spectrum you're on the spectrum like Sam
what are you doing just go wash that off
and put on the nicest suit that you can
shave your hair and take off your
glasses and just say that you're your
sight let's just call it call it a day
right you know right I think I or or
just go is like I'm the white idris elba
or whatever yeah I don't know how to
pronounce his name but the guy you
should Highland the guy who's you the
next blonde
listen there's this there's this
imitation that is flattery but then
there's imitation that is mockery and
that's what blackface has always been
there's never been an example and the
fact that that the onus is being placed
on black people time and time and time
and time and time and damn time again
for us to do the education even of
people who are making millions of
dollars to do the education is the part
of this equation is so few infuriating
like know you you you know you did the
research
to figure out which hue of black you
want to go with you should do the
research on your own and pay the
consequence for why this was such a bad
idea and we should say like you know the
there are people are very comfortable
with certain things being taken off the
table in polite society come on
like like you can't go on television as
a host of a show and you know just with
on multiple occasions burp in the middle
of what you're doing or you know or fart
and you know on one hand you know you
could be like well man it's the human
body and right uh you know while we why
are we pretending like this doesn't
happen and it's really offensive like I
can come up with the exact same because
this expands into like you know how
certain comedians can't go on college
campuses and deliver certain jokes in
some way maybe I'm teasing Ted Alexandro
a little bit you know appearance in a
minute but this concept of like really
what we're going through it seems to me
and and in this dynamic I think explains
our political moment as much as anything
you know obviously broader issues but
the idea that like essentially that
black people now they get to have their
say in what might be offensive to ya
right and that's what's step too far for
some people I mean I think that's
basically the era and not just black
people obviously but trans folks that
women people of colored generally I mean
folks who have been more marginal in in
onion you know disempowered in our
society since the beginning now have a
little bit of power and they get to say
what they also think is a sense Sam if
if I got on my show as small as my show
is and I dropped the F word not not F
uck but the homophobic slur if I dropped
that there is not going to be a single
person in my audience and rightfully so
who's going to say well let's have a
conversation about it and let's let's
educate Ben because listen let's make
sure that this guy who talks politics
all day long and and gets paid the the
coins that I get paid that
I need to be educated about it and that
we need more speech not less speech no
we have rightfully determined that there
are certain things that are not
acceptable and if you call that being
politically correct I just call it not
being a dick there's no reason for us to
do these things when they have been
clearly demarcated as a bridge too far
for people that you in the progressive
side of the equation are supposed to be
allies why are we it why are we even
having this conversation on the
progressive side of the conversation
I understand megyn kelly I understand
her trying to play this game that's what
she did it Fox but I don't understand
and I you know he's cool I like him but
I don't understand change Jake
supporting this yeah I mean and to me
like the conversation just broadly
speaking has value because it we
understand also I think like you know
what people who watch megyn kelly to the
extent that there are anybody left who
watch megyn kelly you know what they're
thinking about and like we sort of what
these these complaints it because it
does you know I again like I can't
explain whoa what would would jinx what
what the reasoning is there but that to
me is is less relevant than what it sort
of like this broader political time I
think is so much about this like you
know yeah basically a large portion of
the white people in this country you
know just resent get off on this
resenting that you know non-white males
get to choose what is impolite when it's
always been white males who get to
choose their parameters as to what's
impolite right
I got hip to this and I know you we
probably have to get out of here I got
hip to this the day after Hillary
Clinton lost I was scheduled to be at a
tea party debate I took it because why
not in in Massachusetts I was right
around the corner so I went Worcester
and at the monster here what not but it
was it was I came to grips with the
reality that this is the point the
brutality is the point two years ago
when when the moderator was describing
Donald Trump's slurs of Elizabeth
and the Pocahontas and all these types
of things the guy who was debating
against me said oh no that's the part I
like I'm glad he does that I'm not
embarrassed by it you know this was
really really the point there's a big
part of our population that enjoys this
and if we don't recognize that we'll
always be playing this game of trying to
understand them the only thing you need
to understand is that this is what they
enjoy
