[Music]
let's talk about how speaking of dum
da-dum Donald Trump is so Donald Trump
is running a base election that's
probably not I don't I don't know what
his different options are but he
certainly feels comfortable with that
maybe that'll work maybe he will win
again in a similar fashion but here he
is with Piers Morgan piers Morgan this
blowhard went back to Britain I guess he
got a job there and this is uh probably
the last time he'll interview Donald
Trump probably knows it oh yeah and so
why not here he is he goes all-in
presses Donald Trump on climate change
and Donald Trump handles it with a plum
about climate change what he really
wants and what he really feels warmly
about is the few positive positive
points let's go back who's he talking
about talking about Prince Charles
Prince Charles yes his conversation with
Prince Charles Prince Charles it feels
warmly about the environment just so you
know he wants to make sure future
generations have climate that is good
climate as opposed to a disaster and I
agree I did mention a couple of things I
did say well the United States right now
has among the cleanest climates there
are based on all statistics and it's
even getting better because I agree with
that I want the best water that cleanest
water crystal clean has to be crystal
clear same is part of what people want
to hear from you about climate change is
that you basically understand that
almost every scientist who looks into
this believes climate change is a very
real and present danger if we don't
tackle it now but America has to lead
the way along with China and India then
we're gonna be a serious trouble do you
accept that well you know you just said
it China India Russia many other
nations they have not very good air not
very good water in the sense of
pollution and cleanliness if you go to
certain cities I'm not going to name
cities but I can if you go to certain
cities you can't even breathe and now
that air is going up so if we have a
clean in terms of a planet we're talking
about a very small you know for a small
distance between China and the US or
other countries I think is mutual
responsibility no we're questioning but
they don't do there is but you
personally believe in climate change I
believe that there's a change in weather
and I think it changes both ways don't
forget it used to be called global
warming that wasn't working then it was
called climate change now it's actually
called extreme weather because with
extreme weather you can't miss look we
have it well it's just unbelievable
extreme weather I know we shouldn't
shouldn't worry at all about climate
change because of Yemen because of
Donald Trump's bombing in Yemen I don't
know how we work that but the the bottom
line is that you know this is clearly a
guy that you know this is what we're
stuck with and the rest of the world
sees this and rightfully I think says
there's something really problematic
about that country that they would elect
this lunatic well you don't want crystal
clean water I do I want crystal clean
water crystal clean crystal clean
hashtag me too there you go I mean I
don't know what you say about that
this is a guy who's just like adamant
about not acknowledging climate change
because he's a he's I don't know what he
believes but he it's either just he's
regurgitating what he's heard on
right-wing talk radio or he just knows I
can't acknowledge it no he's actually
making it another nationalist argument
in a way I mean we all know the the old
talking point that they always use about
if it's you know if China and India blah
blah blah but the way he's like
specifically juxtaposing like we're good
we're clean crystal clean we've done our
job so letters that we've done our job
and then all the others Villa texts the
Guren says we have the best climates
Khan from a3
