[Music]
Rudy Guiliani plays and gentlemen upon
hearing the I don't know was this a
response to the to the Muller filing I'm
not sure yes he did it was a response
and Rudy Giuliani was very angry
he wrote Muller filed an indictment just
as the president left for g20 that is a
g20 period in July he indicted the
Russians who will never come here just
before he left for Helsinki period
either could have been done earlier or
later out of control exclamation point
supervision please question mark now
Rudy apparently wanted to save character
space even though I think he probably
had significantly more right it doesn't
look like 240 and so what he did was gee
- 20 . i n now Rudy Giuliani as you know
was named a part of the chair of a cyber
security commission in the Trump
administration what he does not seem to
be aware of is that dot I n is actually
a suffix that is used in hyperlinking
just like dot F M if you will majority
dot F M and if I was to write G xx dot F
M on Twitter
it would create a hyperlink a very
boring podcast yes well and there you go
and so some entrepreneurial spirit
apparently either had G - xx dot i in or
bought G - 20 i N and when you click it
it goes to
this page which says at G - 20 dyin
Donald J Trump is a traitor to our
country and then also a breaking special
counsel calls X national security
advisor Michael Flynn's cooperation
substantial recommends no jail time Rudy
Giuliani got wind of this go back and he
had this to say
Twitter allowed someone to invade my
text with a disgusting anti president
message the same thing - period
no space - occurred later and it didn't
happen don't tell me they are not
committed card-carrying anti Trump errs
Time magazine may also fit that
description
fairness please now I will decipher for
you because my parents are somewhere
around rudy giuliani's age so if you
scroll up what it what Rudy Giuliani
thinks happened is that Twitter allowed
someone to hack his text with a
hyperlink not invade my text it's also
not a text it's a tweet the same thing
he say argues a period no space occurred
later in his text slash tweet that was
when he said Helsinki dot either a
period either and it didn't happen
because Rudy doesn't understand that dot
I n is a suffix that creates a hyperlink
whereas dot either is not a suffix that
creates a hyperlink so there is no
website that could be formed from
Helsinki dot either he's having a rough
night yes
and then I mentioned difficult time
magazine because I think he was drunk so
there it is Rudy Giuliani yeah someone
got into by Twitter invaded
they didn't bothers our control I was
he's always been a racist fascist was he
always like a drunk jackass yeah well I
don't think it was a drunk jackass but
maybe a jacket maybe and I'm speculating
he's drunk is being generous the
National Republican Congressional
Campaign Committee apparently has been
hacked
none of the emails have been released
but they were accessed Republicans were
made aware of this
Donald Trump has no time machine so
unfortunately he cannot go back to this
moment when in July this is July of what
July of this year he was still talking
about the DNC security problems as being
an embarrassment President Bush said
that he saw into his soul I think he
came to regret that you said that Putin
toyed with Obama how do you ensure that
things are different in this
administration look I've met him two
times two and a half times most of you
people were there when I met him I think
that I may have a very good relationship
and I think I may have a very bad
relationship with a my husband I mean I
don't know how you could sound any more
guilty about having a weird relationship
with somebody than to offer up that
stuff completely unprompted here's a
bunch of very strange verbage yeah I
have before I answer this question I
have a couple of non sequiturs that in
my mind make it seem like I absolutely
have no illicit relationship with this
man before I answer your question I was
like three non sequiturs two incredibly
suspicious sounding statements and one
just at the very least it proves how
nuts this guy is oh yeah that his key
key he's convinced that he looks guilty
I don't know if he is or he isn't of
whatever it is that he thinks he is but
he's so convinced that he looks guilty
that he makes himself look even more
guilty by saying
I didn't do it I mean look I'm not an
idiot even if I did nothing wrong
offering to give him a 50 million dollar
penthouse doesn't look good it's not
like let me just start by saying it's
not like I was still negotiating for a
50 for a huge tower in Russia during the
campaign that's not what it looks like I
was doing really cool stuff and even if
I did it was very cool maybe I did maybe
I didn't I probably didn't I don't know
maybe I didn't periscope as involved to
go back and just understand that he is
now saying that Obama was weak because
he allowed the Russians to hack into and
it by all accounts we don't know if it's
the Russians but we know that it's at
least as reported that it was a foreign
entity that hacked into these emails
were there when I met him I think that I
may have a very good relationship and I
think I may have a very bad relationship
with him I have no idea I love the
United States he obviously loves Russia
he's for Russia up for the US we'll have
to see what comes of it but I think we
have a chance to have a very good
relationship I mean the couple of times
I've met him we got along very well that
was very short meetings but we got along
very collusion for instance if I got
along with him that's a good thing you
know we're a magnificent powerful
country they're a very powerful country
we're a nuclear country they're in
nuclear country and getting along is a
good thing that affair good thing we
could you feel delighted would you ask
Putin to to send them here well I might
I hadn't thought of that but I certainly
I'll be asking about it but again this
was during the Obama administration they
were doing whatever it was during the
Obama administration and I heard that
they were trying or people were trying
to hack into the RNC to the Republican
National Committee but we had much
better defenses I've been told that by a
number of people we had much better
defenses I think the DNC should be
ashamed of themselves for allowing
themselves be hacked I love this guy
like that was that was America under the
Obama administration dues over
here you got a do-over I was told by
Arnold Palmer but great golfer our
security was better I think people who
didn't get hacked yeah the first half of
that answer had nothing to do with the
question nope
he just heard the word Russia and he
just like I I'm glad you brought up
what's going on in Crimea because I have
not colluded with anybody super glad you
asked me that uh it's not like I have a
building that I was pursuing like for
instance that never happened maybe it
did happen maybe it didn't happen if it
mattered it happened it wouldn't have
mattered what was the question
