CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous we must guard against
the acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex the majority
report with sam cedar it is Tuesday
August 2nd 2019 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today
Emily good news Berger
author of on the clock
what low-wage work did to me and how it
drives America insane also on the
program today Trump taking heat over
those 2000 Facebook ads citing an
invasion at our border meanwhile a Trump
superfan given 20 years for sending
bombs to prominent Democrats forgot
about that one I didn't betcha indeed as
the top view USDA physiologist quits
over climate science suppression by the
Trump administration the USDA Inspector
General says the office relocation
scheme is illegal post debate polling is
out war and won the battle not quite the
war the US expands to a full embargo of
Venezuela this is the first embargo in
the Western Hemisphere in 30
years and with China trade war escalates
Treasury designates the China China a
currency manipulator and the Trump
national labor relations board may rule
that scabby the rat is illegal yeah no
yeah meanwhile Jerrold Nadler predicts
an impeachment decision by the Judiciary
Committee by late fall and people
beginning to fear mass oppression in
Kashmir following the quashing of part
of the Indian Constitution that gave
Kashmir autonomy by Prime Minister Modi
all this and more on today's program
just a very I just I don't want to freak
people out but you know one of the
things that I distinctly remember when
Donald Trump became president was that
we're about to find the answer to the
question of just like how how long would
it take for things to to see the impact
of having a completely incompetent
president to see that impact on the
world stage and you know counterfactuals
are very very difficult it's possible
under anybody's presidency that we would
see this type of very scary escalation
on the horizon with India and Pakistan
over Kashmir or that
we could be on the horizon we see on the
horizon the potential for China to
unleash its army in Hong Kong which
could happen at any time
turkey invading Syria at any time North
Korea beginning to ramp up their missile
program again all these things have
happened at various times over over the
years maybe not so much the turkey
invasion but more or less but the idea
that all of these potential fairly major
crises you know Pakistan and India
probably being one of the most dangerous
is a little scary Iran of course also
continuing to to like board ships or we
had South Korea firing missiles at or
excuse me the military firing at Russian
planes there's a lot of different things
going on in the world that could end up
being super problematic in the next four
weeks oh yeah and it's hard to know
whether the absence of a a functioning
US State Department has anything to do
with that well I think also the fact
that again though they are ideologically
synchronized right like Trump Modi
balsan are are definitely part of the
same global trend and you know obviously
more confidence maybe like I don't think
there's any particular investment that
Trump has in fact he would like to have
a deal in Kashmir even who obviously
knows nothing about it for his own
aggrandizement but in general
governments are coming to power that are
making commitments doing these sort of
things and they're doing it right
right I mean and maybe
they're encouraged on some level by the
fact that Trump is you know if he
understood what was going on would be
like yeah it sounds like something I'd
do but also it could just be like
there's well and there's no
countervailing forces to go in and say
hey let's chill out a little bit here
we're gonna just sell arms to everybody
involved in this conflict and everybody
would feel better or something like that
so I don't know I mean I I just you know
it's of the myriad of things to freak
you out this week add those to it you're
welcome thank you welcome to the show as
a reminder you can get the fun half
which supposedly will let a little air
out of the tires hopefully more often
than not they say not necessarily but a
little air out of the tires too that by
becoming a member at joined the majority
report dot-com and speaking of which you
know the the right has been on a real
tear as of late because of the minimum
wage like I say the best thing about
that is that they are promoting the fact
that the Democrats actually voted to
raise the minimum wage $15 an hour I
think Nancy Pelosi couldn't have hoped
for more they they passed 60 bills none
of them got any attention except for the
rising of the minimum wage and why is
that because one the idea that people
would be that labor would in any way be
empowered and I did a fascinating
interview on what happened with the car
industry in the United States we're
gonna run that during vacation at the
end of the month
but it's fascinating the the obsession
with getting the cheapest labor costs
possible is is stunning and of course
you know the the dynamic really to look
at right I mean a dollar figure is just
a dollar figure doesn't mean anything
without a sense of like how much this
thing's costs and how much productivity
is there
productivity is basically like how much
money is being generated by a company
and then you start thinking about the
share of labor in that productivity how
much of profits essentially are going to
or revenue is going to labor relative to
the to the productivity into the overall
share of revenue and we know that even
if $15 a minimum wage workers are still
getting a less of a share of
productivity or relative to productivity
than they were 40 years ago but yet
they're very concerned because you know
like you never the Wall Street Journal
has a piece today about how six months
later people are really worried about
the the rise in the minimum wage now
there's no data they just interview like
two or three people who are like yeah
I'm sort of worried and then somebody
from the Chamber of Commerce who's like
yeah this is bad so that it concerns a
lot of concerns I you don't see people
at Fox News talking about rental real
estate prices in New York that are
driving businesses out it's always labor
costs are too much here is Stuart Varney
again on Fox & Friends and it's always
great to see the Fox and Friends people
feel this is personal and they feel
these tragedies here is Ainsley Earhardt
talking about her friend again one of my
best friends lives down in Florida she
has a chicken salad restaurant they sell
chicken salad she I asked her could you
survive if you increase it to $15 an
hour
she said absolutely not it would take us
under she said granted the employees I
have that worked really hard that do a
wonderful job they do get paid a little
bit more and she gives pay raises notes
you gotta earn that don't let
politicians
set wage levels okay pause it for a
second wait a second so I'm unclear what
Ainslie is saying at the end here they
actually get paid 15 - the minimum wage
oh not not 15 Sam they might get like
1425 if they're really hard worker but
you gotta earn it what does that mean
like here's the thing opportunity well
what does it mean what percentage of
your productivity do you deserve right
like you never hear this cot that that
concept even come up in these situations
because it is completely random its
pinnacle eternity in a chicken salad
sandwich shop my understanding is that
you could actually or you could actually
I'm trying to pretend like that's not
hilarious
waiting and that names that the
sandwiches the the chicken salad
sandwich shop you could assess how many
sandwiches are my employees making per
hour and what is my profit on that or
what is my revenue on it and I can find
out how much of that revenue is
dedicated to the two labor that Delta
between your revenue and what you pay
labor is whatever you as a chicken salad
sandwich shop owner deem it should be
and now I imagine do you think she has a
tiny shop or do you think that that she
has a hundred affiliates across the
country I guess there's somewhere around
a hundred franchises a hundred franchise
chicken salad shops cross the Globes
first of all the idea that a chicken a
chicken salad restaurant it's everywhere
only chicken salad
party more could you ask for it's an
every mayo state in the Union I'm sorry
maybe your business is not meant to
survive like now all of a sudden you're
Arni here maybe you are toast to stay in
the market well I mean my bottom line is
and I and I felt this as a waiter but my
feeling was like if you can't if you if
you're going out to eat and you can't
afford to leave at least 15% tip then
you just gotta find a less expensive
restaurant that's basically like my
dream like that's part of ducting that's
the exact that's part of the cost of
going out there and part of the cost of
doing business is you pay your employees
and let's hear where Barney's going with
this one of my best friends lives down
in Florida she has a chicken salad
restaurant they sell chicken salad she I
asked her could you survive if you
increase it to $15 an hour she said
absolutely not it would take us under
she said granted the employees I have
that work really hard that do a
wonderful job they do get paid a little
bit more and she gives pay raises set
wage levels because they're basically
they're buying votes they say you vote
for me I look what you get you will get
a raise your $15 an hour that sounds
like yeah it's not like we didn't watch
President Trump walk through the 20
percent 21st Century Club is that what
that's called the 21 club to people
eating like $500 dinners literally
tapping I'm gonna cut all your taxes
give me a break
and I can tell just by Ainsley airheads
personality that her friend is the worst
boss ever who knows who knows if the
bond are committed to the mission of
selling chicken salads that you don't
belong here if it's just about the money
and not putting the best chicken salad
on a plate that could be put on a plate
that you should not be in this business
but it's better than buying votes this
is buying votes with capitalists money
make of him now we did a little research
we don't know if it's the same company I
want to be clear about this however
Ainsley Earhardt did visit and promote a
chicken salad restaurant in the glades
floor is that what it's called the
village of villages well I don't know
where that is somewhere in the Florida
it's in hell and it's a very hoity-toity
place and we just looked up that company
and this company what is the chicken now
may not be here it might not be here but
chicken salad chick is at least the
first one that comes up on Google there
could be multiple chicken salad
restaurants in Florida which are all so
friendly with Ainsley Earhardt once you
get into that chicken friends with
everybody in the chicken salad cartel
but we just saw an article about that
chicken salad chick and they gave
$100,000 to charity to deal with cancer
eye cancer and hunger cancer and hunger
and and good for them but I have another
suggestion that businesses are not
responsible first for charity their
first response with paying their workers
and so pay you workers if that hundred
thousand doesn't cover it which boy
you've got a lot of workers and you're
paying them very little money in
locations but if that $100,000 doesn't
cover it don't worry I mean you don't
have anything left because we're gonna
tax those workers we'll take some that
money and then you promote cancer
research by the government and then
think of how that money travels to
getting to those uh that cancer research
it goes into your employees pockets then
they pay it out to someone else has got
another business it goes in sales tax it
goes and wage taxes everybody gets paid
and then the money still ends up going
to cancer research Sam do you understand
logic oh my god I'm just looking at the
menu right now
and it's like so much mayonnaise it's
making me a little bit nauseous a good
place for that Florida I feel like I'm
on too much tuna right now I'm being
pranked uh folks the World Health
Organization has named the health
epidemic of the 21st century do you know
what it is anybody stress my stress
Michael knows it that's what they tell
you as soon as you go into your your
silent retreat that's right we're
feeling more uncertainty and anxiety
than ever before we're gonna hear more
about that with our guest today actually
that's why we're pardoning with column
it's the number one rated app for
meditation when you meditate your brain
chemistry changes meditations been shown
to slow down the release of stress
chemicals into your bloodstream like
cortisol and adrenaline giving you
much-needed relief with calm you
discover a whole library simple guided
meditations on themes like anxiety
creativity and focus they even have
other resources to help you relax like
sleep stories music and more so if
you're stressed take a deep breath and
get calm right now majority report
listeners get 25% off a compromiso all
mom / majority that's CA LM calm /
majority forty million people have
downloaded calm find out why a calm calm
/ majority also we all want a haven a
place that feels uniquely you right of
course Sam with joy bird you get
one-of-a-kind furniture crafted to your
unique taste now we're lucky we got a
joy board stare right down the street
here have you been to this one and yeah
the one in a decal yep and I love it all
the furniture I found incredibly
comfortable I want to check it out to
make sure that we weren't we stroll
through like gangsters and they were
like what are you doing here you
planning on on the couch just so we can
be honest with our listeners but here's
the thing that's amazing about about joy
Burton you have your ideas for your
apartment you can turn them into a
reality
because they have hundreds of styles and
options they have rich buttery leather
to the plushies velvet you've ever felt
you want a sofa an aquatic blue no
problem
a loveseat and bubblegum pink if you can
dream it joy bird can make it a reality
they even have a beautiful section of
outdoor sofas lounge chairs and tables
plus free personal design consultants
can help you nail down your design joy
board offers a range of kid and pet
friendly upholstery options oh value
tell me so that your creations can stand
the test of time
best of all thanks there are 365 day
home trial if you don't love your joy
bird you can return it for a full refund
see how joy bird can help you design
your dream space find your joy today at
joy Bird dot-com slash majority you can
create the furniture that brings you joy
that's joy bird dot-com / majority
receive an exclusive offer for 25% off
your first order by using the code
majority joy Bird dot-com / majority
check it out folks
and don't I know it
school is coming back but breakouts
don't have to with America's number one
Acme brand Proactiv has the helped fight
acne for almost 25 years now I have not
been in the acne business for some time
but my daughter is and now is the time
where she's focusing on you know get the
skin clear going to high school wanna
want to represent Proactiv has
introduced their next generation acne
treatment system called Proactiv MD
Proactiv MD contains Adele Pauline which
is a dermatologist recommended topical
retinoid used in the treatment of mild
to moderate acne it's the first
prescription-strength retinoid that is
fda approved for use in treating acne
without a prescription
and it works by affecting the growth of
cells and decreasing acne and
formylation Kelly writes me she's been
using Proactiv on and off since high
school
and she says the formulas improved over
the years but the idea is remain the
same it's a program of skincare that
gives you short and long-term results
it's the best acne fighting product that
doesn't require a prescription and it's
been that way for a long time Kelly
apparently has sensitive skin and she
says that Proactiv programs made my skin
smoother and clearer without causing
redness or peeling and as she says it's
perfect time of the year start Proactiv
for many people because schools starting
up soon like I say the same a mile it
only takes a few weeks to achieve
noticeable differences in your skin
confidence makes all the difference
going back to school with noticeably
clearer skin leaves one less thing to
worry about Proactiv is so reliable it
fights acne and improves the brightness
and overall appearance of my skin she
writes it's the best regimen I've ever
used well right now we have a
back-to-school offer from Proactiv that
you cannot get anywhere else with your
Proactiv MD order you'll also receive
Proactiv zon the Go Bag which features
their t-zone oil absorber body acne
wipes in green tea moisturizer for free
that's close to a hundred bucks worth of
uh of of products plus get one a gift
free shipping with a 60 day money back
guarantee so just go to Proactiv dot-com
/ majority that's Proactiv PR Oh a CT IV
dot-com / majority to order and make the
first day back to school the best day
ever
alright we're going to take a quick
break when we come back we're going to
be talking to end
Emily gündüz Berger on her book on the
clock what low-wage work did to me and
how it drives America insane
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report I found my notes all is good and
on the phone it is a pleasure to welcome
to the program the journalist and author
of on the clock
what low-wage work did to me and how it
drives America insane Emily a Gundams
burger welcome to the program thanks for
having me
alright let's just start with how you
got into writing the book and and what
you did because this is a it's a I mean
it's I want to say it's an ethnography
but it's it's it's a little bit more
than that but but tell us how you
started to write the book and well what
you did actually to to report on
low-wage work sure so nickel and dimed
has always been it's always sort of had
a very foundational effect on my writing
I read it when I was a kid and it really
had a big effect on me particularly the
the way she Barbara Ehrenreich was able
to sort of take all of these like things
that it's sort of difficult for people
or difficult or embarrassing for workers
to complain about individually like
every you know grain of sand is hard to
like you know show it to someone and be
like this is awful but you know when you
are buried in sand it it gets really
heavy and hard so that's one of the
things that I really loved about that
book was the way that you know it showed
how people got nickel and dimes by just
the system that we live in and how it's
different than something it's harder to
complain about and that it's harder
because of that it's harder to take
action on it so that has always had like
a really big effect on my writing in
particular I like doing a lot of
first-person experience stuff one of the
things that allowed me to actually write
the book was
the I was working at Philadelphia City
Paper back in 2015 our IP but so that
year I published this piece on uber for
which I was trying to sort of fact-check
the claim that they were throwing around
at the time that their average driver
made 90 grand a year which didn't that
did not seem correct to me so there the
data was really hard to get because so
much of it is individual because all of
these drivers are technically you know
their own little companies or whatever
so they're supposed to be keeping track
of all of their costs including you know
paying extra taxes because you're
technically a small business and the
depreciation on your car the amount of
money you're spending on gas just all of
these little things that like human
brains aren't particularly graded
dealing with we just are not
particularly well evolved to like look
at huge numbers or tiny numbers
especially not to look at how they build
up over time so anyway I did that and I
signed up for uber just so I could get
some like data that I could really you
know get behind and Trust so I did that
work for Ober for a couple months on and
off and eventually turned up that I on
average made between nine and ten
dollars an hour which like you cannot
make 90 grand a year doing that even if
you work every single hour of every
single day of a year so yet and that
like got a lot of attention and I got
some interest from publishers it had not
really even occurred to me that writing
a book was a thing that I could do I
honestly kind of thought that was for
rich New York people despite being the
sort of writer who consistently turns
everything in about like twice the
word-count that she was given so books
are actually kind of an ideal place for
me but so then I was interested in doing
the same sort of thing I got really
fascinated when I was doing Luber with
the
way that the driver's-side platform has
these really like sneaky and subtle
methods of controlling the drivers while
sort of maintaining this facade of like
oh they're just you know they're all
freelancers there right they're just
like you know plumbers they're you know
individuals in a market and you know
which is again super ridiculous because
the app absolutely pressures you to take
rides that aren't in your interest that
and it doesn't give you enough
information about every ride yeah to
actually make a decision about whether
or right is in your best interest or not
and again like those all of those gig
economy companies are pretty much
structured along those lines of like oh
they're all just we're just we're just a
platform for everybody to for all these
you know small business people to use
and if you haven't actually used the
driver's-side app I could understand why
you would sort of take their word for it
because you know drivers it's very hard
for drivers to complain and also
whenever you talk to your over drivers
or lyft drivers or anybody in the gig
economy they probably like what they're
doing because if they don't they would
have left because it yeah it's kind of a
sample bias on that one right so I ended
up going I was fascinated by that and I
got really interested in doing the book
about the various ways that technology
is used in other workplaces like the
subtle ways that it controls people that
people who for example like have you
know power in this country by definition
are not likely to have had a service job
in the past you know 15 years or so
which is sort of around the period where
this sort of techno Taylorism is what I
call it has gotten like really really
really extreme and is has made work just
really miserable in ways that I don't
think it's possible to really understand
unless you have actually experienced
so I tried to let me just say when you
say techno terrorism and I'm glad I mean
because that not really if there's one
word to say what the difference between
the jobs the the nickel and diming of
the nickel and dimed era and today it's
technology right it's just it's it is it
is the the the granular nature in which
that nickel and diming happens now it's
like down to like the point five cents
as opposed to five sense it's like 0.5
cents point one sense but Frederick
Taylor
when you say techno tale it just tell
people who who Taylor was Taylor was a
sort of a basically the first management
consultant sort of at least certainly
the first one who really had a really
big effect on the American economy he
was from Philly like me and he was a
pretty interesting and very very strange
person one of the interesting things
that I found in in my research for this
book I'm sort of the history of
management it's like all these guys were
total freaks like they were all just
huge weirdos that were that sort of like
and they the way work is now has been
sort of shaped around their ideas but
again they're all total weirdos like
Taylor for example all right so what
Taylor was is he sort of started out in
steel mills and he started timing each
individual motion in every task that a
worker was doing in the steam l no
matter how small it was and he was able
to do that because of Technology because
right about that time like it was the
1890s I believe was when he first
started doing this and that was because
there were like they had rather
stopwatches had just come out that were
both accurate and pretty affordable
before that it wasn't really I think
that you even could do like time every
workers movement by the second
so he started timing like he would get
the best workers on the on the payroll
and he would pay them double to work as
fast as they possibly can for like a few
hours so that he could time them figure
out what the best he called it the the
one best way and he would basically from
the calculation from the numbers that he
put down about like how fast workers
could technically go if they were the
best and they were going as fast as they
possibly can and he used those to sort
of extrapolate what he thought the
average worker should be doing every day
and it was usually like two or three
times what they were doing at the time
so when I say techno Taylorism like
tailors like he calls it scientific
management and so that idea like that
if you leave workers to do anything on
their own if you trust them if you give
them any agency they're just gonna screw
around and like go slow and you know
like just misbehave in general like
their children or something and it's
sort of like overlooks the fact at least
certainly now a lot of people really
it's an it's this like very American
thing to take a lot of sort of pride in
your work even when there's like almost
no pride to be found in it these days
cuz it's all been sort of squeezed dry
by by Taylorism like in particular like
he got rid of a lot of the skill
involved in jobs like he would make
equipment that so instead of like being
able to having to hire someone who knows
how to use a drill or like smelt or you
know be able to work the equations for
how to create steel it was
he got slide rulers and equipment that
was specially made so that like it was
very very easy to use so you could hire
low-wage or like rather unskilled
workers to do it and that sort of broke
the power that skilled workers had over
factory operations at that time and
people should know that Taylor ended up
being sort of like um you know Henry
Ford's guy essentially and all right but
so ok so this we have this concept of
techno terrorism where that is taking is
viewing human workers as potential
machines and on some level essentially
like literally cogs and trying to find
out what is the most efficient position
that you could put this cog in to get
the most productivity out of it without
contemplating its humanity and to sort
of making certain assumptions about them
and the techno version of course is is
aided by computers and technology which
you know there's so many different
phenomenons that we've seen over the
past ten or fifteen years that has
dramatically changed that that is
changed by technology to the point where
it is gone from one thing and it's it's
moved so far down the spectrum that it's
actually become another I mean just like
gerrymandering for instance just comes
to mind where everybody gerrymandered
but in 2010 they were able to
gerrymander because of technological
advances in you know cross-referencing
data files they were able to do it in
such a way that was made it almost a
fundamentally different exercise than
had been done in the past but all right
so with that said what the the three
jobs that you that you took one wasn't
an Amazon warehouse in Kentucky one was
it a call center in Hickory North
Carolina and one was at a Mickey D's Inn
in downtown San Francisco why those
three
well I Amazon was obviously my first
choice because they are
kind of the obvious one just sir when I
started in 2015 I don't feel like the
tide of public opinion had really
started to turn in the same way it is
now it's been fascinating to watch how
people have sort of started objecting to
or sort of started treating them the
same as Walmart yep when it comes to
their workforces
like there was this really interesting
memo by Jeff Bezos that's in this sort
of history of Amazon called the
everything store and he it's called
Amazon love is this memo and he sent it
to his you know senior people and it's
about basically why some companies are
loved and others are kind of despised
like Walmart and versus you know Apple
or something and he sort of concluded
that the perception of the company as
you know kind of a small scrappy
innovative business is what is really
key to basically having cover to treat
workers however you want without getting
constantly you know harassed by the
press in the same way Walmart is or just
like not having that reputation as like
this sort of like crappy employer and
it's been again really fascinating to
watch things turn against them these
past couple years because yeah they are
the big guy now they are by far the
bigger than Walmart these days and
they're gonna take over so yeah Amazon
was and also Amazon has just from what I
talked to people like I talked to a lot
of workers before I did any of these
jobs and the people at Amazon like
especially when you start looking up
places where Amazon workers go to talk
about their jobs they talk about they
talked about it in a way that was just
really different than the way people
talked about other jobs that they did
not
like like they it was really interesting
because they are generally liked by the
actual workers themselves are generally
regarded as comparatively safe for
warehouse work like the conditions are
generally held up is pretty good and the
benefits in pay were also regarded as
pretty good even back when you know when
I was doing my time in SDF 8 which is
the name my fulfillment center like that
was back when I was making everybody was
making like 10 15 hour who was there for
peak and that was still regarded as
comparatively pretty good right so they
they are kind of I'm not but still
people talked about that place as if it
they hated it so much more than they
hated other warehouses and it was
because they're treated like robots like
if you look at any of the protests that
happened on prime day or any of the
protests that have happened in Europe
that have been sort of on a larger but
the sort of unofficial slogan is we are
humans not robots but that is what they
want is to be allowed to be human
workers rather than sort of being so
tightly held to these timings and
Tracking's that you know anything is
regarded as any any deviation from sort
of being perfect robot is regarded as
kind of laziness and slacking and time
theft well let's talk about your
experience there and then we'll get to
the other places I mean but it does
so basically when we talk about Amazon
on paper by the standards in which we
have looked at businesses in the past it
seems like it would be a pretty decent
place to work right not not a lot of but
and but we've heard now of like
attempted suicides that the that the
that some of these places actually need
to have like I think an ambulance on
call or something for for this and it it
has to do
the level of control that is exerted
tell they I mean according to what
you've you you've reported and written
what what like tell us how that plays
out I mean this is it really has just
seems to be like put aside the fact that
someone's getting paid to work there and
put aside it's like it's almost like an
experiment on how you could sort of make
human beings disassociate from
themselves actually somebody I talked to
in the book actually said that or rather
I think you said that Amazon in his
theory was a giant social experiment on
how much you could like make people do
for a single dollar I believe
where his words wait can I swear I'm
sorry yes you can okay cool yeah so at
Amazon so I'll just describe sort of how
my job went I was a picker my so in new
fat in new fulfillment center that's
like a stationary job but in frankly
most of them that were were not built in
the last few years it is a walking job
so you basically push this cart around
this incredibly huge modular storage
system they call it the mod and you have
a big bin on your cart and you have a
scanner just an RFID scanner it looks
like something you'd find at the grocery
so you carry the scan gun around with
you and there's an LCD screen on the
back and it basically says every task
you have to do which is just you know
going to find that item is subdivided
into like four or five different steps
and each step is timed and it's not just
timed there is a there's actually a
little bar at the bottom of the scanner
that just constantly counts down the
seconds that you have remaining to
finish that part of the task and it just
never stops like there is no pause
button it is real again like I've it's
kind of embarrassing too
say this honestly because I was raised
with a very leg just you know put up
like work hard don't complain
etc and I have gotten a lot of people
who have responded to the book with like
millennial whining yeah but this is one
of those things where it is very
difficult to describe how stressful that
is especially because the whole point of
that countdown is that if you can keep
ahead of it then that means you're
making rate which means you're picking
as many items an hour as Amazon like
predicts that you should be able to do
so it's just to be clear I'm just on the
process so it's four steps so it's in
other words like get the list of the
product that you need right hair dryer
and yeah it just pops right up on your
screen and then make it to aisle number
seven by this amount of time and then
they give you like basically coordinates
like these like five dimensional
coordinates you have to go find the item
with and so what are the four different
stages though of that like assess what
you need find the bin that you need
climb the ladder
like what are the four things that
you're under like the clock for so it's
just like basically different steps like
you and they all end with a scan of some
sort of barcode so you scan to start the
start a new tote and then once you've
scanned that you're just your
description of the item and the like
five dimensional coordinates where to
find it pop up on your screen and the
countdown starts
so you navigate to wherever the the
drawer is and again these are these the
mod is just crazy looking it is honestly
very very fascinating and cool looking
there's just these shelves these
cardboard shelves and you just look in
any direction and you can't really see
the end of them it's very it's crazy
looking so you you know navigate around
and you find the correct drawer you scan
the drawer and then you pull it open you
look inside and there's usually
my SD f8 the one I worked at was almost
all clothing so everything you'll open
the drawer and inside there'll be this
like weird mix of like 15 random
articles of clothing because this is
actually a very smart way of doing it
because it's really easy to pick a pair
of black socks out of like a bunch of
hats and baby clothes and stuff rather
than like finding a drawer with 15 black
socks in them and having to find the
right size so yes so you find the drawer
you pull it you scan the drawer and then
a new countdown starts and you got to
find the correct item and scan the
correct barcode on it and then you scan
that you throw it in the bin another
countdown starts and then you scan your
tote and then you go on to the next one
what's the what's the now that I would
imagine it depends like right like the
the Machine knows like oh okay you're a
court or a mile or five hundred yards
away from where the socks are but you
should get there in 24 seconds like
what's the average interval that we're
talking about here sort of dependent on
the the path that you take around the
warehouse like it's called the you call
it a pick path and it's sort of defined
by its it by algorithms that both you
know try to make it the most convenient
and and close to each other path as
possible like I cannot even imagine how
this like how much went into making the
stuff that makes Amazon run like
programming that is it's insane
but anyway so you it directs you around
the warehouse and it also kind of keeps
you but how many seconds very close to
other people it's like three seconds it
really depends like I think the max I
ever had was two minutes but that was to
go that was on a your day where we are
all going back and forth she's got a
series more like fifteen or thirty or
something so if you get a C so basically
what happens is for every task you do
over the course of an hour you are
looking at like you're getting I guess
it seems like you're getting let's say
the
30 to 40 articles and each one of them
it was much more than that
rate was a weight was usually like 90 or
100 an hour so ninety to a hundred an
hour and each one has four steps that is
timed with seconds and there's no break
right you just you just flow from one to
another right yeah that sounds like how
anybody could hear that and not think
that would drive you crazy like that
like do you know that show lost yeah
press that button where it's coming down
to zero and for a long time that's the
way I would describe this job when it
was driving me crazy cuz like every day
at noon I got to press that button and
the shows going and we got to be ready
the idea that you would have four of
those like deadlines in the context of
like a like a minute or two or less is
insane it seems to me yeah like it is
incredibly stressful you know like it is
especially because for a lot of people
you know their jobs do depend on being
able to maintain rate and it's also just
like they're very good at sort of
designing things to be stressful like
they're purposely meant to make you
stress because that's how you're you
know the best worker is when you are you
know very motivated to make grade but
yeah so that's making rate and okay so
let's talk about the the call center
what tell us about the what well first
off why a call center why that one in
North Carolina and and then let's talk
about what what you know what you
experience there so call centers are one
of those places where everything is
really really really tracked and and
monitored obviously but I thought it was
really it was very interesting how you
were supposed to sort of repress
all of your humanity not just in the
sense like oh I have to walk around an
Amazon warehouse for you know between
6:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and they expect
you to walk 15 miles a day and not talk
to anybody and keep up with these
countdowns and not even like listen to
music we weren't allowed to have
anything distracting in there with us we
weren't allowed to have anything that
Amazon sold so that will drive you nuts
but the repression like the sort of
repression of humanity that what's
involved with something with trying to
like put objective metrics on something
that's as sort of confusing and
complicated as human conversation I
found really fascinating so I picked a
place called confer just because it was
the biggest third party like outsourcing
company it's like really big it's the
biggest one in the that has jobs in the
US so I honestly I picked the my Amazon
location just because somebody like
somebody's on offered me a room and I
was broke but at Hickory like I didn't
really have that many like I didn't have
a contact that like would offer me a
room near any of the like several a
couple hundred Convergys places
Convergys being the call center sorry
and so I just picked Hickory sort of I
don't know why not it had a really
interesting history as sort of the
center of the American furniture
industry like it's a the furniture
cluster is what it's called knits in
Western North Carolina and that is an
area that's been particularly just
decimated by globalization and in NAFTA
in particular so a lot of the a lot of
communities that are in the same
situation in that like there used to be
a lot of manufacturing jobs that no
longer exist like call centers are
really one of the things that they try
to get it in to replace those jobs so
that it's pretty those are pretty common
in places
like hickory that had a lot of like you
know dead manufacturing yeah
okay so just give us a sense of what
what you experienced there and we should
be clear like you're not working here
for months and months so at I did about
a month at each one a little longer at
at Convergys and McDonald's then at
Amazon Amazon was mmm but like 2nd of
December to Christmas Eve okay which I
feel the need to do it because Amazon
has been coming after me with like
accusations that I didn't work there
long enough to understand how bad it was
which doesn't really make that much
sense to me well I wanna I want to just
you know I just I just note that and
when we talk about you know after we
talked about the different jobs I wanted
to talk about the implications of being
there like why it's different just being
there for that period of time as opposed
yeah but but alright so tell us about
the call center so the call center was
another reason that I picked call
centers was because the stress involved
with that like particularly Convergys
but a lot of third-party outsourcing
call centers like for-profit ones that
aren't associated with actually you know
helping a specific company's customers
specifically solve their problems like
third-party call centers you usually
have a lot of other things that you're
supposed to be doing rather than just
help the customers like you're supposed
to be trying to sell them stuff and
you're supposed to be kind of trying to
keep these crazy metrics down because
the company gets paid by how many calls
you take in it in a day so it's really
really closely timed and it's really
really mentally stressful like both in
the sense that you're constantly
multitasking across about like eight
different things my workplace in
particular was really difficult because
the computer systems were so like poorly
integrated so you would like the
sequence that you had to get through
just when somebody beeps into your
set and again you do not really have a
choice about when someone beeps into
your headset any more than you did
when you know you're walking around
Amazon like that new job coming into
your scanner like it just comes in and
you're on and there's no pause button so
yeah like the mental stress people
talked about specifically with Convergys
online like a lot of people mentioned
like depression anxiety and in
particular like suicidal ideation from
the sort of abuse that they had to put
up with at these at these jobs like in
fact like the the the perfect workplace
that is usually used for studies
involving job stress like mental job
stress is actually call centers because
it is the perfect example of a high low
control high pressure job like in mind
in particular you were not allowed to
hang up on customers for any reason no
matter what they said to you and that is
not great because it's not just that you
get yelled at like and cussed out a few
times a day it's all it's that after
that happens enough times to you every
single time a new customer beeps into
your headset regardless of whether they
are gonna scream at you or not you kind
of have this fight-or-flight reaction
like oh like crap it's another one this
could be a this is another one that
could be a screamer like it makes you
kind of paranoid I guess but yeah so
what I did was answer calls for AT&T
which is actually my own cell phone
provider so I would answer calls of
people who are calling in the problems
usually with their bill and during that
I would have to try to also sell them
DirecTV or some sort of upgrade on their
account and you would have to try to fix
their problem and sell them something at
the same time and it gets super
exhausting
Wow and what were the our is liking on
something like that like what was what
were the other forms of control you've
got I mean they keep sending you calls
like what if you got to go to the
bathroom what if you well what if you're
like you know what I need a to go buy a
pack of M&Ms to stay awake or whatever
it is
well we actually got yelled at a lot for
what's called toggling and that's
because they don't you know give you a
pause button for you know if you need to
use the bathroom if you need to buy M&Ms
if you need to like go weep in the
bathroom because someone just like
called you horrible names and it gets to
you but it so everything is also really
closely tracked which includes
the time that you spend not logged into
the phones they only get paid by 18 T
apparently for the number of like the
exact minutes that the customers are
that the that the reps spend actually
taking calls so any down time like when
you're in the bathroom or whatever is
and like was explicitly referred to as
like time theft which is another super
charming term like that was actually
like the first time I had heard of it
was in Bart was in nickel and dimed
because Walmart had sort of pioneered
the idea of trying to rebrand any
downtime as like stealing from the
company somehow as opposed to these sort
of built-in sort of assumption that one
might have like I've got people working
for me I can expect that you know two
percent of the time that they're there
is going to be spent in the bathroom yes
they're human beings exactly or honestly
just like saying hi to a co-worker or
chillin or something or taking a couple
minutes to like relax after a really
stressful call like these are all
extremely human things that are very
natural but they are definitely looked
at as like like moral
feelings now that we've gotten so
creepily good at measuring them how but
yeah how did you fellow workers and how
did you like react to the idea of being
accused of time theft like we're people
like after that guy or F that that you
know that supervisor I don't care I'll
go to the bathroom what I want to or I'm
or did people actually feel guilty like
what what is the reaction that people
have well I think it depended on the
person but it wasn't like like there
definitely wasn't like Oh F that guy
sort of thing because you had a report
every single day sent to your manager of
all the time the exact minutes that you
spent logged into the phone versus
logged out of the phone so they would
they would know if you spend time in the
bathroom and you would hear about it
like for real but I one of the things
that I find the most irritating I think
about the general mindset I think of
sort of neoliberalism this idea that
like workers are naturally like lazy and
terrible and like they're just out to
like you know steal your time and will
screw around again like this sort of
Taylorism idea is that like the people
that I meant at these jobs like they
were such good worships they were so
much better at you know like putting up
with this than I was which again if
I had not been able to like get into
white-collar jobs in my mid-20s I would
also like I think be a more I guess like
I would be less outraged because if I
was outraged all the time I would have I
it would drive you insane know what I
mean yeah I was wondering about that
like you know to the extent that on one
hand you have an advantage because
you're like I'm
here for a month like I'm just dropping
in on power shooting in I'm you know I'm
also I'm gaining a book out of this
experience as much as I'm getting driven
crazy I'm gonna turn it into a a story
at the same time I wonder too if you
weren't more sensitive to how crappy it
was because you'd actually been in a
situation where it's like oh you need to
go the bathroom you don't need to tell
me in fact I don't want to know just go
that type of situation I mean did you
wrestle that idea like that sort of
dichotomy of like how much your
awareness of how bad it was like that
they were I mean I imagine for a lot of
these people they've come from you know
they go work at the Amazon Factory after
they've worked at a call center or
they're working at the Amazon Factory
after they've worked at a fast food
restaurant and they're like this is just
all I've known I didn't realize that
like you could go and work at a place
where you don't have to ask you know
like not only do you have to not ask for
a permission to go to the bathroom but
you don't you're not chastised for it
and you're not timed by the second on it
and everything like you are trusted to
gate like when I was a reporter at a
newspaper I was trusted to get my work
done so as long as I was turning my
stuff in on time like yeah whatever I'll
I could go walk around the block to
clear my head I could go get coffee I
could chat with my co-workers like I was
given a lot of trust and just the the
sort of like encoded system that people
work in these you know under these
computer business systems is one of zero
trust like everything is tracked
everything is timed everything is almost
automatically punished like for example
there's a point systems at these at a
lot of these places like Amazon and
Amazon and converges in particular where
if you're late coming back from lunch or
coming back from break or late in the
morning by like one minute like you get
a point for that it's penalized and it
goes towards
and once you get a certain amount of
points you get fired and it's just
there's no agency even for like middle
management to say like oh well this
person you know just had a kid or
something so yeah they're probably gonna
be late for a couple weeks they're
probably gonna a couple months or
whatever or this person is just you know
late because they are not a good worker
because they don't care whatever right
now it's just the assumption built into
all these computer systems is they are
late because they're bad people and
should be fired yeah yeah you are a
number and the thing I found most
disturbing about it was like that most
of my younger co-workers at these jobs
had never experienced a job that wasn't
like that they it was just completely
just the way the world was it kind of
sucked but they didn't really have that
much aspiration to anything else because
all of these computer systems are so you
know widespread in common now they just
different I mean that's the people used
to say like the hollow would have taken
to get the wall to come down and the
Soviet Union's drop American toilet
paper in the east and people find out
like oh my god it doesn't have to be
sandpaper that things would have changed
all right well just briefly because I
want to I want to sort of just get more
of like a like a you know a 20,000 foot
view here but just briefly tell us about
your experience at McDonald's are there
people let me ask you this let's just
start with this are there when you're
sitting there at the register at
McDonald's is there someone next to you
who's like worked so hard that they
actually make more than you or does
everybody get paid the same at
McDonald's if they have the same job I
mean I think there are like there are
raises and I was working in San
Francisco so I was getting like
distinctly more than your average person
at McDonald's was I was making 14 an
hour which still was not anywhere near
enough to pay rent in San Francisco
right what I'm saying within your
restaurant not necessarily from locality
to locality Oh within my own restaurant
mm I don't know I honestly did not get
that much chance to talk to my coworkers
like there definitely were like this was
one of the few jobs where you can really
understand why the manager is the
manager because in my situation at least
the managers were all just like the
fastest and like hardest core workers on
the shift so I assume they made a little
more than I did but in general like the
there's no money in being like lower
management at in investing let's say
you're not management like that is there
a differential between Billy who's
working the frialator and Mary who's
working the fryolater uh not as far as I
know right
other than how long they've been there
okay which is generally not that one was
so what's your experience there like how
was how was the Mickey D's different or
the same I guess as the other two well
again everything it was really closely
timed this one definitely had the added
pressure of like a physical line that is
that's there all the time and in
particular like that one I felt the
effects of understaffing the most
because you know understaffing like you
were talking about with gerrymandering
like understand they've gotten so good
at perfectly understaffing so that
everybody is always in the weeds but the
customers like don't you know burn the
place down because the line is so long
explain in the weeds because you use
that throughout the book and it's an
important it gives an important sense of
like of what you're trying to do with
the book in some way oh yeah like I
don't know what was did what was your
initial definition of in the weeds well
when I say when I say in the weeds that
means like I'm going deep into the
details of this policy discussion or
whatever it is description of whatever
I'm doing right so yeah there's like
there's two and that is
and that tends to be the one that people
who came from who are more into like
academic and white color stuff have my
definition of it the first one that I
got was from like working with
waitresses and like in the weeds means
like you're just like you have so
many customers you have way too much
work
you're falling further and further
behind and it's like almost impossible
to take yourself back out so it's just
like this exhausting several hours like
where you're just working as fast as you
possibly can and still not being able to
keep up so what I found super
interesting about that that phrase is
that when I got into like journalism
everybody almost everybody seemed to
have a different that second one your
definition of it and did not understand
my definition of it and I use that as
sort of this central you know metaphor
for how the the the way that the to that
the same thing means completely
different things to these two groups of
people it's very much the same with like
other words like like job or like a good
job a bad job like a hard job hard work
like all of these things have completely
different meanings to people on the
lower end of the job market and people
on the higher end of the job market like
in to the sense where I don't think they
understand each other at all like the
people who I worked with in like
Convergys that I had you know more of a
chance to become friends with like when
I would tell them about like my old you
know newspaper jobs and stuff like that
where I you know my brakes were not
tying i you know ii and i could go out
and you know pick up lunch without
having to like freak out over being two
minutes late that they didn't they had
no comprehension of what that would be
like like that was not something that
they expected and it's very much the
same for people on the other side i
don't think that they really realize how
bad things have gotten
they're still sort of stuck on
possibly their own memories of service
work from like the 70s or 80s or just
their general picture of it from I don't
know movies or I don't know like
economics or something but it means
completely different things it's
interesting because as I was you know
prepping for this it occurred to me that
you know we we just had one of the
things about the ACA was that it
basically made a definition of what
constitutes actual health insurance
right like you can tell something health
insurance but even though on paper it
appears to be health insurance it's
really not what we're gonna consider
health insurance because health
insurance is just a word that we've made
up and it should mean something across
the board and it should be meaningful
the meaning of it that it that the
health insurance should be a meaningful
thing and it occurs to me that we have a
service similar problem with jobs right
people just sitting like that I mean
just talk about that a little bit
because we're all at our job right now
and but it is fundamentally different it
seems to me than someone who is working
at this type of job saying I'm at my job
yeah definitely I'd like my honestly if
I could force members of Congress to do
this I would I would force them to go
work for a month like in their in their
during recess like they should have to
go work one of these crappy jobs for a
month like they just should there they
would understand it so much better and I
think that policy would I don't know
what do you think about this I have been
really on the fence over whether those
types of people that really do have this
idea of like oh people just aren't
working hard enough like that's why
they're not succeeding whether they
don't know do you think they don't know
I think there's a certain portion that
they don't know but I also think that
they're the ones who are instituting
those policies that are are so
dehumanizing that they just don't
necessarily think they there is a
concept I think that's out there is if
we're paying you we get all of you
like it's nice it like you're we don't
just get your late wheat we get your
what what we define as your labor we
don't get just your labor that's not an
arrow
you know output we get all of it we own
you for this period of time and
therefore what we do not even just that
period of time like one of the really
difficult things about particularly
retail and fast food is the way like
scheduling works in that like I was
talking about earlier they've gotten so
good at understaffing by you you know
calculating using the data of when the
store was was busy like over the last
year over the last month over the last
week and the faster like the the more
recent the data is usually the more
accurate the prediction of what staffing
is gonna be needed is so that mean
that's sort of why so many people in
fast food and retail don't get their
schedules into like the day before it
starts which makes it completely
impossible to plan anything in your life
like you can't you know like figure out
a doctor's appointment like you can
request that time up but there is no
guarantee that you'll actually get it
and I think it also really steals
people's honestly their families in a
weird way and it's not just because like
oh you never get to see your kids or
something it's it's impossible not
impossible but it's incredibly difficult
to be able to maintain like a
relationship like a functional
relationship with your with your partner
and your and your family if like for
example I met tons of people who because
they were not able to afford childcare
on their wages they would work opposing
shifts like one parent would take
nightshift one person would take Dave
shift and they would barely ever see
each other
and I'd like that's not a wife like
that's not a relationship that's not
marriage that's like expecting people to
live like that and I that's another
thing that I do not think people know
there's so many people like there's so
many opinions out there about like the
decline of the family and I
don't honestly I don't really disagree
with that but like it's not because of
like Miley Cyrus or whatever it's
because of it's because like it's
impossible to maintain a relationship
where you never get to see the other
person you're both always exhausted and
like everything is an irritant sort of
like everything that comes up is like
just something to another stress to add
on top of it and and and I would add to
that you know the idea of going to see
you know your kids baseball game or your
you know their you know their class
project or taking a trip with them you
know one day there's zero flexibility
for that that's just not that's just
simply not possible do do you have a
sense well alright so let me ask you
this I mean we have by all accounts
rising rates of stress and anxiety just
read an ad for our for an app you know
meditation app call up that cited the
World Health Organization said stress is
the you know the number one like do you
think to what extent are are is is is
this you know what this does to in terms
of stress and anxiety so basically all
of the three jobs that I chose they like
sort of as examples of not just jobs
that exists right now but jobs that are
very sort of successful in the the
market I guess and ones that are likely
to sort of spread like these methods are
likely to spread in the same way that
like Walmart's methods of treating their
workers sort of spread throughout the
90s so I picked them because they're
probably going to spread like even
further than they have now and one of
the things about constantly stressful
jobs regardless of what ways that
they're that they're chronically
stressful is that you kind of can't get
used to chronic stress like there's a
lot of talk about like
hard work but like hard work and like
hard work difficult work that is really
different from chronically stressful
work is it's a different thing and
chronic stress makes you sick like if
you are chronically stressed like a it
just demolishes your body like if you're
if you're setting your fight-or-flight
reaction off like all day every day
which a lot of these jobs are sort of
designed to do so that you work faster
it will just like completely burn out
your organs like you're particularly
your heart but like also your your
immune system you tend to be more prone
to obesity and drug abuse and basically
anything that sort of helps you all of
the things that we regard is sort of
like ills that make you feel better mine
in particular was McDonald's and like
just food in general but a lot of people
like and also cigarettes was one of mine
cigarettes is a big one for a lot of
people drugs just things that make you
feel better that aren't necessarily good
for you and it also has a lot of
behavioral chronic stress has a lot of
behavioral effects that I find like
really interesting in the context of
like you know what America is doing
right now and not just America but like
you know like Britain and France like
all of these first world countries are
starting to sort of exhibit the same
sorts of symptoms I think in that like
chronic stress makes you irritable it
makes you paranoid it like it's sort of
like picture like a Mad Max world like
that for most of human you know history
biological history evolutionary history
that was the only way that you would be
getting your fight-or-flight pinged
dozens and dozens and dozens of times a
day is if like in actual like
apocalyptic event had happened like the
volcano went off and ruined everything
and you were always gonna have to fight
for food every single day every single
meal like in that set like in that sort
of environment
it would kind of make sense to be like
much more ready to fight somebody like
you're in a bowl like your sex drive
would dry up because it doesn't make any
sense to you know to reproduce in that
environment like you would be it would
make sense not to to sort of just like
not leave the house if you had enough
food which like to me like is kind of
depression it makes sense to be
constantly alert like anxiety and it
also makes sense to like kind of
mistrust people that aren't from your
immediate tribe or your or your family
people that aren't like you like when
humans live in times of like when
there's enough resources to go around
which is most of human history because
we were fine with eating bugs back in
the day and you know there's plenty of
bugs like we are kind of a naturally
cooperative species like that's how we
kind of beat out all the other species
frankly look frankly like we have these
big old brains and they allow us to like
work together to accomplish things that
we cannot accomplish alone but when it's
and that's for most of the time but when
it gets when things get really bad then
you sort of like go out on your own and
you protect only the people who are
closest to you and everyone else can go
 themselves and that's sort of what
I think we're in today because of the
way that we work and the way that we
sort of treat our workers as if they
should have to you know constantly
constantly constantly be pushed into
doing the work that they honestly kind
of already want to do they just yeah we
don't do it okay right yeah all right so
lastly let me ask you this do we have a
sense of how many people like I mean if
there was a way for you to define this
type of work like you know work that is
done that has constant temporal
benchmarks
that exists throughout the day without
relief at any point or whatever it is
right do we have a sense of how many
people are in these jobs I mean I'm not
talking like you know like FAA you know
Eric air traffic controllers probably
have a similar size s but it's stress
but it's a little bit different and they
also you know they're conscious of like
we need to give people a break we need
to I mean that's built into the system
because they know that there's stressful
this we don't because they just get rid
of the people and if they blow it once
they get rid of them and it's not like a
plane goes down but do we have a sense
of like how many people are on the clock
as you call it I guess of these type of
jobs well it's really that took me kind
of a long time to figure out exactly
what number to use for that so what I
ended up with after kind of a lot of
research was there was this very
interesting paper from at Oxford and I
think it was 2013 that was looking at
the potential for automation in in
various jobs in in the US and in
particular they were looking at the
degree to which jobs are Rudin eyes and
sort of D skilled to the point where you
didn't really need to be a human to do
them anymore like so like stuff like
cashiers you know you don't like you
used to be half you used to be able to
have to like actually make change and
like do math in your head and now like I
go into a into a wah wah and like buy
something and the person hands me the
dollars and the change is automatically
dispensed into like a little cup that I
pick up like that just another skilling
part and so this study found that like
it was I think it was 47% of American
jobs were so rude NIH's dandy skilled
that they were like very much in danger
of being you know fully automated within
the next I think it was 20 25 years so
yeah that's the number I find the most
persuasive it's stunning the the book is
on the clock
what low-wage work did to me and how it
drives America insane Emily gündüz
burger we'll put a link to your book on
majority dot F M thanks so much for your
time today really interesting thanks all
right folks
wowza
I remember reading nickel and dimed and
that sounds like a good update to it yes
the the the the technology like on some
level right like this is doing a similar
thing not quite but but close no
ultimately I mean not obviously not
nearly as intense and it's in and you
can put it down I mean you could
literally walk away from it but vehicles
of control for productivity broadly
speaking but this is this is super super
intense the idea of that that Amazon
worker having to constantly hit those
benchmarks is seems relentless
absolutely relentless and I mean I think
to a certain extent like you know this
is at one point you have a National
Labor Relations Board that says this is
not a job it's not a job like it's not a
job we have there is there are concepts
in the laws to like you know what you're
allowed to to you to to sign a contract
to go and do and it's just not a job and
so I mean look we already have the idea
that we have worker safety things you
know we have standards of worker safety
physical safety in a in a job site you
you can take a job for 100 bucks an hour
but there are minimum standards as to
how safe it can be
or sure has to be for it to work and
it's it's very much like you know the
idea of a minimum wage I mean the bottom
line is is like we as a society that has
progressed has the right to say that if
you're going to operate a business
within the context of our society then
there are certain standards we must
require we have requirements as to
protecting consumers you cannot put in
lead into the candy even if it makes the
candy super cheap in a certain sense
even if people are like lead candy and I
mean I the lead you can barely taste and
it's like it cost a penny I'll take it
we just don't allow that it's not in
society's best interest to do so
it's not in society's best interest to
allow work that could kill you and it
should also be recognized that it's not
in society's best interest to have work
that drives you insane or mildly insane
even if you want to do it sorry we're
just not going to allow this because it
creates a dynamic a protection dynamic
look we make these decisions as a
society all the time we make them in
terms of vaccinations certain
vaccinations will not be effective
unless we require everyone to use them
and we see plenty of examples of this
you want to drive on the roads you've
got to be on the right side of the road
well I think this is just one more
example of the Kamikaze death Drive
embedded within capitalism and because
like I've said before if there's nobody
to work for you if everybody's dead of
an opiate overdose or they stress
injuries or whatever they can't work for
you and there's no capitalism because
there's no society so you can deal with
it by making regulations you
could deal with it when workers rise up
and form a union and help each other out
you can deal with it with you know my
favorite thing communism but we got to
deal with it somehow right I mean it you
it's just simply not sustainable and I
mean that's basically the bottom line
it's just not sustainable to do this to
people
on a regular basis and that means that
means it's gonna cost you X percentage
more to have your you know your your
toothbrush sent to you from Amazon or
whatever it is and that's just the way
that society is going to work that it's
just you know we there has been a
decision made in society that it's all
gonna be about cheap products and there
is a presumption that we have all
participated in this decision by seeking
out the cheaper of two products when
we're going to purchase something right
that we're making our decisions with our
dollars but the fact of the matter is
that as a society we have not given
informed the consent to this decision we
have not been the it is very easy to see
that toothbrush a costs 25 cents less
than toothbrush B but all of the forces
that make that price deferential are
kept from us all of the implications of
that all the externalities of that are
hidden from us and so we have not made
that decision as a society with any type
of informed consent and I suspect that
if we really understood it that we
wouldn't make that decision well the
boss is certainly would I mean that's
what they're incentivized to do by
capitalism it's not just personal greed
it's not just that
being bad people although I'm sure that
they are it is you are incentivized to
maximize profits however you can and
that involves treating your workers like
robots yeah and the irony is in Lana I
you know again this may be one of those
those interviews that I keep referring
to is that sometimes that screws you
like you get so blind to the idea of
cutting labor costs and weakening labor
that you end up you know shooting
yourself in the foot and that is the
u.s. car company story and I'm gonna try
not to keep giving more stuff away from
the interview so that people actually
tune into it during our break but all
right speaking of break Wow we've gone
late today but we're gonna go late hey
folks like I said earlier Proactive is
America's number-one acne brand and it
has helped fight acne for like 25 years
I used to use it a little bit did you
yeah well Kelly apparently used a big
time and now they have the next
generation of Proactiv acne treatment
stuff
it's called Proactiv MD it's
dermatologist recommended topical
retinoid used in the treatment of mild
to moderate acne in order now and you
will receive Proactiv on the go bag
which features their t-zone oil observe
which absorber their body acne wipes and
their green tea moisturizer for free
that's close to 100 dollars in value
plus you get free shipping with a 60-day
money-back guarantee just go to Proactiv
dot-com slash majority that's PR OAC TIV
dot-com slash majority particularly if
you know somebody who's going back to
school who's having some acne issues a
nice thing to get him particularly now
is a good time clear that stuff up
before you get back to school gives you
a lot more confidence going back kids
can be rather
difficult and self-conscious they get
out there they have a good time just a
reminder this program relies on your
support you can become a member by going
to join the majority report comm when
you do you support the free show and
then we give you extra content every day
commercial free and just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate don't
forget to check out the a.m. quickie
it's in your majority report feed it
won't be there indefinitely so now's the
time to check it out tonight is Tuesday
night indeed is it Tuesday already
it's Tuesday already gosh I feel you
professor Richard Wolffe returns he's in
studio we're talking about the modern
economic history of the People's
Republic of China what is the economic
system of China what is state capitalism
what is communism and with Chinese
characteristics as they've called it
we're also talking about alienation
primitive accumulation my mini illicit
history of Pakistan Afghanistan
alienation specifically as it relates
potentially to Isis al-qaeda and white
supremists terrorism at 610 ish there's
gonna be a priest stream on the Michael
Brooke show YouTube channel Murtaza
Hussein we're gonna be talking about
specifically what's happening in Kashmir
patreon.com slash t MBS to get the whole
thing
Jamie sorry get your Chicago tickets
they're going fast and that's August
24th so we'll see you there in Chicago
at Chuck Merritt soon this week are the
anti Fattah I was away at the DSA
Convention so the boys recorded an
episode without me I have only a very
short and vague list
I tried to time it for the when the boys
indeed I have a short and vague list of
what it's about the Andy just sent me
I'm not even 100% sure I understand all
of these things but it includes the MK
ULTRA left
Juggalos Manson Jake Flores and once
upon a time in Hollywood I get all that
Matt yeah coming up for patrons this
week is a hanging an essay by a young
man named Eric Arthur Blair when he was
28 this was before he was George Orwell
and that's just gonna be for patrons so
I look forward to that patrons there you
go patrons quick break fun half right
now and foreign alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
who sent us this alpha males and the
alpha males are back back back back back
back and the alpha males are just wanna
degrade the white man alpha males are
back back I love it
alpha males are back back back
almost has what you
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total can we bring back DJ
Tanner song yeah or a couple you put
them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough with a break
that's I do not have Markinson and the
alpha males all psych
Oh almost says what
[Music]
on the back
on the back
on the back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blocked back
alpha males of
because
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100 for the
bigger game plan
it's my birthday happy birthday to meet
you boy I have a thought expenditure
foil and the alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price request
we around here hi I am a total
what's -
yes ladies and gentlemen the fun half we
are here couple clips you know someone
said to me regular listener of the
program texted me and said did you ever
notice that whenever there is a mass
shooting one that has like permeated the
media I guess threshold because we have
mass shootings you know technically
probably every day in this country
sometimes more than one but it usually
takes like eight or nine people to be
killed before you start to hear about it
like for you don't hear three you don't
hear five six seven depending on where
it is you hear about it and he said do
you ever notice that there's always a
phone call that you get that is like
that one that you got where it's just
like the talking points are very similar
like none of this is gonna work why are
you doing it which is odd it does strike
me as odd like that call yesterday was
odd right I mean it's odd and I do know
for a fact that back in the day
different organizations would pay people
to call talk radio shows I I'm not
saying that's the case in this instance
but I do know that that phenomena exists
so if you're one of those callers and
you're getting paid to call into the
program good on you you're very very
fortunate because you're getting to
listen to one of the better programs and
getting paid for it that's pretty good
sounds like a win-win it is a total
win-win for everybody involved so let's
examine sorry conversation but let me do
why I preface it that way is because I
just want to say like you're not gonna
have to do that because we're gonna let
your conservative uber Lords call into
the show today with their arguments
about why gun control should work or
more effective things like I want you to
think of a proposal as outlandish as the
idea of let's say closing the private
sale loophole or you know universal
background checks which I will argue
necessary but definitely insufficient
should get far more aggressive but but
think of the most outlandish proposal
you could imagine what's gonna be so
expensive and so impossible and then
Sean Hannity will say hold my beer I
don't think it's because I thought of it
but let's stop school shootings we'll
start there let's stop Mall shootings
we'll start there I'd like to see the
perimeter of every school in America
surrounded secured by retired police
which you are retired Secret Service
which you are military and I want guys
to donate 15 hours he's just trying to
get Bungie into a job exactly his damn
budget well he's asking him to donate 15
hours that's why Bungie no gets thrown
off there he's like wait a second am I
gonna get paid I'm not gonna get paid
for all of it so the idea is it's an
all-volunteer force of military Secret
Service and police veterans who go out
with their service pistols Tier one
operators and will form this
all-volunteer army now apparently would
you get the managers I guess would also
be volunteers like I just wonder how
many billions of dollars it would cost
to fully militarize and fortress eyes
every school and every mall in the
country Grimm and presumably to also
want to do that with every sporting
event and any busy intersection right I
mean
don't forget the movie theaters the
movie theaters of course roller rinks
ice skating rinks I guess that's it I
mean it would just be great Rocky or
excuse me a great Rambo vehicle
I could see Yeah right Rambo gets pulled
out of retirement again to guard the
perimeter for an elementary right
exactly exactly H Sean Hannity somehow
knows him and he's just like I know that
you just wanted to retire it's your farm
but we need we need you to there's
absolutely nothing that we could do to
stop school shootings we need you to
guard PS 84 down on Anderson Street it's
literally a force of nature there's
absolutely nothing we could do that
movie would ameliorate these things we
would have to have a big Arsenal scene
like in tremors where you look at all
the guns you could also have the gun
companies subsidize it because you'd
sell them all the guns here is or would
you just let them bring whatever gun you
have you bring down there so if you have
a service pistol great if you don't you
just have a shotgun bring that down
here's let Hannity explain now Dan bond
Giano
is going to or whatever his name is is
going to add how he's gonna do it like a
triple negative here but he's basically
saying like I agree but he doesn't quite
say it that way to see the perimeter of
every school in America surrounded
secured by retired police which you are
retired Secret Service which you are
military and I want guys to donate 15
hours I think we could cover every
school every hour every day at a metal
detector I think we're gonna have save
for schools have one armed guard on
every floor of every school all over
every mall the perimeter and inside
every Hall of every mall now that gives
us an instant response opportunity now
just in terms of instant response
opportunity remind you instant response
now he doesn't actually mean like half a
second response right again I will
reiterate the shooter in Dayton Ohio was
dead within 30 seconds of shooting his
first shot
within those 30 seconds he had the
ability to kill nine people and injure
20 some-odd I love every mall now that
gives us an instant response opportunity
that we normally wouldn't have would
that save lives and your humble well
your expert opinion I find that
interesting Shawn that when it comes to
protecting the people that matter the
president the United States obviously
regardless of party the leader of the
free world did you notice when I was in
the Secret Service when we took
President Obama back to Chicago a
violent City Shawn nobody said hey guys
you know disarmed don't worry it's
Chicago they have very strict gun laws
here you know it's not a joke I say that
because that's the proposal they want to
propose for your kids in school public
plaza there is no proposal to not have
armed guards at schools because they
already don't have armed guards there so
no one is like floating this idea what
if we pull back all the armed guards on
every floor or the Secret Service who
surround I mean honestly if these guys
are using that as an example then let's
take them out their face how many Secret
Service protect the president at any
given time from any party easy love
doesn't I a couple of dozens a couple of
dozen so what we're looking at is a
couple of dozen that's right per his
child's perfect model for students here
we got a couple of dozen george
zimmerman's right child if you want to
propose for your kids in school public
places we protect our politicians with
armed guards hollywood for that's my
priority right my point is exactly that
that when it comes to protecting people
that matter elites political leaders
what is the Secret Service and others do
obviously they have trained men and
women with firearms out there to protect
them they don't say oh don't worry
Donald Trump is going to Washington DC
today they have good gun control laws
everybody in this Secret Service take
your weapons out leave them
here you'd be openly mop yeah what same
suggestion is made for your kids
people go oh yeah that makes sense no it
doesn't make sense no it doesn't make
sense I can't imagine my damn bond Giano
is not working in some other
communications business right now also
your dog to have semi-autos for your
kids no it doesn't make sense yes just
the comma that buttons to be repeated by
just stupid voice well I'm sorry but
listen I don't want damn bond Gino's
inability to articulate an idea to get
in the way of our assessment of Sean
Hannity's idea which is completely bat
crap volunteer hours for unemployed
police officers the arm cards and malls
and malls you mean that really really
sure which by the way but now just a
perimeter on every floor I love how all
of these guys like they're like spit
ball Solutions make a big government
socialists like me dude secret sir I
believe it a little bit it's a little
thing called freedom Sean guess what the
a Secret Service budget is what is the
Secret Service well what what do you
think it might need to be if we're gonna
make this feasible to cover 35 million
school children well we have I would say
the Secret Service budget is what five
hundred million dollars it's two point
two three billion dollars Wow so but
think about it what about if it was all
done is Valen I tried to do the man that
you don't believe in the spirit of
America trying to do the math so 35
million I don't know what this what this
number is 16 I think it's like seven
point eight oh five billion to the 16th
power I didn't know numbers went up that
high what if we just do it can can you
what if we do it in gift cards is there
a way to figure that out and gift cards
because we're not gonna we're just
getting they're gonna volunteer for 15
hours we just give them that like a
bonus on a gift card or something I
don't know if that has a name when to
the city that's a much more rash
no idea then perhaps banning certain
classes of weapons and then I would also
I'm happy to subscribe to the idea of a
licensing regime where only people who
go through various thresholds are
allowed to own these weapons and can own
as many as they want so you value the
president's life more than your children
that's probably what an incredible beta
 yeah unbelievable even your
children you will sacrifice will say I
have altered of being a people say
i have donald trump derangement syndrome
but yeah I vowed their life so Donald
Trump was supposedly so terrible you
value his life long ago 15 zeroes is a
quadrillion right and and 18 is a
quintillion acquainting tell you so
we're somewhere between a quadrillion
and a quintillion it's just called a
quadrillion dollars how much is that in
chicken salad sandwiches yeah you'll get
it you'll get it you'll get a volume
discount so let's call it a quadrillion
let's not have to worry about what it is
with 16 trillion maybe about 10
quadrillion all right well if sean
hannity does not have what sounds to
most people like a rational idea for a
gun control perhaps ben shapiro
has a more rational idea after all he is
the intellectual wonder kid of the of
the right perhaps he has a more rational
proposal to end gun violence that's
nonsense
that's simply nonsense hey those are
guns in common use the ar-15 is the most
commonly owned rifle in the United
States a semi-automatic rifle is just a
rifle that fires one bullet every time
you pull the trigger there are a hundred
million of those in circulation in the
United States there is no magic gun that
is only used by mass posit hold on for
one second now people are saying ban
assault weapons and it is true a gun
like an ar-15 one squeeze one bullet of
course they keep loading in there and so
it's
every time you and you don't have to
stop until they shoot you and you've
killed nine people and 2426 injured his
number that there are a hundred million
now as you know there are like it's only
350 I 380 million guns I think in the
United States far fewer gun owners they
just own a lot of guns but according to
a 2015 report by the National Shooting
Sports Foundation American gun makers
produced and imported 8.5 million rifles
these are these what they called the
modern sporting rifle they ar-15 between
1990 and 2012 that's eight point five
million and about one to two million
annually every year it's been seven
years that would be 14 million maybe a
little bit less one to two so we're
talking about 20 million maybe 25
million so it's not a hundred million
although 25 million is far too many
anyways but whatever Ben is talking
about Brett Kavanaugh is ruling that you
can or I should say the Supreme Court's
ruling in hell are that you can ban guns
that are not in common use and now he's
arguing that they're in common use which
is of course something that's fairly
recent since we had the ban on
semi-automatic weapons rescinded by the
Bush administration but nevertheless
this is what it's coming down to there
in common use so you can't ban them but
go there is no magic gun that is only
used by mass shooters we've seen
handguns used we've seen rifles used
I mean Helen in different countries
we've seen knives used so that this is
the socket yes I just want to I don't
want to get too pedantic
but mass shooters do not use
unless they have a special knife gun
knife which shoots like it's like it's
like a Gatling gun but it shoots nice
heinie boop boop boop you right and that
is you know the the the only advantage
to that from from a potential victims
perspective is how hard it is to reload
yeah but butchered Lobby really loves
those butcher lobby loves us not to
suggest that there aren't gun
regulations that would be appropriate I
just suggested one the gun violence
restraining orders but we're not gonna
settle on those instead we're gonna have
a dumb political fight over something
that's not going to get done because
it's not actually gonna prevent the
problem you know this whole argument and
that very similar to the caller that we
got the other day which is like let's do
something that is extremely narrowly
tailored and is focused actually on the
people not the guns let's let's focus on
a subset of people that we think that we
can now we know two-thirds of gun deaths
are suicide and I would imagine very few
of those are done with ar-15s so we have
multiple problems that we're dealing
with here it is a shame that we don't
spend more time on the suicides because
there is no doubt if you look at the
data and there is enormous amounts of
data in research into the circumstances
in which people attempt to kill
themselves how many attempts after the
first attempt most people commit and the
efficacy of trying to commit suicide
with a gun which is like 95 percent
whereas everything else is much much
lower and more far more often than not
after the first attempt at suicide by
some other means besides a gun people
don't attempt to commit suicide again so
we know that you could ban
tens you you could eliminate tens of
thousands maybe to maybe to tens of
thousands let's just cut down two-thirds
of those like the other 10,000 who
commit suicide with with a 95 percent
efficacy rate we'll find some other
means even though those rates aren't
even remotely close but you're talking
about twenty thousand people a year
whose lives you could save by either
banning guns outright or creating some
mechanism that makes the bar to getting
a gun so much more difficult and so much
not in the moment that you would keep
those people from killing themselves and
give them an opportunity to live their
lives and not just end their life but
destroy and severely impact the lives of
those around them but Shapiro is just
being a flack there because I mean how
voice if ously do you hear these people
in the path like this is not gonna do
anything well what's the downside what's
the downside of universal background
checks like cutting into the
profitability of these death meat
machine makers what if you want to give
your dad a gun Sam like what's the
downside here you you're not gonna be
able to kill as many you're not gonna
have as many toddlers dead well at the
end of a year if you know this even if
it saves one toddlers live is it not
worth it well I just have a little bit
of a problem with that when you use the
phrase common sense it makes you feel
bad well that's just to me it's common
sense is not so common so think about it
all right listen really alienates before
I get to the call different thoughts
about let me just
play this clip here we're talk about
trying to clean up a mess here is Brian
Kilmeade really I mean this guy's really
go under the mat right like Kimmel is
right we got to we're you know like it's
one of those moments I think where
they're like there's no way we can get
around this there's 2000 Facebook Ads
2000 Facebook ads that the Trump
campaign placed is reported by the
Guardian today and when I had seen that
number yesterday so they use the word
invasion to describe what's going on at
the border then again we've said this
set this way way way before this guy who
killed 20 people used it in his screed
to justify why he was doing it we said
time and time again you use the word
invasion what are you telling people how
to react how do you repel an invasion I
mean Trump and May said other places use
guns to fire at it but we're not
supposed to I mean he said that to a
crowd and so when you're caught dead to
rights as it were with all of your
people all the people on your network
using the term invasion what do you do
well you just maybe invasion doesn't
mean what we think it does with or with
the president has during his
two-and-a-half years is a major problem
at the border which was not his doing
unless you want to blame President Obama
for the unaccompanied minors it's
streamed through here in 2014 when you
have over a hundred and ten thousand
people coming a month over a million
last year and then
over a million this year if you use the
term is as an invasion that's not
anti-hispanic it's a fact
if the Russians were coming through
Alaska through Canada the president
would be using the same language but
it's the fact that's happening at the
border if you talk to people who are
apolitical at the border deposit now
wait a second
if the Russians were coming now I don't
know if he's saying like if Russian
civilians were walking across the border
through Canada or through Alaska if
that's the what he's talking about or if
he's saying like they started a military
in like attack do you'd call it an
invasion kind of sounds like the letter
yeah it sort of does like I don't think
he realizes like it's like an invasion
well if this happened with Barack Obama
why didn't we hear that term then why
didn't we hear the term invasion then
because you need to terrify people you
need to make them afraid of these people
you need to make them think that America
is facing an existential crisis and it
is of course not but when you gin up
this type of fear and it's not like
there hasn't been a history of Minutemen
at the border lunatics who have done
this this is what you're gonna get
in this guy's trying to justify it
if the Russians were coming through
Alaska through Canada the president will
be using the same language but it's the
fact that's happening at the border if
you talk to people who are apolitical at
the border people want to look at the
words offense to invest in invest
infested or figure like that and look at
the with the president saying and then
they say well look at how could he use
this rhetoric would've heard turns out
elijah coming to this using the same
exact rhetoric ten years before the
president was even hosting the
apprentice so I guess Elijah Cummings
use the word infested one time Elijah
Cummings does the okay sign all that
all the time I mean it's unbelievable
you look got it it's unbelievable god I
mean I hope they pay Brian Kilmeade just
what is it a quadrillion dollars a year
to uh the actually having tried to
justify that crap yeah the point about
Trump saying the word infested isn't
that like anybody who uses the term
infested is like clearly meaning it in a
racist way it's that Trump uses it when
he uses it he's always talking about
black people yeah he's always talking
about black people I mean I don't love
it when anybody uses it but it's clearly
different when Elijah Cummings says it
well I don't know what a lot at what
context Elijah Cummings said it you know
for drug-infested yes so there were
drugs in there he like drugs are a
horrible thing he's saying we should do
everything we can to eradicate them
Trump actually tweeted that video out
too so that's work that's where kill me
it's getting his research from it's just
absurd but he's also having to change it
from infested to invasion which he
started with and like I don't even know
what he's saying like even if it was the
Russians coming he would say it's an
invasion what is that supposed to mean
that like he's he likes the Russians and
if they're dead Russians he actually
said Baltimore is getting infested by
white people
oh is that they said Whole Foods and
everything else they're bringing many
many problems some are nice people if
the issue is that we cannot absorb these
people why do we not hear about the
equal number of people who have
overstayed their visas as an infestation
we have an infestation problem from
those people who've overstayed their
visas I mean give me a break
give me a break nobody knows that I mean
nobody believed that grab let's go to
the phone's call from a 2:09 area code
who's this where you come from
hello it's me yes it is you okay hi I'm
doing great put Sonja right that
um I was just calling because I know
Michaels going on Destiny's Show
tomorrow or Destiny's going on Michaels
so that correct I don't know I think
I'll be stopping my thing tomorrow
whatever hoping Michael sends Matt's
honor and also kind of brings up some
really good points that people like
Peter coffin
I like yesterday's and bring up and yeah
that's all right
also wanted to know like words that
would be aired well I think it will be
on Destiny's channel so just stay tuned
we'll figure it out okay calling from a
3-1 like four are you got a call up and
before you get that stuff you have to be
like yeah that might be low and to
better get certain air wide regulations
may not become it is this is a
neoliberal John intent Willis again
calling it hello neoliberal John I
commend you for picking your own
nickname but guy go eat some chicken
salad why so yeah I've been kind of
yelling at your cast of characters there
on Twitter a little bit and I stolen
kind of a bit frustrated with I feel
like how you guys I feel like you guys
use that term spelled neoliberal just as
sort of like a catch-all for bad stuff I
you know John to be honest with you John
I you're the only one who's used it
right now I have to say this I looked at
my usage I one second ayahs you
implement it all of us I recently looked
at my usage of the term neoliberal on
Twitter I searched all of my usages of
it and most of it is making fun of
people who overuse that so I don't know
that I've ever used the term on Twitter
to the extent that I've used it on this
program it is to describe a political
philosophy that believes that the market
is the best and only solution for
problems that we face in society so if
you're going to call about Jamie and
Michael or Brendan using me okay
uses it all I even I am Brendon I'm not
I'm not I'm not interesting I'm like bro
pro else I will say this is a very
neoliberal call the guests without
earlier is also using it but I think
that's that's accurate what you just
said I just think that that is you
didn't appreciate there a lot of the
guests using the term neoliberal get her
back on the phone no basically anytime
there's like a terrible idea right so
it'll be like for-profit prisons or
it'll be like some asinine thing that
libertarian that one finds is a
neoliberal idea hold on John you call in
you say it's neoliberal John they're
you're using it in a flippant term the
way in the way that you're calling to
criticize my use of it you just use one
example of how neoliberal is used in a
misplaced way and you used for-profit
prisons which I can't tell you if there
is a better example of the use of
neoliberalism of course privatizing a
government function is definitionally
neoliberal the word does waste it what I
wanted to hear what John has to say to
that cuz this is stunning right so I
guess that's where I have the
disagreement I would feel that a
neoliberal is just a liberal who'd I
mean who does think that there is a
place for markets and for capitalism but
it doesn't mean some markets are always
the best solution well what's there to
solutions like hold on John John John
there are two solutions to prisons if
you're gonna have them okay one is
they're run by the public the government
and one is they're run by the private
market and if you determine that prisons
are best
privatised how can you tell me that is
not a function of a neoliberal
philosophy I would say that that I think
there are other people who believe in
free mark that's I mean you see what I'm
saying right there no no actually I am
expressing is is a function of me not
understanding what you're saying okay I
apologize for not being more clear what
I'm trying to say is that I think there
are some free market ideas that people
attribute to neoliberals but I think are
more rightly lumped in with like it's
the conservative or the libertarian sort
of philosophy I feel like there's a lot
like I feel like Keynes who believed in
free markets and thought that market
setting prices and capitalism had its
place but also that the government
should intervene and not let people
starve and give the medicine like I feel
like that could also be classified as
neoliberalism why neoliberalism was the
negation of Keynesianism yessum is not
cancer your laws that is also true
economic history but I want to say
something more relevant which is that if
this is a bit you are killing it please
tell me this is a bit that was a bit
right you're messing with saying or
trying you know what this is this is the
worst I mean the the way that you set up
this call by introducing yourself as
neoliberal John to argue that
neoliberalism is used as a catch-all for
things that are bad is so poetic because
this was in your words a neo liberal
call thank good day sir hi this is
socialist Michel I object to healthcare
for all I just want to read from the the
Wikipedia of neoliberalism neoliberal
John was that was the name was yeah and
yeah scholars now attended to associated
with theories of Mont Pelerin society
economists Frederick Hayek Milton
Friedman and James Buchanan along with
politicians and policy makers such as
Margaret Thatcher Ronald Reagan and Alan
Greenspan does look like Keynes as
mentioned so I'm not sure where a
neoliberal Jones gay rights attorney
function of exactly like what are we
gonna do a party I wish we could dig up
Keynes's body so we gave them a clue and
sir you have seems like someone's using
neoliberal in a vague catch-all way and
it's not us well exactly you don't call
it say it's neoliberal John and I'm
trying to argue that using neoliberal as
the term bad is a mistake you just
proven your point only thing your value
is rival prisons that was the one thing
that was a head entry driven nonsense
argument called that Sam wanted to hang
up on yeah that tells you everything you
need to know about your calling
everybody I've been worse than a nerd
that doesn't know anything and he still
didn't it yeah word and he still did
take it I gave him it out he could have
pretended it was a joke we all would
have patted him on the back all right
I'm gonna play this next clip
there's obviously in reaction to what
we've seen over the past couple of days
this is the I'm playing this clip
because it's aspirational for me it's
aspirational in the sense no hit the
other one that oh it's aspirational in
the sense that this is this is the
moment where we're going to see and and
I think to a certain extent we've seen
beto O'Rourke's humanity right like I
think he's clearly moved by this this is
the community he grew up in he has a lot
of attachment to it and I think he's
been clearly moved by it and look
politicians there's an element of
politicians that I think is inescapable
that they have some distance and they
can see how they're being perceived at
any given time I mean I think to a
certain extent even doing what we do I'm
conscious that I'm on camera I'm
conscious that people are looking at me
more often than not there's a couple
times I slip and you know pick you nose
or you do something like that but for
the most part you're aware of it and so
I am sure that he's also aware that this
is a moment for him as a presidential
candidate to show his leadership I think
it's not insincere what he's doing but I
think he's also aware of that moment was
it the Kaepernick thing or remember that
video of him in the church when he was
running I was half dead so like he is
good at this yes and but the other
question is at this point like to what
extent does his humanity where he
genuinely cares about this and his
understanding of the political moment
make him realize that he should drop out
of this presidential race and declare
for the Senate because he is in a
position now if he didn't do it before
because he didn't think he could take on
John Cornyn there's every reason to
believe particularly when you have half
a dozen Republican Congress people who
are dropping out and running for
re-election so their machines are a
little bit dispersed you're gonna have a
lot of energy a lot of money's gonna
pour into that state to take
congressional seats which is gonna help
you in your run for the Senate this can
help you run for the Senate this is good
it's gonna be interesting to see what he
does but in the meantime you know like
what he's saying I think is his
heartfelt it's important to be said and
this is he could if he believes all this
he could do far more as the first
Democrat who wins in the state of Texas
a Senate seat in decades by winning that
seat and he did say white supremacy is
hate and should be treated as domestic
terror
important for you then to say that this
is the same man who called white
nationalists and Klansmen and neo-nazis
very fine people who asked for more
immigrants who look like those in Sweden
and Norway that the widest places on the
planet while describing immigrants from
Haiti as full of AIDS or countries in
Africa as nations this is the
most racist president we've had since
perhaps Andrew Johnson in another age
and another century and and he is
responsible for the hatred and the
violence that we're seeing right now you
cannot leave that just to me to say that
it's got to be you and and those who are
helping this country understand what is
happening in our name I mean thing I
like about what Betty I was doing too is
he's making a critique of that that goes
beyond politics right I mean he's making
a he's making a critique and and this is
a dynamic that I think has been very
encouraging we saw this during the
debates I just don't remember a time
where Democratic candidates for
presidency for any position for that
matter are making a they're not making a
structural critique of the press I mean
I think Bernie has done that in the past
and we've had politicians who've talked
about media concentration why not but
they're making an operational critique
in terms of the way that things are
framed in the way that they are
educating the American public and it's
helpful I mean remember the Republicans
last year the whole thing and they did
this they've done this many many cycles
where they will call out the debate
moderators and it's like the it was
almost like the first one to do it in
there during the Republican primary last
time it was like a race but now you have
them making this critique of the press
saying like you know we're gonna demand
more of you and a more fan and I think
that's very very important that the
Democrats be either begin as individuals
but reflect I think a change in the
Democratic Party that we can question
the and I think specifically with this
the fact that at least among the
candidates the Democratic leadership
isn't there yet at all
where
need to be but the candidates are all
saying on stage like Sanders and his
closing statement said the guy's a
racist and so on but the next pivot is
to do exactly what you're saying that is
the next layer to not just say like yes
I'm gonna come out and call him a racist
and I'm not gonna let him off the hook
but then I'm gonna say in some sense how
can you even be asking like giving me a
positive quote right you're ignoring the
entirety of the guy's career in politics
right the answer is not by the way to
talk about how we need to step up law
enforcement Bernie had a lot of good
takes on this issue that wasn't one of
them
and it's it's a weird week when bado is
doing a little bit better than Bernie on
something I don't know about betas
policy prescriptions but I'm giving him
a pass from saying these this ship
belongs on the battlefield so don't
belong anywhere
lastly in terms of you know Eddy cloud
is we've had an eddy on the show many
times and over the years really I think
but he's you know getting more to
airtime on MSNBC which is great because
he's uh he is uh has a very strong
passionate voice about these issues of
race and I think like he just delivers a
message very well that you just don't
hear on television that often frankly
and he's like one of the few pundits
that you can watch and it just feel like
he's just operating with a different set
of rules that he is set for himself like
I don't care if you fire me like on some
level like you know this level of
passion you know is I think generally
there's a just you never get discouraged
to do this but there's never sort of
like any type of encouragement even in
the context of like where you're sitting
around the desk
everything's so antiseptic but here's
Eddie Glaude on on Nicole Wallace's
program
I mean you know America's not unique in
its ins as a country we're not unique in
our evils to be honest with you I think
where we're where we may be singular is
our future refusal to acknowledge them
and the legends and myths we tell about
our inherent you know goodness
to hide and cover and conceal so that we
can maintain a kind of willful ignorance
that protects our innocence see the
thing is that when the Tea Party was
happening
we used people where we were saying
pundits oh it's just about economic
populist it's not about race when people
new people new social scientists were
already writing that what was driving
the Tea Party were anxieties about
demographic shifts that the country was
changing that they were seeing these
racially ambiguous babies on cheerios
commercials that the country wasn't
quite feeling like it was a white nation
anymore and people were screaming from
the top of their lungs you know this is
not just simply economic populism this
is the ugly underbelly of the country
see the thing is is this and I'll say
this and I'll take the hit on it there
are communities that have had to bear
the brunt of America confronting white
Americans confronting the danger of
their innocence and it happens every
generation so somehow we have to kind of
oh my god is this who we are and just
again another here's another generation
of babies think about it that
two-year-old had his broke bones broken
by two parents trying to shield him from
being killed a woman who had been
married to this man for as long as I've
been on the planet almost lost her lost
our husband so what and so what we know
is that the country's been playing
politics for a long time on this hatred
we know this so it's easy for us to
place it all on Donald Trump's shoulders
it's easy for us to place Pittsburgh on
his shoulders it's easy for me to place
Charlottesville on his shoulders it's
easy for us to place El Paso
on his shoulders this is us and if we're
gonna get past this we can't blame it on
him he's a manifestation of the ugliness
that's in us I've had the privilege of
growing up in a tradition that didn't
believe in the midst and the legends
because we had to bear the brunt of them
either we're going to change Nicole what
we're gonna do this again and again and
babies are going to have to grow up
without mothers and fathers uncles and
us friends while we're trying to
convince white folk to finally leave
behind a history that will maybe maybe
or embrace a history that might set them
free from being white fighting I mean
you don't hear that kind of stuff on
cable television very much seriously
incredibly impressive and I and that's
the case the country has never come
close to sort of acknowledging this
reality and then sort of reconciling it
and trying to even move on I mean
there's really nothing else to say it's
just an incredibly impressive people
should send that around incidentally he
was just send that around put that far
and white and tomorrow I'll have a Chris
Matthews mashup of that right all right
folks we only have time for so powerful
I'll give it a grace period we have only
have time for one more call apologies I
know I got a lot of people holding call
them from a 541 area code who's this
where he come from hi is this me yes it
is my name is Ian I'm calling from
Oregon Ian for Morgan what's on your
mind Ian
okay um so I just this is directed all
you guys I just really wanted to thank
you guys for all of your coverage of
unions I'm actually currently trying to
possibly start a union at my job
currently working with the local
chapters IWW and I really really want to
thank you guys for that it really
inspires a lot of people well we
appreciate ya well good luck
let us uh you know keep us updated very
much keep us updated all right I will ya
longtime listener longtime member so
just keep doing what you're doing
thanks man you're doing what you're
doing alright thank you guys that was a
good call to end the day on nothing
objectionable there nope alright folks
see you tomorrow
in that
[Music]
but I know
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is tickin
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
they play
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
