while we have another burgeoning
disaster in northern Syria which is not
to say that what's been taking place in
Syria for the past eight years nine
years hasn't been a disaster but the
real the real challenge with Syria in
terms of or I should say the only
challenge to a large extent that I think
the United States could have played
throughout this has been to make sure
that it doesn't turn into a wider
conflict and that would have involved
providing a lot more resources for
refugees escaping Syria and in this
instance leaving the hundred troops that
were there and basically telling Turkey
like hey no you can't you cannot go in
not happening and they should have
supported an earlier diplomatic process
with Assad yeah the Kurds I'm holding
out and instead of holding out on this
regime change nonsense which has been
over for years practically speaking and
so there's a lot of crocodile tears
there as well but now we are looking at
a situation where we could be on the
brink of some form of ethnic cleansing
and genocide I guess to a certain extent
it depends on how much Assad feels that
they want to fight turkey at this point
here's Donald Trump basically ensuring
everybody that he's got his guys on it
and they're gonna take care of it and
he's gonna send some tough words to
Turkey cuz I apparently didn't do that
on the phone with air21 and but look at
all the tough guys behind me he's such a
 yeah here he is like he's going to
that's what everyone's it's honestly
like oh we're getting a hockey team
coming here straight out of central
casting all right beautiful
put him by me with deaf guys we like to
jet
but not like the football team like the
Jets and the Sharks and and not the
cocky sharks where the shots check Jets
and the Sharks we're gonna tell everyone
what's what they're gonna do a menacing
this is yesterday Mike is getting ready
to make a big trip he'll be leaving
tomorrow we have a delegation leading
today and Mike is heading it up with
secretary Pompeo they'll be leaving
tomorrow and if we're having very strong
talks with a lot of people positive
bring me there he's announcing that
Pompeo and pence are going to Turkey
tomorrow that is today he announced this
yesterday and they're gonna talk to a
lot of people strong tough talk tough
talk strong talks with a lot of people
we want to bring our soldiers back home
after so many years and they're the
greatest warriors in the world they're
policing
they're not a police force they're a
different kind of a force we want to
bring our soldiers back home if it can
it force and we're being very tough one
Turkey and a lot of others have to
maintain their own properties now they
have to maintain peace and safety what
happens the delegation we're asking for
a ceasefire c-span put the strongest
sanctions that you can imagine but they
get a lot we have a lot in store if they
don't if they don't have an impact
positive okay so they're the strongest
sanctions you can imagine but we have a
lot more where that came from if they
don't have any impact and so he's going
there telling him he's got a he's
calling for a ceasefire he just called
for a ceasefire he's sending his vice
president and Mike Pompeo in to get a
ceasefire from Turkey continue in store
if they don't if they don't have an
impact including massive tariffs on
steel they ship a lot of steel to the
United States to make a lot of money
shipping steel they won't be making so
much money I just want to tell you that
there you go we got so many things in
store for them well it
let's just see what air to run this guy
who's got about to get some tough stuff
coming to him today what he has this is
gonna be very scared that I talked like
that
you know what yeah oh here's a clip of
everyone hope he doesn't soil himself
because they're tough job can be
embarrassing the American delegation is
coming here are you worried about it
will you be seeing American teenagers
from the changing
and why would we concerned about what
will you be saying to them negative
thing that a lot of us music I'm
standing I'm not thanks doctor
unlock our study the use they will be
talking their counterparts let them get
in our country when Trump comes here
I'll be talking he's a gangster there
you go I don't know if they're to her
that what Trump wants to be so bad what
he said was why would we be worried and
she said well they're coming here and he
goes I'm not gonna be meeting with him
they're gonna meet with their
counterparts I'm not gonna talk I'll
talk to Trump if he shows up that's it
Jeff Chuck well you steal you steal
you're gonna lose your Stevie doesn't
care I mean it's so amazing it just the
typology like balsan ro is a freaking a
weirdo who worships Trump so he can sort
of have that dynamic with him but Modi
and air21 just know exactly how to play
Trump for their purposes like every
single time yeah they're the big kids
they just cut them and his exodia
everyone right here is this is your this
is the the Donald Trump let the genie
out of the bottle as it were and he is
not gonna be able to stuff it back in
and that is a real problem
tough talk that is a real problem I mean
you know I don't know if this will be
that moment but at one point the total
incompetence catches up with you there's
I mean clearly what we've seen with this
experiment where you put in just a
rancid Chardon see gardener into the
presidency we have seen that you know
this experiment we're seeing it play out
how much of the institutions that make
up the United States government how much
inertia is there and starting to get the
sense that the the inertia that things
are starting to sputter a little bit and
this is without a major crisis or at
least one that wasn't self-inflicted but
we will keep a tabs on this obviously
