[Music]
with that said here is let's play the
yeah let's play this um want to hear
something pretty funny this is pretty
good the New York Times is doing what is
like wouldn't they doing an op-ed a
video op-ed I'd be curious as to who
produced this and but do we know who
paid for this I don't know but I do know
I went to a brand conference
presentation once and the New York Times
video vertical I don't know she produced
it okay now here's the thing this could
be a native advertising for advertorial
perhaps for the opposition well well
let's let's dig into that afterwards
because I think that's relevant in some
respects frankly but here here we go
there is total chaos in Venezuela hunger
lack of medicine and latest nearly the
whole country had a blackout but most of
the conversation in the states focuses
on what Trump is doing about Venezuela
and rumors are spreading that the u.s.
is considering military intervention
options posit a rumors spreading really
mean by that I mean we have we have
government officials saying we're not
taking it off the table I think it's
like it's been reported that there are
it's not rumors but go ahead
this movement on the American Left
against any US involvement in Venezuela
is gaining traction
we've got Noam Chomsky Roger Waters
Oliver Stone boots Riley Yael on Omar
AOC Jill Stein and Bernie why have you
stopped for one second just imagine do
you think the New York Times would allow
an opinion piece that attributed the the
right you know the
the position on the right - like Jon
Voight like into people who don't have
any type of like political power now you
know for talk radio for instance on the
right has legitimate political power you
have politicians who go and basically
kiss the ring but you know boots Riley I
like I like his movies but boots Riley
is not you know he's not is not a
political powerfully a powerfully figure
dealer when Nancy Pelosi said if the COO
releases another album or they say I'm
too close with Silicon Valley I'm done
right in the absence of like real
leftist leaders we look to celebrities
it's bad no no but the point yeah right
but the point in the context of this is
that with the exception of Bernie this
is a ludicrous LAN Omar she's doing a
list of wall of like own irrelevant like
presidential candidate and then a bunch
of like cultural figures that are great
but not like just saw by bringing out
we're going to have an actress on to
talk about why we should not invade Iraq
precisely as if there's no one else out
there you don't know how to feel about
this topic but you do know how to feel
about these people right exactly
you see Jill Stein and Bernie why have
you stopped short of calling Maduro of
Venezuela addicted it is not a good look
when your slogan is co-opted by a
tyrannical dictator now truth usually
loves authoritarianism but this time it
seems like it's the Liberals who are
signing with one no I am not gay pro
trunk military hawk the reference my
spirit animal is Ruth Bader Ginsburg
yeah who are you
but Barry Allen is dangerously
glorifying a brutal dictator and
promoting inaction and that is the worst
combination for ordinary venezuelan
posit promoting inaction it is promoting
inaction this notion that we have in
this country that
necessarily can fix everything that it
is a our responsibility to fix
everything not not just anything but
everything not one thing or some things
but everything that we have the ability
to do this despite the fact that we have
an incredibly long history of effing
things up and making them worse
regardless of what you think is going on
in Venezuela and it's obviously in
contention the idea that we have the
ability to fix it is not founded in any
historical assessment of what we have
done in the past
let me also may the Contra how it will
also work for who I'm sure that the
plans we have work for this person's
family like that is the spoiler alert
right I know I'm sorry we're stepping on
the lead here but just like one of the
ways you can look at what's happening in
Venezuela with all of the usual
stipulations and caveats about Maduro
and the failures of Bulevar and
government right now is the still
massive class and racial stratification
of who opposes and supports the coup
there and frankly just as you can say
there's quadrants of people in the
United States who voted for a in my view
absolutely awful candidate like Hillary
Clinton because they also still
understood that their material interest
is better represented by the Democratic
Party same situation here
ordinary Venezuelans first off if you
look closely at these protests it's very
unlikely you'll bump into you know an
actual Venezuelan why are you bro yeah
here are you bro are you brung trust me
where is this footage from I believe
it's protests in the United States that
sort of makes sense like we the way that
there's like big rallies in Caracas
against us interference as well as for
coos they both are prominently featuring
Venezuelans but protests inside the
United States are predominantly
represented by Americans it also seems
like if you wanted to tell the United
States government your government not to
interfere in another country I mean
after all we seem to have set the bar
which i think is a very good bar that
other countries should not interfere in
other countries attempts to determine
who's going to be the leader right you
know if Russians protested the hacking I
would want to go to Moscow and see how
many people from New York were there
because if they're not there it's
 if this was an actual
Venezuelan protest it might look more
like this
second let me remind you what's going on
back home inflation is at two point six
nine million percent
what do ideas are so worthless so we
should let's invade that's not
nutritious let's invade let's invade we
could also I guess do the RO Cana option
which is the immediately relieve some of
the suffering by lifting sanctions yeah
there are things that the US could do to
help but they're not involving the
military that is that is promoting
action yes but not the right kind of
action you're it's almost it's almost an
inaction because it's a not and the
action that I want now here's that that
completely disinterested person's dad
who's just out helping for Venezuela is
there any type of like this person's
opinion might you should know what
perspective she has other than just
being funny my troop commanding well
funny
this is father my father my father my
father this is this is the daughter of
Ricardo Hausmann Jennifer how's Mary
Joey
Johanna Hausman she was the the
comedienne who provided that funny funny
opinion piece and her dad just
coincidentally was named to be the
country's representative to the
inter-american Development Bank by one
Guido that name sounds really familiar
to me
oh he's the guy who wants to replace
Maduro that is a pretty rich the apple
doesn't fall far from the tree I went to
did that she just declare herself the
top drawing comedian in the country
there you go I just outsell everybody
she really tipped her hand elsewhere in
the video when she also criticized
Shabbos
because Chavez had massive support from
the poor people of Venezuela and her dad
in addition to what he's doing now was
the economics minister for the Perez
austerity government they came for
Shabbos that he tried to overthrow and
then eventually he just won multiple
elections in a row so yeah but how many
members of the Chavez administration
think like her YouTube video now this is
pretty cool
Ricardo Hausmann dad this sweet surely
deserves at least an honorary mention
among this year's most sexist comments
since Johanna Hausman is my daughter she
is not entitled to her own opinion she
must be speaking on behalf of some male
figure that tells her what to say
seriously seriously woke politics are
very easy to able to harness if you if
you don't have a material basis for your
politics my father my father and my
father and my father my father more
woman imperialists and and and
understand he is reacting to someone
saying the New York Times failed to
disclose her material interest in in
this which is that her dad is literally
part of the opposition government now
that's got to be relevant no it's no
look to be fair yeah it's obviously
totally sexist of course to judge the
merit of somebody's work and not do
disclosure if it's about woman is
automatically sexist of course and the
second point just to be fair I know and
we all live in New York all sorts of
open mic errs and people with fledgling
YouTube channels are regularly asked by
the New York Times video vertical to do
International Relations videos and I
think we should disclose that it's true
so of course it was took probably the
New York Times is like that's
unbelievable that her father is part of
this coup government and waiting because
we just saw her
ten reasons why like Maduro 'he's like a
lame dad video and said she should do a
video supporting a coup in Van Halen's
at comedy club it was a Thursday night
I'm getting hammered she comes up she
does a little riffing on Maduro and I'm
like boom let's get her to shoot a video
now wait wait wait now there is actually
one scenario where that might actually
be true and there's plausible
deniability but Barry Weiss's in
Australia so that didn't actually right
exactly
Wow I mean I know that boots Riley is
not an academic or a political leader as
such but I think he had a very good
tweet about it when he talked about how
like not all Venezuelans are the same
right there is a ruling class of
fairness whele that has certain
interests and when somebody says oh you
should listen to me because I'm from
Venezuela like that doesn't tell you all
you need to know about where that person
is coming from
oh oh oh if you're talking by the way
I'll just say this I would say not only
that in general and if you're talking to
a upper middle class person from Latin
America say someone with four hails out
a German naval of their politics that is
actually a Venezuelan Haussmann's yeah I
didn't realize Houseman was an
indigenous last name the Houseman mined
gold for many generations
the golem of Havana yeah creative talent
runs in the family
yeah so we read about the Doros maybe a
little too soft it's just I it's it's
pretty stunning that the the times would
run I mean look you can run that opinion
piece but it but here's the problem also
I think with with with a video
production like that is you're putting a
lot of resources in you know it's one
thing to say you take a written piece
first of all you should obviously always
disclose what you know well it's not a
random opinion and particularly when she
is in that piece relying on her bona
fides as a Venezuelan as if that
automatically qualifies you to to have
some type of authority but when you have
a production when you make a production
like that I mean first of all just
getting into New York Times in and of
itself provides some air of authority
and to have I don't know $10,000 $20,000
I don't know how much they put into
those production 30,000 it could
literally be anywhere from 10 to 70
$80,000 it could have gone into that
production depending on way they they do
their work over at the Times well that
also implies a certain amount of
authority and it's highly highly
problematic
