[Music]
the other thing that occurs to me in
terms of like you know you see this
level of criminality with like a guy
like manna for it you see this level of
criminality with with with Trump and all
the people around him and you have to
start asking a question like how the
 did he not have any legal problems
for the past 25 years in New York City
with you know take the most cynical and
jaundiced perspective it every guy in
the Southern District of New York US
Attorney's Office every guy gal in the
Eastern District of New Year of the the
US Attorney's Office the state attorney
general the city DA like okay Vance gets
$20,000 $25,000 that's a lot I guess but
it's not like taking down Donald Trump
wouldn't be worth that in terms of your
political career obviously like I think
and you know it's the end of the year
and I'm drinking I can afford to be a
little conspiratorial I think that
Donald Trump may have been probably
unwittingly sort of a little bit
protected yeah because of all the
information they may have get been
getting from Felix aider right and
that's why these guys floated through
life like I can't do it I'm so smart so
smart learn about every cable to do
cartel in New York City just like oh
yeah Trump's having a meeting with some
new guys from Panama's probably hire new
premier looking to get we didn't know
about we get all of our information I
have to know Felix aider is CIA FBI
asset yeah they have testified this
public knowledge yeah he and the way
that they've been getting information
from him is mostly because he's been
money laundering maybe square and some
other like arms deals well he's got a
money launderer somewhere - right and
that's Trump and and so they don't want
Tron
business to be ruined because he's a
repository for criminal activity yeah
they dip in satyrs you know New York
FBI's office you know Whitey Bulger they
dip in they dip in every now and then
like you get three for you one for us
and you know we don't and and anybody
sniffs around Donald Trump gets like no
yeah yeah I mean that's the only
explanation I don't know how else you
explain how like you know so he can
survive people like the plague how did
he survive the political ambition of
Eliot Spitzer exactly and all the other
yeah because he was considered a joke I
mean I think they was still you know as
soon as as soon as he came out and said
Obama wasn't born here would be the time
that issue ing this foundation like it
all of you you know that like a Menaka
Stritch reality guy I mean look wiley go
out there I mean the idea that there was
never a complaint oh yeah this guy yeah
that nobody ever thought like I'm
ambitious I'm gonna go after then nobody
did it
that just seems well you know what
Donnie do which thing Donnie torched a
week or two ago said and I get you know
and he's one of these guys who I think
was quite buddy-buddy with Trump he went
on this whole thing that got clipped
around all of these places that we look
at for sound and I didn't you know
because it's Donnie Jewish I don't want
to use it but he was like this this you
know becoming presidents his undoing and
everybody knows that this whole thing
has been a criminal enterprise and if he
knew New York real estate you know his
whole organization is dirty and this and
it's like okay so wait a second you knew
for decades while you were hob not this
is the media version of that but it's
kind of like the same principle it's
like it was a open secret that this
guy's a criminal yeah I can understand
why you know I know media is a different
thing right it's speaking to your point
of play imagine nobody touch this
because it's also like maybe it's his
money but but I don't like and you know
it is it is not hard to run into people
who are like oh yeah my cousin he he
does electrical contracting out in
Queens you got screwed by Trump get me
like ever you like everybody seems to
have a story
somebody close to me but it was like
just I find that very strange but if it
is the case it what all right just you
know look saying this with complete
candid that it's that it's you know like
sort of this is very speculative just
you know sitting around and this is not
a normal show and so I don't feel like
we need to maintain the same but if that
is the case that means that Muller's
project is probably protecting that part
of the story as much as revealing
anything else oh yeah and that makes the
investigation that much harder right
it's like it's like that thing like we
found a gun on him but we didn't have a
warrant so now we got to go back and
build some other story as to how we got
to hell yeah how got in right exactly
yeah I mean that's that's I hadn't even
really considered that but it seems like
it would it would explain some of the I
mean because all the time you're
thinking like why were these obvious
threads not pulled on you know and that
I guess that would be an explanation for
it or like the things that we know
through our reporting that you're like
that seems like a straightforward felony
and like if no one tugged on that at any
point even all the contacts that Trump
had prior to you know sort of it being
about collusion yeah you know just like
what looks to us like is what looks to
some now as collusion could very well be
you know they're just there are agencies
that just use him as like bait just like
let's see who nibbles at him and that's
this is a way for us to track in this
guy such a you know egotistical
yeah who was bequeathed you know that
story and the times that came out about
their tax like corruption I mean you
know the the the the the opportunity
that I feel like that's being lost in
this moment is that it's not that even
aside from my wild you know conspiracy
theory there's no doubt in my mind that
virtually that
75% of the families that have several
hundred millions of dollars do the exact
same thing that Fredro need to get money
to their kids they build you know like
shell companies there was a report about
you know Ivanka and Geno Jovanka are
going to you know a two weeks ago
they're going to it's illegal to to
capitalize on tax proposals that you
propose and of course but the tax
proposals themselves are like hey this
is scandalous yeah like this is like
this is this is legal it's scandalous I
mean the the whole tax system and none
of it it seems like there's a big
opportunity that's being missed by
everyone just sort of say like we're
getting a window into what's actually
going what is you know even if you know
whether you is this where you have to
put on your be a good dirtbag socialist
and be like clear I mean that's the
dividing line I think between people who
are like we need to get rid of Trump and
we need to get rid of the conditions
around Trump and a politics of this
guy's so horrible this guy's so horrible
this guy so horrible and then let's get
back to normal as normal for the HAMP is
putting is is is putting it together
like III mean I think in a general way
you hear the the left say this is what's
wrong with America but it's not I feel
like it's not there's nobody out there
doing the sort of the reportorial work
that says like this is not sweet
generous yeah maybe not even like a guy
like a non giad artists who had a great
thread I know this is actually very
normal behavior Trump just did it in a
typically stupid way I think it is out
there yeah among people who want to take
a more systemic look on it I would love
to if this is true to watch Trump all of
a sudden flip into like yeah for years I
was just exposing crime it was hard to
be these people are disgusting people
from coming out at the debate operative
himself would be
Oh fake fake wig and back to using my
real or would be like is it Robert
Muller actually he's gonna expose all of
this in like a mass exposure of the
global oligarchy Neves just like you
know like every innocent Muslim teen I
put in jail in an entrapment case I knew
I was working towards something finally
is the whole global Davos elite and the
Trump Organization get pudding cups
realize why I had to put that under
developed Chechen kid in jail for a fake
terrorism this is where we do is large
but it was worth it this is where we do
the crossover episode with Bill Mitchell
[Laughter]
all right well I mean so you know I the
the question is is there gonna be enough
overwhelming evidence of like sort of
this like deep corruption or if there's
a politician who's going to emerge
anywhere who is going to start to sort
of say like I mean that's my biggest
lament this year in terms of politics in
terms of who did not get elect it was
effort each out oh yeah oh my god I feel
like Zephyr Teachout would have been
that figure to sort of say like here are
the Trump crimes and here's also
actually like Kendall and guns been
doing the same he had so hasn't
Andrew Cuomo and I don't know I just
said Ken Langone just as an example but
but I'm saying a Ken Langone type no ken
Langone might be super scrupulous yes
yes a very wealthy sky on Scion yeah I
mean I again this is this is a very very
vulgar Marxist take but it does still
feel like the party is like too much
made up of people hobnob with these
people for you to make that that case
basically that like like what we're
seeing is a window into how these people
have been screwing all the rest of us
for years and years and I mean Sanders
has a version of that but it's like the
sort of the version where it's like
millionaires and billionaires have too
much money and not the version where
it's
here are the specific things they're
doing to perpetuate their power I and
and I think like even the Sanders
critique is is not there's still not
like sort of like there and I understand
it you have to because of the political
moment and certainly like let's talk
about just like what happened in the
midterms I mean for all of the don't run
against Donald Trump stuff and certainly
the Democrats out there as far as I can
tell as far you know from every reporter
I trust who was out covering these
things they ran a lot on medically some
version of improved the Affordable Care
Act or Medicare for all or something
like that or infrastructure you know I I
never heard one reporter the only people
I heard saying the Democrats are running
too much against Trump were basically
commentators we have no idea it's
Washington commentators yes yeah like
Ralph Nader the American people are
worried about welfare reform Charter
said you know all the reporting from the
districts were like they're running on
Medicare but with all that said it was
Trump who drove people to the polls in
record numbers if gloves and and so I
understand the desire to make it about
just about Trump because it has real
political leverage but I've yet to see
anybody say like hey this criminality is
like you know this is like this seems to
be the way that things work yeah well
like again you know there's this this
thing that you were mentioning where
commentators are like well is it what
happens when you let New York real
estate into Washington is good this is
just how things work and it's like well
why haven't I haven't even telling me
that for the past 10 years but then you
know you hear stuff like you remember
that Ivanka and Chelsea Clinton used to
be friends like literal friends you hung
out and then like the second Trump's
elected Ivanka is in some way like
involved in setting absurd prices for
rooms at the Trump Hotel with over for
the like inauguration that they raised
more
money than anyone has ever raised for
for reasons that are unknown and the
type of person we're talking about type
a pun that we're talking about was still
saying like oh I think of Ivanka well
she's been try cuz she's friends with
Chelsea watching cares about the
environment
I mean these people yeah they're like
there's such a broad even just
delusional even if you I don't even want
to go into immoral a lot of it is denial
I think aisle delusion and just
insularity alright so that's a one end
of the spectrum is that you know the
sort of that that's ongoing story of the
criminality I think even if you discount
the sort of international intrigue
aspects of it it's still like just just
shocking that this dude I just love like
they just feel like we didn't even know
that this particular crew of Hong Kong
heroin traffickers existed it's like hey
guys that it's phat Chow it's bad jobs
but you bread beating in Soho come on
come on I'll tell you what the best
agent who is ever just like discover
these entirely it works you know you you
have a young kid not quite fully
conversant but you know when I talked to
my 13 year old in my my five and a half
year old who's like Trump is me you know
and my 13 year old is just like the
guy's and it's like oh
yeah this is the president knighted
States know I already raised you you
know
