[Music]
thank goodness we are holding absolutely
no members of the Trump regime
accountable we are doing everything we
can at every moment to point out how
brave and how ethical and how much
integrity anybody who is a Republican
who's not Donald Trump is good for you
for not being Donald Trump is really the
essence of this interview on The Today
Show
as NBC allows her to basically
rehabilitate her image in in advance of
a 2020 or 2024 run she's speaking out
soon she's speaking out nikki Haley
speaks out it would appear to some that
the special counsels investigation is is
growing closer to the President did you
say not at all no I have not had any
time to even pay attention to the mauler
investigation I had not at all I have
tuned it out I can't do anything about
the one thing I've said publicly and I
strongly believe is I think the
investigation if it's going forward
should go forward but they need to hurry
up for the good of the country they need
to hurry up and let us know what they
know president says it's a witch on
we'll find out speaks off-the-cuff Haley
says at times it's by design is it true
that you use the president's
unpredictable rhetoric to our advantage
diplomatically if I needed to pick up
the phone and say this is what I'm gonna
do you know are you good with this or
this we we kind of partnered in that and
so he would like ratchet up the rhetoric
and then I'd go back to the ambassadors
and say you know he's pretty upset I
can't promise you what he's gonna do or
not but I can tell you if we do these
sanctions it will keep him from going
too far so you were playing good cop bad
cop I was trying to get the job done
and I got the job done by being truthful
but also by letting him be unpredictable
and and not showing our cards she's so
great she's so great first off she spent
she's had her nose to the grindstone she
hasn't heard a thing about this Mahler
thing is this still going on is the
investigation still going I had no idea
I all I care about guy from NBC is I
care about this country I care about
this country so much that I'm gonna give
away the secret that we've been
pretending to do the madman theory oops
did I give that away I guess maybe I
didn't I mean like even by her own terms
right she just gave up the ghost like it
just the the idea that she was in
control of of him and this was all
basically my strategy I got the job done
I rolled up my sleeves and I go in there
I got that job done I lasted two years
Nootka punjab cop like the question they
do that was your was your apparently
cowardly silence through one of the most
corrupt administration's of all time was
that actually serving us there was that
for our benefit no I was doing it for
all for America in fact let me give away
our secret was your Craven performance
at the United Nations as part of the
most corrupt administration in US
history actually a net gain for us I'm
glad you asked that because yes I just
wanted to get the job done
because that's I it's that kind of
can-do spirit and also listen they need
to wrap up the Muller investigation and
let the chips fall where they may
because Mike Pence and I are gonna want
to run in 2020 and it would be much
better to have this done quicker now of
course I could play this off by because
everybody's saying this and I will not a
lien eight the base of the the
Republican Party in fact the Republican
Party now would you late sick bonus
rounds here an extra minute to say
something personally to the camera that
the president will like and appreciate
exactly Oh can I just add Haley 2020
dot-com on the end of this can I just
get my plugs in
