Oh
[Music]
macaw Hey look I oh I think she if I'm
not some help sink Clinton yes
she's no long-term aunty yes their
propaganda oh yes she really doesn't
like people to have health care and it
was and she was very disingenuous too if
I remember correctly but here is here is
Betsy McCaughey talking about fake
asylum seekers now let me tell you what
happens to fake asylum seekers they go
through the process their asylum claim
is adjudicated and if I mean I don't
know what fake asylum seeker is but if
their claim is not significant enough to
get asylum guess what happens to them
they don't get asylum this is like I
don't know this is like saying people
who go to a job interview like I'm going
to apply for a job well your fake job
interview ewwww because you didn't get
the job and very few people get asylum
very few it by the way and this
administration has narrowed the number
of things that can qualify as legitimate
claims like let's say you're being
beaten domestically and there is no
judicial infrastructure in your home
country to deal with it that is no
longer a valid claim
let's say you are being threatened by
gangs remember that threatened by gangs
that is no longer a valid claim for
asylum but here is Betsy McCaughey just
so I mean god I don't even know how she
handles it all the fake asylum seekers
it must be just horrible for her
politicians are not leveling with us
about what we're already being forced to
spend to shelter the illegal immigrants
coming across the southern border
most of them falsely claiming to be
asylum seekers the numbers are
staggering in fact so staggering that
Turing this this crossing this Asylum
scam would more than pay for the wall in
less than two years no other public
infrastructure project will get paid
back so pad in two years let's look at
some of the know there you go
the fake asylum I mean just the the
absurdity of these of these claims
they're just stunning and the inhumanity
of them is really the only thing that
sort of puts them in any type of relief
yeah and the government doesn't have to
pay to house people in freezing-cold
detention centers right they could let
them out on parole they could not treat
people like criminals who are going
through a legal process a producer and
II spoke with someone at an NGO who
helps people seeking asylum and and it's
it's just insane like the number of
Hoops they make you jump through that
are absolutely intended to make you give
up every step of the way
like they don't get a court-appointed
lawyer they don't get any help with
translation services they have to fill
out all the forms in English and do the
interview in English and these are all
things meant to dissuade people and
often they do yeah it's nuts
