two-one-zero area cook good afternoon
for them how you doing Matt are these
phones are they they hear me oh yeah now
you know you can hear him sorry yeah all
right all right sorry go ahead John
who's John yeah it's time to Santelli
out how you doing Sam good afternoon I'm
doing good hi John what's on your mind
yeah and the latest nares poll that came
out yesterday Republicans who say that
the midterms are very important to them
have increased their numbers from July
from 68 percent to 80 percent you know
in Marist also Democrats are up just two
points from 80% to 82% another decade of
data point comes from Quinnipiac where
their poll earlier in the in September
had them up by 14 point in the generic
ballot now they're only up by 7 points
538 has the percentage of Democrats
winning the house in the classic mode
it's seventy five point five percent
which is down from the peak of eighty
three point one on September 16 also on
538 the Senate Democrats are only at a
twenty three point four percent chance
of winning the Senate which is the
lowest number outside of this week since
August 24th and on Sunday Democrats had
a thirty one point nine percent chance
so it's a drop of eight point five
percent since then this has primarily
been since Heidi Heitkamp and North
Dakota had two really bad polls where
she's losing by double digits and if I
can't lose is realistically you know all
Democratic incumbents will have to now
have to win and Democrats will have to
win races are currently held three races
currently held by Republicans so in both
Arizona and Nevada and they have to win
basically in Tennessee or Texas so you
know things aren't looking so so great
right now and
little bit a little bit surprised I mean
I guess I always figured that you know
as we get closer to the elections the
Republicans would would increase their
enthusiasm but I didn't really expect it
to come with this folk a sense of a guy
who tried to attempt who attempted to
rape a woman that they are actually
rallying around that you didn't expect
that John not exactly no III thought
that you know I still think this is you
know it looks like you probably will get
confirmed and so you know I think
whoever loses the it probably appears
that it's a you know obviously it's a
loss for the Democrats a huge loss if
Cavanaugh gets confirmed I think that
there will be a bouncing back in that
case but I mean I still think that the
larger structural issues it will prevail
and so you know even though things look
pretty bad there have been some positive
points from some Democrats also you know
I'm a little bit surprised at how far
the the the Senate has gone down and so
most people really didn't expect I camp
to win anyway and so I think that drop
is a little bit further than it should
be but I'm not really I mean if you look
like there were just eight races did
Charlie cook to move towards Democrats
there was just some LA Times polling
that came out with California House
races where California did really well
now they're do actually using a new form
of polling which is you know you have
they have email addresses of California
residents and they're spending them
questionnaires to get their polling and
one thing that I thought about that is
that you know older people don't have a
you know access to computers quite as
much as younger people so that makes you
it
a little bit noisy Democrats but I mean
those are the you know there's this
there's there have been some positive
points for Democrats but I mean you know
generally it's been you know the last
three weeks that has not been great for
them and I mean I guess I am a little
surprised that really I mean I still
think you know they'll definitely take
this the house in the Senate was always
going to be a hard thing to happen but
it is a bit surprising because from what
I'm hearing is that people you know it's
not just the core Republicans it's more
people who lean Republican and more men
you know obviously that are that are
well I mean look this is completely
consistent with what we know about
Republicans and to a large extent you
know we have gone through a period of
time where we thought and I don't know
what's going to happen with Cavanaugh
and I do think that there is reason for
Mitch McConnell to be somewhat nervous
or want to avoid passing somebody in the
in the lame-duck because you don't know
maybe Jeff Flake says I'm too much of an
institutionalist and we have a mccr ATS
are taken over the Senate then we should
wait for them to come in I mean who
knows right those are factors that Mitch
McConnell would like to avoid who knows
whether or not he could overcome them
but I mean so much of this folks and I
appreciate the call John will see so
much of this was predictable two and a
half years ago and more if the
Republicans win and they have the
presidency and they have the Senate and
not as relevant in this instance but
they have the house some extent it's
relevant they're going to put on the
court
the worst of the worst this was obvious
from day one there's no mechanisms that
the Democrats can do there's no magic
the idea that it's gotten this close
with the Kavanagh I think you know
largely is a function of the Democrats
doing an okay job I don't think they've
done a great job but I think they've
done an okay job but the the bottom line
is they would have to be operating on a
level of efficiency and strategy that
rarely happens and then they'd also need
luck they want to lose it's them
I mean because they're
corporatists and you still dodge for
them every single day
right I mean quarters idiots can
say that like oh why didn't they suspend
the Senate rules and get a hovercraft
did you say that Acacio Cortez said that
she's gonna vote for Andrew Cuomo right
that I rest my case
[Applause]
