[Music]
da Trump hit the international stage
this week who is he with when he was
emraan Khan the Prime Minister of
Pakistan he is with the Prime Minister
of Pakistan and as you know con college
folks did I give my list of things to
say and things not to say as you know
well this is another one actually many
of goaded each other over Twitter the
borders between Afghanistan and Pakistan
are a little bit porous we funded a lot
of money back in the 80s to create
madrasas so that we could help build a
basically an army of zealots who would
fight off the Russians and you know
unintended consequences all that type of
thing
sometimes you thing about zealots is
very hard to turn them off once you've
turned them on and Pakistan definitely
has a I think a vested interest in
keeping Afghanistan in somewhat disarray
and weakened and Donald Trump I think
maybe felt a little challenged by that
and needed to show off some of his uh
his muscle you are put all your promises
how do you think this meeting land same
kind of person straight to the point
well I think we're gonna have a great
meeting today I know it's an important
meeting I consider this a very important
meeting because I think we haven't met
the potential of either country I think
the potential with Pakistan and and
likewise the opposite way I think we
have not even come close to meeting it
there is tremendous potential between
our country and Pakistan I think
Pakistan is going to help us out to
extricate ourselves we're like policemen
we're not fighting to go up we wanted to
fight a war in Afghanistan and win it I
could win that war and a week I just
don't want to kill 10 million people
does that make sense to you I don't want
to kill 10 million people
I have plans on Afghanistan that if I
wanted to win that war Afghanistan would
be wiped off the face of the earth it
would be gone it would be over in
literally in ten days and I don't want
to do that I don't want to go that route
so we're working with Pakistan and
others to extricate ourselves nor did we
want to be policemen because basically
what policemen right now imagine you're
in Afghanistan and Donald Trump is now
us we have plans to wipe out Afghanistan
kill 10 million people well because I'm
such a nice guy we decided not to do it
not in the mood I mean it's so bizarre
because they actually this is an area
where they actually are having pretty
successful negotiations with the Taliban
apparently and there is progress
and getting out of there so it's an area
where at the very least he's not hurting
relative to the disaster that it's been
since the invasion but he just that
musing and of course combined with the
fact that that's one of the first things
he did when he was president was dropped
the mother of all bombs on Afghan right
and it's always in the context of
unshackling the military each year he's
been president civilian casualties have
gone up significantly because it's just
not part of the calculation process I
know that I mean several they've been
sort of going back and forth on Twitter
and you know Khan's point when he first
got into office was a lot of Pakistanis
are dying too as you're sort of sick
dirty subcontractors here and Trump's
point is yeah but you guys are playing a
double game with us and like both thing
both of those things are totally true
and then Kahn ordered an arrest of one
of the masterminds of that Oberoi hotel
attack that happened in 2008 so this is
another weird one we're like Trump gets
a win well he because of this sort of
like but but also because you know Kahn
is in a really tough position and and
there I feel like that's always been the
relationship with with it's a different
variation of what the relationship has
always been it's just now you have like
these two celebrity figures doing it and
it's also funny because they're just a
flash here but I have a feeling this is
going back and forth I have a ferry
sinking bin Laden was a function was a
gift
relative to fairies you know I think the
Obama administration signed off on some
nuclear technology or something to that
effect I mean I think there was all
sorts of if you go back to the 80s
another legacy another legacy of Reagan
it's not just that we were funding
aggressively the Mujahideen they were
actively undermining even you talk about
objective research the arms control
community was aggressively fought
against by the CIA and the Reagan
administration from establishing the
Pakistani nuclear program in the 80s so
that's another limb establishing that it
exists that it existed yes you get into
serious career trouble if you noted the
obvious let's go to the phones come from
a 478 area code who's this where he come
from folks we're not going to get to
everybody on the call so if you've been
hanging on for a little bit of time 4 7
8 4 7 8 nothin
