[Music]
this is just a note the story maybe he's
joking do we know let's just play this
clip apparently this was on his live
show he gets a request to interview a
democratic I guess challenger I don't
know to an incumbent Republican or to an
incumbent Democrat we don't really have
candidates on this show on Ring of Fire
we do that we've had three challengers
two Democrats on the show so far two or
three or maybe once extra is booked
we've had we had someone on who's a
challenger to Nunez I prefer really
right now looking at primary challengers
to Democrats even Democrats and I have
to say that like during the Mike Capuano
I can't pronounce his name
IANA Presley race I wondered if the
resources were worth because guano was a
pretty progressive Democrat but there's
two things that I have come to believe
about primaries one is sort of
temporarily unique that the era of
primary challengers the era of new
Democrats the younger Democrats are
better all things equal
the younger Democratic generation is
better I'm not saying because they're
young they're better I'm saying it just
so happens that what for whatever reason
I have a bunch of theories as to baby
boomers you know overshadowing my
generation because my generation of
Democrats not so impressive but the
younger ones they're better they're
politics even when their politics are
the same in terms of like where they are
in terms of policy their understanding
of the Republican Party and the
political age we're living in is better
we're gonna have her on but there's a
pollster out there I can't remember her
name now who predicted the 2018 wave
almost down to each individual race like
within one way before anybody else and
she's using a different model that's
been used before and the model basically
is this we're living in a hyper partisan
era this is not gonna go away and who
you mobilize for Democrats and and for
Republicans is the issue
there's no persuading there's no
convincing you know republican-leaning
independents to vote for the Democrat it
doesn't work that way it's bringing out
people who are just who haven't voted in
the past or I'm mobilized based upon
negative partisanship so impeachment
which theoretically has nothing to do
you could be a Blue Dog Democrat and a
Democratic Socialist and you could both
be for impeachment or you theoretically
could be both against it but the point
is in this day and age being for it
helps you elect orally and she's gone
back and look at the races that were
lost people who who were moderate lost
because they were not distancing
themselves enough from Donald Trump so
this generation of Democrats much better
about that they're much bolder even if
their positions are not any different
often they are the other thing is it's
very good to discipline the sitting
Democrats even if you like them because
when Jerry Nadler gets a challenge based
upon impeachment it gives him ammunition
to go to Nancy Pelosi and
Hey look I can't give you this one
because I'm gonna lose my seat so we
aren't we understand each other I'm
gonna lose my seat if I don't go for
this now I don't know that that's his
reasoning or not but it helps so my
point is this is everything I'm giving
you is based on just sort of analysis
that has nothing to do with me
now I'm going to give you an example of
someone who bases their analysis of
these such things based on stupid petty
arguments I don't know if you had an
argument with jank or with Kyle kolinsky
or the people at justice Democrats who
are there now or if he's just mad
because a OSI won't go on his you know
show or somebody's not returning a tweet
but this type of stuff is ridiculous
this is Joe maybe he's joking
maybe he's joking but I don't think so
super liberal ultra proud millennial
American says hey Jimmy will you
consider interviewing my friend Lauren
Ashcraft who is that's watch your mouth
who is right it's called a butt crack my
friend Lauren butt crack who was running
in New York's twelve she just had an
interview with Mike Figueredo and
well then she's covered then sure I'll
have Lauren Ashcraft on his Lauren
Ashcraft of Justice Democrat see if the
see Lauren Ashcraft is a justice
Democrat if she is probably not she's
not a Justice Democrat recive jumper
Democrat from the district 12 in New
York all right gonna take her name down
let's see bling gear on it that's weird
she does actually look like a TSA ass
crack
yeah Laura ass-crack Xie justice
Democrat she a corporate justice she is
corporate corporate justice democratic
what do you what do you make it out like
what is whoa
jank ten retweet myelitis show it the
yuk-yuk factory carolyn maloney is there
again good good person to be pressuring
Laura Ashe crack watch your mouth saying
oh my god pretty good one but but no but
seriously I will not have anybody offer
justice Democrats I hate them once you
sell it's just so weird they're a bunch
of sellouts and it's very hard deliver
my signature line in the new YouTube
error well I mean they're their whole
philosophy is everything he said isn't
possible of course he's gonna be salty
about them what's that oh oh right right
right right yes no he hates the
Reformation project because it every day
it shows him to be full of it Laura
asked crack little thing called comedy
little thing called timing so I say both
third party no matter what no matter
where you are I don't care if you're in
a swing state yeah it's better than a
sellout I think about for Jill Stein we
could support Elizabeth tomorrow next
time let's play is killer my thing
