the supposed ceasefire between Turkey
and the Kurdish population in northern
Syria ends today it has been not
terribly CC as far as these cease fires
go but here is the president of Iraq
Baram salah sally sally I think with
Jonathan Swain responding here's the
president of the Iraqi president
responding to the claim that Donald
Trump made about the Kurds not and it's
I mean it is the case I mean you got to
give Trump credit for this the Kurds
did not fight with us at Normandy nor it
Gettysburg right President Trump said
that the Kurdish region on the Syrian
border that it needed to be cleaned up
and senator Tim Kaine Democrat said he
found that language chilling given the
history of ethnic cleansing how did that
sound to your ears I'm worried about
ethnic cleansing and this has been the
history tragic history of the Kurdish
people and this dangerous and project
and the humanitarian cost is just awful
and Trump said that the Kurds didn't
fire at Normandy did you see that I did
see that what did you think of that
anyway that's beautiful I mean have been
being betrayed by us back to Kissinger
yeah uh-huh
I mean yeah how do you do how do you
respond to your world leader I mean I
have a world leader but you're a leader
of the you know I guess world leader
president Rock and you just the guy who
owns basically the keys to the machines
they can destroy the planet you think is
it complete effing and I don't
know how any foreign leader foreign to
us can look at the United States and
think like that country is not effed up
like I'm sorry it is we supposedly
supposedly have the freest elections in
the world and we made our choice that
guy's there that's that's that's our guy
unbelievable he's just I mean and for
what it's worth they you know there's
plenty of conflict inside the you know
Kurdish politics and it's just like it's
United revulsion
idiot and also I don't remember this but
a Kurdish group rose up in Iraq in such
a way that in fact they were they
essentially they were opposed to the
German proxies during World War two so
even that ridiculous stupid point he's
making is actually kind of wrong on the
merits as well okay so the Democrat
