[Music]
you
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any elite
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday October 10th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Ford
announces massive layoffs because of
trumps Chinese tariffs then while the
assault on voting rights spreads across
the country aided and abetted by the
Supreme Court did Trump know of the
Saudis plan to kill the u.s. resident
journalists and are we done with the
Saudis quite yet
hurricane Michael poised to be the worst
storm to hit Florida Panhandle ever and
the Trump administration is mom on the
IPCC report but the EPA chief did post
pizza gate and racist tweets so we got
that going for us the VA the VA refuses
to hand over documents about outside
businessmen who were sort of running the
VA for a while
and the Dems force a Senate vote on
Trump's junk insurance plans and with
Kavanagh seated polls show that
Democrats are energized for the midterms
Trump laments medicare-for-all warns it
will give Medicare to socialism right
exactly and the case to cancel all
student debt all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen it
is Wednesday hump day that's what we
call it around here we didn't coin that
phrase can we turn down that fan a
little bit just a little bit of course
it's almost midnight over so of course
it's a balmy 75 degrees in New York City
you all know right I mean this is pretty
basic stuff but why global warming will
increase the severity of storms like
hurricane Michael right I mean I don't
need to well there's always a chance we
have some conservatives listening and if
we do by any chance have any listening
please by all means call in six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty we'll
try and get two calls a little bit early
today if we can but this is pretty basic
stuff the way that moisture gets up into
the air is it evaporates from bodies of
water and if the water already is warmer
than well if the water is warm then the
ability to it evaporate is actually
increased you will notice this if you
boil some water and put a glass cover on
the pot you'll see that the water
actually evaporates and hits the top of
the pot the lid well when the waters
warmer that means that sends more
and up into the into the air and of
course also heat creates energy and then
you get a more powerful storm that whips
with more weight slow down there's a
there's a relationship between energy
and heat that's that's true
so science report up in here yeah there
you go
well I mean this all has a book where it
it actually just I think it's like the
Magic School Bus and it it talks about
how you know the water cycle and the
element December it's gonna be pretty
cold around here so yeah I guess there's
no global warming as soon as we see any
of the but with that said I know that
sounds a little bit condescending but I
want to give you the President of the
United States on his response about the
IPCC report this is the United Nations
inter Intergovernmental report on
climate change and it involves hundreds
if not thousands of scientists across
the country crocks Cuse me across the
globe and we mentioned yesterday
obviously if you listen to the program
and you did not decide to check out and
you're still with us you heard yesterday
that this report is a pretty dire and we
have about ten years or so if we are
going to in any way mitigate the
implications of the globe warming and so
but you know Donald Trump took it all in
stride and apparently thinks that
someone that the report is actually just
maybe he takes a little too literally
when he hears people saying it Pink's
paints a dire picture furious
I posit one second for those of you are
listening he's asked the question are
you aware of the climate change report
that was issued by the IPA CC here in
that he responds which is I couldn't
give you reports that are fabulous and I
can give you reports that are so good
but I will be looking at it absolutely I
can't even understand that first of all
it is the IPCC so it's the intake
government panel on climate change
so that's who drew it I don't know what
drew it means well they give him all of
his reports in cartoon form that's right
so all I see what you're saying so he's
like I got someone drew a picture
literally drew a picture and it's I get
a look at it I get to see who drew it
and in one picture the son had a frowny
face but in I have another picture where
the son was wearing sunglasses I have to
weigh the evidence I imagine it is like
someone drew a picture of a guy walking
on a street and there's like a manhole
and down at the bottom like pointy
things and he's about to fall in that's
the way I would have represented that to
the president but there's Barra da go is
worth more money than Buckingham Palace
yes we'll see gotta think about things
so that's less than encouraging let's
start here because the what's been
fascinating over the past week is and
the Republicans are quite good at this
creating this notion that somehow a vote
against Kavanagh was going to be
detrimental to their electoral chances
now Susan Collins had to make a decision
and I'm not convinced that John McCain
passing away
didn't greatly change the calculation
for someone like Lindsey Graham and for
Susan Collins like I don't think it was
a coincidence that Graham had his sort
of showboating moment where he wanted a
primary well I think it's a 2020 primary
but I think it's also a question of
branding I think there is an awareness
that like they can't there there is not
the same opportunity to be this type of
senator like it doesn't have any value
anymore it doesn't there is you know
with John McCain to the extent that
there was any wing of the Republican
Party and I wouldn't even say it's a
wing at that point it was a couple of
feathers that the edge of a wing that
was pretending to be something that
really doesn't exist in the Republican
Party anymore John McCain when he left
that coalition you know lost a
significant percentage of the people who
were in it right like I mean to the
extent that there was one was there
three people in that he sort of wing at
the but you know you lost 33% of it and
so Graham went his direction and I think
Collins also made the same assessment
that there is no room there's no path
for me within the Republican Party to
maintain even my veneer of moderation
and you know we saw her speech which it
seemed like you know let her talk for
another ten minutes and she'd be talking
about pizza gate and but the the the
conventional wisdom was that the
Cavanaugh nomination had energized
Republicans and it may have and there
were early reports that the Democrats
were worried what would happen if
Cavanaugh was not confirmed and the
Republicans they were worried if they
didn't pass Kavanagh that it would hurt
them well new polling out now shows that
46% of voters said the Senate made the
decision in approving of the cabin off
40% said it was the right to elevate him
to the High Court now this is a national
poll so you know in some respects it
doesn't matter because there's no
national election yeah that's a good
thing they don't decide things by the
popular vote well the thing is is that
we only have state elections right I
mean we don't have there's no national
election in the off year so really it's
more important what any specific state
says or what any specific congressional
district says but this gives you a broad
sense of what's going on but for general
democratic purposes it's not looking
good
what's not like a good in terms of just
one more example of why the Supreme
Court is not in any way a democratic
institution right well of course I'm not
a democratic institution in fact half
the members now or at least is it half
the members or two-third one-third of
the members four people I guess have
been appointed by presidents who did not
win the popular vote I mean aside from
but not being democratic in the sense
that nobody likes them we have a and we
have a Senate which 51 percent of the
Senate is controlled by something like
18% of the population of the United
States yeah it is Senate's also not
particularly Democratic either it's like
that was high Democratic ^
anti-democratic right and it was set up
that way I mean he you know it wasn't
until the 17th amendment that we had
even direct elections for the Senate so
three out of four Democrats say they're
very motivated to turn out and vote in
the midterms 68% of the Republicans say
they're very motivated that's a
substantial difference and there's no
reason to believe that a month from now
Democrats are going to be any less
motivated there's reason to believe that
Republicans could be less motivated
simply because they get further away
from their success here the Democrats in
North Dakota are really trying to hit
Heidi Heitkamp with when she filmed her
ad saying that she wasn't going to
support Kavanagh like did she do it
after before after the investigation
that's how they're trying to keep the
issue alive it's very desperate the
Democrat Republicans are right and now
the problem is is that some of those red
states we've got I think some of those
red states there's just more Republicans
there and they're more energized there
is some evidence that Heidi Heitkamp
helped herself and where folks like
Kristen cinema and Ralph
brill's redis Phil Bredesen hurt
themselves by saying that were they in
the Senate they would have voted to
confirm Kavanaugh mansion it's hard to
know but I I would imagine can't touch
me
yeah go screw yourself yeah I mean
Manchin one his primary fairly handily I
think some she got about thirty percent
of the vote so and in the state that
Bernie won there probably is some
appetite the more in some areas that are
to the left of him but he actually if
you watch him he does a pretty good job
of pretending that he cares about that
stuff too yes he's so popular I think I
spoke to Bob Kincaid from head-on at
Netroots nation and he made a point of
saying you know you can't trust Manchin
because he will just sell you out in a
heartbeat and I think that's the case
again though I think that as Susan
Collins of votes four votes against
Kavanagh Manchin does too this was sort
of a free vote for him at that point but
I think and he may have made the right
calculation in terms of of
not being abandoned by his
you know or to the extent that he was he
makes it up in Independence and the
Kratts are much more forgiving than
Republicans when you vote the way they
don't want you to right I think I think
yes to a certain extent I mean I don't
know it depends on what state you're in
but independent voters far less
supportive of the decision to confirm
Cavanaugh 47% say the Senate erred 34%
said it made the right decision
36 percent of voters said it would make
them less likely I mean I don't see
necessarily the evidence of they may be
less forgiving in terms of primaries but
they tend to come out during the general
elections they're Democrats know the
Republicans I mean I don't know if I
think the problem is that in the context
of primaries is where you get
Republicans are disciplined and we have
yet on the left to match that level of
intensity oh yeah cuz they're
sociopathic like do you think the Tea
Party cared if they were hurting
Republicans chances in general elections
ya know they were on a kamikaze mission
and they succeeded I think they do care
though like I mean they made some they
made some miscalculations and specific
primaries but then conversely there's
much more willingness for them to
subordinate themselves to things like
the court as an example and they've
they've not let the perfect be the enemy
of the good from their primary in the
primary 2010 they made bad calculations
yeah don't they still swept people like
the guy who called in like you shouldn't
run again a left candidate against
Democrats and primaries because it'll
hurt them in the general they did not
think about that no the only problem
that the Republicans had when when they
were was when when they won with someone
who's maybe like not a witch or
with akin I mean the but I don't know
that they they didn't care about the
chances in the general election as much
as I think there is a disconnect from
reality with some of those people where
there's a presumption that far more
people agree with them than don't in in
those instances well it worked out very
well for them no long III I am all for
the strategy of primary yes and winning
the problem is that they're at up to
this point is that there's not enough
people like I I'm totally in favor of
primary someone like machen or Andrew
Cuomo or Joe Lieberman I mean across the
board the problem is only insofar as
like you don't win I mean so I mean I
think the strategy of primering and
disciplining their politicians in that
way is been a very effective one for the
right without a doubt 36% of voters say
it would make them less likely 31% would
be more likely to vote for a Cavanaugh
supporting Senate candidate so you know
not a huge difference there and of
course again this is national so in a
red state very different numbers but
while that may help Heidi Heitkamp in
the end of the day in North Dakota the
there's also a plan B for Republicans in
North Dakota the Supreme Court
I guess as of yesterday Cavanaugh had
not quite been seated or participated in
a four-four split decision and when it's
a four-four split decision at the
Supreme Court if it is deciding a case
that has been which it would have come
from
Circuit Court of Appeals the ruling of
the circuit court the appellate court
stands and this is a case that came out
of North Dakota North Dakota in 2017
following Heidi Heitkamp win in 2012 she
won by less than three thousand votes in
North Dakota seven hundred fifty
thousand people in that state I don't
know many how many are eligible voters
Matt any guess yeah I mean obviously a
fraction of 750 but three thousand still
represents in a pretty incredibly small
number of people there is probably
somewhere around fifteen thousand
eligible Native American voters in North
Dakota
the vast majority voted for Heidi
Heitkamp in 2017 a voter law of voter
law ID was challenged by native
residents in April of this year a
federal district court judge blocked
large portions of the law as
discriminated discriminatory against
Native voters why because the law as I
guess first introduced by the governor
in North Dakota there is no registration
you just show up to vote and you got to
show an ID so that's not necessarily an
unreasonable thing however the North
Dakota law said that you needed to have
a street address on your driver's
license now you can get driver's
licenses with pio boxes addresses in
rural areas when I lived upstate we did
not have a street address
for our we did not get mail delivery
there because it was a rural area you
got to go to the post office and get it
at the PIO box
well apparently on rural Indian
communities the Postal Service does not
provide residential delivery so tribal
IDs which are okay to vote with use Pio
boxes which under North Dakota law is
not sufficient so the IDS that they have
are okay it's just that the addresses
they have are invalid yet they don't
have residential addresses in terms of
postal service so a federal judge
blocked a big part of that law because
it's discriminatory against Native
Americans who live in North Dakota who
almost as a rule do not have a
residential address the 8th Circuit
Court of Appeals however allowed the law
to go into effect so during the primary
the law was not in the the IDS that had
Pio boxes were okay then the Eighth
Circuit subsequently allowed the law to
go into effect the Supreme Court in
splitting 4/4 upheld that ruling try and
guess what the four-four split was how
could though the 8th Circuit of Appeals
look at this and not see that it's
discriminatory in nature there's no
argument first off there's no argument
that somehow APO box makes it more
likely that you could have a fraudulent
ID I guess the argument is that like
well you could get Threepio boxes but
you can only have one address I don't
know who would do that
to vote they haven't found anybody who
did that but let's go over who the what
the composition of the 8th Circuit Court
is just to give you a sense of why this
stuff is relevant there are 11 active
and 6 senior judges levansky Smith he's
the chief judge he was appointed by
George W Bush
Roger Leland Wolman he was appointed by
Ronald Reagan James Logan was appointed
by George Herbert Walker Bush Steve Coll
Colton was appointed by George W Bush
Raymond Grunder was appointed by George
W Bush William Duane Benton was
appointed by George W Bush Bobby Shepard
was appointed by George W Bush Ralph
Erickson was appointed by Trump Steven
grass was a report was appointed by
Trump David strass was appointed by
Trump and Jane Kelly that's weird
she's a woman on the entire court was
appointed by Barack Obama and then of
course there's a six senior judges and
two were appointed by Reagan and four
appointed by either papi or jr. Bush so
that's what happens folks that's the way
this works
maybe if Hillary Clinton get called for
a green new deal then you don't have the
 problem
circuits I've got the map between where
heidi heitkamp won in 2012 let's see if
we can find their reservations so here
is a Fort Berthold down here is Standing
Rock here is Turtle Mountain this one is
a spirit lake and then Sisseton down
here and the other thing to notice is
this is all the rural areas here this is
farmers and this is ranchers basically
and this is the college towns are on
this side of the river so there you have
it I mean any place that is that the
bluest places are those reservations and
so this is this is a law
that is completely geared and oh there's
one other group now that you mention it
of people probably in that state who
also don't have residential addresses
but rather have Pio boxes on their IDs
college students so this is a law that
is completely geared towards making sure
that heidi heitkamp doesn't win by
disenfranchising native voters and young
voters in college and that's it end of
story
ballgame doesn't matter oh don't forget
poor people who might be moving from
address to address right you know who
else could get three addresses rich
people maybe they'll address that in the
next session unlikely but the the bottom
line is like this is why structural
stuff like this is so important because
it doesn't matter what heidi heitkamp
offers in terms of a platform i mean i
think i shouldn't say that but you know
she can offer all sorts of things to
folks but if they can't vote they can't
vote so that's the situation in north
dakota and it very well may be that
maybe make the difference I mean end a
story hopefully with a month left a
month left they have made this decision
the I don't know what the answer is I
mean I'd be curious if anybody out there
who's in that neck of the woods has a
sense of of what is going to be done I
don't know how you issue 10,000 new IDs
with street addresses I don't know how
that happens
but we'll see we will look into that
more and see if there's any any other
you know fix or something like that but
that's basically that dynamic
is what we're seeing across the country
it's no different than what we saw in
Wisconsin with Milwaukee remember
Wisconsin Clinton lost by 11 thousand
votes 10,000 votes there was far more
than 10,000 votes that were suppressed
in in Wisconsin because of their voter
ID law Michigan 7,000 as these laws get
passed there's a reason why they're
passed I mean there's a reason why they
do this we will keep an eye on on what's
going on North Dakota the the story
that's not getting much attention Donald
Trump theoretically or at least in terms
of name change the name of NAFTA we'll
see if that passes at any point but in
the meantime Ford announces that they
are laying off almost 12 percent of
their workforce 24,000 people that's
according to a report from Morgan
Stanley
they have lost a billion dollars because
of the tariffs that President Trump
imposed on metals and other goods in
addition Kansas City Star reported
yesterday afford his temporarily halted
production of transit vans in Clay Como
Missouri it will leave 2000 workers idle
for about three or four weeks the best
part of this story not the best part the
most disturbing part this is from
fortune mag and fortune com incidentally
despite the news of the layoffs Ford
stock closed down 3.4% they see the way
that works right layoffs are supposed to
raise the value of the stocks
yep that's um that's how exactly hosiery
shareholder value shareholder value Oh
more do you want us to do we destroyed a
bunch of people's livelihoods now the
loss of 24,000 jobs there is an
algorithm out there I'm not exactly sure
what it is off the top of my head but I
was more aware of it back in the day
when the auto industry was threatened
before the obama bailout of a couple of
these enterprises and for every person
who works in a auto plant there's at
least one or two other people who work
in subsidiary jobs that either service
the plant or provide for the cars that
are being built in in around Michigan or
Ohio I may be making you know the
upholstery for the seats or something or
a knob for the radio whatever it is and
so these tariffs I mean it may make
people feel good but it's not helping
lastly I want to talk about this story
and then people go we'll take a phone
call or something but this Saudi story
well let's go to this because this is
gonna make it you know this is pretty
messed up we have a situation where and
there's still more okay oh yeah right I
forgot about that
shoot Oh folks let me tell you about
this beer have been - have you ever been
to an escape room no I haven't have you
know have you guys there's one off of
Flatbush that I've been thinking about
going to yeah I always walk past that
well team-building exercise oh my gosh
we should do I think dinner would be
better I think we should do that
we shouldn't videotape him and put on
YouTube that would be pretty funny
actually it's the most frustrating
I think we're gonna have a mandatory
escape room thing if you don't know I
don't know these things in other cities
yeah they're definitely other cities
they're kind of a new thing though yeah
the car around I talked to somebody who
did one in Portland the other day
alright so apparently they're like you
get you locked in a like a dark room and
you try and figure out how to get out
but if you love the thrill of an escape
room you know looking for clues solving
puzzles now you can bring the mystery
home with a hunt a killer hunt a killer
is a monthly subscription where you
become a detective immersed in a murder
mystery each month a fictional serial
killer will send you cryptic clues
objects and letters that you can
actually use to solve the crime in real
time who did it
I'm glad they indicate that it's a
fictional serial killer yeah that's
clarified right if it's not a real one
I'm not interested well it's so
interactive though Jamie it feels real
it's perfect to play solo on a date game
night with friends or join the online
community and work with other people who
are at the same point in the story as
you are this is pretty awesome
I've actually been contemplating getting
milah into something like this
I mean I think it's I don't it's not
gory who's the idiot we need to find out
DC right now for our listeners you can
go to hunt a killer dot-com slash
majority for 10% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hurry up to take advantage of this offer
that's hunter-killer comm slash majority
for 10% off your first box hunter-killer
dot-com slash majority check that out
here is Donald Trump and they're very
concerned I think about the numbers for
Trump wrote an op-ed I guess I I can't
even I don't even know how to like
characterize this an op-ed was written
with Trump's name attached to it it was
a putting the stuff at USA Today
it is so full of lives and
prevarications I mean
I want to know if like I'm eligible to
write an op-ed that says that people are
being lined up and shot every dawn in
the backyard of the the White House well
not yet but when I did see the story
about the embassy insanity baby I've
literally got an erection MBS is so cool
well we'll talk more about that in the
in the fun half but they are freaking
out a little bit and here is trumpet in
Iowa rally warning people of the
left-wing mob ahead of the midterms here
eh here he is in Council Bluffs Iowa
what's the green hats about do we know
is that I don't think it is
I don't doesn't know make America great
with the John Deere motif is that it all
right you have the chance to stop the
radical Democrats by electing a
Republican House and the Republican
Senate Democrats have become totally
unhinged they've gone they've gone crazy
the Democrats have become too extreme
and they become frankly too dangerous to
govern they've gone wacko you don't hand
matches to an arsonist and you don't
give power to an angry left-wing mob and
that's what the Democrats have become
now if you're asking yourself what does
a left-wing mob sound like well of
course it sounds well slightly different
than this mob at that same speech how
about senator Feinstein that's another
beautiful
that's a beauty did you leak the
documents wha-what no idea
did we leak
didn't really
No
and I think they're talking about
Feinstein can you believe it
yeah there you go folks
a rare of trove Trump pence 20 20 lakh
all the women up I wish the Democrats
were an angry left-wing mob no kidding
that would be sick that would be nice
but it's pretty impressive yeah I think
that they're going to lock their you
know lock her up is going to be that is
their that's their calling card gotta
play the hits gotta play the hit it's
gonna play the hits but it almost
reminded me of drained the swamps in
terms of how he accidentally finds
something cuz when they started saying
lock her up after fine steam he had a
second of leg wait what did she yeah her
to also Pocahontas yeah I think he was
pretty excited about that I think he
just realized like oh my god if Warren
runs he's totally gonna do that yes we
need like a countdown clock to trump
doing that my opponent no III was gonna
say that this morning but I'm pretty
sure he did that in 2016 he already did
of course of course he did here is Rand
Paul this is the theme that they they
really want to push in the wake of this
Cavanaugh thing because they are afraid
look the the it is clear I think even to
the Republican leaders and the issue is
that they just don't have as much
compunction about it anymore that the
only thing that animates their voters is
either an animosity towards a woman or
animosity towards a black person or
animosity towards women or black people
and or to be fair also brown people and
they're desperately trying to make it
seem like they're all
so under assault from just Democrats in
general it's not quite as effective it's
much easier for them to be under this
because a woman who comes out and simply
says it was inappropriate for this guy
to assault me or to attempt to rape me
that is enough to get the fire lit under
conservatives because they feel
completely aggrieved generic Democrats
is they quite do it in the same way and
so they have to up the level of assault
that supposedly is going on here's Rand
Paul speaking of that on the Leland
Conway show on whas in Kentucky talk to
your wife just yesterday about the op-ed
she wrote asking some of the I guess
cooler heads in the Democratic Party
Cory Booker in particular to call on his
party to stop this to stop fomenting
this rabid reaction where you know
you've been chased around airports
Senator McConnell who was just on with
us was chased out of restaurants and
senator Cruz was chased out of a
restaurant and then people that aren't
even elected officials like Sarah
Huckabee Sanders chased out of
restaurants and we've got members of the
Democratic Party calling for more of
that and asking people to stay in that
mode this is dangerous I think I think
what people need to realize that when
people like Cory Booker's say get up in
their face he may think that that's okay
but what he doesn't realize is that for
about every thousand for one second now
somebody got off the script because
Leland said like cooler heads like Cory
Booker and then Rand thought that Cory
Booker was the problem because Leland
forgets that in rands world you've got
to motivate the voters by talking about
the black guy they got confused but
nevertheless I nitpick hey but what he
doesn't realize is that for about every
thousand person that might want to get
up in your face one of them is going to
be unstable enough to commit violence
when I was at the ball field when Steve
Scalise was nearly killed
the guys shooting up the ball field and
shooting I think five or six people were
shot
these gliese was almost killed he was
yelling this is for healthcare he had a
list in his pocket of conservative
Republicans that he wanted to kill you
know when I was attacked in my yard
all right deposit okay stop it we don't
need to hear any more from this I where
could someone have possibly gotten the
notion that the just the idea that you
can go and take your gun to go shoot at
members of our government because you
don't like what they're do what's this
oh I'm sorry
Senator Rand Paul's tweet from June 20
June 16th June 23rd 2016 why do we have
a second amendment it's not to shoot
deer it's to shoot at the government
when it becomes tyrannical hmm that was
a figure of speech in a certain science
right it's one thing when you're
tweeting about your dad and guns and
super predators and then it's quite
another when you blow leaves in your
neighbor's lawn and he needs to kick
your ass do you remember that
I love how ironically Rand Paul has
actually been physically assaulted for
violating somebody else's priority
rights right that's amazing yes sad
libertarian but I wonder I mean I I
still can't get out of my head
the massive media tour that Rand Paul
did following the murder of Heather hire
and by right-wing conservatives who were
were trying to celebrate the heritage of
the Confederacy I mean I just had the
image of how of him running around doing
all those interviews still still
emblazoned in my mind maybe I would have
if my goddamn neighbor hadn't broken my
ribs super concerned about civility and
and all of that sort of stuff but you
know by the same token that had it
coming
he does imply elsewhere in that
interview that that the reasons his
neighbor attacked him were political
yeah maybe it was more like on a
neighborhood politics yeah the
neighborhood politics that I hate you
because you're one of the most annoying
people on the planet Earth and you live
next to me and I'm gonna tackle you on a
right I tell you I still what was the
goal who is get Ronnie Kasrils and like
it acted like somebody doing like
landless movement in India at Ron Paul's
neighbor as like liberation heroes
alright good
like I don't I'm not endorsing that
particular act of violence
I think armed insurrection zone Lee work
when it's a critical mass of people but
if you want to talk about violence the
number of people who have been murdered
by GOP policy just by being denied
health care like violence begets
violence without a doubt but it really
does seem to be the talking point that
the Republicans are pushing here's
Kellyanne Conway remember her boss is
Donald Trump the we beat him up it's
okay to beat him up if you get sued I
will pay for your lawsuit I mean we all
remember Donald Trump right Kellyanne
Conway is really upset about the lack of
civility but it didn't win and that was
Hillary Clinton and you know many people
are saying let's be civil let's get
along let's like settle unify but
Hillary Clinton she's agreeing with the
Maxine Waters of the world it appears
listen to this next soundbite she's
saying civility is not an option you
cannot be civil with a political party
that wants to destroy what you stand for
what you care about that's why I believe
if we are fortunate enough to win back
the house and or the Senate that's when
civility can start again
well what does that mean exactly pause
it for one second I'll tell you what it
means it's a delusion it's the same
delusion that Barack Obama had once we
win they'll learn their lesson or once
they win the fever will break what does
it mean
both ways there was no there was no way
the fever was gonna break but in as far
as Clinton's concerned if we win back
the house according to her then the
Republicans will be civil that's a joke
of course but let's hear how the Fox and
Friends folks and Conway interpret this
well what does that mean exactly
Kellyanne look she usually when she
opens her mouth respectfully she offends
at least one half of the country and she
did it again but I think her discourse
now is a little bit dangerous I don't
like the implications there it's one
thing to call us deplorable irredeemable
laugh at people who don't have all
positions the other night I mean not
that I you know I'm terribly sensitive
about this but I think Donald Trump
called the Democrats evil yeah but with
love a bowl laugh at people who don't
have all the privileges that she has had
with her Ivy League law degree and
through her marriage to a much more
popular a man who actually was a
two-term president that she'll never be
I don't like that kind of talk and I
avoid it my boss is called for civility
he's said that he represents all
Americans we don't run around asking
people what their party affiliation is
when he's cutting their taxes and
allowing their small businesses to be
free of regulations and growth it's
we're impervious to that what but this
is the line that they're pushing out
because they're desperate there's a
little bit of desperation here oh one
part of that was true
much more popular boom that was a really
good burn he's such a good mean girl
yeah they are like I like the every time
she opens her mouth respectfully right
but they're moving into the aggrievement
posture now because they there's which I
think is encouraging at least in terms
of what is in what
they're prepared to run on right now
like I said I think a headline this was
Tammy Baldwin introduced a discharge
petition which basically going to force
the Senate on voting on a bill that
would overturn the Trump administrations
expansion of so-called junk insurance
plans these are plans that under the
Affordable Care Act could exist for two
or three months at a time one and you
could you could sign up for these one
time if you were transitioning between
plans they they are regulated by the
states and so therefore they don't have
the federal minimum standards for what
in health insurance can can be Trump
expanded these to where you could have
them for a year at a time and you could
renew I think up to three years
so Baldwin filed a discharge petition
which basically does an end round around
it's a parliamentary procedure which
forces a vote they will take the vote it
will focus on vulnerable Republicans who
will either vote to support plans that
allow for denial of coverage under
pre-existing conditions that don't cover
all sorts of health care issues or
they'll vote against it and the force
Donald Trump to veto the bill or they'll
get rid of it this is you know this has
been I think not a coincidence that as
soon as the cabin I think passes they
are going to pivot to health care the
Democrats and in the meantime what the
Republicans will do is say that these
Democrats are super mean yeah like that
Hillary Clinton clip just now was kind
of the epitome of the fact that no
matter what the Democrats do the
Republicans are gonna act like they're
crazy leftist pitchfork carrying mom
so like might as well give them that you
know Trump Trump's op-ed claims that the
Democratic proposal of Medicare for all
would eliminate Medicare as we know it
so in other words Medicare for all will
not move will make Medicare not for
seniors anymore
isn't that it becomes Venezuela right I
mean this is this is the type of
committee but it's that's the way it
works folks just a reminder hunt a
killer is a monthly subscription that
sends you cryptic clues objects and
letters so you can solve a crime in real
time it's so interactive that it feels
real right now just for our listeners
you can go to hunter-killer dot-com
slash majority for ten percent off your
first box
they only accept two hundred members per
day so hurry to take advantage of this
offer I'll tell you something a lot of
people are looking for some type of
hobby the to basically mitigate the
intensity of the era hunting a killer
might be not a bad way to do it who did
it
I don't know these clues but look they
only accept two hundred members per day
so hurry to take advantage of this offer
that's hunt a killer dot-com slash
majority for ten percent off your first
box Hunter Killer calm slash majority
I'm going to take a quick break heading
to the fun half of the program
just a reminder it is your support that
makes this show possible you can become
a member by going to join the majority
report dot-com also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off it
is wednesday last night was Tuesday
Michael was sick yesterday so there was
no oh well those there was no oh
you did make it I didn't do the warm-up
show oh you didn't okay I wasn't sure
you were so sick yesterday I think I
told you in the text that I was had a
mild cold
hey generally don't read past the first
line that's cool oh I like that's
another thing that we share in common
communication that's why I only write
that's good what would you please hello
well so what what what did Alex Green
was in studio we talked about a
Democratic Party if it wanted to win
what would it do there was a lot of
fallout from the first round of voting
in Brazil which of course tacked on to
the coverage we've been giving it for a
while Bernie gave a great foreign policy
speech where he even did one of these
for Lula da Silva with his uh when who
got something no he was like unjustly
imprisoned Lula would have won Lula
woulda won you pricks and also so we
sort of connected a threat on that and
somebody pointed my attention that on
top of everything else
Jaime Dora even had a segment on the car
wash investigation which led to the rise
of a fascist candidate in Brazil and the
imprisonment of Lula so even there there
was a dump segment to be commented on
and I tried to resist commenting on it
and then did not resist it and they were
like let's do it in the postgame and
then Matt was like let's do in the main
show so we we did that yeah it was a
very good show and Jamie did you do a
segment on him or no not this time I'm
sorry to hear that but uh we did do a
lot of other things this week on a
spooky Halloween and tea fada
with da he doing a Halloween Intifada a
knock in the first week of October
Halloween last the whole month for me
all right
yes so we had our friend Jacob
Blumenfeld recently got hello doctorate
from the new school we're just doing
that for every Jew now yeah love it's
that kind of day because indeed he did
he's got a book on the German
philosopher max Stirner coming out on
zero books
we also have dr. bones who is a bit of a
swamp warlock he got his doctorate in a
graveyard and lives by stern errs
radical egoist communist philosophy we
brought them together folks for Socratic
dialogue and to find out what happens
when leftists stop being polite and
start getting egoist and Matt did you do
a Halloween show do you have it in a
spooky version of a review of Corey
Robbins the reactionary mind that
actually it's pretty scary
and for patrons I'm gonna finish a hope
Leslie vol 1
the full audio the first half of the
audiobook should be up tonight maybe
tomorrow scare me patreon.com slash
literary hangover that comes last EMBs I
forgot that's how people find it they
find it at patreon.com slash t oh yes
and the same patreon.com slash the
antara alright folks we're gonna take a
quick break
oh my god people actually tell their
websites it's so ridiculous all right
folks
we're gonna take a quick break heading
to the fun half don't forget join the
majority report come see unit sake
[Music]
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen number six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty gonna start up the I am sand
escapes credit where credit is due we we
gave Rand Paul a little bit of grief for
your ask me we were caused him I
couldn't laugh sorry my ribs are so
bruised I can't laugh at your hilarious
G humor
 you majority report each and
every one of you yeah like a soundtrack
for it we we'd head we mocked him for
his concern about the rabid left
Democrats who were who were walking the
knife's edge in terms of of creating a a
potential violent situation in our
country but to his credit he went on in
that same conversation I think or he
went on to a Fox & Friends and in the
wake of the report that the Saudis
basically ambushed a Saudi national
journalist who was a u.s. resident Jamal
khashoggi as he went to the Saudi
consulate in Istanbul ostensibly to get
marriage papers which apparently US
intelligence services had at least some
inkling they were out to kill him he was
apparently either killed or disappeared
in that consulate Saudis don't seem to
care and that anybody else knows there's
nothing that as far as they're concerned
it can be done about it
Rand Paul is talking about pulling
support for Saudi Arabia particularly
there is now a group of
bipartisan group of senators remember
last time support for Saudi Arabia was
up I think it was 53 to 47 in terms of
the Senate voting to maintain support
for the Saudis there were five Democrats
if I remember correctly arm sells arms
Lee Nelson McCaskill Donnelly Warner and
Manchin who voted in favor of that that
sale of arms to Saudi Arabia there is a
bipartisan group of lawmakers who have
sent a letter to Mike Pompeo including
senator formerly moderate Susan Collins
Chris Murphy Todd young others who have
signed on to a letter basically saying
and our support for Saudis blockade and
assault on Yemen and here's Rand Paul
making that case on Fox & Friends and
apparently really getting under the skin
of which one was it kill me kill me kill
me denoted scholar of American and
Islamic history kill me so it's sort of
Clash of the Titans kilmeade is long in
on the infinite war stock apparently and
so he just want to hear any of this doc
opinion we need to have a strong
national defense we need to balance our
budget but we don't need to be in
everybody Civil War I think the
president agrees with me well the only
problem is when we leave Iraq in comes
Isis if we leave Afghanistan
out comes al-qaeda and then building
start falling here so you got to be
responsible don't they the other half of
that Brian though is we went into
Afghanistan we toppled the regime in and
we went into Iraq topple the regime
there and guess what it made Iran
stronger so really we tipped the balance
of power in favor of Iran when we went
into Iraq so we have to think of the
unintended consequences of always
intervening and everyone's also
want to remind Brian Kilmeade it may be
it's quite a while ago he may not
remember but the reason why in his mind
if we leave Iraq and then the terrorists
move in is because we invaded Iraq and I
want to remind him they were in no way
involved whatsoever with 9/11 to the
contrary
I mean literally to the contrary they
were hostile to al-qaeda but it's not
like we've defeated the terrorists now
it's a small any of these places small
deep reminding Brian Kilmeade it feels
like reminding a cat
exactly but here let's continue so we
have to think of the unintended
consequences of always intervening and
every one Civil War well we don't always
intervene every one Civil War
well we're involved in about seven civil
wars Raza I'm going to see Lee go back
there because like Rand Paul almost
laughs at how childish of a response
that is did you say a like we're a or an
did you say a or an that's I mean that
is the level we're not into every single
Civil War such a liar
brand when we went into Iraq so we have
to think of the unintended consequences
of always intervening and every one
Civil War well we don't always intervene
every one Civil War
well we're involved in about seven civil
wars right now and but okay only seven
right through happens to yourself Steen
yeah it's like not even hats or there's
only seven civil wars happening you
yourself just contradicted yourself
exact and then buildings come down when
people do that I bet you that's over
half of the current civil wars I bet you
were involved in over half those
probably yes particularly the Yemen's
Civil War we just take Russia than their
seventy there's seventeen million people
in Yemen living on the edge of
starvation they had the largest cholera
outbreak well maybe Ron just stop eating
the dizzy rebels well this is because
the Saudis are blockading Yemen we are
aiding and abetting them in the last
couple of weeks the Saudis bombed a
school bus with fifty children we should
not be arming the Saudis am I built
today
we'll stop sending on that was a mistake
and what about should we give Yemen to
Iran would that be better no I think we
should understand that the world's a
little more complicated than that Brian
that their civil war there with many
different factions in Yemen and this
isn't our there isn't there really isn't
a single scholar who makes an argument
that Iran has a serious presence in
Yemen or influence as opposed to let's
say Syria but the idea that we would
give a Yemen to Iran like okay then what
that's what I proposed in the Iran deal
would you guys like Yemen on top of it
anything we could do to facilitate your
nuclear program and if you want yeah but
just let me know what I what what is
Iran doing with Yemen it's called a bail
of transfer does that make up for
Stuxnet yeah whatever you need hate
Stuxnet was our bad God knows the
goddamn Jill's were involved in it they
got their own friggin Jew country how
about a right of transfer to Yemen Yemen
into a some type of like resort place
right yeah it's with the Iranian resort
coast like UV the Iranian coat azure
will be Yemen right
the Houthis yeah basically the extent to
which Iran has strongly supported the
Houthis is after this started they may
be nominal it may be some money but it's
not like they have advisors on the
ground or any Syrian who presents own
group that has its own factions in Yemen
and the basically Obama administration
actually did pretty much just say like
hey we get we pissed you guys off with
the Iran deal can we let you just
obliterate and do mass murder in Yemen
if we look the other way and then Trump
of course accelerated it because in a
classic way like the Obama
administration let it happen it was
abysmal but they kept some restrictions
on it in terms of what weapons we're so
like okay guys we're not gonna we're
gonna kill a bunch of people but we're
not gonna kill absolutely everybody and
then with Kushner and Trump it's turned
and that's
I mean I get what Rand Paul's doing like
I understand he's on the president's
favorite show and he's trying to deliver
him a message but like I think the
president agrees with me on this mm not
quite I think the president's quite on
board for the mass murder of Yemen I
think we should get a hotel in the
offing so I mean there's hotels my hands
are tied
also Mohammed bit some buds super he's
really cool super cool
did you see the orb did you see the orb
and what about should we give Yemen to
Iran would that be better no I think we
should understand that the world's a
little more complicated than that Brian
that their civil war there with many
different factions in Yemen and this
isn't our Iran the US and Saudi Arabia
there are many different factors they
will continue simplifying senator no no
the Sunnis and the Shia have been at war
with each other for a thousand years
they will be at war with each other in
another thousand years it doesn't mean
we odds it I love how they're both
accusing each other of oversimplifying
thank you that you you said yeah you're
oversimplifying not me I'm not the one
who's over simple thing you're over you
are what I don't like is is Rand Paul
did fall into the essentialist it's been
happening for those views but on the
other hand it is amazing when one guy is
like well actually there's a multi-party
conflict here which implicates the
Saudis but also the Emirates Iran has
its own strategic in talking about all
the parties involved you're
oversimplifying it yes well I think
kilmeade is actually saying like it
sounds so simple for you but you know
all the names of the countries
oh yeah it's that easy is it yeah it's
as easy as just watch how pissy we can
watch it's like yeah watch no spending
on that was a mistake
and what about should we give Yemen to
Iran would that be better no I think we
should understand that the world's a
little more complicated than that Brian
that their civil war there with many
different factions in Yemen your this
isn't Iran the US and Saudi Arabia there
are many different factions which they
will continue I'm simplifying senator no
no the Sunnis and the Shia posit no it's
really also uncomfortable I don't know
how much that is but but watching do see
and is that Ashley Ainsley or Ainsley
Ashley Ainsley but what exactly would
actually aim just sitting there like
just stone face like not moving like I
gotta let kill me really really really
really doesn't like it they can smell
kill Meads anger school yeah exactly
they're like oh this is uncomfortable
cutaway kind of like she have been at
war with each other for a thousand years
they will be at war with each other in
another thousand years it doesn't mean
we always have to intercede okay I
sinner oh yeah okay yeah it's all so
simple for you because you know names of
countries yeah and by the way being
apologized for bombing the school bus
and murdering kids music and then
literally the Saudis explanation was the
two people who are trying to kill that
we thought were in the school bus
weren't in it so I guess our bad right
there wasn't a blanket like were
horrified that we murdered a bus full of
school children it was a we had some
inaccurate intelligence that would have
totally justified murdering a bunch of
kids absolutely come from a 3:01 area
code who's this where he call them from
Sam about you yes who's this it's Vito
from Maryland how's it going meetup for
Marilyn what's going on so um thought
I'd give her just a sort of a real quick
prediction here on the on the midterms
I'm I'm looking at something like maybe
223 at 212 something like that in the
house and I think it'll probably like 53
47 in the Senate when it's all said and
done and I kind of feel like any gains
that are sort of made here really are
not a rejection of GOP policies I mean I
I think that after everything is said
and done really I mean I think people
will
people are a little bit angry about
misogyny and racism and those kind of
things but if you really look at the I
mean I don't really think there's any
real rejection here on the part of
American people in any of these policies
and I think they would have been fine
with Brett Kavanaugh if it wasn't for
the allegations I mean I really don't I
mean I think historically at least over
the last 50 years
the electorate is basically conservative
and I mean that not in the sense of any
particular policies but in a sense in a
sense of sort of not for any real change
conservative in other words
well you know let me ask you this what
are you basing this on I mean I I I
think I think to assert I think - I
think you your your argument has some
validity in terms of degree but the
Democrats clearly indisputably all the
reporting from people who've gone from
district to district we can see it in in
the Senate they're running on health
care right now they're not running on
necessarily a dramatic change in health
care because they're not in a position
to institute it but I would say the
majority at least of the high-profile
races people are embracing Medicare for
all but certainly they're running
against the Republican plans for health
care I don't think that broadly speaking
the American public votes on an ideology
they vote on certain issues that that
that basically you know and now not even
on issues that often they I think you
know the majority of Americans don't pay
that much attention to politics and so
their Chinese are pretty superficial but
so what right I agree but my my response
to that is so what well I mean I think
it's it's gonna it's indicative of I
mean in terms of any type of real
significant change to our progressive
policies it doesn't bode well no no I
disagree because look there is the way
that policies get changed towards the
right or
towards the left is not because 70 or 80
percent of the population is totally
engaged and is looking for this no
that's not it's actually a very small
percentage of the population wants a
certain program and they figure out a
way of yeah
leverage the power they have expand upon
it and get people into a position where
those changes can be made and so it
doesn't matter that 80% of the
population isn't on board for a radical
reform of the way that America is going
the all that matters is that people who
are elected see that there is that that
people who want a program like expanded
like Medicare for all let's say expanded
Social Security free college that they
have the ability to move the electorate
that's that's the way it works so it
doesn't matter what you're saying
doesn't matter you've never been a time
where they've been one way or another
well I don't know you might be right
I just I don't know I just think that
you know historically speaking typically
it's people only tend to usually vote
for any type of change if there's some
sense of something seriously wrong it's
in one way or another in other words I
don't I don't think that in other words
I don't think that if say let's say if
if Donald Trump wasn't elected in 2016
and instead it was I don't know who's
kind of a Jeb Bush maybe I mean do you
think that we'd be talking about a blue
wave if Jeb Bush well if Jeb Bush
Hillary Clinton is the nominee I don't
think that we would I think the
Democrats are not in power
oh I know but I'm just saying if we had
a if there was a different one of those
guys that had won but but if the country
was willing to vote for Jeb Bush do I
think there would be interest
in policies that would be pushing to the
left no because it would be a situation
do you it's like it's like you know if I
had waited nearly point I'm trying to
make but that's not really a point
that's a good make sense
fired wings I would fly honestly that's
that's that's why I think people didn't
think they were voting for change when
they voted for Trump I think this is
what I think I think that the people
that I think that once the nomination
process was over that those people that
voted for Trump they were going to vote
for whoever they had whoever had the are
next to their name okay I think I think
that they have a right has a a more a
more cohesive coalition than the left
does well I mean yeah I don't even know
yeah I think that's true I mean they
they have a couple attributes that are
almost identical to each other right I
mean we're talking about a 95% white
party we're talking about maybe you know
a large you know the existence any large
differences it's like all I identify as
a Christian but I go to church as
opposed to I identify with the Christian
and I don't go to church and then
there's you know and then there's like
some slight differences in in in terms
of economic class but the the yeah I
mean I think they're they're more
cohesive I think they voted I think a
lot of people voted
you know either for tax cuts or for the
Supreme Court or both on the right but
they you know III think the bottom line
is is that you can't say that this it
doesn't matter I mean what you're saying
is you know we don't know the only thing
that we do know is that at least on the
you know the broad left people don't
engage as much usually in midterms
unless they're voting against something
I'm s that's the case but but that does
not in any way implicate how people can
govern it doesn't if there is a sense
that I mean that's why the the the base
of the Republican Party a was able to
discipline their politicians and B was
able to grow act like a Republican read
that uh Michael Michael cute akin
seriously Michael Kunik in had a canoe
Caen I can never pronounce the last name
but a really good piece in current
affairs that came out in 2016 and it was
something to the effect I had him on you
can look it up on this show there was it
but the title of the piece was like
Republicans are ruthless savage
power players and I respect them for it
and it was all about how you know
Democrats both the politicians
consulting class but even the electorate
have been trained to you know make these
have this very small more view of things
but Republicans don't and that's how
they're I mean winning with even issues
that they have no support on in terms of
things like health care uh you know let
me just say this and I appreciate the
call veto but you know like a lot of
people for a long time
when I was on air America where like all
you're doing is you're talking to the to
the chorus I mean you know you're
preaching to the choir but I can do this
for you it's the choir that does most of
the work
it's the choir that does most of the
change this is the choir goes out and
they get other people to you know show
up at the bake sale but the choir the
people who bake the cookies and getting
people to you know come to your bake
sale and buy a brownie it's not easy
this thing to do but they don't have to
be fully invested in the whole project
to go and eat a brownie I mean this is
not a this is not a profound idea I
think Martin Luther King said like you
know give me five or ten I can't
remember what exactly what the quotes
but he give me five ten fifteen percent
of the people and maybe this I think was
ten I don't you think was fifty was ten
they give me ten percent of the people
who are committed and I can change
anything and he also said you can't make
jokes on college campuses anymore
that's what Dave Rubin my young friend
has said if he just wants to talk about
ideas which increasingly you can't do on
the left are you saying that voting is
like a box of chocolates
I'm not sure I follow that button never
mind
yeah but you never know what you're
gonna get no I'm not no I'm not saying
that no no no I'm saying that well you
know what yes yes actually I'm saying I
I think to a certain extent I think that
I think to a certain extent look you
can't the the your vote does not
guarantee that the politicians gonna
deliver what they said they were gonna
deliver right I mean Donald Trump ran on
I'm not gonna touch Medicare I'm not
gonna touch Social Security they
certainly would have tried to he you
know I think to a large extent you know
people are like oh infrastructure you
know that was the big we were gonna see
a big infrastructure bill the voting is
a little bit like a box of chocolates
but here's where how it's different you
can influence what is inside the box
not necessarily by voting but that
certainly helps so it's not just it's
not you you're you roll in the dice
after you roll the dice you can then go
down and walk towards the dice and
change the number on it I mean people
have to be involved but there's a
possibility there that doesn't exist in
the same way when you get a cellophane
wrap to think about a chocolate
wow you included a Diceman silly and you
really did I teased that one out first
but I understand what you're saying like
you know you don't know what you're
gonna get but the fact of the matter is
is that you don't know you're gonna get
except for the differences with the box
chocolates you can actually influence
what chocolates are in there I mean I
think we also have to remember that the
base is increasingly polarized and the
base of the Republican Party is pretty
far to the right and the Republican
Party likes that and they're using it
because you know it goes along with
their program of trying to make laws
that are favorable to the ruling class
to bosses to the people who own the
means of production blah blah blah
whereas the Democrats
bass is far to the left of them but they
don't really like that because I'm not
convinced that that's actually the case
I mean I don't know like you know the
base of the Republican Party is I think
if you term if you look at it in terms
of of just sheer numbers and we were
talking about african-american women and
women broadly speaking and I'm not
convinced that ideologically they're
that much further to the left than your
average Democrat if you look at the
policies that they support they are
consistently to the left of
establishment Democrats I would say and
yes we mentioned all the people who
don't currently vote who might vote if
they were presented with a program that
appealed to them okay
but if you don't if you don't vote for
the Democratic Party then you can't be
part of the base of the Democratic Party
if you don't vote you're definitionally
not part of the base I guess they're
talking about voters in general then but
like you're not a voter either or
potential voters which is the Democrats
job - yeah thank you vote I think the
the the challenge for people like us is
to make it so that the base of the
Democratic Party is actually both
engaged and far to the left of the of of
we're I mean I think the center of the
party has moved to the left but even you
know continues to do that I mean I think
that's the problem is not just with the
Democrats the problem is with the base
of the Democratic Party of like the you
know if all these people who are too
disaffected from the Democratic Party
because they're to the left of it came
and voted for the leftmost candidate in
the primary then it would be a different
situation I mean you see that in the
context of aoc I mean it's you know
we're talking about a small election
obviously it's a primary and it's in a
safe district but her election is
pulling the party to the left and the
engagement that she inspired or that you
know but are we gonna leave it up to the
politicians I mean that's the thing is
that
you know to a certain extent there's a
lot of complaining about the politicians
but there's the the problem is is that
we're not seeing as much from the would
be base of the Democratic Party as we
see from the base of the Republican
Party but aoc said she would vote for
Andrew Cuomo so it's done well
you can't blame the voters I'm not
blaming the board I'm not black I'm not
progressives are you a democratic party
I'm not just blaming the vote powerful
force not just fooling the Democrats to
the right I understand they're being
torn in two directions which is
something that Republicans don't have to
deal with right they have their big
donors they are a capitalist nope I am
I'm aware of all of that but I'm not
just blaming the voters but I'm saying
that they also you know like the
Democratic voter does not generally vote
as much in off-year elections as
Republicans that's just a fact now maybe
it's because the Republican politicians
are that much better but it's you know
it can't go both ways like it can't go
it's like on one hand it's like we don't
want to trust our politicians we know
that we're jaded about them but then we
want them to do all these things
it's like voting's not that important
right well then the activism should be
and I'm not saying it isn't but the
activism should be in getting more
people who are disaffected involved and
if they are the idea of just going and
pulling a lever shouldn't be that big of
a deal and it can make a big difference
it's my new book called blaming the boat
is bicep seeded the reason we have all
of these problems is because of these
goddamn voters either they're voting or
not voting it's all their fault if they
would read about the Supreme Court on
their stupid phones instead of playing
candy crush then we might have a happy
from society live it again there's
probably some truth to that I thought
you wanted blaming the vote is by CMC D
voting is fine I will concede that
certainly I have a leftist slightly more
I tell anarchists to vote for what it
might do but has that gotten us where we
want to be yet well the outside factors
the powerful outside factors that are
acting on these things and for the
Republican Party
its capital right it's the people who
have the money that pull the strings and
for the I don't even want to say for the
Democrats for the left its workers and
it's our labor and it's our ability to
withhold our labor our ability to get
people out in the streets now it's like
David and Goliath right these aren't
really evenly matched forces but regular
people throughout history have been able
to win the things that we have now as
concessions in a fight for total
liberation yeah I agree
like whatever we have remaining of the
welfare state we got that because
regular people stood up for themselves
exactly and not just through voting
exactly and maybe if they'd stand up for
themselves again instead of being
mouth-breathing morons who don't
vote we might actually get somewhere as
a society is all in my mind blaming the
electorate with Sam's I listen it's it
is it is I agree I mean the FDR was
doing capital a favor with Social
Security but there has to be a dynamic
where there's that sense that you know
like a Republican is not going to
intercede in that way a Democrat will
but there needs to be a force that is
terrifying them so we agree on that
we need a real labor party with class
independence in this country and we
don't have one yet no but why does even
have to be a party well I'm actually
agnostic on that cuz electoral ISM isn't
really my area of focus well okay all
right so don't call for a party
let's just get people to do it Sher Khan
from a 6-1-6 area code I'm glad we
resolved all that don't have a plug a
guy called for a six one six Erica Tim
for my Grand Rapids
Tim from Grand Rapids what's on your
mind I was calling to uh to advocate for
nuclear power
I heard what you guys are saying about
it this week and I just kind of wanted
to forgive us feel kind of and the spiel
all right but let me just say this okay
I I don't have a problem in a vacuum
with nuclear power okay okay
having known having had a friend whose
dad was one of the the guys who
developed the reactors I can't remember
what it was was for GE I can't remember
what the company was the early reactors
and this guy was one of the the premier
scientists who did this he is terrified
that guy is terrified because and it had
something to do with the Navy the story
escapes me at the moment but there was a
specific design I think it was the Navy
wanted and so they built it that way and
that design was adopted and it is a
unstable design for which is the the
fundamental basis for most of our
nuclear reactors I think that are
created in this country cup that coupled
with the the incentive structure for
corporations to cut corners and we see
evidence of this all the time right I
mean you know in terms of inspections
and whatnot that I find really
concerning if we could have nuclear
power that was where where we were
actually going to have you know a
nationalized project not one that was in
the hands of private corporations I
would feel a lot more comfortable with
nuclear power to some extent the the my
concerns lie with how you know our
system has the legacy that we have in
this country in terms of the design of
nuclear reactors and the entities that
are responsible
for bringing these things online that's
that's where my concern lies oh yeah
yeah and I completely agree as is though
it's got a pretty amazing safety record
like for instance no one has ever died
from nuclear waste or kneisler accidents
the United States by comparison coal
kills nine million people per year at
the waist and that the waste itself is
their energy then that it it's able to
be managed like you people asking how
are we going to take care of the lathe
is an indication of something that's
good about nuclear power because you
can't say the same for coal you can't
say the same for a lot of energies and
the major issue I have with solar and
wind is we don't have the battery
technology to actually make it
large-scale let me ask you this how much
money do you think we would have to
invest into a redesign if what I'm
saying is accurate about the design the
the primary design that we have in
nuclear reactors in this country that
there is a sense amongst at least some
of those people who designed it that it
is not the the best design how much if
we were to start how much money and we
were to have the the federal government
build let's say two or three new nuclear
power plants and to deal with the waste
how much of an investment do you think
that would involve quite a bit I always
thinking honestly it'd be fair to take
maybe like a third of our military
budget because that would actually save
us money in the long run
okay do you think do you think 300
billion dollars annually or what a third
of it would be what 270 billion dollars
a year I wouldn't say annually I
wouldn't say annually and I kind of how
much you think it was on your give me an
actor and besides quite a bit I mean be
a little bit more specific I mean yeah I
mean not per year but maybe it's 300
billion over you know of course at four
years
sure so
you think jebel going do you think to
build those nuclear reactors we're
talking only over four years you're
talking like to build four of them you
think it's gonna be less than 80 billion
dollars a year okay it might be more all
right so if we were to talk money as far
as a cause okay but what if we were but
what if we were to invest that money in
developing some form of battery
technology to promote wind and solar
which I think we can both agree we can
both agree right is yeah significantly
safer yes it's just not as energy dense
like no I agree you guys covered a story
you know not too long ago about how we
need to save 50 percent of the earth's
ecosystem you know and that's gonna be a
part of fighting climate change well
you're not going to do that with solar
and when there's a majority of your
energy source
maybe not quick enough I would agree I
mean I know not quick enough and not
only that but if you if you invest into
nuclear power we can put these things
online today and actually meet our
energy demands and these are energy
demands today when we put all the cars
on the road is electric not today well
yeah not today within like ten years you
know but we we got a 15-year window here
and we're kind of gambling on battery
technology yeah you know do you see what
happened with Germany they didn't have
the infrastructure quote-unquote meaning
he didn't have the battery technology I
mean like I said I don't know if you
guys have heard of the duck curve but
basically it's it's a graph that shows
that you have a massive supply right
before dart when people aren't using
electricity sure and then a massive
shortage when a lot of people are right
again there may I actually have to cut
off solar panels that way they don't
overcharge the power grid these are
either real problems so let me let me
let me just say this the bottom line is
like look I don't know where we are in
terms of battery technology that if we
weren't to spend a hundred billion
dollars a year or let's say 200 billion
dollars a year on developing that how
long it would take to do it with
certainly once we got that battery
technology we could roll this out pretty
quickly right I mean and it would be
done you know you could you could even
afford to do it quicker because you can
you know you cut little corners you you
have a misstep with a battery it's not
like 500,000 people died I think
happened well what I mean five hundred
thousand people have never died from any
kind of nuclear accident
well sure no four thousand people right
I understand but you have a huge swath
you have a huge swath of
area that is inhabitable and we don't
necessarily have that kind of landmass
in this country so if you could figure
out where you could put Chernobyl in the
United States of America where it's only
going to kill 4,000 people you know that
didn't even have a containment that if
you go to modern reactors like the one
in Fukushima that had zero death like
you can you can look up the World Health
Organization report on it there are zero
deaths all right but my problem is like
a radiation point yeah but that's over
what a timespan of like a couple decades
no it's it's over five years they did a
report they said over five years they
hated that there's no indication of
increased infant mortality knowing and I
just I don't think my skills are always
my skepticism is always the timescale
for these things and I Tim I mean IIIi I
think your points well-taken I think
that we need to we need to consider
nuclear I mean we're we're in a very
dangerous situation now and and and and
I think there's something to be said for
that have you discussed yet appreciate
it's gonna be like do you trust the Mach
the market well that's what I just said
I think there's a real problem with with
with corporations but I mean if we can
get listen if Tim can deliver to me 200
million dollars a billion dollars a year
from our military budget and our
federal government puts our best
scientists on it and we create we we we
build a nuclear reactor from the ground
up and redesign it to be safe I I feel
somewhat comfortable with that take the
risk yes I certainly trust the state to
do this more than I trust us yeah I've
become I don't think I'm gonna let
National Grid which allowed their you
know their their pipes to get so much so
that 50 houses over stretch of four
miles in Massachusetts blows up for some
reason I'm a little hesitant to believe
to buy that they're going to do a good
job with it a square Sam let me add my
voice to the others who wrote about the
Carol Anderson interview so glad we have
em are the more things change the more
the young reconstructed races fight same
strategy slightly updated for those who
have not heard that Paul Wyrick speech
look it up that Paul Wyrick made a point
of saying that he were that Republicans
should actively seek to have less voters
that they they want to have less voters
because it benefits them Sam Mike Jamie
Matt all the good callers thanks for
keeping us alert and informed and making
us laugh here is Donald Trump in
addressing this story of the the
journalist Jamal khashoggi who
reportedly was either killed or
disappeared by Saudis Saudi intelligence
and apparently the United States was
aware of this here is Donald Trump
responding to this which you know so
much for American leadership I mean I
guess our billions of dollars worth of
arms sales isn't getting us isn't
getting us too much influence
I am concerned about it I don't like
hearing about it and hopefully that will
sort itself out right now nobody knows
anything about it but there's a pretty
bad
George Cora I do not like it thank y'all
see you I don't like it I don't I
haven't checked at my own intelligence
services which apparently knew about it
I don't know it's disrupting my favorite
by gramming you'll recall that I guess
this is about maybe almost a year ago
when Muhammad Ben Solomon was this about
a year ago as his two years ago there
was a publicity tour essentially that
Mohammed Ben Solomon the crown prince
Izzy the crown prince the Crown Prince
of Saudi Arabia was coming in to talk
about like you know women are gonna get
a chance to drive we are moving into the
21st century we have movie theaters
maybe we're gonna open a McDonald's
we're a new kind of Saudi Arabia in fact
we have feeded like we just had Thomas
Friedman OVA for a wonderful dinner and
here he is Thomas Friedman is there any
one individual who has more blatantly
gotten more things wrong but ostensibly
from a thoughtful position about the
Middle East than Thomas Friedman
I don't know suck on that for a moment
as you listen to this I Got News for you
the entire Arab world is dysfunctional
right now completely dysfunctional and I
I think it has the potential to be a
giant Yemen a giant human disaster area
and so when I see someone having the
balls to take on the religious component
of that to take on the economic
component to take on the play with all
of his flaws okay and with all due
respect to his cousins not a one of them
would have had the balls to do that that
I want to invest just a little I just
want to stick my head up and say god I
hope you succeed and when you do that
the holy hell comes down on you okay
well okay is my view okay
I love there's nothing better than
Thomas Friedman being completely wrong
but swearing to make it seem like he's
just I'm not gonna conform to what every
other establishment figure is actually
conforming to I'm like no bird didn't
say balls me a coffee this is this is
what it's so reactionary about this is
the the definition of reactionary right
like he is actually subscribing to the
completely mainstream establishment
worldview but he's making it like I'm a
rebel so I don't care like I got a
leather jacket on I'm gonna say f you
I'm just going for the guy who cuz Yemen
is a disaster area so I'm gonna support
the guy who's gonna make it even more of
a disaster the whole region could look
like the guy who I support is doing to
one country where he's committing mass
murder I want to say we did dunk on him
a lot in last night's postgame but I
want to have to repeat there's a column
that came out two days ago by Thomas
Friedman called praying for Jamal
khashoggi
Saudi Arabia stands accused of killing
him if it did it will be a disaster for
the regime of Mohammed bin Salman and I
just want to read the first two
paragraphs you'll permit me cuz you have
there's a quote in here you need to
guess whose quote this is and just
stipulate that may be in the best case
scenario these best-case scenario this
guy hasn't been killed yet maybe he's
just being detained although Oliver his
points to he's been killed
last November 7th I wrote a column about
the new Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin
Salman it ended this way in the south of
the column was by the way called Arab
Spring Saudi style she doesn't mention
as a veteran Saudi journalist remark to
me of MBS this guy saved Saudi Arabia
from slow death but he needs to broaden
his base it is good that he's freeing
the house of SATA an influence of the
clergy but he's also not allowing any
second opinion of his political and
economic decisions any guesses on who
that anonymous journalist that he's
quoting in the leave graph of his
praying for Jamal khashoggi columnist
himself no it was in fact Jamal
khashoggi who if he is still alive he
just released another quote that he made
anonymously that might piss off his
captors
I don't think that that Saudi journalist
who was also a friend would mind if I
now identify him his name was Jamal
let's just publish everything cushaw he
said off the record that's I don't think
you'll buy any especially if he's in a
prison Riyadh like the Craven Asst that
you have to have where Friedman is like
I'm going to print this because he's
gonna be cool way for me to open my my
store my my column and without
contemplating like oh wait a second is
this gonna be helpful or hurtful to him
if he's still alive
or if he has any relatives or you know I
mean that is stunning
and you know what would be nice if maybe
there was somebody at the New York Times
who had the balls to be an editor and
say hey wait a second uh Thomas let me
give you a second chance let me give you
a second bite at this M you know I don't
think it's popular place it's not
popular to say this if the New York
Times editorial had the balls to do that
but you know what I'm gonna stick my
head up its the opposite pages can just
burn it down and start over
I'm literally vetted by the Davos you
and Silicon Valley
do you understand if I lose this job I'm
gonna have to go home to my Aris wife
and just continue to live off the
billions of dollars that she has
literally from like a chain of
footlocker's Jesus Christ she had to
basically say we're gonna sell Adidas
and Nike the ruling class folks calling
from a six-30 area code who's this where
you come from
esmie I may be who are you yeah my
name's Nick and I'm from you from
Illinois Nick yeah alright what's on
your mind
ah just the first time caller longtime
listener I just want to say that I am 28
and I've been listening to you guys
since about 24 and recently with
everything that's going on it been
always been into politics I've been
following politics in South seventeen I
took a carrot offense class and you guys
for this me to go back to school get a
degree and start fighting the fashions
then I thank you guys so much
well thank you Nick well I'm glad you
told us that that is uh that is I
appreciate it yeah I know
like I talked to my grandmother she's
Falls tall takes and my grandfather a
lot and they're both from Germany and
they just pray for the day of civility
and I have a hard time explain to her
it's just gone come on it yeah
Third Way technically big stuff like
this older generation that prays for it
and all this stuff is just not going to
happen in this time and it if once you
realize that I feel like we can get
somewhere more productive and fighting I
I think that's right I I think that's
right I think it's a real disservice by
politicians and I think some of whom are
probably are well-meaning and and just
people in general I mean the look
there's nothing wrong with politics
being contentious okay and the the fact
of the matter is that we're just not in
an era where everybody is going to be
polite and you know I don't even know
what this era was necessarily where
there was all this civility I mean I
guess we had somebody on I can't
remember who it was but was talking
about the lack of partisanship and the
in the early 50s and whatnot yeah sorry
yeah I was born in the early night and
my entire life has always been revolved
around Fox News so the stability that
people
because I've never seen it right that's
true I've I've never seen the civility
that I've always been told about since I
was born so I don't understand why they
keep trying to push this on a younger
millennial class when it's always been
this way for us I think it just makes
people feel comfortable I mean I think
like the bottom line is the least
contentious things are the more the
conventional wisdom is consistent and
not in conflict with itself the less you
have to do as a citizen right like if
everybody if there's no argument and
it's like all right great I can go to
the beach or I can just like pay
attention to making some money or I can
go you know being the easiest thing
possible listen I don't mean to say I'm
a kit sound so so wrong but I think it's
just like human nature to be like I
would rather just you know like I mean I
think and this is the problem is that
the center to the left not you know like
me like you know so like that the sort
of you know center to the half left
let's call it thank you left center left
exactly the center left I think they're
like good government folks who just
basically like want to set it and leave
it and they just want it the level of
civic engagement is is just simply in
many respects not there they want to go
and live their lives I think like sort
of the the liberal mentality in terms of
like the classic liberal you know wants
to engage in things like art and music
and literature and you know you know are
ver and ideas and would very much like
to be able to have government just
function properly whatever that is and
if everybody agrees on what it is and
there's no fighting then it's very easy
to achieve that and and go on with their
life and you know it's maybe there have
been areas like that I'm sure on some
level it involves a significant amount
of denial like in the 50s things were
like that you know as long as you just
didn't pay attention to the role of
women's society
what was going on with black people and
had a certain level with privilege and
you at a certain level it was it was it
was the great compression there was a
lot more but yes there was a lot more
like you was maybe harder to find people
who were who were not you know doing
okay and you know coming out of World
War two and and you know Social Security
kicked in as it wasn't like there's of
the abject poverty that there had been
thirty years ago for elderly people and
it may have just felt like this is a
good time we sometimes will question
anything about certain roles and status
of people in society like we just can
chug along and maybe that's what people
you know reminisce about I don't know I
you know I wasn't I'm not that old but I
think that's what's going on there and I
think I think for some older people they
can break out of it for others they
can't and that's why you got to you know
sort of outmaneuver them and just make
this make their contributions to
politics less than yours or maybe play
them that video clip of Hillary Clinton
saying that the time for civility is not
now yeah but the problem of that clip is
she said but once we take power then we
should be with civil again we're gonna
run some very mean ads and then when we
win the house we're gonna rise we will
apologize we will move forward in a post
partisan fashion for third wave liberals
who like her it's a start it's a start I
appreciate the call Nick thanks yeah
quick point yeah I found you yeah I
found you and I knew you as a Jewish guy
on during a fire over in Chicago and
that's how I found you you know I'm
sorry the jewy guy on ring of fire is
that I appreciate the jewy guy crisis
rig a fire get outside of Chicago in
Illinois I should just tell you that a
lot of lot of militias calling from a
four seven eight area code who's there
where he gone from Sam I believe I am
well known as Jeff in Georgia Oh Jeff in
Georgia
how are you sir hey I'm just doing I'm
doing fine listen you're not gonna
believe this blizzard I like my patrons
get mad at me when a dope from over self
so distant past calm still think you go
let's do it if you want to if you don't
want to please don't do that well right
same I heard you talk a little bit about
please go ahead son if you want we need
like some type of like musical sting
maybe we should get one of your patrons
to do that we'll play that thing when
you call it Sam I heard you told about
the liberal acts our church man it's
just boring man go back talk about
engineering and we'll talk about nuclear
reactors and all that you know think I
better get down here a little bit think
it's a bit too small that this climate
change thing Sam I got to tell you the
market in ice flus my friend is gonna be
through the roof I know them our
community's got some guillotine fans
Brendan I see you back there right I
know we got some cool fans here Michael
I'm looking at you okay but listen key
teens require assembly and manufacture
listen gulags require construction and
Manning ice was abundant we're gonna
have just so many I swear Sam but I
won't get down about it don't get down
everyone we're gonna have lots I suppose
we're gonna put a lot supposed to work
because we can cooperate together as a
species we can achieve great things like
like what are we sorry
what's it what are we collecting I mean
well listen the traditional way is you
just kind of stick your undesirable long
to die slow sort of give a little kick
right up to the I'm not right down there
any of this to be honest with you oh I
get it so it's like a gulag that you
don't have to build you can just put
some
poor nazi exactly and we are frankly
gonna have a lot of ice floes that are
gonna require some uses okay Oh glutton
I'm in the middle of a pan for hurricane
so I really proud to go they've safe
what if the ice floes are all melted ice
floes I got I got a little bit lost with
the gulags and the ice I don't know I
know is it's the vote is for attorney
Andrew the National Constitution Center
announced that Joe Biden will present
george w bush and first lady Laura Bush
with a Liberty medal award service
towards veterans that's great turns out
creating more dead veterans and or
allowing veterans to kill more Brown
people in service to veterans well
that's great
I'm glad that the I'm glad that Joe
Biden is you know I'm glad that he can
let go of george w bush basically being
one of the key reasons why we have Brett
Kavanaugh on the court
I mean Joby Joe Biden right like that's
his that's how he's gonna run isn't it
like he's gonna be in that like we're
gonna we're gonna restore America's sort
of niceness again that's gonna be his
his pitch yeah good luck with that well
I hope you're right
weird land am I the am I what the angry
mob looks like I was one of the
activists that shut down the Lamar
Street Bridge in Austin upon
confirmation of Kavanagh the one who was
intentionally hit by a car YouTube video
we're well thank you made a Mindy for
the dress Jamie the red rose means what
you think it means what which red rose I
don't know I think maybe it oh they were
wearing a dress with a red rose on it
perhaps I don't know this just came to
this gets me too
got me - Tommy oh here we go
all right I'll check it out Kelly Paul's
nightstand
unless guns are 13 inches long and have
dr. Kaos I know that as a general
principle Democrats are better than
Republicans but I hope Joe Manchin loses
his race he votes with the Republicans
enough that being able to get rid of the
bipartisan cover he supplies the GOP on
terrible legislation nominations is
worth the more than occasional good vote
he makes do you think that really that
is in play I mean I would joke Lieberman
it seemed to me that that was definitely
the case that he was providing a
bipartisan cover but does anybody really
contemplate that is anybody saying that
Brett Kavanaugh was a bipartisan choice
no even mainstream depictions of it like
I'm thinking of this stupid Saturday
live locker room sketch which was not
funny but it ended the only actually
chuckling the only sort of funny lines
were of Schumer depicting Schumer is
just sort of like a tired the literal
like loser
and then Manchin walking by and like
punching him in the balls like like even
in the most mainstream it's like this
guy is just off doing his own thing he's
nominally a Democrat could do whatever
he wants yeah I mean the only thing I
could say is this is like look III would
have been perfectly happy to have Joe
Manchin
lose his primary I didn't think it was
gonna happen just because of the nature
of Joe Manchin and of West Virginia but
that said if Joe Manchin is senator and
even Kristen cinéma who I really really
don't like she is really really don't
like but if she is senator and even if
Phil Bredesen awful maybe my worst of
the three yeah if though if those three
are senators in 2016
Merrick garland is sitting in that seat
and which is far better than Neal gorsek
and that's just the bottom line
and then the implications of Brett
Kavanaugh are
much less you're from the
establishment I mean of course I'm
sitting here and this this suite
provided by by George Soros but I mean
that's just that's just the reality what
if they nominated I'm suspect of that
this is that that to me this is red flag
he all over the place if they nominated
long what is her name Lonnie Lonnie
Grenier if they nominated her to the
Supreme Court you would have millions of
people protesting as you know I may
think of to think about this for one
second if you can get this to your
establishment mind Mitch McConnell
wouldn't seat
Merrick garland who's a white man now
had Barack Obama nominated a leftist
black progressive not only with the
Democratic base have gotten much more
excited than Mitch McConnell they've got
to worry about being perceived of his
races no national Republican leader ever
wants to be tarnished with that they
didn't know how to play the politics but
you'll just go defending them all day
because it's many MS and they say with
an electoral focus establishment
uh they need to replace him with a real
leftist I'm sorry someone's lying for
the most naked Lee Machiavelli in plays
I've ever seen Jonathan Jonathan
Armstead Sam great job at the conference
as always please continue to razz
Michael for not having seen the movie
Bulworth here's my pitch Michael Jamal
it's a movie about a guy who shuns his
sixties liberal persona then turns into
a candidate endorsing socialized
medicine breaking up corporate control
in the media and a tax break for
interracial couples also he makes out
with Halle Berry
after she laments the loss of Huey P
Newton I'm glad you haven't seen it but
more shocked that it isn't your your
dream board Chris V Chris lopaka I used
to work for the Minnesota Department of
Public Safety driver and vehicle service
that's a little bit terrifying and
basically I'm the Ronald Reagan of
driver's license issues in Minnesota you
can have a P o box as an address in a
very limited circumstances but typically
if someone listen
boxes and address the card will not be
issued because the person doesn't live
in a peel box they can have their ID
mailed to APO box but if the address
they gave is in a residence the card
won't be mailed out if North Dakota had
a problem with the addresses they
shouldn't have issued the cards in the
first place but people should be aware
that listening appeal box as their
residents can screw up all sorts of
stuff don't do it make sure you have a
real address on your license or ID card
I got news for you folks
Pio box and I am fine the spot I have
shown some mr clips to my dad and he
generally agrees with points made I feel
like the progress but then he tunes into
Tucker and Hannity at night which leads
to arguments does it seem like there's
just a general apathy to actual issues
that's causing people to not ever shift
their viewpoints how can we combat this
or can we thank Samuel if he turns into
Hannity every night that's not apathy
that's inertia right
yeah that's aggressive stupidity I don't
know I'd have to know a little bit more
about your dad is to find the the wedge
first principles it's so hard when
somebody pollutes their brain with Fox
News every single day my friend my good
friend whose house I whose parents house
I like to go to in rural Rhode Island
she tried so hard to get her dad to go
for Bernie and he was like almost gonna
do it and then he just watched too much
Fox News and he's Trump all the way
still I have a friend who works for CNN
and her her and her dad have some tense
tension over this and it's he believes
Hannity over his own daughter so it's a
daughter it's too bad he didn't have a
son he was even able to convince him
zero-sum game er hey Sam is Michael
working on a book he never mentions it
come from a 9/7 are in progress if your
interest 9z release by zero books and
it's a very in-depth critique of the
intellectual dark web and the social
conditions that give rise to it working
on a book - by the way i just say you
know nine seven - area code who's this
where you come from
okay all right
sort of what's on your mind well okay
I'm the meetup - blue - hey it's better
much better
boy that Bluetooth stinks without due
respect oh yeah it's all good no it's
not that's my I want to say it if I
think if Democrats are serious about
retaking power they really need to look
into statehood not just you know Puerto
Rico we've been talking about also DC
Virgin Islands and if they're really
serious they can do what is perfectly
legal under the Constitution at least
simply pack the courts like we should is
shrink DC down to the size of a broom
closet and turn it into a hundred
different state and then then we'll see
then use that as leverage to actually do
real change like abolishing or virtually
abolishing the Senate yeah I mean III I
think and I don't know about making a
hundred states out of Washington DC that
may be a little bit tricky but I'm and I
think I think the I think listen the
more of these ideas that are out there
that actually gained some traction the
more leverage there is so I'm I'm for it
I mean broadly speaking I appreciate the
call the state representation things
just seems like such a slam dunk though
because Hodel like what you're what
you're you're actually you're doing the
right thing and it helps you yes and and
who has a like you know it's not like
the right has like 20 you know 50 year
history of agitating against Washington
DC becoming a state like it would have
to be one of those things that mean they
would gin it up immediately right like
it would all of a sudden be you
the the pivot - you know like this has
been the thing that we've been marching
about for years on the right is like you
know keep the state would be it'd be
quick but it would I really don't think
I think broadly speaking I would bet you
most of the people in this country do
not know that Washington DC has no
representation calling from an 864 and
they would have no problem
they wouldn't even see with the
relevance of it comp from an 864 area
code who's this where you come from oh I
get it go soon hey hey hey Sam it's
Eddie from Texas Teddy or Eddie Eddie
any likes an flexes hello what's on your
mind so um I actually work on a
political campaign here in Texas seventh
District and one of the main things or
strategies that we have is getting
people to vote early this is a
Republican district that's very possibly
going to swing left and you know the way
that they're that they pitched it to us
yesterday was that you have to encourage
people to vote early and like once early
voting starts you have to get them as
you know because we're going knocking on
doors you have to say all right did you
vote yet and then say well let's go vote
right you know go get it done right now
because right you know something could
come up there could be a flood or
whatever but also just in regards to
North Dakota I don't know what it is
with the law is in North Dakota but in
Texas they have a voter ID law but you
can bypass that voter ID law if you vote
by mail and if you vote early so I don't
know about voting early in person but I
know if you vote by mail you don't have
to have an ID so it seems that I mean
it's Mel if the code is the same because
I don't see how they would check
everyone's ID by mail or anything even
have they mail but I hope I meant I
don't know but they do there is absentee
voting interesting yeah yeah so I mean
if you can I mean I'm sure you can just
print it out and mail it in but that
would be a you know a feasible way to
win that election if they are
if everybody just voted by mail right
right no it's a good idea oh yeah also
just another quick thing so it seems
like that this I have a friend who's
like you know anti-establishment Alex
Jones type of conservative or like he
likes to call himself but it kind of
seems that and he was gung-ho about
Trump of course but it seems like this
momentum of like the Steve Bannon all
right kind of thing is kind of died down
and now it seems that the whole Trump
wing has merged with the quote-unquote
establishment Republican wing and now it
seems it seems that Mitch McConnell kind
of has control of whatever Trump you
know does and then Trump just controls
his pitch I mean what do you what do you
think about that I think I think to a
large extent you're right I mean I think
the lot of people are I think this was
on the route but I think Kavanagh you
know brought it all together
there's very little never Trump errs
anymore and there's seems to be you know
Trump realizes because here's here's I
think what's gonna happen and I think
I've been saying for a while that I
think Donald Trump and his advisors
probably have no problem with losing the
house because Donald Trump will and he's
already started a campaign for 2020
against the Democrats he's been saying
for a year that they're obstructing him
and hopefully you know but within six
months they'll actually be able to
obstruct him in some way he I think they
have all just sort of made peace with
each other and you know it was just all
they had was stylistic Denver it's
differences and frankly I think you know
the other thing about Kavanagh is his
style his style was Trump style you know
this was this is the first time that we
saw a major political figure just pursue
the strategy of keep lying and denying
and winning with it aside from Trump and
that's what's I think that is now gonna
be the mo with the Republican Party we
saw it with Lindsey Graham I think
that's what it's gonna be but appreciate
the call Eddie all right folks
ya got a stop with the calls I know
we've had people who are on hold for we
have literally stopped that twenty-eight
callers on the line I apologize I'm
gonna take five IMS and then a skedaddle
and WA Nora in face of this dangerous
liberal threat Rand Paul should have got
the guts to put forth a bill to defund
acorn again Auto to chat I'm hoping that
Cavanaugh confirmation will help the
Democrats this November Karl Rove was on
Fox making the same statement I do
believe the GOP has a lien ate a good
portion of the independent voters
thoughts yeah we'll see I think it's
going to help in the House races maybe
in the Senate races
would you consider jjq would you
consider doing an interview on
government corruption and the
differences the differences are the
differences of government current I'm
not sure Michael did a half-decent job
last night getting into it it's talked
about often and almost always by dumb or
naive people I'm not sure I miss that
what is it the differences in government
corruption
oh the different types of government
corruption
oh it's um I'll explain it later it's a
much it's like not just it's it's
looking at corruption as a whole versus
in protecting at Brazil and it's looking
at it's too it takes too long to explain
right now
Colin from Nebraska my coworker went to
the Council Bluffs rally and after Trump
did his whole make America blank again
The Rolling Stones song you can't always
get what you want started playing to end
the rally
Sam's tinder profile hey girl swipe
right why don't you come over and I'll
fix you a nice candlelit dinner and play
you some cardi B I know cardi because
she loves Social Security Jpop tuning in
after just registering to vote in New
York all right good job couldn't be more
thrilled to cast my progressive vote in
November left is best Tomcat hi guys I'm
going to see the Black Panthers Vanguard
of the revolution documentary time my
local Film Society showing his part of
Black History Month hopefully it's good
last night I saw the shape of water and
I've thought on it I want to share with
Jamie I thought that the film is it's
Black History Month this month
we're getting a jump on it I guess
Stanley Nelson makes good documentaries
I've actually I was a part of Black
History Month I don't know it's part of
Black History Black History Month is
February I thought that film as good as
it was sort of had commentary in the
beauty of posad ISM in regards to our
potential future relationships with
dolphins hmm am i weird and thinking
this I can answer that yes Louis 77 I've
only recently learned about the
asymmetry principle also known as
Brandolini z-- law that states that the
amount of energy required to refute
 is an order of magnitude
greater than the energy required to
produce it I've been wondering out loud
all week how Sam plans to fight this
when he debates charlie Kirk at
politican I guess we'll see
general strike is Michael still
supportive of an angle and Nagel she
propagates the stories of the
intellectual dark web and opposes
abortion rights okay those are both
inaccurate statements Mathias hey rmr
crew you guys should interview Rebecca
tracer yes going to and how on women's
anchor and how it's been suppressed on
her book she was on Hazel Park last week
if listeners want to get a taste yeah no
we're going to Jimmy Reaper cake more
brownies
three more Cola dicks Sam you've
probably heard about how David Pakman
just lost a ton of Reglan viewers and
subscribers for taking your side on
Jimmy Dore divide it's a video by one of
the door fans that's what literally
calling you centrist neo liberal that's
why we we dip in every like a couple
months just to prune some of those
photos yes may be sick how they can just
lie like that they're idiots who cares
Johnny ganja cookie Jamie just reminded
me of one of my favorite jokes crazy
ex-girlfriends are like a box of
chocolates they'll both kill your dog
great leap forward one thing the Trump
did is part of the put him just over the
line was he said health care would be
cheaper better for everyone he didn't
run on Republican policy health care
health care
health care and the final I am of the
day parliamentary cricket enthusiasts
yesterday that son of a Nazi spoke so
overtly negatively about my American
cousins the gentleman from Budapest
should be more careful I do say this is
a slippery wicket commenced the match in
that it goes to get
[Music]
I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
but the man
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made
though the option will you tell get pain
rubber bands
brakes you fell off switch right
[Music]
No
the teacher takes you
[Music]
and
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
