[Music]
since we're talking about the 90s let's
go back to the 90s this is a throwback
Wednesday clip Bernie Sanders on the
floor of the house longtime listeners of
the show remember Duke Cunningham a Duke
Cunningham was a congressman from from
California who if I remember correctly
had a had a boat I'm trying to remember
what the name of that boat was and that
boat was was paid for by largesse that
he received in terms of bribes from
defense contractors and Duke Cunningham
pled guilty to receiving over 2.3
million dollars in bribes the dukester
could remember what the name of that
boat was the dukester
is that what it was it's it's now docked
under the name bankers hours but that's
a new name whereabouts no this is a
piece from 2013 everyone knows where
disgraced former Rep Randy Duke
Cunningham was for the past seven plus
years until his release from federal
prison in June the one-time Rancho
blahblah
but the whereabouts remained a mystery
of the dukester the Washington DC party
boat that Cunningham once called home
yeah yeah he was an awesome guy I've
actually known a couple of people living
on boats in in Washington she was a cool
guy but he wasn't just a criminally
fraudulent congressman he was also a
bigot
and here is Bernie Sanders calling him
out for his bigotry on the floor of the
house in 1995 who said something about
homos in the military was the gentleman
referring to the many thousands and
thousands of gay people who have put
their lives on the line in countless
wars defending this country I decided
the group of people that the gentleman
was referring to I'm
talking about the military people in the
military do not support
that's not very we're talking about you
use the word homos in the military you
have insulted thousands of men and women
will put their lives are getting by my
usual it was like I wouldn't keep now
the other part that I enjoy about that
is that I have tried to tell you kids
before back in the day that was a slur
from the right liberals that was it
there was no one going like he's not a
liberal he's the left of that another
example of Bernie Sanders being a crypto
white national yes keep going around on
with all of your incredibly immoral
stupid takes on Twitter now also
speaking of Bernie Sanders this is a
Bernie Sanders ad but it's actually
geared towards the strike that is
happening today yeah I mean this is
really like a cup info video essentially
I mean it obviously comes from Bernie
but it's not numbered he isn't in it no
and it is letting people know about the
uber strike that is happening today
uber of course is the biggest of the
ride-sharing companies I was talking to
a guy I take Juneau it's not available
anywhere but in New York City and now
apparently the the dollars are the
payments are more or less the same but
when they started goober paid something
like double what it pays now and it's
very difficult for these people to to
make to make a living doing it and here
is here is one of the drivers talking
about all the money that uber is about
to wear I should say their shareholders
are about to make with the the upcoming
IPO and here is one of those strikers
where it's a company that is making
millions of dollars and the drivers are
slowly becoming slaves of their system
[Music]
well at first Hoover was something great
it was so good that people thought that
they could make a career out of this
you were there quotes that you want you
are driving your vehicle I'm someone
that loves driving meeting new people
going to new places and the money at the
time was great around 2015 it was easy
to make two hundred and fifty three
hundred dollars in eight hours or less
earnings have gone down so much that
people can afford health care there's
not enough money for four basic things
that people need most people are working
50 sometimes 60 hours a week to be able
to make the money that they were making
three years ago and that means that
people are driving while exhausted I
have heard stories of people that have
falling asleep while driving people that
now don't have time to be with their
kids because they have to drive so much
I do have two jobs now I'm working doing
proofs so uber folks are protesting in
around at least eight cities around the
country live to is lift as well yeah I
just start wheat from our Manley Carter
in Virginia he said because of the low
pay at the General Assembly that's the
body that he was elected to I've been
driving for lyft on the side to make
ends meet I'm striking on Wednesday with
thousands of my fellow ride share
drivers don't cross the picket line
don't do it don't cross the picket line
just don't now
