[Music]
play this this is funny just a little
palate cleanser
means TV worker cooperative Jake Flores
who are the other people in this video
Melissa
raka Rocha Melissa Rocha Melissa raka
and Andrews Lee this is a great because
you know you watch vice and vice like
I've seen a lot and vice does some good
work but they'd also do a lot of like
not good work and unbalanced not good
and so but you'll notice like Vice will
do like that you know like a documentary
in the drug war I mean these and people
have worked for Vice worse myself
included including yeah yeah buddy
Anthony la Paix but they'll start with
like you know we read lahar Sinaloa
cartel and they'll get some amazing
footage and you know some little bit
just kind of like anthropologically
fascinating and then the segment ends
with like would talk to the Western
Hemisphere affairs head of the DEA to
you know where they go and reinforce
basically all of the presuppositions of
u.s. foreign policy about said topic so
this is a funny bit of the intersection
of Vice the types of people that you
might run into the children of the
Venezuelan elite that you would probably
run into who might have like I don't
know they might do something like I
don't know say his example just I don't
know they might be like a YouTube comic
where they ramped about things yeah
where they like do like funny Corky
rants and then as an example maybe a
really prestigious outlet like the New
York Times would for some very
inexplicable reason would give a YouTube
comic a video platform to attack people
opposing intervention in Venezuela and
then not disclosed that the YouTube
comments father is a prime advisor to
the us-backed opposition something like
that might happen but this is the vice
version of that means TV with Jake
Flores Melissa raka and Andrews Lee it's
pretty funny check it out
what's up fights international this is
branch Rockefeller I'm coming to you
today from beautiful Bushwick Brooklyn
new
today I'm going to be talking to two
Venezuelan refugees / artists we're
going to be discussing how to bring
democracy back to that authoritarian
countries sub Connor so to be in
your head I'm just finishing up a blog
post it's about my favorite coffee shops
in Brooklyn oh and you do it by head
I've always done it this way for sure
and I bet like as a Venezuelan like from
what I've heard computers are illegal in
Venezuela it's absolutely correct
okay well again muchas gracias for
answering my preguntas why don't we
start with when it was that you ended up
havin to flee Venezuela there was a
slave worker uprising on my dad's
plantation and I just had to get out of
there
we all did technically I was born on my
father's yacht as we were leaving
Venezuela legally speaking I am
recognized by some countries as a pirate
and now we live in my parents building
here in Brooklyn I'm so sorry for your
hardship like I apologize why do support
internationally-recognized president of
Venezuela 1 why do best friends with my
dad and I've known him since I was a
little kid he's always been around he's
so funny I actually think he's my
godfather I'm just tired of seeing so
much discrimination in Venezuela against
POWs prisoners of war know people of
wealth all right so I got to ask you the
bro question cuz you know let's let's be
honest like it's literally only white
male bros are asking this question but
like given the history of u.s.
imperialism like economic exploitation
military expansionism in the global
south like whatever you think of Maduro
why should the u.s. intervened the US
needs to get involved in Venezuela
because sometimes hands off means blood
on your hand
[Laughter]
that's so good man wow that's great
your call
