[Music]
this was actually another funny moment
wait who is this in the video this was
another Fox News disruption okay I
thought that was eric bolling first no I
literally did okay so what's his face
Jack Todd pirate Bureau
Todd Pierrot is that his name is that as
he'd related to uh I don't believe so
it's just the small world of you know
bridge-and-tunnel people that work for
fox pyromaniacs all right so he's in a
cafe in a Riverside Montana he's out in
the real America have you been there and
he's he's basically you know the point
of these segments is really clear you're
supposed to go and find some people that
look like quote unquote real Americans
and from the bias of a fox news audience
and then they're supposed to validate
you know barbarism but he ran into a
little bit of a snag this of
construction both of these guys work in
construction he says immigrants are
vital to the construction business they
just have to come the right way why do
you say that that's right Hispanic
immigrants in particular are very big
part of the labor force in general you
know nobody judges are discriminating
about where they're from or who they are
but it's predicated upon them becoming
legal citizens the right way then thank
you all right
that's that's so far so good ish you got
to make it a lot easier to become
citizens to the quote right way right
exactly
no I meant from a fox perspective so the
guy is you know no I mean I have all
sorts of problems with that statement
but I would imagine that the Fox viewer
might want a little bit more red meat
than an embracing of bad immigration
policies by reasserting that racism is
bad I mean after all this is a network
that has law remember I know talk right
yeah it's some Rhino talk Tucker Carlson
and Laurie Ingram ain't saying that
but you know whatever fair enough what's
next citizen is the right way then thank
you jack jack is an info specialist and
he really wants Howard Schultz to talk
about climate change specifically the
Green
New Deal which you support why do you
support it yeah it's really important we
keep below two degrees Celsius of
average warming otherwise the
consequence is going to be devastating
now how do we pay for it yeah how did we
pay for World War two at the end of the
day when something is this important our
economy is gonna suffer if we don't pay
for it okay but you do agree with the
sentiment that this is as big a deal
climate change that is as World War two
yeah I mean for a little over four
hundred thousand Americans died in World
War two and climate change is killing
150 thousand people per year at least
okay let's talk about the money because
that's a huge part of this how are we
going to pay for it yeah yeah so during
World War two for one thing the
government just pushed some of the cash
upfront and raised some tax on some
folks but at the end of the day it's
stimulated the economy so much that
everyone benefited okay so to review you
are in favor of raising taxes in order
to support the green you do if that's
the optimal solution the economists sort
out I'll go with that
Jack thank you for your time and finally
mmt has gotten to uh that was good
energy oh that's a Riverside must be
worse at Missouri oh my bad yeah I can
say I I know every town in Montana I've
never heard of a Riverside my dad
Riverside Missouri every town in Montana
it's like 12 Winnipeg Greg MRT MBS come
town
