two three area code who's this where you
come from Sam it's Zach in East
Tennessee how are you doing good how you
doing Zach what's on your mind
well I'm actually very fortunate your
your guest is speaking at East Tennessee
State University which is about 15
minutes from my own I called him before
I was a former opiate addict that was
introduced to opiates by the University
of Tennessee Student Health Center and
prescribed a steady dose for luckily it
didn't happen the drugs weren't
prescribed until my senior year by the
doctor at the student clinic okay so
I'll go over there yeah just real quick
I just tell you a quick story and then I
live in a small town - I could I could I
could tell you tales from like Tales
from the Crypt of drug trading and all
that but so as a freshman at UT
Knoxville I felt a little ping in my leg
it spread to my entire leg and lower
back I've dealt with this pain for three
years finally my senior year I go in for
an MRI
the MRI gets read and I go to the same
doctor I've been seeing for three years
at the student health center where I
paid no you know comes with your student
fees and he puts me on right then and
there forty-five hydrocodone seven point
five a month or every four to six hours
and keeps me on that for a year mmm I'd
say it took me four and a half years to
graduate yeah I'm just you know trying
to keep my options open but um anyway
and here's the problem back this was
2000 to 2001 I did not even know that
you could get addicted to this stuff
because I was not a drug taker and I
mean I'd smoked some some bud with my
girlfriend
and anyway so I got home I go home to
East Asian to Johnson City which is
north and east of Knoxville and I'm like
one day I woke up I was like I don't
have any energy I need to drink an
energy drink I found out I was going in
withdrawal when we were kids and sandy
my nose I mean you're you're older than
me probably about 10 or 12 years but you
know it was a mad don't do crack but as
far as pills were concerned only people
are our age we were taught that kind of
pills were only for lonely old
housewives Dean get when I'm kind of
yeah
there was no coming there was no notion
that you could get like addicted to
pills you didn't see it as something
that a young person would do I mean it
was just like you could yeah I
understand we were saying yeah and so I
by the time I figured out that I was
addicted and by the time and by the way
so I came back and oxycontin had hit my
little small town of Elizabethton which
is a small town near Johnson City and
the whole tri-cities region is right
there at the tip of the Tennessee kind
of near Asheville and all that so um
yeah it was very how was it I was one of
those dudes that would get fit and I had
an MRI sheet that showed that I I really
did have a whack pack I don't know if it
was from playing football in high school
or track I ran hurdles I don't know if
it's it was something but I had a really
messed up back I could walk in with this
MRI readout and play
doctors off for 45 60 you know Lord had
take those so I mean the desist it was
pretty sorted and I actually know that
I'm pretty sure I know the doctor that
she spoke with that you're that your
guest mentioned she said that she spoke
with a doctor who has been talking to
this community about allowing a
methadone clinic in because we have a
lot of Bible
being you know Christians who don't want
to give any treatments and that's one of
the other problems about areas like this
is that there are no treatment options
now they started to see that you can
make a ton of money so buprenorphine and
but so I I mean if you ever want to know
like maybe it's the less busy news day I
would love to like talk to you for two
or three minutes about what pills did
like a small town like mine and and when
I left to go to UT in the fall of 1997
versus when I came back in the in
January of 2002 well tell you what's how
it changed next week when we have a news
day will open up the calls early and
will take again I would like to hear
that pre sham also um Sam kind of one
thing have you looked at the I mean you
guys looked at the Cavanaugh's yearbook
page or his friends that they're both
widely circulated on Twitter and all
they talk about are like keg you know if
you look at their activities it's like
you know some doodles and and then it
goes in all these little inside jokes
and it's like keg okay dude and like
Major League keg toss a slip and like
you know hangman that kind of thing
17 year olds I mean you know I I think
you should be able to go in front of you
know I think you should be eligible for
being a Supreme Court regardless of your
beer consumption at age 17 or or
whatever you have done as long as it's
something that you have you know come to
understand about yourself and and change
presuming drink right that would be a
problem drink
hello also I think attempted rates also
even harder to overcome frankly but Zach
I appreciate the call thanks
