I mean imagine for a moment if a former
senator was watching let's say the
Sunday version of Meet the Press and
they were aware of Erick Erickson who
was the guy who got famous by calling
Chief Justice Souter
a goat f er yeah that was the way that
he got his claim to fame and he has been
engaged in a list of conspiracy paddling
that it's almost hard for me to actually
enumerate I have a piece here somewhere
about it but let's listen to what he has
to say there is on your site mm-hmm here
is this is on Chuck Todd Meet the Press
they have introduced Erick Erickson to
talk about the dangers of conspiracy
theories Eric I'm curious so you're
you've had to deal with conspiracy
theories on your site mm-hmm you've been
sometimes people get mad at you thinking
will you help traffic these conspiracy
theories and I know that there are
others that are that are posit sometimes
people think that you like just come out
and say it
you've traffic these you have trafficked
in these good but whose job is it to get
rid of some of this stuff whose job is
it to purge this stuff no job is it to
educate Americans to facts I think we
all have an obligation here I mean just
let me address conservatives for a
minute last week you had a lot of people
pushing the maybe this bomber not well
as Rush Limbaugh was pushing it here you
had a lot of people who were pushing
this theory now we know the facts now we
know the facts and yet there are still
people pushing this I got to tell you
posit for my so what Eric Eric is saying
is like look the first reaction it's
perfectly legitimate to have a wild
conspiracy theory I mean for instance
like the Caravan
this is a Twitter a tweet now I didn't
see this one because Erica Eriksson
blocked me years ago but this was from a
week ago it's not a coincidence that
this caravan to the south of us is
happening two weeks before our federal
elections if you want to bring Eric
Erickson on to your television program
ask him what he means by this what does
that mean it's not a coincidence
does it just is he suggesting that these
Guatemalans and Hondurans who started
this cavern and Caravan weeks and weeks
ago and could not make it to the United
States until weeks after the election
let me that they this was like some type
of they time this out or just someone
else to have this idea there's someone
else who had knowledge of our election
saying we've got a Djinn this up down
there we'll get this a caravan going I
mean it would be irresponsible not to
speculate the idea that it could be a
coincidence mm-hmm it's not a
coincidence there's I don't believe in
coincidences or what about this Eric
Erickson note to reporters a growing
body of blogs are posting that
Cavanaugh's mother presided over the
foreclosure of Christine Blasi Ford's
childhood home or at a minimum her
parents home I encourage you to honestly
vet this as it could explain motive or
fuel conspiracy oh I wonder I wonder how
people could hear about that conspiracy
oh you just told it to us
well I'm sure all the people on those
blogs those right wing blogs will read
what the Washington Post has to say
about that or when it turns out that
there was actually Oh two different
people named Ford who were who were
judges I'm sure Eric Erickson to address
that on his Twitter feed he deleted
those tweets oh did he
huh Wow
David hog contradicts himself in two
separate interviews about whether he was
at school during the shooting and no
this isn't a fake news
Gateway pundit BS story it's actually an
eric erickson red-state BS story now
maybe it's unfair to look back a matter
of months where there's three distinct
episodes where Eric Erickson has pedaled
in conspiracy theories or maybe there's
this if reporters really cared about
children they'd also be yelling at
Planned Parenthood asking why they're
selling baby body parts and turning a
blind eye to child victims of sex
trafficking yeah serious look at it now
granted that was all the way back in
June of 2018 that's all the way back
almost five months ago so it has been
fully debunked for a year and a half
versus two years right okay I'm sorry
let's get back to him on Meet the Press
talking about how the right needs to
give up their conspiracy theories after
they've been debunked theory now we know
the facts now we know the facts and yet
there are still people pushing this I
got to tell you that from my perspective
when we know all the facts now about the
guy last week and you're still pushing
this theory you're at war with the truth
and if your conservative is at war with
the truth you're not really being
conservative cause it to be conservative
in other words means you put out a
conspiracy theory no matter how insane
it is based on no facts no facts right
because it's not true
so it couldn't have been based on facts
it was based on conjecture in sloppy
I don't know fictionalizing that's a
fair play and that's conservative but
once someone in the mainstream media
presents the facts in a way that I
believe them then after that it's not
conservative even though every single
conservative outlet will carry it weight
this is the new dispute and conservatism
apparently you do you do reckless
conspiracy theories forever or do you
stop at some point
becomes like just embarrassing I am
willing to bat that's the big division I
am willing to bet I don't have the time
to do this but over the course of Erik
Erikson's radio and print career that he
has talked about Vince Foster
because certainly his idol Rush Limbaugh
has and that it was disproven thirty
some odd years ago twenty some odd years
ago any more to this alright let's
listen to more of this because this is
the part where Chuck Todd says hey I
don't know why we invited you on the
show
you're at war with the truth and if
you're conservative is at war with the
truth you're not really being
conservative
Rush Limbaugh was questioning the
stickers on the van across the board we
saw a bunch of conservatives doing this
now we know the facts the question is
include is the problem is in this
situation we have a lot of people who no
longer trust the media they don't trust
institutions they don't trust their
neighbor we've gone inward uh
unfortunately I do think it's going to
be an external threat that brings us
together there is nothing left in this
country that unifies us as a whole we
all have our own different media outlets
we have our social media outlets we have
our people we in positive and remember
this is a guy this is the guy who pushed
a conspiracy theory and said oh the
media that my audience doesn't believe
they should to be the ones who vet it
talk about a disingenuous F I mean give
me a break
and if if the elite in this country do
not at least use their elite status to
put pressure on these other elites to
clamp down on this guess what it ain't
happening
bottom line it ain't happening
