with Sam's visa the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in
conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in that hate call me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday July 2nd 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this would be
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal and
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of psychology Stanford
University Jennifer Eberhardt unbiased
uncovering the hidden prejudice that
shapes what we see think and do also on
the program today Trump will get his
tanks for his corrupt July 4th
celebration bill Barr now given more say
over the immigration courts meanwhile an
investigation launches into the ten
thousand custom border agents we're all
on a racist Facebook group
meanwhile a Honduran immigrant dies in
ice facility in Texas while others tell
Congress people they are forced to drink
from toilets back in Capitol Hill
Democrats sue finally to get Donald
Trump's tax returns Bernie Sanders
raises 18 million in small donations and
q1 an excuse me q2 and lastly think
progress is for sale all this and more
on today's program yes ladies and
gentlemen welcome to this Tuesday
episode of the majority report on this
abbreviated week we will not have a show
on July 4th maybe we will just have just
released audio tanks rolling down the
streets you'll recall that Donald Trump
has wanted to have tanks I think at his
inauguration and then subsequent July
4th celebrations because he became
enamored with the idea of large military
shows of strength and missiles and
whatnot that he saw the North Koreans do
and maybe I think for Bastille Day and
he wants all sorts of toys and people
saluting at me the other thing to keep
in mind with the celebration on July 4th
is that they are now using it to as a
mechanism to drive fundraising for the
Republicans now many of you are probably
too young to remember Lincoln's bedroom
but Lincoln's bedroom became popularized
to buy the right I think it was in the
90s now because Bill Clinton
some of Bill Clinton's top donors spent
a night in the Lincoln Bedroom at the
White House how's it feel and they were
allowed to come in in this instance
basically tickets are being sold for the
sake of Republican donors directly
there's no sort of you're a big campaign
contributor come to the White House and
visit me it's come to this celebration
for money and only for money that will
go into Republican hands literally
leveraging a an event creating an event
with tax dollars incidentally well we'll
talk more about this after we hear
Donald Trump take an announcement I
guess about what's going to happen the
fourth great fourth of July and
Washington DC it'll be like no other it
will be special and I hope a lot of
people come and it's going to be about
this country and so salute to America
and I'm gonna be here I'm going to say a
few words and we're gonna have planes
overhead best fighter jets in the world
and other planes too and we're gonna
have some tanks stationed outside kind
of be pretty careful with the tanks
because the roads have a tendency not to
like to carry heavy things so we have to
put them in certain areas but we have
the brand-new Sherman tank so we have
the brand-new April tanks and we have
some incredible equipment military
equipment on display brand-new and we're
very proud of it you know we're making a
lot of new tanks right now we're
building a lot of new tanks and Lima
Ohio a Greek tank factory that people
wanted to close down until I got elected
and I stopped it from being closed down
and now it's a very productive facility
and they greatest tank in the world now
the idea of us getting into a massive
land war that's going to require a whole
new fleets of tanks is pretty hard to
imagine but at least we've got a lot of
them and now we can show them off at
parades
just in case you were wondering about
this July 4th celebration it's gonna be
a lot about America one of the things in
contrast to other July 1st celebration
right apologizing for America first of
all I'm sorry all right now go make your
hotdogs your white Devils parks
department is getting charged for
transporting the tanks by the military
you know the parks department that's
already hurting for funding it's just
it's it's grotesque and slightly
reminiscent of this oh boy oh boy
[Music]
[Applause]
hog on goes the truck there you go
Hongkong it goes to truck Anthony Adric
still almost as Trump is Trump but I
mean this is uh welcome to the new
America and I just don't I know there's
going to be a ton of people are gonna be
out there psyched to see those tanks I
don't know why we don't have missiles -
why are you sharing ideas I mean why not
I mean look if you I stop right oval
North Korean and People's Liberation
Army parades they have missiles Trump
should be in fatigues standing out of
out of a limo I that would be amazing to
watch I would also make a sheep is
balanced flatbed it's some charred
bodies just to show like the handiwork
of the tanks speaking of which but I
guess that's we don't get that too the
second term of Trump meanwhile we fly
some bodies back in of any places and
the across the world that we're killing
people meanwhile several congresswoman
went down two and men went to tour some
facilities there's a lot happening on
the migrant concentration camp front we
will talk more about this big Pro
Publica story from yesterday that
basically undercut uncovers a Customs
and Border Protection
I guess Facebook group made up of former
and existing border agents who trade
racist memes and mock dead immigrants as
well as those in Congress who may be
supportive of immigrants not being
abused in these camps here's an image of
one of the camp's from above I mean I
don't know where where which where is
this one Brendon
this one is McAllen McAllen Texas in May
2015 we've reported that Department of
Homeland Security apparently was afraid
at that time of potential riots I mean
you look at this it's not terribly
surprising that's just unacceptable in
these places and it came out in the
democratic debate we've talked about
this for a while they have criminalized
coming across the border they are
separating parents from children and
this is what you get
they're scaring immigrants from picking
up the kids they want these images out
there I'm not convinced but they do so
with the misguided belief that parents
who are afraid of their kids being
murdered or raped in some of the most
violent cities in the world if that's
where the kids have to go to be safe
that's what they'll do so a couple of
Congress people went down there to tour
the facility here's a Jana Presley she
is understand right now she was giving a
press conference and the the Congress
people got surrounded by I guess people
who were cheering on for abuse of
immigrants I don't know what you would
call them counter protesters fascist
Thorat Aryans bigots deaths she responds
directly back to them words and policies
we give here on the floor the House of
Representatives this is about the
preservation of our humanity and this is
about seeing the safety the humanity and
the full freedoms of black royal
children being negotiated and
compromised and moderated we mean a
system networks these humane and that is
compassionate and that keeps families
together
I learned a long time ago that would
change happens it's on you because
people see the light or they feel the
fire since I we're lifting up these
stories in the hopes that you will see
the lights and if you don't we will
bring the fire that's pretty powerful
that's tough she's exactly right
apparently down there it's being
reported that by the by New York Times
national correspondent Simon Romero that
Rashidah Talib was there and a trump
heckler was yelling we don't want
Muslims here either we don't care about
Sharia law we care about Jesus Christ go
care about your own country apparently
there's some more a video of that do we
have video of the of some of those
protestors yelling there I mean good for
these I don't I mean frankly I'm not
sure why it's taken this long if you
recall the first time that somebody
basically got up in front of one of
these facilities was not was Jeff
Merkley senator Jeff Merkley went down
there months and months ago now
taxation is theft the yelling you piece
of there you go so nice I mean yeah
I was I was reminded reading this
weekend of how like all of this stuff
was you know is brewing for years
particularly in Arizona and these these
groups of people going out and doing
stuff that we still regularly see like
pouring out water bottles that were left
for migrant right as an example and then
that kind of fusing with this conspiracy
theory culture and a strategic shift for
the Republican Party to not even pretend
right like that was the autopsy after
2012 should we pretend to not be bigots
right and they decided more effective to
just be authentically bigoted we will
get to Professor Everhart in just a
moment it's a an interview I recorded
with her I guess it was about a month
ago now which seems like ages ago but
want to remind you we all want to Haven
a place that feels uniquely you or us
with joy bar or a joy bird you get
one-of-a-kind furniture crafted after
your your own unique taste you can turn
your ideas into reality with hundreds of
styles and options they have all sorts
of different choices you can make here
rich buttery leather or the plushest
velvet you've ever felt you want a sofa
an aquatic blue a loveseat and bubblegum
pink they got it if you dream it joy
bird can make it a reality
they even have a beautiful selection of
outdoor sofas lounge chairs and table
plus they're free personal design
consultants can help you nail down your
own design joy bird offers a range of
kid and pet friendly upholstery options
so that your creations can stand the
test of time I wish both my kids are out
of that zone now saw mostly out of that
zone joy bird also offers a rein exert
of all thanks there are 365 day home
trial if you don't love your joy bird
you can return it for a full refund
see how joy bird can help you design
your dream space find your joy today at
joy bird dot-com slash majority you can
create the furniture that brings you joy
joy bird dot-com / majority go over
there now check out the stuff you won't
believe the choices that you have their
ability to custom while these things you
can receive an exclusive offer of 25%
off your first order by using the code
majority so that's joy bird dot-com /
majority use the code majority for 25%
off all right we're gonna take quick
break when we come back we'll be talking
to Jennifer Eberhardt the author of
biased
program professor of psychology at
Stanford University winner of the 2014
MacArthur Genius grant and author of
biased uncovering the hidden prejudice
that shapes what we see think and do
Jennifer Eberhardt
welcome to the program thanks for having
me so let's just start with the the
notion of implicit bias whoa what do you
mean by that well implicit bias or
unconscious bias is something that we're
all vulnerable to and in my book I'm
trying to really show the science behind
it and and it's it's it's basically our
beliefs and our feelings that we have
about social groups that can influence
our decision-making and our actions even
when were not aware of it so when we say
someone has implicit bias against black
people how is that different in in your
sense than racism or is that a specific
type of racism I'm sorry can you say
that again well when we talk about when
we talk about implicit bias well how is
that different from racism or is it
simply a different type of racism oh I
see so yeah so I think when people think
about racism they're thinking about know
people who are filled with hate and know
people who are kind of like old
fashioned at racist what we call them
and but but here was with this kind of
implicit bias or unconscious bias you
don't really have to be a bigot to be
bias you can have bias that's weird and
have real you know negative impact
despite you know our intentions and
despite our desire to be fair okay all
right well let's I mean let's talk about
some of the the
the I guess the the impetus for some of
your work I mean both of it you
mentioned both your experience as a
child and your child's experience when
he was was quite young why don't we
start with with your child you start the
book when you were on a plane with I
think your son who is I think five at
that time tell us about that that event
yes so we were on an airplane running
back to California together and he's
excited to be on the plane and he looks
all around and he's kind of checking the
people out and he sees a man and hey now
that guy's looks like daddy and I look
at the guy and he doesn't look anything
at all my husband and so that didn't
start looking around on the plane and I
realized he was the only black man on
the plane and so I got to have a
conversation right with my son about how
that all black people look alike and
before I could have that conversation
though he looks up at me and he says I
hope you got to ride the claim you know
and so I'm like what do you mean you
know daddy wouldn't rob a plane and he
says yeah I know and I said well why
would you say that and he said well I
don't know why I said that
no I don't know why I was thinking that
so this is a good example of someone who
was kind of picking up you know things
from the world around him and picking up
this association basically between
blackness and clowning that he doesn't
know where he got it from but somehow
he's been exposed to it and he's acting
on it what is your sense of where your
son could have picked that up I mean as
you know I have a six year old and you
know this was I guess a decade or so
more but where where would that form I
mean was that a function of of his
association I mean is it your sense that
that was a descent a sense of his
association with blackness or was it his
scent
of I mean it or what well I mean I think
it's it's a function of kind of being in
the world where you know you hear about
you know you kind of as a child you're
learning about people's position and
society and to know what kinds of
beliefs that you have about certain
social groups and you know as a child
you're trying to figure out right what
correlates with what he's trying to to
think about how people maybe reacts to
african-american men in public spaces
and whether they give them a lot of room
whether they lock their car doors you
know all of those kinds of things you
know children kind of pick up some us
what we feel and how they should then
feel and think about other people and
that's one way I think that media is
another way I mean there's a lot of ways
but that that's one way and let's also
talk about since we're in sort of the
realm of of childhood is your your
experience in switching schools I guess
it was elementary school or junior high
and which you ultimately became I guess
maybe in some ways inspiration for some
of your work Ohio
I can't announce one day that we're
going to move to a separate Cleveland
called Beachwood which at the time was
almost all-white and so I was worried
about making that move and how I would
be accepted and whether I would have
friends whether it's your life people
wrong there and all those things and
like when I exited news I found that
students were really spend we're really
welcoming they want to show him around
and all of that but I still have
problems making friends and that had to
do with the fact that I could not tell
their faces apart I wasn't I wasn't
exposed you know right people very much
then and I lived in this neighborhood
again that
entirely black so all of my the most
beautiful interactions and relationships
that I phoned was with who were with
other black people and so it was hard to
read and actually you know to to be able
to recognize that their faces it was and
it has shocked me because I didn't
anticipate you know this at all I'd
never had that kind of problem before
but you know here I was no trying to
make fans and I couldn't tell one person
from the other and it actually took me
some time to figure it out over time I
was able to figure it out but my brain
no needed time to adjust to the new
environment and to the demands that I
would know that were placed on me and
that new environment soon so all the
time I was I was able to you know
develop that skill but before then I
didn't have it and and so subsequent to
that obviously you have there is you've
come across research and partaken and
research that suggests that this is that
that phenomena is physiological yeah so
we've done some research I collaborated
with a number of specialists at Stanford
and we conducted a neural imaging
studies and look at this very issue what
scientists call it is the other race
effect and it's basically that people
are much better at recognizing faces of
their own race in faces of other races
and we wanted to understand the neural
underpinnings of that effect and so we
put people in a neural imaging scanner
both black and white
study participants and we showed them
images have black and white faces and we
looked at what happened you know in
their brain if they were showing these
images and there's an area of the brain
called the fusiform face area and that's
highly implicated in face processing and
so we really focused on that area and we
found that it was that area was much
more activated two faces of their own
race than two faces of other races now
is that strictly a
logical development and what what can
that be can that be impacted based upon
where someone like if we were to take an
image of your brain
prior to switching schools and an image
of your brain two years later would your
ability to react to faces of a different
race have changed or would that dynamics
they'll be there and you would have
developed other sort of mechanisms to
make up for the reduced brain activity
that's a great question
so so I would guess that migraine would
have changed over that time that that
this area the city from face area would
become more responsive to faces outside
of my own race and we have some research
on that actually where we looked at this
process developmentally and we found
that for people who actually stay you
know in you know their own you know in
these neighborhoods that are racially
segregated they you know in Italy he's
showing you know some responsiveness to
all phases and then as you get older you
start to see it a differential response
to faces of your own race versus another
race and as an adult that affects that's
even stronger so so it's not just a you
know the you know our vitality or you
know a brain wiring but a brain wiring
is a function of our social environment
so if we change your social
environmentally foods we change who were
exposed to then we can also change how
our brain is functioning that that's
that's that's pretty nuts in a way I
mean I mean it makes sense but I mean
that's like a me week is theoretically
right like you know just to continue to
use you as a child in that scenario your
brain could have changed you know two
years later and so you you can recognize
and differentiate and your brain can
register that you can differentiate
between white people but theoretically
right
you could then
move to a different school where it is
you know predominantly Asian and then go
through that process all over again yes
or or does so is it right okay so it's
it's it's it's tied to sort of
difference in races that in races in
particular as opposed to just like you
don't have a certain muscle for lack of
a better term in your brain like that
muscle is not generic it is it is
something that is learned and you can
see a change in your brain that is
specific to specific races right you can
see a change in your brain that actually
specifically specific races if if you're
not exposed to the faces of that other
race at all you get less activation in
that area of the cv for face area but as
you're exposed to those faces more and
more over time your brain adjust so for
the assignments doing about
neuroplasticity so just because we see
you know a difference and how the brain
is responding or what gets activated
doesn't mean that that's a permanent
difference that it's actually you know
the brain can kind of change based on
you know we're interacting with what our
social environment is like and I mean I
don't want to get too stuck on this but
I find this this part really fascinating
is there also a a Coll like a a
coincident effect in terms of you know I
would imagine if you go into a room and
you can't differentiate people in the
same way that you could you know in a
different room let's say that that would
create a certain amount of anxiety and
the more stuff that's in there that is
not just foreign but foreign in the
sense that you don't even have a
capacity to process it in the same way I
would imagine that that creates all
sorts of sort of subsequent social
reactions
why I mean it does I mean so for example
you may not want to associate with those
people as much because it's you know I'm
leading to this anxiety to worry about
making a mistake in choosing one person
you know for the other and so yes it
could have all of these other downstream
consequences in my case I actually
needed to be able to you know to
differentiate among white faces because
you know that you know that was my new
community right so I needed to be able
to figure it out and over time I was
able to figure it out but but even like
I was super motivated right to do this
but I couldn't do that right away
it took my brain sort of time to and
enough exposure to these faces over and
over again before I got the hang of it
okay and so let's talk about a couple
other examples of this implicit bias
that you have established through some
of the studies that you have done and
and then I just want to come back around
to you know questions that may be
slightly outside your portfolio but that
your work obviously has implications of
but let's talk just a little bit about
the that you did one experiment with or
I should say study with with with
subliminal words that were flashed in
front of police officers and then
associated it with faces just well walk
us through that study and what the
implications were today getting police
officers to think about violent crime
and we were interested in whether when
they thought about violent crime if that
would lead them to focus their attention
on black male faces so for the study we
had some students on the computer and we
flashed words on the computer and we
flashed the words at such a rapid rate
that they couldn't consciously detect
them and their words were either words
that were associated with violent crime
or
not so some of the participants got
words that were all associated with
violent crime like arrested apprehend
and capture and shoots in those kinds of
words and then we had a control that
didn't get any of those words and then
he showed two faces on the computer
screen simultaneously and one was a
black male face and the other was of
white male face and we were interested
in which case they would look at and it
turned out that those officers been
exposed to words that were you know
associated with violent crime like
capture and arrest and so forth they
they move their eyes away from the
whites agent or into the black space so
it was the black face that captures
their attention and for us this was from
a way of almost looking at racial
profiling and we in a laboratory because
I mean that's what profiling is about
right is when no officers are on the
lookout for violent crime
you know just the racial category of the
person matter at all for who they attend
to and who they may stop and who they
may search and so forth and so this is a
I don't know a version of that a
stripped-down version of that that we
tried in the laboratory with officers
and that and that almost establishes
which I think like you you know I feel
like you could you could take those same
police officers and take him out for a
drink and within a half an hour or so
you could get a sense of what the
results of that test might be but that
would that establish to sort of from a
clinical perspective
I mean tell us about this notion of
categorical knowledge because this is
basically like the brain I mean I get
the sense that it's just the description
is the brain just can't handle stuff as
my man chaos on some level and so it has
to divvy stuff up and this is the way
the chips fall yes that's exactly right
so from categorization is a tool that
our brain uses to to make sense of
everything that we're bombarded with in
the world and so we need a way we can't
cut you know take in
everything that was and so he me later
sort through it and to package it and
she you know you know to to categorize
it so they're able to establish some
kind of you know control you know over
the world but also some coherence and so
so this is one tool that we use and we
categorize you know not just people but
we categorize everything like categorize
furniture and colors and you know we
categorized you know flowers and you
name it dogs and cats and and so forth
and so that helps us to notice it
establishes some kind of order I guess
over what we're seeing and allows us to
you know to be able to form expectations
and so forth
but when we do this with people when we
categorize people those social groups
then we also might develop beliefs about
the people who are in that category and
we call those beliefs stereotypes and we
also may develop feelings about people
in that category which we call prejudice
and stereotypes and that prejudice
together is what we call bias and the
concern is is that for people that bias
can influence how we treat them it can
influence how we make decisions about
them and so I mean it sounds like and we
should say there was another study where
it was almost the reverse of the one you
just explained where you would see where
you showed subjects images of black
faces and white faces and then had other
images sort of come into focus slowly
and and just explain that because then I
just want to make I want to go further
with this point of what sounds like we
have a physiological predisposition to
stereotyping but but let's but but
before you address that let me just tell
us about that other study yes so what's
the other study of what we did is we had
people sit in front of a computer screen
and then we exposed them to a series of
faces and
some of the participants got a series of
black male faces and others got a series
of white male faces now these cases were
coming on the screen at such a rapid
rate that they couldn't consciously
precede them and so it seemed like there
was quicker thug life that they were
watching and then after that we have
them perform what we call an object
recognition task and for that object
recognition task they saw an object
appear on the screen and it was really
really girly at first and then slowly in
41 steps or 41 frames the object became
more clear and the participants goal was
to simply tell us at what point they
could recognize the object and we found
that if they've been exposed to the
black male faces for him they were able
to recognize the crying relevant objects
a lot faster don't they you know if they
saw a blurry image of a gun say they
were able to recognize that gun really
quickly
whereas if they were exposed to white
male faces before him they needed more
information than North claimed or who
were clarity before they could see that
that was a gun it was that was that was
there a disparity between the race of
the subject at all in terms of making
those assessments no not at all so this
is what other things that make you that
it's not you know so the bias isn't
something that one or the other does it
I mean science I think is something that
we're all you know you know we're kind
of vulnerable to you because there's an
association between blackness and crime
that's out there in our society and it's
out there for a variety of reasons that
we're all picking up on it and and the
argument here is that that association
between blackness and crime is so strong
that it can influence not only how we
see people but it can influence how we
see objects and in this case these for
these crime objects like guns and ID and
so forth how does that I mean like I get
so there is something in society
right and listen maybe it's an
amalgamation of things right like
television news what you know culture
whatever that that associates black
males with crime but in but but if I'm
living in a in and if I'm living in like
a white enclave and I'm going and almost
everyone I deal with is white and I have
no you know or limited exposure to black
people and so I have no even like real
world experiences that push back on that
one-to-one Association as it were right
versus I've I'm black and my family is
black and I know I I have a lot of
association with the idea that black
males are not criminals how does that
not implicate that subconscious like
what is it what is there a is is there
something out there that has like
precedents in terms of the way that it
influences our subconscious that even
overrides our own personal experiences
oh yeah so that's a great question and I
think there is some literature in
psychology suggesting that contact
really matters right so especially if
you have positive contact like the
contact that you just was like I think
that that matters you know in terms of
how people you know treat one another
you know how you know so it lessens
discrimination basically and it can also
decrease to the negative racial
attitudes towards the other groups and
so forth or or even torture oh there's a
societal attitude that's negative about
your own group right that they could
refer you to some extent the receive
studies we were just looking at whether
there is an association there at all but
and and it's you know an association
against it's not it's not something
that's conscious but you couldn't decide
okay I'm going to override this thing
because I know it's not true you and I
know that I had all of these no other
you know interactions with people and
these positive things that tell me that
it's not true it's it's hard to you know
even if
you have that experience you also have
this other pretty powerful experience at
least in this country that associates
black mess with crime and so it's hard
to just completely undo the Association
even though might be at a conscious
level you know that that association is
triggered you might be able to stop it
from influencing you know what decisions
you make or what actions you take so so
even contact does not employ and because
it's because if there's no differential
between race as they go through that
study that contact doesn't mitigate your
subconscious beliefs at all it just it
mitigates only how those subconscious
beliefs can be overridden in the context
of the way you behave but it's still
within your subconscious in the same way
yeah I mean sometimes I think sociation
that are really strong I think that that
that is the case but I don't want to
suggest that contact doesn't matter you
know you know at all I think you know
sometimes you know sometimes it does
sometimes pair that with all kinds of
other things that you can do to mitigate
bias and I think it's a combination of
all these things with even others that
can know that can you know that can buy
it for some extent so not only contacts
for examples but you also need to be
able to make you know decisions where
you're where you're not making decisions
really quickly and well you have to fall
back on you know these automatic
associations that have built up over
time but you have time to think it's
really when to you know replace those
associations with you know you know with
other things that you know about but
that may be contrary right right to
those associations you don't know well
there's a study that you cite about
orchestras that were able to overcome
gender bias by basically having them do
you know audition behind a screen or
something so that you couldn't tell the
gender of the player and at that that
mitigated disparities in the way that
orchestras were we're built well so let
me ask you this I mean if so we have
this this is it possible to isolate what
specifically is creating these
associations I mean because these are
ones you know that that you know we're
talking just in terms of the way that
they implicate the the subconscious but
that's pretty that's pretty crazy that
contact might be able to mitigate the
way that we react to our subconscious
but if but if but if I understand the
study correctly and what you're saying
is that the subconscious is not
necessarily it can be mitigated but it
can't be directly impacted or shaped by
contact in the way that sort of other
authoritative messages are but what do
we know what those authoritative
messages where they come from well I
mean we talked about some of them
earlier I mean I think just you know
being out in the world and you see how
people are reacted to in a different way
and you're when you're black van
approaching and if you see a white man
approaching also be news right either
through you know on vine or the
television or even local news and you
you know hear reports that you know that
are associating the blackness with crime
or even you know no understanding of
real-world statistics crime statistics
so you know we talk about mass
incarceration for example and this
hearing the statistics about you know
the proportion of you know the prison
population that's black versus white
versus Asian and so forth like just
knowing those facts can lead
to think oh okay well this means that
this you know this category of people
these are people who are inherently
criminal especially in the US I think
they're you know there's not a lot of
context or no home it is that we know
how these disparities in criminal
justice not developed over time like we
don't have a average person you know
have a sense of what the policies are
that created those disparities right so
when you see a disparity you just think
oh okay these are the people who made
bad choices and the designs would be
criminally so you know they were wrapped
up so so you see one thing to know there
are a lot of them there are a lot of
things that says yeah so what at what
point does implicit bias turn into
racism in your in the in the way that
you view these sort of like this
hierarchy I mean is I mean there's
racism involved in creating the implicit
bias right which is setting up a system
where there would be disparities in the
way that we imprison people or the way
that we police people there's there's
racism that implicates you know racial
bias they've been just in the sense of
like I would imagine like you know on
this level of like black people were
enslaved that you know I consciously am
aware that that shouldn't happen but on
some level if like they allowed
themselves to be slaves maybe you know
like that that may have created some
type of you know unconscious bias in
people but you only saw people in these
kinds of positions and it was completely
aligned with race you know even if you
thought that this wasn't fair or this
shouldn't be the case you're still
exposed to it and that's insert' to
affect you that can start to affect you
at this level that you know this level
that we're talking about where it's they
can even you know affect your
unconscious associations of blackness
with
you know you know servitude or blackness
and slavery or blackness and inferiority
and so forth and presumably it would go
the other way too we're seeing a black
person as president would impact your
subconscious on some level in terms of
like okay
a black people can be president that
type of thing right away I mean
presumably that would that would that
would have some impact as well but at
what point does that implicit bias turn
into racism I mean is it just how you
act upon those biases or is it I mean
because I've talked to people who are
who whose understanding of racism is
less you know from a clinical
perspective but more from like a you
know a philosophical perspective and
there is a just a notion of or maybe
even us are broadly sociological there's
a notion of white supremacy that that
they that that we we all subscribe to in
this society
black and white and we make decisions in
our life like at what point is this this
notion of white supremacy not the I'm
burning across I'm wearing a hood type
of white supremacy but like III want to
live in this neighborhood because it's
just a better neighborhood and I don't I
don't like at what point does not paying
attention to these implicit biases
constitute racism in your mind like I am
vaguely aware of like this disparity of
thought but I'm just not going to just
not going to address it like you know
like I'm just choosing the best
neighborhood I can for my kid but on
some level I'm not my heartstrings let's
just say for lack of a better way of
expressing it are not pulled by the
plight of these people over here whereas
if they were white maybe I would maybe
they would impact me a little bit more
like at what point and maybe this is you
know sorry about your portfolio but my
point is
please go I'm sorry well I'm just
curious at what point you know from your
perspective does that have we crossed a
certain threshold right yeah that's a
good question I mean really what we're
talking about was this implicit bias or
this unconscious bias acting on
stereotypes or or your beliefs or acting
on feelings without really being aware
but that's what you're doing but it's
that separate from the impact that that
can have so you can have bias that that
has a pretty devastating impact whether
it's conscious bias and I'm burning
across or it's this kind of bias that
you were talking about where you just
decide you know like this neighborhood
better than this other neighborhood and
you're not aware of you know that bias
is claiming in that decision-making
you can still all kinds of biases can be
pretty devastating our current
subscriber care about the implicit bias
and we we care about the unconscious
bias it's not even though it's more
subtle than the clock learning it can
have effects that that are equally
damaging as this real conscious of
saying deciding that you don't like
these people and we're going to act on
it so alright so lastly I mean I've
interviewed folks who have said that the
the presidency of Barack Obama and the
the subsequent presidency of Donald
Trump and his campaign so racialized a
lot of areas in a way that were
surprisingly to me not as racialized
before that and at least in in in modern
history in terms of like the certain
political issues and whatnot how much
well why is it that this implicit bias
which exists you know across races and
presumably you know across various
people you know white people why is it
that
some people got what what is it that
makes this implicit bias I guess
susceptible to being more activated or
more predominant in the worldview of
people like my sense is that things have
become much more racialized in many
respects and and maybe and I think the
data shows that presumably this racial
bias has not really been impacted
dramatically what is it that sort of
gives more life to this this implicit
bias you know I think one of the things
that gives you a lot more life to it is
the social norms shifting you know so
you know the bias is very responsive to
the social norms that we under and so to
the extent saying that how does that big
a latarian values and this is something
that's very dear to us say as Americans
and this is something that we want to
strive you know to hoard you know if
we're feeling that they're trying to you
know act in ways that are accordance
with those values even if you have you
know this implicit bias or these
unconscious like associations that that
we're making group we're trying to
police outwardly we're trying to battle
that right we're trying to kind of live
up to the standards that we have but
once those social norms start to you
know erode and shift then it can also
shift the correlation that we see
between no implicit bias and this more
explicit like racism if you want to call
it that so so the norms matter in it in
our leaders manner a lot so that they
kind of set the tone so that's
permissible behavior and what's not and
so if that comes under fire or it's you
know that's being questioned then they
can't reckons that can move us in the
direction of being more biased and we
have more situations under which it's
okay now to be biased or you know if
we're you know and
even people who really hope the Galit
Aryan values they cherish those values
and it's important to them to you know
behave in accordance with that you know
even if for those people you know as the
social norms just a wave of that but
their behavior can start to change too
they get told in that direction -
because we're all social feeds and so we
responded to the social environment
around us and so so that's why the I
feel like you know that the norms are
shifting to make a huge difference the
book is by the book is biased uncovering
the hidden prejudice that shapes what we
see think and do professor Jennifer
Eberhardt we will put a link to the book
at majority dot F M thanks so much for
your time today fascinates that oh thank
you appreciate it
alright folks that is the fun half for
the program I mean I hurt that last
response that the the last answer she
gave there I think is so such an
important part of the era that we're
living in when we go to the fun half
we're gonna talk about this Facebook
group there are 20,000 custom Border
Patrol agents in the country that's the
denominator well now hold on that's
right that is the denominator we don't
know what the numerator is we know there
was ninety five hundred people in this
Facebook group I would be active and
former active and former but we don't
know much about these people at all we
know
ProPublica has identified three or four
active border agents it's one that's a
supervisor we don't know how many there
are but I mean how many they have to
have to be for it to make a difference I
mean honestly if five
sent of an organization distributed
between sort of leadership and non
leadership but 5% of an organization is
this corrupted by blatant racism and
hatred of immigrants I mean how much
influence do you think that could have
throughout that organization which is
already dealing with you know every
problem they have at work is a function
of well not every problem but a large
percentage of the problems they have at
work has to do with immigration right
and so there is a at least a
predisposition and with an act of
literally force of people trying to who
are demonizing these people I mean you
you can see that how it corrupts an
entire organization and the fact that
this group was set up in August of 2016
also I think is indicative of what that
of what the professor was saying in that
last answer there may be an implicit
bias that exists in all of us towards
other people but when the nominee of a
major political party or pick any other
type of I guess major public figure
although it would be hard to sort of
even come up with an example of someone
who has dominated the news more than
Donald Trump over the past three or four
years in any time in American history
the idea
that he gave license to this I think
it's no coincidence this shows up in
August of 2016 there's no other reason
why it would have Facebook has been
around for a long time not decades
anti-immigrant sentiment to the extent
that was there in 2016 theoretically was
around but I think there was just a
broader license and people would just
you know time to let my freak flag fly
and this is I think this is I think
that's the story largely of not largely
well largely it's a definitely a big
component of the election there was you
know people were like how could someone
vote for Obama and then vote for Trump
and be racist no I mean I think well
we've had we've spoken to many many
experts on how that's the case but in
that racial animus racial
predispositions racism plays a big part
in that of course you know that's a
broad-brush we're not talking about
every single person but and you know
this stuff gets normalized when we go
back well we'll talk more about this
Facebook group but it's the this last
interview I mean it was it's a little
bit different from ones that we
generally do because it deals with
psychology as opposed to sociology or
politics but this mix between sort of
basic psychology and how it interacts
with the broader context in the world I
think is rather important to the time
that we're living in
and with that said it's time to the fun
to move to the fun half of the program
and a reminder it's your support that
makes this show possible
by becoming a member at join the
majority report calm you keep this show
alive every single day it is you people
who do this and we're we're doing all
sorts of fun things coming up we're
going to go to Netroots nation we're
heading down there do a couple of
interviews next week I mean not a couple
probably do like 40 20 I have no idea
last year on at Netroots nation I think
interviewed Cynthia Nixon and Zephyr
Teachout and Chokwe Lumumba shook way
shook way like what you said about that
they'll be an intellectual resurgence
too because I'm starting to see a little
bit of that oh my god the myopia hey
listen if somebody is aware that Dave
Rubin is in town and he's on Twitter
asking people to meet him at a wine bar
that is not the time to just tag me on
Twitter you call me Sam subtweeting me
right now you call me I saw this at
10:30 last night I don't care this thing
why don't wall him I would have like
residen had the perfect tweet he tweeted
it both of us and he said in Michaels
Sam cedar voice hi which is exactly the
right way to let you know that's fine
but then call me I would have I was
alone with Saul mile as a camp and he to
be fine I'm glad he's going up town
here's some string cheese do you see no
it's like eyes on wake up wake up you're
coming with Daddy you gotta go somewhere
this is gonna be important he's gonna
give you a juice box
you'll never know you hesitate never
forget this night you watch your father
humiliate a very stupid man
he's a very dumb mad at the Upper West
Side
so can you hold an iPhone and shoot this
video please son can you say open
exchange of ideas listen now when you
we're going to livestream to face
Facebook now listen when you start to
see all the little bubbles and hearts
that means that people are liking it and
I want you just to respond when you see
those but we're going down to Netroots
nation I don't know how I got on that
hey Jane we're gonna be down at Netroots
nation and for a couple of days and also
next week if all goes right maybe by
midweek we are going to launch something
new and it is I mean I don't know how
many people listen to this point in the
show what percentage so you know we'll
be talking about it at the top of the
show more but it is something that I've
always wanted which was just a very
quick rundown of the headlines in the
morning that I need to know so I have a
sense of like you know what the what the
tone of my day is gonna be like but also
from a sort of a left left-leaning
perspective you know sort of like the
show but more like the daily ding of
news I mean for people who listen to
that
what's the daily ding well daily ding is
behind a paywall knob but it was um the
count the dings network it was just like
the morning NBA roundup alright it would
be like everything you needed to know in
it but also it was way oh the daily ding
I don't care that there's one hour sure
but what is the other thing that's
analogous about it is that you know it
was like a great calm it wasn't just a
straight summary they still had even
though it was short and concise you know
they're there for their analysis we
there's a little bit of flair little
attitude a little bit of a blur but oh
you need with a little bit of flair
right and lo barred entry it's gonna be
always very short we're going for
brevity in this instance little levity
mostly brevity good morning
rebels oh that has to be part of that
that's something that is waiting to
happen
that is not a lawsuit why why can't we
sample them it doesn't own the word
rebels good morning Patriots good
morning rebels trying to do something
the old you to just slow it down or
speed it up do the old elect acne well
there's no we're not gonna be this will
not be available on YouTube at first
anyways and then ultimately I think we
will we will put a version up on YouTube
all right folks yeah so he's running for
Congress I mean he's gonna take out I
don't know I thought that was what he's
threatening what what's he up to is he
still around but he's gonna challenge I
know the latest Brandis Straka
update and I haven't watched it yet
which is why I haven't brought it to
anybody's attention and it's literally
because of the frigging YouTube
algorithm there are this very silly vais
series where they like to get like let's
have a group of like black people to
respond to the democratic debate but
some of them will be Magga right they
like that this is like this new sort of
like reality show vise thing so the new
one is like LGBTQ with Magha
and there he is in the center row with
this stupid hat odd which is actually I
mean that's probably a dream come true
for him oh yeah you know so that was
what I probably the whole game plan my
guess would be is that it's a bunch of
relatively normal people being like what
are you talking about what's wrong with
the same stuff that he said right good
morning ray rebels but it didn't look
kind of promising so maybe we'll have to
dig through that maybe you'll have to a
please steamroll through some of that
content at some point so we're all of
your membership will will help us launch
this this little baby as well join the
majority report calm
also don't forget just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
today is Tuesday July 2nd and that means
that tonight is Tuesday July 2nd India
night Michael
indeed on tonight's show at 7:00 p.m. on
the Michael Brooks show YouTube channel
we are discussing reclaiming the future
technology and Marxism then Anthony
Fontenot of the needle drop comes on
we're talking about the 25 year
anniversary of it was written and reggae
and then Malaika jamali organizing for a
post-capitalist future gerrymandering
vote suppression and voter turnout and
Biden and Harris and then a post game
dealing with the 10-year anniversary of
the coup in Honduras new interview with
Manuel Zelaya
of course the debunk a bunch of other
content patreon.com slash T MVS Michael
Brooks show on YouTube where we're well
over 53,000 subscribers now if it was
starting to kind of cook there and don't
forget check out the anti Fattah at
patreon.com slash the anti fada jamie is
at communist a commie camp right now at
an undisclosed gotta have some OPSEC
[Laughter]
dennis prager a commie camp as for the
literary hangover the most recent
episode is on a satire of the original
utopian socialists in america the
Blithedale romance by nathaniel
hawthorne coming up next is gonna be a
contemporary utopian I wouldn't call him
a socialist but sort of a liberal
leftist Rutger Bregman 'he's utopia for
realist realists he's been on this show
we talked me and my friend chris are
going to talk about his 15 hour work
week proposals his abolish poverty stuff
and most consequentially his ubi
we'll also take some shots at the yang
gang in that podcast as well so look
forward to that and in the coming maybe
this weekend possibly next weekend we
just got tweeted a piece by I forget his
name the co-author of the People's
Republic of Walmart
Mahalo Rose Barsky yes who's really
brilliant and he wrote a piece three
years ago apparently echoing everything
we said about you bi it's two different
version who did the co-author of the
People's Army kal Rose Barsky we
co-authors People's Republic a Walmart
oh yeah yeah yeah
well yeah I mean the it's a it's it's a
fairly straightforward critique of you
bi it is a political critique and it's
an unfair one stops people disabilities
thoughts of spear feed while he's
thinking about robotics oh you're stuck
in the past automation sky can't because
if your robots gonna take your podcast
your hands gonna be your dick while
you're looking at a flag meanwhile he's
thinking about solutions answer me just
play me why he's found a poor people
answer me now uh see you in the fun half
you are in for it
all right folks six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you in the
fun
[Music]
what does this alpha males and the alpha
males are back back just
I am a total can we bring back the ug
dinner yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DS you damn well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break
that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males are cycle
[Music]
Oh almost says what
[Music]
back
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
clocked
alpha males all right
Oh
black
about there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadists keeping it 100
my birthday
birthday to me
we still got to put out I think a day
like maybe like on July 4th where we put
out a podcast or a series of them with
the songs that people have done so that
we can put them on our Spotify account
obviously with credit and whatnot but is
that how we would go about doing it yeah
just as if there were episodes but stuff
is so great so great let's see here
where is there I am let me get me in
there and then go to the top of the list
here come from a to10 area code who's
this Who am I speaking with where are
you from
yes good afternoon Salas John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio how are
you sir
I'm ok yeah so the most historically
accurate and national poll that came out
after the Democratic debates which is
the SSRS CNN poll has some good news and
some bad news the good news is that
Biden has dropped 10 points and is now
at 22 points percentage points Harris is
at 17 Warren at 15 and the bad news is
it Bernie for the first time is in
fourth place at 14% and the Suffolk poll
just dropped also from Iowa just this
morning and it has pretty similar
results Biden at 24%
or yeah buying the 24% Harris at 16
Warren at 13 and Bernie just at 9 so you
know they also that Suffolk poll also
had some really bad results for Bern
in Massachusetts oh I really need to go
for some crosstabs
evaluated but now things aren't looking
so great for Bernie right now so in the
in that last pulp that SSRS poll that
was conducted in May Bernie had 26% of
the under 45 vote and 10% the 45 and
older vote and the latest poll we had 25
21% under 45 with Harris at 18 and
Warren at 17 and 45 and older Bernie's
only at 8 percent so before bleeding
more young people at this point than he
is older people is that it well yeah I
mean he's always been extremely strong
with with younger voters I mean it was
much more pronounced during the 2016
campaign so you know they also have this
this thing about you know regardless of
who you support which is democratic for
it was the best chance to beat Trump in
the 2020 election and you know Biden
still leads at 43% while Bernie's at 13
and so the fact that burnt that Biden
dropped 10 points overall and he still
has massive leads and electability is a
good sign
that people are starting to make their
judgment on issues instead of
electability considering the lack of
predictability this early in the cycle
or even in the when the primaries after
the primary start this should be talked
about more a Clinton actually hit her
peak and head-to-head State polling
against Trump on May 5th to 2016 Clinton
not only had leads in the five states
that she was expected to win on election
day which he ended up losing Florida
North Carolina Wisconsin and Michigan
and Pennsylvania she also had leads in
Arizona Georgia Missouri Iowa Ohio and
even Utah the only state did trauma to
lead in well wait wait wait a second
what what when was this in May of 2016
right that was when she hit her the head
the head peak again strong yeah
the only thing is is that May of 2016
I'll tell you why I don't think it's
analogous is it a May of 2016 the idea
that I still don't think that people
felt that Donald Trump was the nominee I
think probably a lot of Republicans will
convince themselves I'm not gonna vote
for Donald Trump
but Republicans come home I mean that's
the one thing that I would say you know
probably skewed those polls on some
level is that people even some of the
Republicans didn't realize how Craven
they were well they supported him in the
fall of 2015 and then his support that
vanished as the primaries got on where
they heard more about him and so these
are direct head-to-head this isn't based
on a generic Republican candidate this
is based on direct head-to-head but yeah
you know your point is well-taken I mean
perhaps you're right I mean people
obviously did change their mind they
changed their mind I mean on the 20th of
October polls started changing that was
that was also the peak and Clinton the
lead and just you know in two weeks
later you know the polls went down from
I edited about a 67 percent chance of
Clinton winning so anyway so the point
is is that you know Bernie leads the
pack as a Democratic candidate for
president when you talk about health
care at 20%
26% fighting the second it's been 18 so
this provides an opportunity to lean
into Medicare for all and talk about the
different differences from the other top
tier candidates three weeks ago in a
call you emphasize idiosyncratic voters
but but they're actually very actually
very few of those out there most vote on
ideology and you know as as we see more
deep debate ideology is going to be
become more important do you know most
people vote on ideology absolutely I
mean just look at this latest latest
poll from the CNN poll
conservative slash moderates Biden has
31% right now Harris at 11 Warren at 10
Sanders with only 8% of the vote and you
look at liberal and Harris leads with
24% Bernie with 20 Harris with 20 and
Biden with 12 and that's going to become
more distinct as time goes on so I'm
sure okay I mean I think there's
probably definitely some sorting I don't
know that most people do it that way you
just looked at people who identify you
know politically in one way or another
but I mean if you look at the polling of
like who are Biden's second choices yeah
I'm pretty skeptical of that second
choice thing I mean because as time goes
on that's going to move also I mean
right now that that's more it's more
about people not being familiar with the
other candidates as much I mean also
that's going to change also in
head-to-head when you know as Harris and
Ann Warren become more known to the
general public their numbers are going
to get better against Trump I mean look
at all the other people that have you
know even less than the top-tier
candidates the reason they're not
beating Trump is because they don't know
them and people don't want to say
they're going to vote for somebody who
they don't know their ideology so all
right so yeah so so so the considering
the the lack of predictability this
early in a cycle or even in after the
primaries so you know I love looking at
the complexity of issues but some
assessments are derived from from
simplicity I thought at the beginning of
their campaign that whether Bernie wins
or not will be an assessment of the
strength of the left I still think that
but it looks like Warren and in Harris
are winning potential though
Berni voters Bernie wasn't aggressive
against Biden or other candidates this
goes against his nature but but Harris
won the debate by being aggressive it
seems like he needs to point out
differences especially on health care
between him and the other three
contenders should he do this at the next
debate or does he have more time to wait
and what else do you think Bernie needs
to do to help his campaign what I think
Bernie needs to do is and I don't think
it's just I mean I think health care is
part of it but I think broadly what he
needs to do is he needs to you basically
bring out that FDR quote again saying
they're all you know they with you I
want to do what you say and it won't
cost a nickel or whatever that quote is
by FDR that it's gonna get to not gonna
cost the thing and the idea behind that
is is that Bernie needs to get out there
I thought the best moment that he had or
I should say the moment that I think
that can be most effective for him going
forward was when they asked him but you
have to raise taxes on Medicare he
hesitated for a moment but then he said
yes you do have to raise taxes for
everyone and I think I think we are in
an era you know and I think about the
time where Mondale said that we have to
raise taxes I can't remember the context
but but he got completely lambasted for
it for saying that and that created in
democrats like a fear of of saying that
hey you're gonna get this but it's you
know it's gonna have to be paid for you
know in some fashion I mean putting
aside you know what we know about our
government's ability to spend these
things this is more about meeting people
where their preconceptions lie I think
that Bernie can differentiate himself
from the rest of the field
by delivering Frank truths and being
unafraid to do that and tying that into
his capacity or his plan to execute
plans so he can say like you know we can
promise you this and we can promise you
that but this is what it's gonna cost
this is not gonna be free it's gonna
cost in some fashion and I think if the
the more he's upfront about saying what
the cost is and the more he's upfront
about saying this is not going to happen
without you the more that he turns it on
- you know points basically the
questions back at us you know I mean
it's some variation of you know ask not
what you can you know what your country
can do for you but ask what you can do
for your country
I think there's I think that's got to be
part of it because I mean he's been sort
of you know around that message where he
talks about the idea of there needing to
be a movement he calls it a political
revolution but what he really means is
where the citizenry comes in and gets
active about demanding things from their
political system instead of just going
and voting that they actually get
engaged in demand things from their
political system and I think he needs to
hit this more and I think he needs to be
frank about it and say like this is
going to cost you it's going to cost you
time and effort in some instances it's
gonna cost you increase taxes but
there's going to be a payoff and the
payoff is going to be you're going to
have a much better healthcare system for
everyone you're going to live in a
society that is going to
decommodification going to be shared by
the people that you see when you drive
to work and when you walk to work or
when you take the the bus to work
they're going to be shared across the
country and these are opportunities that
everyone's going to be able to engage in
and it's going to create a better
society it's going to create a more in
some respects a more cohesive Society
insofar as that we we understand that
we're more connected with each other
it's going to make for a more healthy
society it's gonna make for a society
that can act upon crises like what's
happening with the climate and but it's
gonna cost you and I think it's really
important for him to come out and make
that clear that he is asking something
of us and right because that is what
distinguishes him from frankly all of
the politicians I mean I'm quite
enamored with a lot of the things that
Elizabeth Warren wants to do but the way
in which it gets done
Bernie has a fundamentally different
perspective on how that's gonna have to
happen and I think he's got to sell that
I think he does also need to couple it
with a lot of doses of how much
significantly better life will be after
some of those efforts are passed as well
and that there's no complexity around it
I think that's a big advantage like
we're just canceling student debt it's
not a new program it's not something
people need to fill out forms for we're
just doing it it's simple it's effective
it's bold it's really clear cost about
as much as the Republican tax cut to us
about yeah I think he's also he needs he
needs you can't you know you sugar with
the medicine as well I also think like
but but I here's you know I think people
understand that that's his position no
but I think the thing is is that people
don't believe it can happen well that's
the alamin wary of just purely talking
about this movement dimension that he
talks about really needs to kick in and
I think that's what I'm saying all right
and I think that people do need to know
you know frankly as a significant
differentiation of Warren that now that
when push comes to shove she rightly
recognizes that to even push a more
limited agenda would take basically the
same type of effort so that this sort of
notion that somehow there's a
Nicolle plan dominate adoption over a
movement option doesn't actually exist
and so that she's actually making the
same argument and that the difference is
is that he actually has this movement in
place and the only other thing that I
think is interesting I'm not somebody
who thinks like Oh polls don't measure
all of these like you know people who
are gonna secretly vote or something i
i'm i would never hinge my hopes on that
but something that interesting that Ryan
grim said to me recently it was
basically like if as an example in a
place like Iowa if the Sanders campaign
is being honest about their level of
volunteers and people that are actually
canvassing for them you start to get
into a place definitionally where you
win something like the Iowa caucuses
just on pure body mass alone so that's
another interesting thing that's gonna
need to be measured in terms of in terms
of their campaign but you know we don't
know we won't know that till I know we
don't know we don't know that but that's
but the difference and this is another
interesting thing I'm taking from grim
which is that you know he made the point
that 2016 the really untraditional
things were obviously the message and
Bernie's politics or you know
unprecedented in in modern politics and
then the way that they relied on small
donors but besides that it was a very
traditional campaign you dump money into
television you focus on the early states
in this campaign they've made the choice
to really go grassroots I mean that's
the reason they're using their email
list for right all of these other
efforts so you know and that's like the
part that I think is a gamble and an
interesting thing that won't necessarily
get measured by the traditional metrics
not like oh there's all these secret
voters that aren't showing up but really
like is there an amplified version of
even what we're seeing with things like
the Tiffany Caban race or other things
here like if you really put people out
door to door that makes a hell of a
difference and if they're actually
leveraging that that could be a big
difference maker yeah I mean III mean I
think that's that's that's true but it's
it's really hard to know until the
actual you know results which is another
way of saying that all of this is still
super early well but even I mean looks
all super early I think well then
of even that a couple of months before I
don't think it's I I I'm not I'm not
questioning Grimm's perspective on this
but we all were saying in October of
2016 like Clint she's gonna kill him
with a ground game he doesn't have a
ground game and that that didn't work
out now because it turns out there
wasn't a ground game well we know that
he had I mean that's that's yeah I mean
I think it's that the scale would
imagine we know that those two things
are not alike yes I'm just saying though
that it's one never knows but that's my
perspective on what he's got to do and I
suspect he's going to do some variant of
that going forward appreciate the call
John all right thank you Mike and it's
but I think there is I mean I think it
is working very effectively and I think
it's an incredible lesson for this next
generation the seamlessness between the
grassroots emphasis using the email list
for the ice alerts for solidarity with
strikes and then the way they have you
know this this separate grassroots media
arm I mean I forget the author's name I
think you had him on recently if
somebody writes for the Jacobin on
teacher strikes they just he just did a
video for Bernadette Blanc just did a
video for Bernie's campaign encouraging
teacher strikes is very little to do you
know it's it's right ancillary thing
it's gotten some massive amount of views
and I I think that hopefully it will
work with Bernie of course but I mean
this is also the model for all future
left candidates of how you run a move on
actual movement well it is if you went
it is it's a model look I know cuz you
even see hints of this with the success
of people like Caban for sure I mean
this is the way you actually link
campaigns with movements in a way that's
right an jabal not just lip service and
left candidates are gonna need to do
that right I also think that it is
Bernie saying that one
it is quite possible that the
calculation is this is going to help
build strengthen for my movement to get
elected oh and it's also possible my
campaign is going to help build a
movement that is going to exist
regardless of whether my campaign is
successful in this instance I feel like
he's already proven that in a way I mean
we've already he's already established
that post but that's another one that
resources that you have as a campaign
that you do not have as a sitting
senator sure or or a congressman or an
any other Indian so you asked him that
question when you had him on by the way
second time he's been on this show other
a certain other youtuber oh he's won
more than know I'm talking about the
current iteration of this show I think
he's been on three times oh really oh
well okay three times so it's just
because we don't have politicians on he
lit up uh he eat when you asked him
about the durability of the movement he
said oh look that's a good finally you
asked a good question you little prick
no I was thinking particularly I know
what you were thinking and that's why I
hope you lose honestly like that
is that would be the reaction all right
let's take one more quick phone call
before we get to some more sound comment
from a 702 area code who's this where he
come from hey Sam yeah hey what's up man
what's up call from Las Vegas and your
name is Joseph Joseph from Las Vegas
what's happening Joseph hey I had a
question it's a it's a experimental idea
if you would humor me
sure so the whole you be I talk how
popular that's kidding I had a thought
that what if to match
minimum wage if the government
subsidized that instead of employer
instead of doing a ubi what do you think
of the government matching that for
employees I get the idea that
corporations should match or should
raise the minimum wage so employees have
a decent living wage but what if the
government did that because I think
possibly small businesses wouldn't
survive so wait wait wait so you're
saying subsidize the government should
subsidize men and raising the minimum
wage yeah I mean I I don't know if
there's a a problem with it sort of just
I mean I don't probably obviously on
principle but it but I I wonder if
you're not talking about just a
tremendous amount of bureaucracy I mean
the like that's the Earned Income Tax
Credit is really in many respects that's
what that is and it subsidizes companies
abusing work I mean under paying workers
I mean that's a plug you could say you
could you could make it like we're only
gonna limit it to work at small business
yes yeah yeah businesses an entire five
people or as it functions now it's been
a major boon for companies like Walmart
which is a Ralad critique of it that's
the Earned Income Tax Credit is
basically what it is that you're talking
about I don't know if it functions
exactly in that way and brings you up to
that amount but it but that's the
vehicle that's used you could make that
more generous I guess and in many
respects or what 775 minimum wage or
whatever it is a 25 I'm sorry say again
that only come match up to the 825 an
hour I don't think it's based on it's
not it's not based on the minimum wage
it is it is simply I think and I don't
have the numbers in front of me but if
you earn
X amount of dollars and you have Y
amount of people in your family you may
be eligible essentially for a for a tax
credit that that may have the government
paying you money back I'm not an
economist you don't have to be an
economist I mean I think to you know to
make these type of assessments you're
not an economist don't call my zero sir
there's a there's a vehicle to do that I
mean and I don't know if I would do it
through the Earned Income Tax Credit or
but that that's been and that was a
Republican idea that's been actually
rather effective as far as these things
go but I appreciate the call yeah
alright so let's let's talk a little bit
more about the border and then we'll
move on to some other stuff here the the
ProPublica piece that came out and I'll
tell you what's also disturbing about
this now
apparently the customs Border Protection
Service and I'm not exactly sheriff it's
DHS or just the Inspector General for
ice or whomever it is I started an
investigation into this but man their
controls are pretty lacks you've got a
twenty thousand person force
you've got supervisors involved in this
there's a twenty thousand person force
there are ninety five hundred people on
the group I guess it's conceivable
there's only like a dozen actual border
agents there and the rest of them are
just sort of civilians who just happened
to stumble into the group and it's been
going on for 20 since 2016 and nobody
nobody caught wind of this I mean I
don't know how public this is if you
need to be invited to this group
it was a secret group so but I mean
9,000 members start to lose some secrecy
there yeah one would imagine unless you
are all part of an organization or part
of like you know going to the same
picnics
you know if unless you had a little more
controls in real life now I don't know
we don't know because obviously
ProPublica didn't get access into it but
the idea that three years later the
agency is only starting investigation
only because ProPublica let them know
about it that indicates to me that there
might be a problem in that engine you
know this is not a group of 50 people
out of a twenty thousand person agency
we don't know how many of those ninety
five hundred are part of the twenty
thousand that are there but this is this
is has if there's a significant portion
if you have five percent which would be
a thousand people members of your agency
in this group that is like I assume it's
not a Star Chamber situation it's just a
place where they go around and say like
hey good thing that guy died that's a
real problem so in one exchange Courtney
ProPublica group members responded with
indifference in wisecracks to the post
of a news story about a 16 year old
Guatemalan migrant who died in May while
in custody a Border Patrol station in
Texas the group is called 1015 I am 1015
in boast nine nine ninety five hundred
members from across country ten fifteen
is Border Patrol code for aliens in
custody the group described itself in an
online introduction as a forum for funny
and serious discussion about work with
the Patrol quote remember you are never
alone in this family
uh they found some like I say they were
able to identify maybe half a dozen
people there is a screenshot from the
Facebook group that has a picture of
Donald Trump presumably forcing AOC to
service him with the text that's right
 the masses have spoken and today
democracy won I've returned to everyone
who knows the real me and had my back I
say thank you to everyone else this is
what I have to say so there's somebody
who's sounds like somebody got banned
and maybe he's returned to the group I'm
not quite as yeah um you don't think
that somebody got to testify anywhere to
you I don't know it sounds like
something though right
it absolutely today democracy one maybe
they maybe they were I don't know
investigative for something you'll
recall according to Pro Publica and 2018
federal investigators found a raft of
disturbing and racist text messages sent
by Border Patrol agents in southern
Arizona after searching the phone of an
agent charged with running down a
Guatemalan migrant with an f-150 pickup
truck the texts which were revealed in
court file in federal court in Tucson
Arizona described migrants as graz
wild-ass shitbags and subhuman
messages included repeated discussions
about burning the migrants up one member
in this group Facebook encouraged Border
Patrol agents to hurl a burrito at these
 speaking of the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus that was headed down for
this tour that took place yesterday
another by a guy who was apparently a
patrol supervisor wrote the hoes
there should be no photo ops for these
scum buckets posted a third member there
was also
a post including a photo illustration of
Ocasio Cortez engage in oral sex at an
immigrant detention center the
accompanying image reads lucky a legal
immigrant special starring AOC
all this stuff and one saying that the
floaters this one's also with the
picture of the 25 year old man and her
his 23 month old daughter dead floating
in the river
hey y'all ever seen floaters this clean
I'm not trying to be an ass but I have
never seen floaters like these before
could this be another edited photo we've
all seen the Dems and liberal parties do
some pretty sick things so this is the
hole I mean from the grotesqueness and
the misogyny to the conspiracy theory
stuff I mean this I mean this to me like
is where the whole conversation around
like fascism actually needs to go right
like this stuff really matters I mean
this is to me this is also parallel with
the case of the black lives matter
activists who had spent time in prison
in part due to law enforcement officers
following up an Alex Jones segment yeah
I mean this is the intersection that is
profoundly threat right and you know
that again mentioned this before we went
into the fun half but as per the the
guests we had today that there may be
some type of pre-existing psychological
bias that we all have that these that
many of these people posting in this
Facebook group have but when the
president United States basically gives
you a license to articulate this stuff
you start to articulate it when others
give you more encouragement maybe
perhaps
you run somebody over with your f-150
because you continually dehumanize these
people that's right
AOC went down there she she said
consumer the CBP excuse me the customs
Border Patrol
made us check our phones but one woman
slipped me this packet to take with me
it says shampoo she told me that this is
all they give the women to wash their
entire body nothing else some woman's
hair was falling out others had gone 15
days without taking a shower here is
another image that she put out
she writes up meanwhile one refrain
we've heard is that people are
overcrowded in the custom Border Patrol
concentration camps because the shelters
which are humane places where families
can stay together are full so we went to
a shelter they said that wasn't true at
all only a hundred and fifty or
fifty-five hundred spots were filled
weird CBP line well that's the point
they are trying to make a crisis they
are using these human beings these
children to create a crisis one to
ostensibly to scare I guess people from
coming up here but I'm also not
convinced at this point the theory is
it's a twofer or a three-fer all of
which boils down to what Donald Trump
thinks he's going to run on in 2020
because he ran on it in 2016 and it's
that one thing that this administration
to the extent that they've had a
coherent policy about anything it has
been to demonize immigrants it's the one
promises kept it's the one one promise
he's kept it's the one coherent sort of
policy apparatus that they have had it
is it's the one it'll tributyltin even
Miller but whatever it is this is the
one that the Laura Ingram's and the
Tucker Carlson's
and they all and the sean hannity they
all agree on this they come to take and
differ on whether we should attack iran
they can differ whether we should be
putting random tariffs on different
places the one thing they all agree on
is that you demonize the brown
immigrants period end of story and they
have done that and they've done it in a
myriad of different ways they
continually do it they do it for
political gain they do it for policy
gain from their perspective and that's
what's happening here is aoc on the
ground touring this facility about you
and the alleged facebook group so she
went in there and apparently it wasn't
just the the postings of these people
but the there were guards there who were
being aggressive towards her and but I
think she's right I mean look you know
you've all heard the the saying one bad
apple does not spoil the whole bunch
well the fact the batteries one bad
apple does in fact about style spoiled
the whole bunch methylene you have a
rotting Apple in a bunch of other apples
that's why you should not keep them in
tight plastic bags folks in your
refrigerator let them breathe because if
you have one Apple that has gone bad the
ethylene that is emitted from a rotting
Apple will seek out other apples this
bacteria will look for healthy apples so
the fact is one bad apple does in fact
spoil the whole bunch and we have
clearly multitude of bad apples in this
organization it needs to be
essentially taken down dispersed
recreated to function in a different way
with different personnel and a different
culture yours here she is again this one
this is this is CBP on their best
behavior telling people to drink out of
the toilet
well what's your response to that sir as
I said earlier we we don't treat people
that way we provide fresh water we
provide food we provide sanitary in
sanitary items as well as items for
bathing and personal hygiene and that's
anything that she's lying I'm telling
you what we do and we've been open and
honest we've had these tours quite
frequently and those are the things we
provide we have fresh water available at
all times in our facilities but he's
definitely not saying she's lying why
would these people be lying I mean what
possibly could be gained by if you are
kept as a prisoner in one of these
outfits you know what what value could
you possibly have in line here is what
is this clip of right there this is a
clip posted by Joaquin Castro ok side
one of the here's Joaquin Castro he was
able maybe he smuggled in his phone cuz
my understanding is they took their
phones which is a really weird thing to
do if things are going well in there
right
yes
and she doesn't undergo
[Music]
they changed for medicine medicine for a
patient down
but the UH pain medicine I just look
everywhere lieutenant
there's a woman here your doctor
so basically you have so basically you
have all of these women who are in this
windowless cell telling the Congress
people there I need my medication
I need a biopsy and their person walking
them around going oh actually no she's
not due for her medicine and yeah we're
gonna get that biopsy that's gonna
happen some of these women have been
held for 50 days in this cell they have
been denied showers for up to 15 days
and some of them are separated from
their children it's just disgusting
it's absolutely disgusting and I just
want to say like again I think it's
really important to keep r.e.m ffice
izing this point we talk about
destroying ice which it absolutely needs
to be destroyed and all of the
contractors and everything part of this
system needs to be completely uprooted
we're talking about something that was
created in 2002 as part of the Homeland
Security Department as part of you know
first an agency that set its sights as
the National Security zation focus of
every single Muslim in this country and
then has been weaponized obviously
against I mean people from Latin America
but also Haitian people a lot you know a
lot of people in this situation and
getting rid of it completely has nothing
to do with saying that there isn't a
border and there isn't passport checks
or you know I just think it's quite
important to actually make sure to be
clear and unequivocal that that
organization can be completely destroyed
and jettisoned in a way that is
absolutely fundamentally necessary and
UMaine and actually does not have the
broader stakes and debates about like
whether or not we have a border which
a lot of people seem to want to have and
maybe that's fine we can't have it at
some point but this is urgent and needs
to happen as soon as possible and is a
new thing Isis of modern creation hasn't
always been this militarized come from a
4-0 to area code who's this where he
come from four zero four zero two who's
this hi-yah my name is Lindy from
Nebraska Lindy from the past what I got
it hey I got a kick out of watching Sam
you were getting a little bit defensive
about your left is umbrella tipped
Michaels last Friday I wasn't wasn't
getting defense but it's not true I've
just done that led me to watch the
startups destiny oh you don't ask about
rental policy and a bit about more about
me I've been involved in the local DSA
for about a year now and one second so
uh I'm kind of new to some of the logic
behind specific issues so since logic
man Ben Burgess isn't here maybe you can
give me an argument instead so a little
bit sharpen my rhetoric so my question
is can you flesh out your support for
like rental controls and what is the
response to studies that show benefits
are offset by the decrease in our a
decrease in the supply of housing and
economic distortions do the rent
controls and yeah so thank you okay I'm
sick so so the you want me to justify my
position in favor of rent of rent
control well just the response I'm not
saying I'm against them I'm just saying
what like we can you flesh out that
argument I don't I don't have the data
to be honest with you in front of me in
terms of like that that trade-off
between availability and what would
theoretically happen in the context of a
market but I can tell you in the you
know New York City for instance and I
don't know that rent control isn't
really frankly necessary in
in every city I think there are
circumstances where I think it becomes
New York City is a prime example I think
of a place that needs rent control
because you have it's one thing to say
that housing has been commodified it's
another to say that it has become almost
like a collectible and one of the the
problems with New York is that so much
of the real estate here has is has I am
I imagine there is a threshold where the
purchase of real estate certain
percentage of it becomes so speculative
that in terms of its use like it's it's
so much as sitting vacant in this city
or is used frankly as you know revenue
generating as basically illicit hotels
via Airbnb those are the indicators I
think where is something like rent
control becomes that much more important
where you simply cannot use a take
something that is such a basic human
need and exploit it to that extent with
the with the the results with the
implications that that come from that in
other words you know people getting
driven out of the city but a huge
percentage of the apartments are vacant
because they end up being basically like
really cost safety deposit boxes that
have pay interest I mean they're
basically used as banks and and I'm not
convinced a lot of that money is an
illicit to a certain extent as well but
I would also look into in addition to I
mean I I do support Universal rent
control but this is another reason that
we need to have a really different
conversation about public housing I mean
in the United States because of not
having a full social democracy
because of racism because of redlining
and you know we think of public housing
is as being bad and in fact it is it's a
crisis I mean that's one of the reasons
I have a big problem with de Blasio I
mean Nicaea has a lot of problems as an
example in New York City and a lot more
needs to be done about it but you know
in a place like Vienna which is always
the standout example the public housing
they have there is incredible it's
comparable to any of the most desirable
places you want to live and sort of in
some ways the way even like you if you
have a public option in the healthcare
market that also plays a positive role
in reducing the overall rent environment
so that's another important thing what
was the thing that destiny said that he
wanted to debate Michel on well unions
climate I think that was well that was
what he had responded I can't remember
what he said and the thing my stalker
yeah you are oh yeah good thing
destiny was the whole reason he raised
that I think it's because he he was
trying to see if he could relate to you
kind of because he gets a lot of heat
from his leftist followers like me and
that that kind of the kind of that's
that's where he went down that road so I
thought that was kind of an interesting
dynamic and that the study was a Rebecca
diamond like a 2017 study that I looked
at I mean all the other stuff is from
like right-wing BS so I just didn't know
what the argument against that was so
that's all that's all I called for I
appreciate the taking my call so thanks
thank you whitey um you know people
don't give Donald Trump we talk about
housing people don't give Donald Trump
credit at all for the work that he's
done in dealing with the homelessness
with homeless people who don't have any
housing whatsoever and apparently it was
a super easy fix people don't know about
it cuz he just hasn't had the chance to
tell them I know who can tell them there
well who could we get to maybe ask him
some very insightful
you know insightful and incisive
questions
oh maybe Tucker Carlson come to where we
are now Asaka or Tokyo and the cities
are clean there's no graffiti no one
going a bathroom on the street you don't
see just very different from our city
yep our cities but New York City San
Francisco Los Angeles say they've got a
major problem with its very sick with
filth very soon why is that it's a
phenomena that started two years ago
it's disgraceful
I'm gonna maybe and I'm looking at it
very seriously we're doing some other
things you probably noticed like some of
the very important things that we're
doing now but we're looking at it very
seriously because you can't do that you
can't have what's happening where police
officers are getting sick just by
walking the beat I mean they're getting
actually very sick where people are
getting sick where the people living
there are living in hell too although
some of them have mental problems where
they don't even know they're living that
way in fact perhaps what happened so it
started two years ago hey the world is a
scene from death wish in the 70s
III what is he talkin I don't know it's
really hard I mean Hawker with that
cleanliness I mean jeez to me
the cloud wonders if cuz maybe they pay
their public workers they hire enough
people to clean up thee this is a theory
i I think it was actually Thomas
Friedman who wrote in the 90s that Japan
was gonna stop needing to have jobs like
that in a global economy
why because it would they bring another
much too much bureaucracy well who would
do it well you aren't machines Oh
poor people all right so let's pick it
up for let's play through that again
because I'm trying to figure out what
he's saying I think that my guess is
this Trump what he thinks of cities the
only city he knows is New York right
isn't go outside he hasn't been outside
in a city God knows when so he's
thinking New York and of course he's
thinking New York in the 70s or 80s and
so when he says it started two years ago
I think that's a reference to maybe the
stopping of stop and frisk maybe right
and that's that make sense I mean this
I'm just a Blasio bit too much credit
there I'm trying to decipher this and
but the water could mean four times that
Trump knows something it would be like
I'm in a complete thought but but there
was something when we stopped doing
accept the graces to cause problems I
remember it that's a specific I got it I
don't know if he's saying that things
started to get dirty two years ago with
things started to get clean two years
ago it's completely who knows talking to
where we are now Asaka or Tokyo and the
cities are clean there's no graffiti no
one going a bathroom on the street you
don't see just very different from our
city yep well some of us in some of our
cities but New York City San Francisco
Los Angeles they've got a major problem
with it's very sick with filth very soon
why is that it's a phenomena that
started two years ago it's disgraceful
I'm gonna maybe and I'm looking at it
very seriously we're doing some other
things you probably notice like some of
the very important things that we're
doing now but we're looking at it very
seriously because you can't do that you
can't have what's happening where police
officers are getting sick just by
walking the beat I mean they're getting
actually very sick where people are
getting sick where the people living
there are living in hell - although some
of them have mental problems where they
don't even know they're living that way
in fact perhaps they like living that
way they can't do that you we cannot
ruin our cities
and you have people that work in those
cities they work in office buildings and
to get into the building they have to
walk through a scene that nobody would
have believed possible three years ago
and this is the liberal establishment
this is what I'm fighting they I don't
know if they're afraid of votes I don't
know if they really believe that this
should be taking place but it's a
terrible thing that's taking place and
we may be you know I had a situation
when I first became president we had
certain areas of Washington DC where
that was starting to happen and I ended
it very quickly I said you can do that
when we have leaders of the world coming
in to see the President of the United
States and they're writing down aiwei
they can't be looking at that I really
believe that it hurts our country they
can't be looking it seems like you see
in Los Angeles in San Francisco San
Francisco I own property in San
Francisco so I don't care except it was
so beautiful and now areas that you used
to think as being you know really
something very special you take a look
at what's going on with San Francisco
it's terrible so we're looking at it
very serious that we may intercede we
may do something to get that whole thing
cleaned up it's inappropriate no we have
to take the people and do something we
have to do something right right so in
other words I think what President Trump
is announcing is a federal program to
round up the homeless and do something
with them he's gonna federalize this
problem of course that would be the only
way that he could do it in San Francisco
and Washington and New York and other
cities also I don't know if there is I
don't know what the specifics are for a
polka Ward or a Pulitzer or any type of
journalism but if there's one for
keeping a straight face and not saying
to the person you're interviewing what
the hell are you talking about then I
guess Tucker Carlson should get that one
because I it was 90% of that I am sorry
there's no one in the world who knows
what he's talking about
I don't know if he does maybe he does
and he's just using some type of
shorthand but this hadn't started until
three years ago it's bizarre by solving
it in DC I think he means like I
instructed Secret Service to make sure I
never see a homeless person in the
motorcade right let's drive a different
way or put new one-way windows looking
in not out can we just have a ice cream
truck that falls to the right of the car
so don't have to look at any of the
homeless I remember an in Trinidad
somebody said oh the ride from the
airport to Port of Spain there used to
be these like homeless encampments and
shanty towns and I was like oh I don't
see them it's they've been and they were
like oh yeah they all literally got
built over before the Americas summit
that Obama went to in 2009 sure don't
just come right now let's do that that's
a great model that and that's also what
happened during the Olympics in right on
most places Olympics everywhere the
Olympics goes yes here's Donald Trump
reacting to the Supreme Court saying hey
the DOJ lied to us and the Commerce
Department lied to us about their
reasons for including a question on
citizenship in the census they left the
door open to the idea that DOJ or
commerce could come back and give
another justification for it but it
seems really hard to believe that a
grown-up could rule that this is a
legitimate response when they had made a
point of saying no there's only one
reason why we're doing this and it turns
out with the exposure of documents that
came from a Republican operative that
they were lying about that it's hard to
imagine the Supreme Court doing that but
it's also from a timing perspective very
hard to imagine because the 2020 census
is I think scheduled to go out in
October they're gonna start to do the
counting because it takes several months
so I don't know what you could do to
foreclose
or to reopen the question of literally
the question of what citizenship you
have here's Donald Trump though coming
up with another idea we're looking at
that we think knock on doors and houses
check houses you go through all this
detail and you're not allowed to ask
whether or not somebody
it's a citizen so you can ask other
things could you do this whether or not
somebody's a citizen so we are trying to
do that we're looking at that very
somebody's a citizen as opposed to an
illegal I think that there's a big
difference to be between being a citizen
of the United States and being an
illegal and you know the Democrats want
to treat the illegals with health care
and with other things better than they
treat the citizens of our country if you
look at a coal miner that has black lung
disease you took it about people that
can treat it better than the coal miner
and these people got sick working for
the United States and we treat the
people that just walked in better you
look at what they're doing in California
how they're treating people they don't
treat their people as well as they treat
illegal immigrants so at what point does
it stop it's crazy what they're doing
it's crazy and it's mean and it's very
unfair to our citizens
and we're gonna stop it but we may need
an election to stop it they need to get
back to the house okay so I want to show
you folks something that's really
interesting about this I guarantee you I
will bet you everything I own that if
this case returns to any court and the
DOJ comes in and says oh the real reason
we need to ask this question is because
we have another provision of the Voting
Rights Act that we
to promote the opposing attorneys are
gonna say here is exhibit well we know
at exhibit a was that was the documents
that we found on the hard drives of The
Godfather of the gerrymandering
here's Exhibit B the price of the United
States when asked why do you need this
question on there
it had nothing to do with the Voting
Rights Act he didn't say a word about it
all he said was it's bad the way that
anybody's giving benefits to immigrants
guess what the census is a
constitutionally mandated count of every
person in the United States when the
Constitution enumerates a specific role
for government and a specific task
anything that you do that in any way can
be conceived and construed as inhibiting
the efficacy of that task must attain a
certain high standard before the court
will allow that thing to go forward and
so Donald Trump thank you for protecting
our census by being such an incredibly
racist blowhard I don't know and yeah
black lung disease advocate I mean that
guy gutted funding right for black lung
disease wall in fact and another one of
his plays you know speaking to
misdirected frustration in West Virginia
which does have like an almost you know
colonial extraction status inside the
United States with those indices
industries and a huge public health
problems including that guy who ran for
Senator himself and brought us cocaine
Mitch who shouldn't be in prison but
just the I mean if it's Trump so
whatever it's not a surprise but it's
like II I love how he reaches for the
one example of like oh you mean the
program that you lied about it and cut
right okay all right we got that that's
how I remembered
that was a good lie so uh Brian Kilmeade
he really seems to be picking up the
Yeomans amount of work what's-his-face
Steve Doocy seems to have basically
checked out he seems like I'm no longer
doesn't have roger ailes to guide him in
yeah it is a wast I don't know who I'm
supposed to what I'm supposed to say and
kilmeade I think it's stepping up he
feels like he's gonna be the next
generation he's I think he's been on the
radio quite a bit as of late and so he's
really getting excited and here he is
again trying to trying to basically
justify the incredibly inhumane
treatment of immigrants in these
concentration camps AOC has shown that
with on her trip down there that at very
least at one family detention center
where they could have housed people
there were 350 beds out of 500 that were
available that is not what this
administration is interested in but here
is Brian Kilmeade trying to carry some
water but as always he's got a bucket
full of holes here's the thing picture
yourself you have a house family of five
you have a party you have 30 people over
maybe you have a big party of a hundred
people over and you have two and a half
baths in the beginning be okay with 30
then after 100 people be a little bit
taxed maybe got to get out to a facility
can you picture 5,000 you could have the
best facilities in the world but did
they are so overstock 670,000 have come
here illegally already they had 89
thousand last month there's month before
130,000 coming illegally they have
facilities that hold hundreds not tens
of thousands and now you're gonna walk
down there with the facilities that they
gave that they're not pulling out of
that pocket their uniforms you gave them
and say the facilities are not right
they've been pleading for help Kevin
Mack leaning his predecessor have been
begging for help for months it took a
July first last-minute Hail Mary just to
get me a humanitarian aid put the border
wall aside so you did if you don't watch
Fox that's fine did you watch
sixty minutes they did this whole
feature already how bad it was how the
Border Patrol has got to change diapers
and provide material how the the
National Guard got to take over for the
Border Patrol behind the desk so the
press agents can go back there and pick
up illegals of bringing the facilities
that are overcrowded they can't build
tents fast enough it wasn't their idea
to have a wide open border it was bad
Asylum rules that allowed this to happen
and then you throw it all on the Border
Patrol and you wonder why facilities
aren't adequate that's well I mean first
off the asylum rules have gotten
narrower not wider under the Trump
administration the number of people
eligible for asylum in this country have
shrunk not expanded so the apt analogy
would be imagine you had a house five
people living the house two bathrooms
you invite over 30 people for the party
and then you tell them we're only
fighting 30 people at a time but none of
you can leave and we're going to we're
gonna put cops out there who are gonna
give tickets to anybody who pulls up
with a car with anything that even reeks
slightly of a violation but we're gonna
allow more people to come in so here are
60 people 90 people 100 people the
reason why these facilities are getting
over overcrowded is because they're not
allowing families to pick up their kids
or their cousins or their nephews or
nieces they're separating parents from
children they're not allowing them to go
in the community to basically be what on
what would is like on more or less on
bail we know something like 80 not 80 to
90 some odd percent of immigrants in the
past who have been allowed to go into
the community awaiting their hearing
return for these but the Trump
administration wants to create a crisis
and that's exactly what they're doing
and it's disgusting they're doing it at
the cost of human lives and enormous
human misery that's just a reality
alright lastly uh here's Greg Gutfeld
he's on the five who's on the five these
days same crew waters de Lune yeah
and here's Greg Gutfeld just sort of he
realizes he's basically peaked I think
at Fox so he's just sort of coming in
yeah I'm never gonna get my own show no
he has one oh he does I think in the
weekends great it's not good it's not
gonna but not even it's clearly not
gonna break out and so because he's not
funny that gonna be the breakout hit so
he is well he's having those moments
where he's like what what the hell I
might as well just admit a couple of
things maybe helps the Democrats yeah
you know um I don't of course they're
going to attack him that's what you
would do and I and let's be honest if it
were the adversary an adversarial from
your party on the other side doing it
during you we would do the same so yeah
do these people not understand the
position and power they have in society
it's unbelievably just talking about you
know global conflicts like that like
yeah we would be doing it we did do it
yeah we did it we did it it's Joe it's
we did it we did at it really is amazing
to me how I remember when I was at the
DNC in 2004 and I just started doing
this Janine and I were there had been
doing radio for maybe at that point six
months April to August less four months
and we met Larry elder he was going to
come on and maybe we were sitting with
him you know we were sitting with him in
between a break or whatnot and I can't
remember if it was like
you know at the break he's like you know
we were talking and Jeanine and I were
there we had given up you know taking
hiatuses from our careers we were there
for the politics and Larry was like I
come on that's leave it on the field
and we're like what what you mean leave
it on the field like we didn't like we
were so not in tune with what he could
possibly be saying and he was basically
saying hey when I come out like you know
well that's we did we do that for the
show like what we were both like are you
serious
there's hundreds of thousands of people
being killed
I'll show you feel like the stakes of
this were enormous at the time and he
was just like come on you're not taking
this that seriously are you there's your
sportsmanship and we exactly we were
just like we were supposed to be
stablemates I I mean I never like I
don't
ain't no drum in the green room okay but
he did give you a good story it was a
good juice that one a lot I it because
these girls later Thank You Larry older
the level execute a sociopath yeah well
but that's the things that I think they
were all like that I mean I think you
know Sean Hannity to his credit he's I
think worse off air frankly let's do is
credit of course calling from a 6-3 one
area code who's this where you come from
oh hey there hey hey hey can you hear me
yeah hey hey yeah this is John from Oh
Eugene hey Dean Oregon okay um kind of a
silly question but going on a date
tonight with a Kamala Harris supporter
I'm a bernie guy do you think it could
work
I think it can work I mean I think look
when is the primary ooh in in Oregon I
don't know all right well yeah it sounds
like a mind to yeah
get on it all right let's just assume I
like I don't know the primary days but I
will tell you this table all right look
you have you have at least I would say
eight to nine months minimum so what's
the longest relationship you've ever
been in here okay so you can do this I
would just I would just pace it out to
sit down nine months and give yourself
you know each month you a certain
milestone in which you accept like so I
wouldn't roll out the cop stuff too
early yeah
just say you're for medicare-for-all and
like yes your your issue and I this is
the way I would do I would say like I
think this is the way I would start I
would say like I think it took a lot of
guts for Kamala to backtrack the way she
did yes that's exactly do in a very bad
way exactly you like you know who have
some might have some different ideas
about Kamala Harris than you and I'm
just saying cuz it's just somebody that
I respect her father yeah wait maybe two
months to say something like this it's
like look you and I we don't have kids
so we can't possibly know what it's like
to be arrested because our kid is too
sick to go to school right you just drop
that in and say you know cuz it's who we
to judge maybe kids who have sick kids
maybe parents who have sick kids deserve
to be arrested because their kids can't
go to school yeah maybe she that's
that's right no that was really good
technique maybe it was a good motor
start to defend that policy maybe it was
a good cuz I read this piece of nothing
in post about a woman who was like
suffering from diabetes and who I was
dealing with severe economic
circumstances and she went in jail for
you know sent on her kid not being able
to at school one day but it was the
motivation she needed right it was like
by the bootstraps stuff I would say
stuff like you know criminal justice
reform I have to laugh at that and look
I support Bernie but I obviously
criminal justice reform and then is she
caught it and then the thing is I think
is you start to you start
to parrot Kamala Harris in such a way
that she gets offended by what you're
saying and you say I thought that's what
you wanted me to I thought I'm just look
I support Bernie right I'm just trying
to respect you I thought you wanted to
terrorize sex workers this can be a
beautiful relationship yeah I thought
that you thought not prosecuting Steve
minuchin while prosecuting literally
every other prosecutable person in the
state of California except for the
Catholic Church on sex abuse was brave
yeah I thought that's what you want who
should say like that one of the things I
do respect about Harris is that she can
see that minuchin zin office and shows
no regret and also the fact that she's
was actually donated to by Donald Trump
several years ago will help her campaign
against him that's a disadvantage my guy
doesn't have there's never got a check
from Donald Trump that's the way I would
go yeah so she by the way primary day is
May 20th dude Jesus Ramar you give us an
update and a cold Oh Bernie bro have you
guys seen this new meme that's going
around for Elizabeth Warren fans we're
instead of saying that she's a Klan for
that they use a word that rhymes with
plan saying like need to make some
brownies Elizabeth Warren's got a pan
for that or yeah all right so a lot of
her fans are really lame but first of
all say we got to deal with all these
fans so first of all glands are totally
overrated and most of these things are
medium posts so let's just calm down a
little bit calling from a five one five
area code who's this where you come from
hey Sam hey it's that Cheney and Bush is
now rom-com e1 and I have a couple
things real quick Wow nice to talk to
you too buddy a couple first thing is on
your Bernie Sanders
a messaging point I think it's very
important that you always end any point
of what you're saying about it like more
taxes or sacrifice with it's going to be
more money in your pockets and less
money in billionaire's pockets every
time and even without stuff like the
green new deal which is going to cost
potentially billions of dollars or more
you you know it's what we're talking is
like a drop in the bucket in terms of
Pentagon budget so there's all this
stuff yeah
this it doesn't necessarily entail more
sacrifice from the working class yeah
right I I mean I think obviously the you
sell the upsides to these things but I
think the I think the country is I think
people will be responsive to a
politician who is asking them to do
stuff and is and specifically is
authentic and genuine enough to concede
that this is not this is not going to be
a a change that is going to come without
any type of effort by the people this is
like this is not elect me and and that's
it and you know part of that was also
you know Obama's strategy but I think it
also I think it I think Bernie is well
positioned to do that frankly and so and
it's the one thing that I think will
also distinguish him from others because
you know the the it's easier for me to
distinguish between these proposals but
I just don't think it's as explicit as
it has been in the past you know there
was I think people you know when I look
back on like Hillary Clinton's debt free
college versus Bernie's free college you
know people are like you're just
splitting hairs
and to the extent that people were aware
of the policy differences there was a
whole host of other things that made you
know it created distinctions there
there's just too many people on stage
for the choice to be that stark and so
he's got to stake out a not necessarily
a a policy differences because it's
there to the extent that it's there but
a sort of dispositional and a sort of
just a relationship difference that he
wants to have with the electorate right
go ahead I'm just curious how do you
convince people that doing more work is
ultimately going to be worth their
effort when they're working more than
they ever have and they have no I don't
think the idea is that you're gonna work
more I think it's good good no everyone
else can sell it against Bernie is like
they're all saying I'm the most
qualified and you vote for me and I will
get it done and you can live your life
independent I think if if you come back
at me and say you're asking them to get
more involved and more engaged and
people are tired and they're working too
hard I think he's going to say I mean
what I would say is hey this investment
is going to be the only thing that's
going to make it so their lives are
easier and B you're not telling them the
truth you're just saying you can have
this and you can have that and it's not
going to cost you anything and nobody
believes that and they shouldn't and I
think that second part of it everybody
wants the material benefits but that
second part of it another thing about
that actually Minister did you I'm being
straight I care for all is more coverage
for everybody and less premiums and love
more money in your pocket at the same
time the only loser is investors in an
insurance company yes I agree but I
don't think that's gonna be the selling
point that is going to get Bernie over
the top I think the selling point that
is going to get Bernie over the top is
one where he distinguishes himself from
the other candidates not because
of he's gonna have less private
insurance existing than they do I think
it's gonna be because he is the guy who
is actually being forthright and honest
with us and he I think it's just a
uniquely positioned to do that because
in many respects he is asking more of
people it's it's it's built into the his
notion and so instead of it being like
this revolution that exists out there
and we bump into it he's he's alluded to
this but he has to make it more about
and you know has to be there has to be
more of a finer point put on to it
rather than this campaign isn't about me
it's about us he needs to put a little
bit more meat on those bones and and
really say like this is what you're I'm
expecting of you and I just think that
that the the country is amenable to that
right now and I think that it will also
help distinguish him from the others
because he needs something and it's not
going to be policy is not going to do it
because you have 20 people up there
talking about their variation of what
some of them call Medicare for all and
some doing and I'm sorry like I can I
can make a distinct I can distinguish it
from that but I don't think other people
can I'm not saying not there aren't
other people but the vast majority of
voters up there I don't think they can I
think what they will make their decision
on in terms of this primary at this
point is who's the one that I can I can
trust
who's the one who is you know I can
trust and I think the way that you gain
people's trust in this context in this
environment is to say I'm gonna tell you
some of the bad stuff to appreciate
appreciate hey the second point I wanted
to talk about was a Jimmy Dore story
when here Jimmy goes yes
so I guess I start out uh he's no longer
with PYT right I heard that on Twitter I
think I believe that is the case yes
yeah all right so I'm not disparaging
TYT here but I am gonna disparage Jimmy
door back when I worked at TYT back when
I worked there there was a issue and an
incident that came up where Jimmy door
started like calling the CFO blowing up
my direct supervisors phone about
somebody had been saving YouTube
comments or a one youtube comment that
was against jimmy dore i don't remember
what the comment was but it was just
like jimmy dore is great at being a
dumbass or something yeah anyway suspect
of that and uh a favor do you like what
does that mean like they favored it they
be you can hurt somebody under the Junge
Kirk's account like oh okay I see that
with anti Jimmy door and Jimmy's like
going up to upper management like what
the hell who's doing this from The Young
Turks again and so the the CFO context
my supervisor say hey do you know what
anything about this and my supervisor is
like oh yeah I was probably me on
accident I've been hitting a bunch of
safes for comments to you know boost
audience engagement and I probably just
hit one that was negative of an accident
sorry and so you would think so that's
the end of it right no that's not the
end of Jimmy's like no no no I know it
was discontented and I had I obviously
didn't do this I would never occur to me
to do something like a melt if he got a
unfavorite you know like somebody saved
a bad comment about YouTube on the off
chance he sees it oh my god right I
don't know how he found out that
somebody harder like one of his fans
mention but he brings up my name I
didn't know he knew I existed I've never
met the guy he worked in a different
office than me
um and and I'm just pissed at
this point like why is he trying to get
me in trouble for this name and I try to
figure out like I like I used to be a
big fan I listen to his podcast all the
time but then like when you guys got in
that fight
you know you just wrecked him so hard in
my mind that I just really stopped
caring about him but I didn't unfollow
him or like you know because he's with
the company so I'm like so pissed and I
unfollow him and he's just so sure that
like oh no is this kind of like he's
such a petty little and if anyone
ever says like oh maybe it wasn't Jimmy
that cut out that Sam cedar reference it
maybe it was one of his embedded errs oh
no no that was Jimmy for sure well I
appreciate the insight I feel proud of
myself about that thank you
alright thanks for the call appreciate
it later my good distance folks I'm
sorry we're out of time I could have
spent more time on that last one but
we've got to jump as it were whoa look
now I listen I don't want to hear about
people going in and favoriting mean
comments that's actually the clip that
Bernie should be doing folks see you
tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know sir
I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
kid
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
