[Music]
however let's talk about this at the
time when Brett Kavanaugh was having
these hearings we all knew the FBI did
not have the time that it needed to
investigate the actual claims during the
course of the questioning of Brett
Kavanaugh and I should say his sort of
like yelling every response as if the
volume and the anger he projects in the
indignation that he can projects is
actually a substitute for the truth
during those hearings he was questioned
not just about what happened with with
dr. Blasi Ford but there were questions
as to what happened in Yale a woman who
was a student at the time name was Debra
Ramirez claimed that at one point Brett
Kavanaugh had basically thrust his penis
into her face at a party at the time
Cavanaugh said oh if that had happened
it would have been all over the Yale
campus well the New York Times I don't
have the exact quote right in front of
me but the New York Times started off
this piece by saying that's what Brett
Cavanaugh said and we did some reporting
and we found that in fact it was all
over the Yale campus that many people
knew about it this is something
obviously the FBI could have found out
with a little bit more time that was
part of the reason why he didn't give
him more time then in this same piece a
book written by Robin Pogrebin and Kate
Kelly two New York Times reported as far
as I know
citing two officials reporters said that
the former Yale classmate max steyr told
senators and the FBI about a different
episode of alleged sexual misconduct
which also involved Brett Kavanaugh
whipping out his penis and thrusting on
another woman who was not interested now
those two that second there this new
revelation the supposed alleged victim
and others refused to comment on it but
what is bizarre about this story is not
that this came out I mean look the idea
that Deborah Ramirez or Blasi Ford would
go and put themselves in harm's way
for no reason at all to lie about these
things the idea that max Dyer who went
to the Senate he went to the FBI and two
senators to give them the information
that he had and this is a guy who is a
Stanford Law grad a former Supreme Court
Clerk he runs a bipartisan center for
public service this is also not a guy
who's like you know I'm gonna just take
a leap on this and pretend like I saw
him do this I mean it would have been a
much different debate had Brett cab and
I come out and said look I did some
horrible things when I was in college
and I would drink too much and I have
reflected on this and I think it's gonna
make me a better judge because I realize
how horrible those things were but
that's not the grounds that they want to
fight this on they want to fight this on
the grounds that it is irresponsible to
hold this man to account for what he did
it is just not the way things are that
if someone who's gone through
these this type of has this kind of
pedigree and received all the proper
finishings on that pedigree that he
would have to deal with this wasn't the
deal the deal was at the time you get to
do this and it doesn't hurt you it
may hurt the women it may hurt the
victims whatever that doesn't matter
that's irrelevant they can recover
they'll bounce back but the deal was as
far as he understood and then he shows
up here and it's like wait you're you're
changing the deal on me this is an
outrage and so we have now I think about
half a dozen presidential candidates are
calling for a Kavanagh to be impeached I
mean because he lied he lied over and
over during that hearing we all knew it
I can't even remember what it was now
the the thing that he wrote in the the
yearbook as if it was some type of omage
Renata lemon yes was a no mosh homage to
her we didn't tell her about it at the
time we said it as something that we
thought we you know his way of saying
like she's great we love her she's
terrific and then like oh yeah we also
hesitated to let her know that we had
actually written that here's that here's
that that moment ask you about Renata
dolphin who lives in Connecticut
she thought these yearbook statements
were quote horrible hurtful and simply
untrue end quote
because Renata alumni clearly implied
some boast of sexual conquests and
that's the reason that you apologized to
her correct that's false
speaking about the yearbook and she said
she and I never had any sexual
interaction so my question your question
is false and I've addressed that in the
opening statement and so your question
is based on a false premise and really
does great harm to her I don't know why
you're bringing this up frankly doing
great harm to her by even bringing our
name up here is really unfortunate well
calling someone an alumnus in that way
well implying what you're implying about
by a number of your football friends at
the time as boasting of sexual contact
that's the reason that I'm bringing it
up no it's false you're implying that
look what you're bringing up right now
about her look what you're doing here
man I asked that subtracted from my time
that means this indignation segments for
every single person in that room knew he
was lying his wife his kids every single
person in that room knew he was lying
and it didn't make a difference guys
gonna sit on the highest court in the
land for the rest of his life for the
rest of some of our lives and he was
lying through his teeth and if you don't
think the ability to admit that you did
something wrong when it was so blatantly
obvious if you don't think that having
at least the decency to say I am holding
one of the most important positions in
our society and I am going to show that
you need to acknowledge the truth and
make an argument as to why you have in
some way changed or understand it
differently I mean this stuff is like
stuff that you want your 27 year old boy
to be able to deal with nevermind that
they're gonna sit on the
like you want that like you need to be
an adult enough to say I messed up I
messed up I feel bad for it this is what
I've done to mitigate it that's what you
expect out of your children as a parent
the idea that that's not immediately
satisfactory or immediately to be
expected and required of a Supreme Court
justice
and I'm not saying that you get that and
then you get a pass to go on the court
I'm just saying that's like you have
that responsibility if you're in a
position where you're speaking publicly
in that context that's your minimum
that's the that's the minimum they
should require of you to walk through
the door of that quarter of that Senate
hearing and then we have sort of like
this ongoing participation in this farce
where the New York Times in some way I
mean they just don't know how to deal
with this it's an excerpt from a book
that their own reporters wrote so they
put it in the op-ed section now that's
fine but there's new revelations and new
reporting in there and there should have
been a reported piece as well on the
front page and then when they put it out
to to promote it on Twitter this is what
they put New York Times opinion having a
penis thrust in your face at a drunken
dorm party may seem like harmless fun
but when Brett Kavanaugh did it to her
Deborah Ramirez says it confirmed that
she didn't belong at Yale in the first
place like really really does it seem
like harmless fun to like whom like
honestly having a penis thrust in your
face at a drunken dorm party may seem
like harmless fun I wouldn't want to
sort of like get a sense of like from
whose perspective is that from maybe the
drunken penis guy it might seem like
harmless fun but I have a feeling that
just about everybody on the other end of
that drunken penis would not
feel like it's harmless fun and but but
that's what your expectation being
harmless fun but it's something very
specific about this woman that made her
feel somehow like she didn't belong
there
no very the way this it should be
constructed is when Brett Kavanaugh
realized Debra Ramirez might have a
sense that she didn't belong at Yale she
became the perfect target for it to be
fun for him when he's drunk to wave his
penis in her face in front of his
friends we found the most vulnerable
person in this general area and then we
just did to her what we could do that's
the way that this should be constructed
they had to take this tweet down because
of course meanwhile some right winger
who is she now
Bethenny Mandel her and Seth Mendel
they're just right well right-wingers
look at the oh yeah she wrote I live
with guys all guys my senior year of
college so in other words she chose to
room with the guys during her senior
year in college perfectly valid choice I
went to a coed dorm school nice I've
opted in to live with guys and variably
we're going to be exposed to stuff
that's fine she's ricocheting media by
the way and this happened to me
literally every day now I doubt it did
in the same context but she clearly felt
comfortable in that area maybe the idea
of consent is too hard for her go back
go back please
one of my roommates
walked around naked everyday and then
she puts in parens not avi Smolin that's
at avi Smolin but also hi remember this
laughter laughter laughter laughter
laughter laughter and then I'll be small
and I'm guess didn't think it was so
funny he replied to her if I recall
correctly our roommate walked around in
his underwear and I think you asked him
to cover up I think if I think if you
asked him to cover up he would have if
you did ask and he didn't then I'm sorry
I didn't act to help fix it then I do
believe Deborah Ramirez and Christine
Blasi Ford and that we should trust
women when they come forward
in other words obvious Mullen is saying
like I didn't like you then I don't like
you now I think there's a real
difference between having friends that
you agree to live with walk around in
their underwear then having some drunken
guy slap his penis in your face at a
party and laugh about it she's obviously
not capable of seeing that difference
and I would say good for her or at least
a fortunate for her that she's never
been victimized in such a way it's not a
question of like I'm so strong that I
can handle being around guys who I'm
friends with wearing underwear
unbelievable unbelievable and we now
have two guys who sit on the Supreme
Court who have incredibly credible like
shockingly credible accounts of sexual
harassment levied against them it's
pretty stunning it's pretty stunning it
isn't it isn't exactly it's a I guess a
stunning reminder of what is in this
country yep the rules really haven't
changed that much
actually it's I probably should have
started with the Dave Rubin stuff that's
the moms ask the moms I think we should
ask the moms I think there should be I
would love to see I would love to see a
poll of moms when you send your daughter
to college pro or against the idea of
having some drunk guy slap penis in her
face separate but related how funny
would that be for fun for some people
yeah put it on the intake form on the
orientation form I separate but related
I'd like to know about the gambling
debts as well yes that's for another day
right right but hopefully some day I'm
sure I'm sure I'm sure like to ask
somebody's asked the Sackler family to
another Nationals game folks
