[Music]
and we're going to talk more about this
later in the program but Julian Assange
was kicked out of the Ecuadorian Embassy
in in the UK he was then taken into
custody he was then very quickly tried
and found guilty of skipping bail in
Great Britain and I think that carries a
12 month sentence if I'm not mistaken in
the meantime it was announced that the
US will be extraditing or at least
having a hearing to extradite Assange in
about a month maybe it's May 15th and to
be clear the only thing that we know
that they are the grounds in which they
are seeking to extradite him is based on
a I'm not sure when the indictment
actually happened but it was the 2010
actions and his involvement in the leaks
that chelsea manning essentially
provided to wikileaks
if you will recall those leaks included
footage of us helicopters I believe
firing on Iraqi civilians right in
addition it was a massive trove of
Defense and Secretary of the Department
of State cables from around the world
and I distinctly remember this because
this was got a lot of debate at the time
and I was was doing a lot of MSNBC at
the time frankly and the mainstream
conventional wisdom was there was
nothing that Chelsea Manning provided
via WikiLeaks that had any import
to the American public or to any
country's public and then literally
every single day for the next two years
there was at least one story based upon
written by the press based upon those
leaks so it was worth newsworthy enough
that and this is not an exaggeration
almost every single day there was a
story that came out of it some of it was
in the United States some of it was
around the world and there was no
indication that any US interests were in
any way inhibited or infringed upon by
these leaks there was some I guess
diplomatic embarrassments that took
place yet as you know Chelsea Manning
went to prison her sentence was commuted
to some extent after frankly she was
treated horribly in prison she was try
yeah by by President Obama she is now my
understanding in jail now for refusing
to testify in the grand jury to the
grand jury that I presume I presume is
the grand jury that had at least this
indictment now I've heard you know I
when I'm in Vegas obviously three hours
behind on East Coast I got to get up
early get here have my complete meltdown
about the technical issues that I
anticipate setting up and then I so I've
only had limited time to read into this
the reports I'm hearing on television
anyways say that the indictment involves
Julian Assange helping Chelsea Manning
then Bradley Manning crack some type of
DoD encryption
so that Chelsea Manning could get this
material so far however from what I've
seen of the indictment and and I will
concede I have not seen much but there
is a couple of elements of the
indictment that are highly problematic
my and putting aside what people think
about Julian Assange as an individual or
in the functioning of WikiLeaks in the
election people really need to to
compartmentalize these things
because this is when really bad
precedence gets set if you are not
careful and can't separate the person
and other activities they may have been
involved with with the specific
activities that they're being prosecuted
for right I mean Donald Trump I would
love to see him in shackles but not for
something that would you know not for
the expansion of Social Security let's
say and so one of the things or at least
two of the things in the indictment
number 19 and 20 of the indictment it
was part of the conspiracy and and to be
clear here
Assange of manners and means of the
conspiracy this is page five of the
indictment just so people know where
Your Honor it was part of the conspiracy
that Assange and Manning took measures
to conceal Manning as the source of the
disclosure of classified records to
WikiLeaks including by removing user
names from the disclosed information
into leading chat logs between Assange
and Manning there is not a single
reporter in the country at any outlet
anywhere that who gets leaks from
government officials who would not have
done that and has not done that it's
their obligation to do that
you'll recall that the intercept failed
to fully protect reality winner when she
leaked the information that Russia had
attempted to interfere in the elections
the 2016 elections and she's not
imprisoned for it and the intercept
attempted to do as much as they could
and didn't go quite far enough twenty it
was part of the conspiracy that Assange
encouraged manic to provide information
and records from the departments and
agencies in the United States
undoubtedly Chelsea Manning approaches
WikiLeaks has some information and
Assange says yeah get me more which is
also what every single reporter who has
a source for for leaks does so these are
very dangerous
lastly 21 it was part of the conspiracy
that Assange and Manning used a special
folder on a cloud Dropbox of WikiLeaks
to transmit classified records
containing information to the National
Defense of the United States these
elements of the indictment are highly
problematic and it is crucial for people
that doesn't mean that there aren't
elements of the indictments that may be
legit but it is crucial for people to to
speak out against this because there are
20 whistleblowers or we don't know maybe
40 who have gone to the democratic
committees right now there may be some
who are going to reporters who are
blowing the whistle on things that the
Trump administration is doing and every
single one of those reporters have an
obligation to protect their source and
are doing exactly those three things
that we just can I just read from can I
add just really quickly I mean that
that's to me that's
you know that's at least 90% of the
story and why we need to object to this
a hundred percent regardless of what you
think of Assange and I do want to say
the 25th on acts of furtherance of the
conspiracy where this is more about the
specific you know password claim and
I'll just read 25th on about on or about
March 10th 2010 Assange requested more
information from manning related to the
password okay that sounds at least more
in line with what they're claiming and
then he indicated that he'd been trying
I don't know what indicated means but
has has had no luck so far
so like the most explosive thing that
they're putting forth while obscuring
the really dangerous substance doesn't
appear to have any real weight to it at
least from the indictment and I just
want to add briefly to like I I'm very
comfortable with like WikiLeaks of 2010
and 2011 are very different in 2006
right and even if you go like I I was
just doing stories on Haiti recently and
I had forgotten that like WikiLeaks was
enormous ly helpful in exposing State
Department you know a sweatshop lobbying
in Haiti I mean this was a resource
against US civilian casualties and all
sorts of corruption across the globe and
we really need to remember the value
that they did provide and also what this
reflects and I'll say it later about
what's happening in Ecuador as well so I
this is a big problem regardless of what
you think
