we have now 14 states where Democrats
are have a majority in the Senate and
the assembly or the house and on the
governor's mansion for the time being
what states are you anticipating seeing
both within in the context of within the
state the the most change because of
that change in the 2018 election and
which states do you perceive will have
the most impact in terms of providing a
model for the four other states across
the nation yeah yeah that's a great
question
so look we talked a little bit about New
York and California so I'll just I'll
hone in on some of the other states
first and maybe circle back to those if
we need to look New Mexico now has a
all-blue leadership and that's a state
where 75% of the children in New Mexico
are children of color and they rank
really you know that that's a really
poor state and so we I think there's
some real opportunity in New Mexico to
take the lead in a state that is you
know very different from New York and
California in terms of its economic
prosperity and some of the things I
think are on the table they are boosting
the minimum wage it's only seven dollars
and fifty cents their teachers in New
Mexico have gone half a decade without a
raise at all so James Jimenez who runs
New Mexico think-tank that works on
these issues is is eager to see that
change and I think that um you know that
there's just a real desire to to kind of
set out a progressive economic agenda in
New Mexico then I'll give you another
example that's that's kind of at the
other end both politically and and
geographically which is Illinois um
where you know the thing I heard from
organizers in Illinois and I spoke to
ameesha Patel who runs grassroots
collaborative and the thing I heard from
her is that you know part of this is
about holding progressive politicians
accountable sometimes um you get that
trifecta in and it doesn't necessarily
to the policies that are going to take
on corporate power or that are going to
really make meaningful difference for
working-class people and I think that in
Illinois there's a real desire to say
look it's a billion another billionaire
governor right I think but a Democrat
and to say look he said he wants to kind
of stop the war on drugs and stop mass
incarceration and bring some revenue
back to communities and so I think
there's a real determination in Illinois
to say let's make sure we actually do
this because some of these things have
been talked about in the past and then
haven't happened once the people got in
those were two interesting states to me
so there's a real accountability moment
in these places where you no longer have
that ability I mean that's also what's
happening in New York and it's frankly
that leverage is working right where for
a while we had the the narrative was
well we can't pass any really
progressive legislation because the
Republicans control the Senate and in
fact they controlled the Senate because
of a breakaway group of Democrats who
are caucusing with the Republicans but
now that that that group of Democrats
has basically been shattered and the
Democrats control that we have some
genuine accountability and the
politicians have to you know they don't
have the same cover I guess is really
what the dynamic is that's exactly right
and I think the other issue there is
like you've got to make it possible for
politicians to do the things that they
said they're going to do there's always
going to be pressure from moneyed
interests to not do what I think
progressive communities want or what
working-class families need right so
you're always going to have pressure to
eliminate regulations to get to get rid
of minimum wages to get rid of social
safety nets to lower taxes that pressure
comes from a very natural constituency
of moneyed interests and so unless you
have a counterpoint that's saying no we
really actually need for working
families to be able to get by on what
they are and know we really actually
need to have mass transit so that we
have an energy efficient way of getting
around that is affordable for
a family that might only have one car
for two workers unless you have that
kind of pressure it's just too easy to
capitulate to the moneyed interests that
are always going to be present so I
think that it's really incumbent upon
those of us who want on policies that
leave the planet policies that protect
working-class people
policies that give kids opportunities
it's incumbent upon us to create the
climate that makes that possible
let's talk briefly about initiatives I
noticed this week I think it was that
despite the fact that you utans Utah
folks voted to expand Medicaid that the
republican-controlled legislature
attempted to roll that back that seems
to be a bit of a problem in
republican-controlled states
am I making that up or I mean if we see
me at least multiple multiple go ahead
no I mean Sam I cannot believe it right
it is insane like how can you do that
and not um incur complete like not have
people storming the Capitol you know if
they went to the polls and voted for
something and then you try to roll it
back and you saw some of that in Maine
as well in the past again we saw it
multiple times over years we've seen it
in Wisconsin I think to a certain extent
as well it's it's stunning I think yeah
and I can talk about an Ohio example too
um but just just to first start with the
positives on ballot initiatives right we
just have about 30 seconds left I'm
sorry like voters went to the polls you
know in particularly on incarceration
reform they gave in cars formerly
incarcerated Elsa franchise in Florida
they shared some Jim Crow era rules in
Louisiana they raised the minimum wage
all over the place and they expanded
Medicaid so it's been great for
initiatives but you're right you can't
let you can't let people reverse it the
minute the people vote for you can a
politician's readership that's right and
the people can't let that happen to I
mean it's absolutely nuts but Amy
Hanauer thanks so much a fascinating
piece and a really important dynamic
that does not get enough
and like we said at the beginning of
this interview will become more and more
important as we have a more conservative
Supreme Court but we got to take a break
a Meehan our thanks so much for your
time today
