the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of an ele
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Thursday September 5th 2019
I'm Michael Brooks this is a Michael
Thursday this is the five-time
award-winning majority report were
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program
Ronan Burtenshaw he's the editor of The
Tribune and the United Kingdom talking
about why only organism is the way out
of the UK crisis how one of the most
dynamic and interesting center-left
Social Democratic parties in the world
which the Labour Party is under the
leadership of Jeremy Corbyn could take
the UK out of its Boris Johnson clown
show clown fascist show talk about that
new watchdog further details the severe
trauma of children who have been
kidnapped and separated from their
families by the Trump administration's
policies horrible disgusting stuff even
as new documents reveal that the FBI is
tracking border groups protest border
organizations as extremists because it's
apparently extreme to oppose kidnapping
children and detaining refugees 20
people have died in the Bahamas as
hurricane durian goes back to a category
three and threatens the Carolinas I
don't have many good things to say about
house Democratic caucus chair Hakeem
Jeffries however he has become the
highest
ranking Democrat to co-sponsor Medicare
for all and significant because I think
Jeffries path that he sees is Speaker of
the House not necessarily a run for
higher office so it's a different type
of calculation than someone like a
Kamala Harris will backtrack on that
type of thing when she runs for
president Pentagon pulls funds from
military schools and daycare to pay for
Trump's border wall that's a great way
to support the troops chief US Asylum
office resigns his White House pushes
for even tighter controls on immigration
and defiance uprising and anger as the
Indian crackdown and Kashmir continues
detaining people boys as young as twelve
years old and the communication blackout
continues after the BJP government tour
the Indian Constitution over a month ago
Iran lifts more limits on his nuclear
program as the Trump calamity continues
on the Iran deal
the Taliban claim a deadly attack near a
US Embassy in Kabul and China and the
United States set to resume trade talks
in October as the Trump administration
reverses standards for energy efficient
light bulbs I mean who wants to deal
with that all that and much much more on
today's majority report welcome
everybody welcome folks of course
there's also big climate forum last
night on CNN shouts to the success of
the grassroots organizing of the sunrise
movement well done
Bernie Sanders was incredible Elizabeth
Warren was very good and also not so
good Joe Biden bled shouts to the
failure of Joe Biden's eye blood vessels
Joe Biden's Larry and his scheduling
team and his scheduling team Joe Biden
bled from the eye and then scooted off
today to a fundraiser with a fossil fuel
executive and Kamala Harris gift wrapped
with a bow
the most insignificant environmental
intervention imaginable and a beautiful
gift to the right ring white right-wing
noise machine and I don't really know
what anybody else had to say if I'm
being a hundred percent honest I I had
heard that Andrew yang made some claim
about the green new deal getting rid of
air travel or something
trash which was Yang's trash folks not
good if you uh if you like Andrew yang
you overrate your ability to parse
policy and are probably too invested in
one specific policy that won't you want
to like pay for your video games no I'm
sympathetic to but come on yeah I was
gonna say I mean Matt Matt represents
that demographic on this program I
wouldn't I'm the next level of you so
just follow the show and what do you
think is the Venn diagram between
callers who said you could set up PC
gaming systems for Bitcoin mining and
ubi fans and be a hundred percent circle
do you remember that what was and what
was so wild about that Bitcoin rigging
stuff was that in addition to it not
being a sound economic strategy was that
it uh it was basically like it was
hugely environmentally harmful I don't
remember the stats a Bitcoin rig the
amount of energy that it took when they
extrapolated it I this was a couple
years ago but it was some type of like
stunning contribution to greenhouse gas
emission because what you mine the night
river dot air but you get like the
top-of-the-line computer graphics card
and that's what runs it so it's just
like massive amount of wattage to power
these calculations but it did help the
consumer graphics card market so shouts
out to all the bitcoins out there for
subsidizing that technology did have
some strong economic impact Donald Trump
didn't know what a category-5 is you
know whatever Donald Trump's an idiot I
mean some of them are fine the thing
that's weird about Trump is that the
only time it's like there's three grids
there's actually keeping track of Trump
in the Republican Party as the greatest
threat to the
Fievel of the human species which we
kind of all have to do then there's
occasionally and we're about to
basically play something that is so dumb
that it still actually crosses the bar
it is kind of funny and then other times
he says stuff that is legitimately
hilarious and then pretty much
everything else like I'm on Team mostly
ignore the guy like just stop stop
freaking about freaking out about
everything he says and does frankly but
here is uh particularly everything he
says or tweets I should say but here
Donald Trump is he made an ass of
himself about the hurricane last week he
has no clue what's going on
excuse my language and uh and here he is
in the White House saving face with a
sharpie
we got lucky in Florida very very lucky
indeed we had actually our original
chart was that it was going to be hit
hitting Florida directly maybe I could
just see that first I'm saying what
affected a lot of other states the
original was not only Florida but
Georgia could have was going toward the
Gulf that was what we what was
originally projected I know that Alabama
was in the original forecast they
thought it would get it as a piece of it
it was supposed to go actually we have a
better map than that which is going to
be presented where we had many lines
going directly many models each line
being a model the original path that
most people thought it was going to be
taken as you know was right through
Florida where on the right would have
been Georgia Alabama etcetera
I don't know I don't know I don't know
lot of offers lot of artists know where
other models came from where we have the
best - folks trust me I know how to pick
them out the modeling agency folks oh my
god alright as you know Sam cedar loves
to read ads so let's indulge in his
great pleasure and watch some Sam cedar
advertisements and then I will come back
with an interview with Ronan Burtenshaw
on Corbin ISM and the crisis in the UK
thank you Michael
I just want to remind folks that support
for today's show comes from third love
with more than 70 sizes including their
signature half cup sizes third love
design bras with breast size and shape
in mind for a perfect fit in a premium
feel I of course do not wear a bra maybe
not of course but I don't don't wear a
bra in the normal course of my daily
existence however we do have one of our
expert bra wearers who tried out a
couple of third love bras here's what
she said I like that they don't have a
zillion options so it's easy to choose
something quickly the fit is great I
usually have to return most bras I order
online even though they're in my size I
ordered to both fit that almost never
happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
but not as boring as most t-shirt bras
subtle cute details so I don't feel
basic there you go folks this is
hands-down the most comfortable bra
you'll own straps that don't slip
tagless labels
not to mention lightweight super thin
memory foam cups that all mold to your
shape and our proprietary 2/3 love best
of all every customer has 60 days to
wear it wash it put it to the test and
if you don't love it you can return it
in third love will wash and donate it to
a woman in need
third loves knows there's a perfect bra
for everyone so right now they're
offering my listeners 15% off your first
order go 2/3 love.com / majority now
find your perfect fitting bra and get
15% off your first purchase
that's third love.com / majority for 15%
off today
those are good bras my I've got now I
have like extended family wearing third
love bras the good bras everybody comes
back with something good
meanwhile also support for today's show
also comes from OVA Globes mova Globes
turn all on their own check this out man
have you seen this so I told Sol that I
got it for him but he wants to I was
like but I have to I have to I have to
show it for when we advertise for it and
he's like why and I'm like well I mean
because that's that man that's how I got
the the globe hose it's super cool they
turn all on their own with or without
the base this is my little base I got
right here in any sim setting with
ambient lighting no batteries are needed
no sloppy cards cords to detract from
your enjoyment
instead hidden magnets provide all the
movement it's super cool with over 40
different designs including world maps
outerspace famous artworks there's
something for everyone I may get the
outer space collection it features
graphic provided by NASA and JPL what's
JPL I don't know I know what NASA is
it's complete with the planets moons
asteroids constellation designs
it's the nasha NASA Jet Propulsion
Laboratory yeah that's the one I think
I'm gonna get next I mean these things
they're like collector's items and
they're beautiful it's a great gift for
the person who has everything or you can
you know use it as like home decor I
don't know I've always been a big globe
guy I like to find older ones that have
countries that don't exist anymore or
older ones but this is really amazing
and this one gives
gives you like the air flows I imagined
until climate change destroys everything
and then they would come out with a new
one fit nice to remember what it was
like but it's it's beautiful and it's
super cool and it sort of functions like
a compass like it's always facing north
I guess yeah it's very interesting
yeah and it's I love it I love it they
have ones that have vintage Maps there's
one like that one from 1790 a vintage
map that has no Antarctica because they
hadn't discovered it yet it's cool mova
globes folks visit www.opm.gov/life comm
slash majority use the code majority for
10% off your purchase you know one of
the things that I've always known about
him we don't really talk about it that
much anymore maybe it was more important
to to society when we were engaged in
you know full-scale wars that people had
a sense of where things were on the
globe but this is a great gift I mean I
I guess I'm a little bit child centric
but it's a great gift for your kids or
your teenagers just give them a sense of
the planet and also a space that's mova
Globe comm slash majority use the code
majority get 10% off and lastly so I
don't know if people have noticed it but
you know following my you know divorce I
tried to pick up my fashion game a
little like I only have so much there's
only so much I can do all right but but
I have and but on top of that as I was
sort of searching around I've heard
about this company ever Lane and super
psyched to say that they are advertising
with the show now and one of the amazing
things about this not only is it sort of
like the it's a night high style but
it's like comfortable it's perfect it's
perfect for me but the the fascinating
thing about this company is they make
you know premium essential clothing
t-shirts pants oxford shirts shoes
sneakers I've got some very nice like
now like adult sneakers essentially but
they use top quality materials but they
don't have the traditional markups and
they're incredibly transparent with
their pricing in fact I would say
they're radically transparent they they
tell every part of their cost every part
of the process how much it cost the
ethical factories they work in and so
these clothes look better they last
longer they cost less you having to have
the opportunity to sort of pick your own
price it's nuts I have a bunch of
different things that I've tried from
them I have you know of course I got the
sort of the the hoodie the sweatshirt
the soft what do you call it the the
fleece hoodie incredibly comfortable
that came in sadly on my vacation
it rained quite a bit at the beach it's
there but I was determined to go out and
so I had my fleece hoodie I have a
beautiful all-weather jacket that is
light and perfect for me because
whenever I go to the beach it rains and
I also have a I got like a canvas II
they I think they call it will weekender
bag which is you know I finally look
like an adult now I don't travel with a
garbage bag or you know one of those
open-ended IKEA blue bags I actually
have like an adult bag now and I also
got a pair of the like I said the
sneakers in raven color i think they
have different colors now but Everleigh
knits
they have all sorts of different like
and for womens they have shoes they have
Japanese denim they have these perfectly
fitting Oxford's right now you can check
out our personalized collection at ever
Lane dot-com slash majority plus you're
going to get free shipping on your first
order that's ever Lane dot-com slash
majority ever Lane dot-com slash
majority spelled Evie er ever Lane LA
and e.com slash majority alright quick
break Michael we'll be right back after
this oh I don't know about you folks but
I certainly feel extremely educated on
those products like highly informed you
buy two mo Globes and you put them in
one third love bra shouts to the best
youtube comment to mova Globes mofo
Globes mova mova whoo those are great
bras I was on beach and we were walking
and then sandwich at dosa crepe blah
bras and I said that's a great globe to
let's leave the beach before we get
sunburned so we can order from ever Lane
ten more minutes we're gonna take it yes
become a member
become a member we're gonna take a brief
break a brief brief break and we will
come back with Roden Burtenshaw to
discuss corbin ism and what's happening
in the UK
you
welcome back for people listening on
podcast you really just got to enjoy a
legit classic joining us now on the
majority report is Ronan Burtenshaw he
is the editor of The Tribune and he's
also author recently of a piece in the
Jackman magazine only Corbin ISM can
defeat Boris Ronan thanks so much for
being here divided to be on with you so
before we get into why Corbin ism is the
path forward what's the state of play I
mean we we do a lot of jokes on this
show like the latest news is that you
know at nought point for 100 hours the
Queen will wink at Boris Johnson and if
he does not wink back then they'll be an
early election you know my point being
there's a lot of Mecca nations there's a
lot of different bureaucratic hurdles
the fact that the UK does not have a
written constitution I think might be
playing a role in all of this Boris
Johnson is still Prime Minister but he
does not have a majority what's actually
going on what is the state of play were
in are we headed to elections give us a
kind of lay of the land eventually we
will get to a general election the
question of how we get there is pretty
complicated obviously there's been a lot
of parliamentary imaginations over the
last few days I don't think it's great
terrain for socialists to be honest
because it's kind of disempowering thing
right away people are reduced to being
spectators to this drama that's going on
in Westminster Westminster of course
being deeply unpopular as well as
everything else with with the mass of
the population and what's going on at
the moment is basically this battle over
whether Parliament can stop a No Deal so
virus Johnson lost two big votes in the
last couple of days over whether he can
push through a No Deal brexit Parliament
both obviously the vast majority of
Labour MPs in addition to the Lib Dems
green MP and a number of Tory rebels and
voted against him which meant that he
lost decisively by
25 or so votes twice over that question
he then responded by putting a what's
called a fixed term Parliament act
motion down this fixed term Parliament
act which was agreed on a David
Cameron's government complicates
everything further because in the past
it used to be the case in the House of
Commons that when a government would be
losing votes on significant issues the
government would fall and there would
have to be an election the in a kind of
fits of liberal peak Cameron and and the
Lib Dems introduced a piece of
legislation that said all this is just
to an appropriate away for our
governments to to fall and so instead we
need some kind of more rational decision
making whether we'd only get an election
when the Parliament actually voted for
it but of course that leaves the
completely ridiculous scenario where a
government can have no majority lose its
first four votes under a new prime
minister and still there'll be no
election so you can go on with this kind
of zombie government for a very very
long time because of this piece of
legislation that likes so much of the
rationalism liberals tried to impose on
politics doesn't actually work when it
meets reality so this is this is one of
the reasons we're stuck in this
situation I happen to think it's a it's
a complicated one for labour too
obviously there's been a lot of beat
commentary from parts of that left over
recent days because you've got a new
prime minister in who's being defeated
in Parliament so things things look good
for Colin it's a very complicated
position for labour to be in because
labour having for two years demanded an
immediate general election has just
basically turned up the opportunity of
doing an election and the stated reason
for that is well we don't want to vote
for an election because it would be
possible for Boris Johnson to simply
wait out the clock on a No Deal brexit
using this using the election so he
would be able of course to to set the
time which would mean that an audio
breaks it could happen and so the Labour
Party is insisting that this piece of
legislation that's been passed it
No Deal has to go through get the
Queen's assent and be put into place and
before any such election happens Boris
Johnson's taking advantage of that to
claim that Labour is running away from
an election and he's up in Wakefield
today doing a pretty incredible
beginning I think of an election
campaign effectively that's what today
is where he's about to make a speech in
front of a backdrop of uniformed police
letting in to Jeremy Corbyn and this is
what we're gonna find in the election
once it comes it's going to be
white-knuckle Boris Johnson and his team
are going to try to run a populist
campaign their desired framing of the
entire election is the Parliament versus
the people the people want brexit in the
parliament and the political
establishment is is denying them breaks
it is cabal frustrating the popular will
then it's a dangerous terrain for labour
to be on and I think it's increasingly
important important that Labour and
comes out fighting hard from the left in
the coming days to prevent Boris Johnson
from being able to present himself as
the champion of the people against the
political establishment let's talk a
little bit about Boris Johnson and then
get to what would be a good terrain for
socialists and how that leads to what
labour can do and maybe also the
delusions and dangers of the of the
Liberal Democrats as I always say
friends don't let friends vote the real
Democrat but what Boris Johnson built
his whole brand and some I mean he's
very different than Trump obviously the
lot of the kind of superficial
comparisons actually don't really work
he's a lifelong we're not a lifelong but
he's a veteran politician he was Mayor
of London he's not sort of completely
coming out of nowhere as an elected
official but they both are you know they
both have these hard right mmm pop not
populist in the proper understanding of
the word but they're they're both
television candidates Boris Johnson
built his whole brand as sort of playing
this kind of ridiculous foppish kind of
character on
UKTV sort of you know forgetting where
his keys are kind of bumbling rich guy
sort of thing as Prime Minister so far
it's actually really seemed to me at
least presentation Lee to not work that
his whole brand was built on an ability
to be kind of entertaining and
rebellious in really relatively easy
television and public speaking gigs and
now when he's got protesters shouting
him down when he's got a parliament
defying him every step of the way he
looks smaller and smaller in that role
and I could see why he wants to get back
on an election footing as quickly as
possible but what's your sort of read of
the of the Boris Johnson personality
maybe you could also explain to people
who Dominique Cummings is who's his sort
of political spend all you sort of
creating so much agitation there as well
yeah so Boris Johnson I mean I agree
with their characterization of him he is
a media attic figure he's one of these
new 21st century political animals who
has very much built his persona outside
of the political system even as he has
served as a politician you know he is
not renowned across the country and
predominantly because of what he did as
mayor or whatever else he's he's
renowned because of the persona that he
created around himself by appearing on
things like comedy shows have I got news
for you on the BBC and so on and that
was that that for today is a smart way
to develop a political career I agree as
well that he's not been able to use the
kind of parliamentary structures as well
as he would have wanted his PM cues as
they're called over Harris Prime
Minister's Questions which many people
expected because of his supposed
rhetorical abilities he would use to you
know defeat Corbin resoundingly has
actually not worked that way at all I
would say yesterday and Jeremy Corbyn
was
far more impressive a performer at the
despatch-box embarrass Johnson was the
problem though is that I think he's
trying to make an adjustment at the
moment led by Dominic Cummings and his a
team of advisors which is away from some
of the Farb ish stuff but towards
somebody who better suits I know this is
a loose term but that kind of populist
framing and thing to understand with
populism in this cases I think populism
can can be pulled forward as a way of
doing politics in which you know the
primary oratorical tool is defining the
enemy and in this case and saying you
know you've got the people against this
enemy this is actually quite a good way
of understanding and seeing populism as
it's used at the moment this is what
Boris Johnson that wants to do he wants
to say we've got the people who voted
for brexit against the enemy which is
the Parliament the political
establishment the media establishment
and so on it's a smart framing I think
it's a potentially useful framing for
him and so what they want to do is refit
his persona to make into that space and
in the early stages you know you started
getting things like they would throw out
a line in a speech that you know he
wanted people to fixate on and discuss
and debate instead of some of the more
yeah politically tricky and complex
parts of it so in his opening speech as
Prime Minister he you know referred to
the country as dudes and so on and I
think in terms of why is he doing this
well actually the reason he's doing it I
think he's straightforward enough that
when you looked at the headlines of all
the papers the next day particularly the
right-wing ones you picked up that term
as a way of bringing people in to read
about what was in the speech because
it's an interesting left-field so hung
bizarre framing to use and is this thing
which is often been talked about in
terms of Cummings idea of how you do
political communication
and it's actually I think it comes from
in the first instance it comes from
Linton Crosby which is their dead cattle
ha GI witches if stings are not going
well for you and everyone's talking
about an issue don't want them to talk
about then you take out a dead cat and
you throw it on the table and all of a
sudden everyone's asking why is there a
dead cat on the table instead of what
they were talking about before and this
is something Boris Johnson uses and uses
quite well in terms of you know the way
in which he wants to put himself forward
as I've just said today's speech I think
is a perfect way of exemplifying that
the way the way his coalition makes
sense that this brexit coalition and
requires a fundamental realignment to
British politics his camp feel that it's
already underway along the brakes at vs.
remain lines and so he's going up to the
north of England today to speak in a
traditional working-class area in
Wakefield in which he is flanked by
police officers talking about law and
order putting more bodies of the beat
those kind of culture war issues where
he feels he can break away a part of
Labour's base in the north of England
who may have an interest economically
speaking and voting for Labour Party or
who are much more conservative on social
issues and unlike and another thing that
he's doing I've noticed and this is
actually very different than Trump and
maybe more analogous actually December
things that someone like marine lepen
would put forward in France at least
superficially is he's been making him
he's been bragging a lot that his first
budget and I think this is the this is
the you know centering in on the on the
chunk of labour he wants to break off
he's got the anti-immigrant xenophobia
brexit stuff but then he is promising
the highest investment levels in public
services not even before the you know
immense austerity that's just been
pounding the UK under Cameron and Clegg
and then May
so that's like ten years but actually
going back to 2002 I saw him last night
and I think on sky bragging that his
budget matches the first second term
Blair budget where in fact the Blair
government did significantly increased
spending on the NHS and education that's
what Boris is putting forward to so he's
he's making that play and unlike a trump
where there's a lot of rhetoric about
some sort of economic stuff but it's all
just been doctrine Republican policies
pretty much 99% even even some of the
tariff stuff actually has deeper roots
and Republican policies Boris seems to
be putting forward at least some talking
points that he could say hey I'm
actually you know ending austerity yeah
I mean look I think it's very important
with all these things with these kind of
right-wing populist figures you don't go
under the hood yep because on the NHS
commitments for instance he this is one
of his big areas right that he wants to
to break from conservative orthodoxy is
to say we will be a government that
invests in the NHS because it is the
most popular issue in the entirety of
British politics and it's one that
without any doubt wins you votes in
traditional working-class areas so he
made this commitment to great increase
in NHS spending but actually when you
looked under the hood of it the almost
the entirety of the money that he was
pledging to put forward had already been
committed in various ways so he was just
moving the money around rather than
paying forward new new investments this
will be what he does and also
yesterday's spending review as a part of
that and it's very important to this
point about it I think is very important
he put in place a spending review where
he got to foreground a lot of these new
policy announcements but he did it in
such a way that the office for budgetary
review statistics was not able to assess
beforehand
the impact of these commitments so
usually when a spending review comes out
the official body looks over the
commitment
that are being made puts them in the
context of previous commitments where
the money is coming from says what the
impact is likely to be on the deficit
and so on you know all of those kind of
things that was that didn't happen so he
did it in a way because of the brakes of
crisis that he could make all these
announcements and it did not be costed
it not be put in context of previous
governments again it's smart but it is
part of a much broader change that Boris
Johnson and Dominic Cummings want to
make the British politics which is that
they basically want to throw out
conventions or the norms and Donnie
Cummings just so people know is a very
and and you always got to be very
careful with these figures in my view
because they're incredible self
promoters there's a lot of BS there's a
lot of nonsense however unlike a Steve
Bannon who primarily seems like his
primary talent seems to be in getting
you know very disturbed rich people who
have bank accounts to buy into his you
know his horrific vision Donnie Cummings
is somebody who has as him as well he
was the political head a head of
communications for the brexit campaign
that's a significant win he is somebody
who again if you read his blogs and I've
tried to read his blogs there's a lot of
techno gobbledygook there's a lot of
maybe if I throw an Aristotle quote in
here will seem more you know I'll be
making a statement that sounds
significantly more important than it is
or more profound than it is but that
being said unlike some of these other
kind of self-promoting sort of Svengali
wannabe characters he does have actual
political success behind him he does
have a capacity to operate and that's an
important distinction I would agree I
mean Dominic Cummings is one of these
guys right who very much fits into the
the Silicon Valley ideology with all of
its contradictions and yes it's
self-promotion but also a degree of
basis and empiricism
and the thing that I think makes
Cummings an interesting and threatening
opponent for us without over emphasizing
right the degree to which he can shift
the political terrain is that when after
the vote leave campaign he was going
around the country giving various
speeches and one of the most interesting
ones which which came up on on YouTube
was when he was speaking to a group of
computer scientists and he was talking
about people's ideas of polling and
politics and he was saying the thing
that the political center gets wrong is
they believe that the middle ground of
politics is some kind of balance between
the right and the left so you know if
you're a moderate so to speak of the
Tories or moderate of the labour you
represent the center ground
he said that's completely wrong the
center ground if you look at polling in
politics is somewhere between left-wing
economics and right-wing social
conservatism so that's it that is
unfortunately a much more astute
understanding of how politics works and
that the political system doesn't really
represent the the popular opinion it
never has in the middle ground and
Westminster has little to do with the
middle ground with the population but
the death particular understanding of
like the fact that the vast majority of
people in Britain would simultaneously
vote for huge redistribution of wealth
from the rich would vote for increase in
spending in public services would vote
for nationalizations there's no doubt
about it but also would you know quite
possibly vote for every introduction of
capital punishments and so forth right
and this this is this is something he
gets and that does make him dangerous
and you know I know a lot of people talk
about not wanting to overemphasize the
roles of these figures or when you have
somebody with that understanding then
you get what we're seeing now with with
Boris Johnson which is announcements on
on the economy which sound a lot more
left-wing than what the Tories are
traditionally done and are trying
consciously to take away what labor
strength was in the 2017 election
when the Tories came out with their kind
of tax proposals right not in the
American sense but the social care thing
and where they talked about people
having to pay exorbitant amounts for
elderly people to get access to Social
Care and and it just went down like a
lead balloon and they had to walk away
from it
the this has been a consistent weakness
of the Tories for a long time that
they're considered to be against popular
public services against investment
against taxing the rich you know and a
kind of elite project representing the
class interests of the the millionaire's
and so on even as they were considered
to be more capable and sensible stewards
of the economy the labor this is all now
flips and it's very important that we
come up with a way of doing labor
politics in the new environment where
the Tories are now you know by any
mainstream economists view in terms of
No Deal brexit driving the economy off a
cliff I saw that they can no longer be
seen as the sensible stewards of the
economy they've conceded one of the big
ideological weapons they used to have
against the left and that you know the
left will bankrupt you but we're going
to you know run the economy well but at
the same time they've picked up some of
our clothes which is they've started
talking about investment in public
services and supporting the NHS and all
this much as we all know they won't do
it we all know right so let me just I
want to get to korban ISM and the
socialist opportunity in a minute and
maybe the the thread to get there is
that even as we have this in some ways I
mean I don't want to overemphasize it
either I mean this has been really
symbolic and there's been a huge amount
of failure in the last couple of days
and even Dominique Cummings had a kind
of unflattering article written about
him that supposedly they thought he was
just some random drunk guy in Parliament
and he went up slurring his words to
korban saying how about we have an
election come on and you know I don't
know so you know I want to as always
sort of
the balance the significance of the
threat and the strategic insight that
they represent and the fact that in fact
it isn't going that well at least as of
this moment but then we have this
resurgent centrist delusion you know of
the Lib Dems the Lib Dems who should
have lost all of their credibility after
being in coalition with with the Tories
from in the first Cameron term and they
are representing you know they they they
are the politics of the cable news beat
green room basically and obviously it's
better you know obviously we're not
talking about the same types of racist
and xenophobic appeals though as always
I would check under the hood with
centrist as well because you know going
back to the Blair government at least in
the UK David Blunkett who was the Tony
Blair's Home Minister talked about
dumping he used with the phrase with
regards to migrants to the UK and Bill
Clinton the United States signed some of
the most vicious immigration policies
imaginable and Obama certainly did not
reign in ice now as I always say what
Trump and people like Boris Johnson and
Trump represent is a different order of
magnitude however it would be delusional
and wrong to let centrist politicians
present themselves as being socially
tolerant and open that is a real
give-and-take in terms of what is
actually there in the merits of their
policies but we have this kind of we
have the Lib Dem cable news
you know banker coalition which is we
should have some you know we should we
should have you know citibike programs
we shouldn't be mean to gay people and
then we should continue austerity and
not have brexit what is you know that
dimension emerging right now as well
well when you talk about the hypocrisy
so actually it was a very good example
in all the madness of the recent days
which was a Phillip Lee a Tory MP who is
a remainer and quick tutorial part II in
the middle of the vote over no deal
breaks it to join the Lib Dems and but
Phillip Lee had also when
the Tories were lasting government
suggested that migrants coming into the
country should be screened for hepatitis
and HIV before they were allowed in
voted against gay marriage and he's now
a liberal so you know this is these are
the limits I'm afraid of the of this
centering all the politics around the
question of Briggs in his you end up in
bed with some real monsters yeah there
is a resurgence and it's it's difficult
because look what's happening in with
brags in in Britain is a part of a
phenomenon that's going on
internationally which is that in the
absence of left-wing governments and of
governments that can really deal with
the underlying economic frustration by
redistribution by empowerment and so on
and you're getting realignments or
politics that are cutting across class
basis on the you know on the grounds and
drags it obviously it's remain versus
leave but really it's things like the
big cities cosmopolitanism younger
voters people who are more so-called
open to globalization and so on versus
larger town smaller cities regionally
deprived areas places that have lost out
for mobilization and this realignment is
very complicated for all of us on the
Left
because I think in the longer term you
know it looks more like reshaping
politics and countries like Britain
which have a historic left-right divide
with a strong labor movement and so on
around debates that are more similar to
where you guys were at least for a long
time in the states liberal versus
conservative and marching together to
the beat of wall street right and I
don't think that is to our benefit and
so there's been a great attempt for you
know by the Corbin project they tried to
hold back the tide of that realignment
of British politics
I don't think it has been successful
unfortunately and that leaves us in a
difficult position because it's not to
say that there are no left/right
questions obviously involves and the
brakes at debate but if you were putting
together a coalition for instance to try
to reshape British politics break with
the legacy of tourism and rebuild a kind
of socialist project in Britain and
you're doing it without the votes of
millions of people in the north of
England and Wales particularly who were
the ones to lose out most profoundly
from Thatcher's reorganisation of the
economy in post-industrial areas in the
most deprived areas of the country with
the worst public services the highest
levels of unemployment so on it becomes
a very difficult coalition so you know
you're relying more socially progressive
people and more affluent parts of the
country than you are on people who
really can be described as left behind
so fact Corbin's own districts is quite
you know socially progressive affluent I
mean fortunately also on board with his
much broader vision as well so it's you
know it's a they're voting well but I
mean that's really underlines the point
he doesn't represent the north or a
blue-collar district he represents quite
a affluent yes no this is the
complication oh yes no okay tell me so
the other side of Islington is that
isn't conducive a lot of deprivation I
mean obviously I live in London at the
moment and it's this these are these are
the difficulties of it yes London is a
very affluent city property prices are
extraordinarily high and if you're in
that bracket who owns property in this
city you're doing exceptionally well
wages are much higher than the rest of
the country and so on but then the flip
side of that is if you're living in this
city and you don't have a high paying
job and you don't have wealth
independently well then the development
of the London economy of the last 20 30
years has really screwed you and so you
get high very high levels of social
deprivation even in pockets that when
you look
average Islington where carbon
represents is a wealthy area but then
huge proportions of people who are doing
very badly can't afford the rent in low
paid work in zero hour contracts you
know dealing with cuts in in in benefits
and Social Services and so you've got
both and this is exactly the pattern I
mean that's it that's everywhere that's
New York that's San Francisco that's
London that's this way of doing
capitalism and that's what you know to
the real serious credit of Jeremy Corbyn
in the leadership of the current Labor
Party they're actually centering and of
course Bernie Sanders here there's great
momentum of Bernie Sanders centering
that here but what I mean I get all of
the you know I mean the dangers are
great the the ominous signs are clear
from a Tory party that under you know
Boris Johnson and Dominique Cummings
actually understand where the
electorate's at that's dangerous then we
have the resurgence of the neoliberal
delusion of the Lib Dems but what is the
opportunity for socialism and in your
words why can or or in your great
article and I know editors do title
these things but why is Corman ism still
the path here what does it offer and
what's the potential positive scenario
here from a perspective of
redistribution social openness and and
labor power well we have laid out most
of what Boris Johnson wants to do and
it's very important that we say wants to
do because of course what we've just
discussed is his vision of what an
election is whether he can take this
Tory Party of you know age you'd
millionaires who hire lives in the
pockets of the filthiest financial
interest in this country and turn them
into a gang of populist remains to be
seen and bought this is what he wants to
do and then the question is how do you
defeat him and there are pretty much two
pads on the table the first which is the
path that I think is a mistake but is
the one that the majority of the
left-of-centre interest wants the Labour
Party to go down the likes legardie and
I would say even the mirror at this
stage is that you kind of coalesce I
would say congeal around the liberal
Center and you tried to put together an
argument against Boris Johnson that
presents him as you know on British as
disrespecting these you know hallowed
institutions eyes
so they're learning from the amazing
success of the Clinton campaign and
against those from I think there's a
huge amount of similarities there people
who have a nostalgia I mean in Britain
it's the kind of nostalgia for Britain
at the time at the 2012 Olympics when
everything was was good and moderate and
sensible and we were proud of the
country where it's actually that was
smack bang in the middle of some of the
most devastating austerity for huge
parts of this country so you have this
kind of idea which is we're going to go
in and abroad alliance with the
political center against Boris Johnson
and we will put forward the idea that
we're upholding democratic norms
we're upholding the value of Parliament
and we're upholding moderate sensible
politics against this yahooo
and that in my view will lose because
I've seen a play up so many countries
now you know there are always the
exception there's the exception of
France where you are literally against a
postmasters party and McConnell managed
to get himself over the line but then
was it has been ludicrously unpopular in
office but most of the examples that
we've seen this strategy has failed and
it fails for a reason which is it's all
well and good to defend the status quo
in this case status quo wanted just a
few years ago at a time when you've got
a majority of people who are broadly
speaking happy with the direction of the
economy who have access they feel to
some degree of prosperity in the next
five or ten years who those aspirations
for their lives can be met by the kind
of economic model or at least they feel
it can when you've got a country where
60 70 percent of people think everything
is going the wrong way the economy is
getting worse jobs are getting worse
wages are stagnating the political
system doesn't respond to me and you
know this country feels like I don't
have a stake in it anymore well then
it's very very hard to win
elections trying to rally around the
flag of of moderation so I think that
the Labour Party has pretty quickly to
get itself on a footing where it tries
to take Boris Johnson on from the left
and I think that that is the way to
expose the kind of weakness of his
populism that I just outlined that
actually he's trying to be a populist
defending the people against the
political establishment when he
represents the party of the political
establishment for centuries in this
country where the vast majority of his
MPs are extremely wealthy privately
educated landlords who have interests in
the very most predatory aspects of
British capitalism who are totally
divorced from the day-to-day lives of
working people in this country and that
you tried to put pressure on his
populist project and make it break apart
by attacking it from the left by going
at some of these things where he's going
to be forced to defend parts of his
coalition in the same way that we would
for instance if they came after the
trade unions well at least we start
going after the interests of the
financial sector if we start going after
the private school system in this
country if we start going after the
interests of landlords for instance in
in Britain and we do it hard as we saw
with the Financial Times front page the
other day they will respond and
eventually Boris Johnson will have to
respond on their behalf because he at
the end of the day is the leader of the
Conservative Party he's not the leader
of some new force that's come from
nowhere and he represents constituencies
that put him into into power and so he
will be forced to represent deeply
unpopular interests and then we can
realign the political system and as I've
just said one of the great advantages of
this moment in my view for the Labour
Party and for socialists is that the
Tories have taken one of their great
ideological weapons to get that they've
used against the left for decades I mean
I represent a magazine has been around
since 1937 if you go back and you read
through all of those copies talk from
the left of the Labour Party over a
decade
talking about what the Tories were
saying about socialists whether it be
night Bevin and Michael for the Tony ban
or whomever over the years it was always
the same these wild socialists with
their spending plans are going to tank
the economy they're gonna cause a run on
the pound they're going to lead to
capital flight they're going to do
whatever well all of that can now be
said about Boris Johnson has no idea
proposals so we should take that on and
we should run with it and say they've
given up one of their great ideological
weapons against us so let's use it we
now can make fire bold policy proposals
that we did at a 20-17 manifesto we can
go so much further than we did two years
ago in offering to transform people's
lives yes much more investment in the
NHS commitment to end privatization and
new privatizations but let's get more
bold about the immediate end of all
private interests in the NHS let's go
back to some of the things that no Bevin
was fighting for an end to prescription
charges and a genuine Leedy commodified
health system where people know that
from the moment that they enter to the
moment they leave it's free it's public
it's universal let's do that for the
education system as well tackling the
vestiges of our privilege and wealth
that have produced the likes of Boris
Johnson and so much political power in
this country let's take them apart let's
take apart the network of private
schools so it's like a party the Academy
system
let's return a genuinely democratic and
public education system let's take them
on with much bolder proposals about
taxing the rich much bolder proposals
about nationalization we shouldn't be
waiting in the rail for the the
franchises to expire before we take them
back in we shouldn't be saying
committing ourselves to a future of
competitive tendering in the rail we
should go on throw now and say we want a
general public rail system under a
single unitary body where we remove
private interests and we have a public
monopoly and we should be going and
fighting on all of these paces further
than we did in the 2017 manifesto with
more bold spending commitments
we should put it up to the Tories and
say well listen every mainstream
economist in the country already says do
you guys are planning to drive the
economy off a cliff you think you can
turn that argument around on us now but
we're planning to improve the economic
outlook for the vast majority of the
people and see then what they say with
their populism so that would be my
proposal on how to take them on I don't
know that's where the other party is
going I think that a huge amount of
institutional power is being leveraged
now against Corbin and the left
leadership to force them to coalesce
with the center so we shall see well
there's a scenario under under which if
they run the right kind of campaign that
you've outlined they could just use
Boris Johnson as the perfect foil like
we are going to reinvent democratize
this economy bring it up to speed for
the 21st century lift millions of people
out of poverty and also ensure that not
only do we beat Boris Johnson this time
that there won't be another Boris
Johnson created in this bizarre
incestuous wealth perpetuation cycle
that global capitalism and British
reactionary politics have created so I
hope they go that path yeah I agree
we shall see what happens in the in the
coming weeks because I do think a lot is
going to be determined by how how Labour
Party responds to this no deal
controversy in the Parliament at the
moment the party has turned down the
opportunity for a general election
saying that it wants to wait until after
Boris Johnson's proposal for a No Deal
gets ruled out formally at least until
after the election so that they would
want whether it be late October or early
November for the general election
instead of his proposed date but I do
worry about that because I think you
know arguing and that you want No Deal
ruled out or you know ruled off the
court effectively in the Parliament when
the polls indicate that the polarization
on this issue has created a huge
constituency of popularity for now the
other significant
whether it be a third of the country or
45% in whichever poll you believe in and
I think it does set him up nicely to say
they don't want you to even be allowed
to choose this they don't want this
option to be on the table I'm you know
this is one of those moments to be brave
for the Labour Party and the left
internationally because the easy thing
for us to do now is to yield to the
column pages of The Guardian and the
sensible opinions of whichever moderate
Labour MP appears on BBC News and say
you know we don't want them to demonize
us we want to you know be seen as
respectable and sensible and whatever
and and accept it as part of the
political class the hard thing to do is
to treat this moment in history for what
it is which is a really unique threat of
recent decades of a resurgent right that
is born out of a decade of economic
stagnation of deep dissatisfaction with
the the direction of society amongst the
majority of people which can't be
overcome by simply returning to some
status quo ante of a few years ago but
that has to be faced with a bold plan to
make a new model of the economy in which
the you know working-class interests the
majority interests are reflected in a
far greater extent than they are today
if we don't do that if we're not bold at
this moment in history we will regret it
because even if in the next election in
our various different countries say for
instance in Britain although it won't
happen here but you can imagine very
easily some problem Ain centrist
coalition it you know in charge the
problem won't be you know winning one
election 2019 the problem is if they
don't do anything to reshape the economy
then the election afterwards will
produce something even worse than the
light when we're seeing today absolutely
this is the same dynamic in the United
States I mean this is another really key
reason that we need to nominate
Anders because frankly you know four
years of look you need to stop the
crisis of Trump you need to stop the
crisis of all of these I mean very
pernicious disgusting leaders but if you
don't deal with the underlying
conditions then the underlying
conditions will keep producing the same
symptoms
Rodan and Burtenshaw editor of the
Tribune and the UK author of only Corbin
ISM can defeat Boris in the Jacobin I
really appreciate your time thank you so
much
all right folks we're gonna go to the
fun half in just a moment become a
member of the majority report today
majority dot F M slash become a member
troys become a patron of the Michael
Brooks show where this Sunday's episode
will be an illicit history of
surveillance and the drone program with
the co-director of the Center for the
Study of the drone at Bard College on
Tuesday talking with crystal ball talked
it with crystal ball about why the
establishment is lining up against
Elizabeth Warren what that says about
the state of the race and what Sanders
really represents artesia ball Thorpe
and I talked about the water crisis in
Newark on the postgame we talked about
the ecological implications of this
fall's elections in or agui and made fun
of Justin Trudeau and Andrew yang and a
whole bunch of other stuff patreon
accomplished EMBs Michael Brooks show on
YouTube well on our way to first 3,000
patrons and thank you for cracking 73
thousand subscribers on YouTube as we
power on to a hundred thousand
subscribers you could definitely get to
the channel now you get a good sense of
the show Matt what's going on with
literary Hangul well Ronin was a with
the Tribune in the UK a little guy named
George Orwell also wrote for them back
in the way back in the day and so
patrons can check out the last two
George Orwell up so did also coming up
the second episode of james fenimore
cooper's the pioneers which is about
basically a fictionalized repossession
of the history of james fenimore
cooper's father settling central new
york
and this it's very interesting very
interesting book so people wanna check
that up
all right dope see even when the fun
half alright folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
this alpha males are back and the alpha
males are back back
the males are back back back back back
back and the alpha males are back back
back just want to degrade the white man
alpha males are back back I take all of
the bank fraud
alpha males are back back back
almost as what
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg dinner yeah or a couple of put them
in rotation DJ Dan well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough of a
break
that's
reminder I do dogs have more concerns
and the alpha males psyche
Oh almost says what what watch watch
[Music]
the back
the back
the back
back
Oh
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
the male's of
because
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis
keeping it 100
happy birthday to me
products better to foil the alpha males
[Music]
Missy Missy Missy
all right let's go to the phones out of
the gate let me see here you are calling
from a nine one seven area code who are
you where you calling from
Oh some Queens all those water water
vote from Kashmir how are you doing man
Oh missed you guys for the past couple
of weeks because a lot of crap in
interest yeah I was able to do more some
on TM BS but I know that there's a lot
of course they can watch that live
anyway I digress
um I don't even know where to begin but
I guess I'll ask a question or
everything about it is kind of
what's the latest I mean what's the so
the crackdown look the communications
blackout is still happening there's
still you know the politicians have are
still detained we still have families
being separated we still have rampant
reports of abuses by the Indian military
what do you think is the significance of
Bernie Sanders speaking out on this over
the last couple of days he said
something that I don't think any
American politician has Anders at least
in my living memory he said you know
basically the wishes of Kashmiri people
you know need to be accounted for like
we vast experience what they want and
that was quite significantly even the
Sanders become president this is not
this much Kashmir it's like anywhere
else in the world people in the US
probably don't realize how much power
the president carries just by saying
something makes a huge difference in the
world at all you know it it shifts you
know the way journalists write stories
it shifts the way people are created you
know link Polly is right after Sanders
said then he says the presidential
candidate nothing is guaranteed even I
didn't come to that but you saw like a
huge shift in the way the Indian media
was reporting vodka schmear oh well
maybe something is going on you know
maybe you need to look into this it
makes a huge difference you know what
I'll just point out this one thing you
know in terms of like you know donors
people are not close because they don't
want to be arrested obviously people are
disappearing and the most for me the
most crazy thing is I tweeted on it I
think
yeah people want to see this as well you
know organizations from like doctor Dan
relations for us medical organizations
interference for these are like you know
like people in India they're usually
like very RSS oriented organizations
running interference for the RSS RSS
just just so people know because there's
a lot going on right well I will just
actually in this case I will
specifically reference people to the
last episode of TM BS if you're
interested in it in knowing the context
behind us because the intro commentary
focused on the history of this group
called the RSS and how it relates to the
BJP party the RSS goes back to 1920s
they're a paramilitary extreme far-right
Hindu nationalist group they share an
interest with fascists other fascist
movements and sort of Aryan ideology and
they have a very I'm you know one in I
think it actually in some ways it is
very analogous to Israel because there's
some part of it is definitely built on
you know the Hindus being colonized
India being colonized by the British
obviously but there's also this kind of
pageant past that you have in all far
right-wing politics and extreme
anti-muslim sentiment which you see
exemplified in the Gujarat mass killings
when Modi was the head of Gujarat you
see it but you also see it in um in in
lynchings of Muslims in India and and a
variety of other factors and then of
course in Kashmir you have the Pakistani
dimension so it's very complicated but
people need to understand that context
and also some of the relationships with
domestic politics the United States I
thought it was positive that ROH Khanna
said recently that you know he said look
we need to condemn Hindutva he said that
as a lawmaker here and he's absolutely
right
just as everybody needs to condemn and
work against the right-wing variant of
anything whether it be Hinduism Buddhism
Islam Judaism whatever um you know
that's one of the reasons actually that
I mean it's not really relevant because
of his candidacy but if Bill DeBlasio
ever got serious you know and people
should ask him anyways the mayor of New
York how do you square all of this
progressive rhetoric and all of these
suppose it's commitments with supporting
Israeli Apartheid and it's precisely the
same if you support the BJP government
in India I appreciate the call man thank
you so much let's see Colorado guy our
excuse me dances with the ACA
do you understand Elizabeth Warren stand
on Medicare for all and do you think the
DNA test might reveal something about
her commitment to the cause I just call
I literally just caught dances with a CA
that's pretty funny well done that's
that's a good one look I think Elizabeth
Warren
yeah her stance to me I'm Medicare for
all is not on two percent clear and that
to me is an issue that you need to be a
hundred percent clear on because every
single human being needs full health
care period end of sentence there's
nothing to elaborate on at times she's
been really strong on it she was really
good in the debate other times she
uses a lot of words like access and
particularly in the beginning of the
campaign she was absolutely not somebody
who was clear and firm in her support
men support for Medicare for also there
are other candidates that I would say I
mean you know there's irrelevant
candidates who actively campaign against
Medicare for all there's people like
Camilla Harris who or people to judge
for that matter who I absolutely do not
trust on this issue there's people like
Joe Biden who are actively opposed and
awful on this issue and then there's
Elizabeth Warren who the question mark
she has around this issue if yet if you
care about everybody having health care
there's one candidate in terms of a
clear unequivocal no b.s commitment
that's Bernie Sanders period sorry I I'm
sure it's you know as with everything
else I'm sure it's better with the
others but it leaves a lot to be desired
her position on Medicare for all
and there is an odd inconsistency and I
you know and I think you know there will
be more stories that come out about her
daughter's position and things like that
know that people will look into look I
think the DNA thing was just very bad
politics and if you wanted to take
anything from the DNA thing it would
just be what happens when a candidate
who's gotten the best press coverage
anybody could imagine for the last
several months it's gonna be a totally
different dynamic if she's the nominee
and that move was not
confidence-building in terms of being
able to how to deal with Donald Trump
and then as for the you know question of
her heritage and how she presented it I
I think it's I'm the I'm an anti
essentialist so I think it's problematic
on both ends I mean one because of the
kind of false presentation and then
number two that it it isn't the literal
experience right like if somebody went
through their life recognized by society
and other people as a Native American
and dealt with the racial discrimination
the economic costs and all of the other
realities of what that means in this
country as well as maybe also being part
of a group
and recognized as such inside a Native
American community and then they took a
DNA test and somehow it turned out they
didn't have a drop of that blood I would
say they're clearly Native American
because we're talking about a construct
in my view so I think it was you know as
problematic on both ends but you know
she's been very clear and her apologies
for it and she's put forward some really
good policy sets on those things so you
know that's not the in terms of where
she her relation to that is not for me
to say I could just tell you you know
what I think in terms of the broader
politics of it and no I would not say I
would not feel I don't feel comfortable
with her position on Medicare for all
Michael thank you for your non mocking
interview with Cori pine regarding
unconventional flying objects I sent a
majority or extent an email the majority
report a couple weeks ago that I was
hoping you could forward to Cori it
contains publicly available information
and my analysis is that I believe most
prosaic reasonable explanations for
which is that the US military has had a
nursery reduction operational for the
last inertia production technology
operational for at least 30 years if
curious the YouTube clip tr-3b for
possible sightings of this class of this
craft also thank you and the show for
making me political politically smarter
I've been listening to Sam since air
America amongst the 17 friends and my
whatsapp group nine will be voting for
Bernie I don't know how many will result
of my organs but at least one publicly
said that I will simply vote for
whomever I was told to vote for lastly I
still think Matt is a weasel skeptic
when it comes there that must be okay I
mean the nursery stuff I mean that no I
don't even know what that is to be I'm
not trying to be dismissive I literally
don't know what that is well that sounds
like it's government technology which is
like if there are UFOs that are doing
these things that are are you know
against what we can think are possible
with physics that I would assume it is
our government that's done it I remember
years ago green men but had no idea why
I was I was at some event and I and I
was like talking to somebody and this
woman in between explain to me why she
was a Republican literally out of
nowhere she's like she's like but don't
get me wrong like you know I'm skeptical
of stuff like the government of France
has the cure for AIDS they're not
sharing it that was like 15 years ago
I just I think like wants to share do ya
cure
Jevon notice on none of us have none of
us know in their flash of aids if we
share to a hood our big wheels yeah
there's some time hurt the croissants on
industry it would jeopardize the global
baguette market bullfrog what do you
think of the population control question
to Bernie because CNN's replies are
filled with gross insinuations that
Bernie supports the ideas like a China's
one-child policy or even Nazi
experiments I did not see that this is
the one the right wing is running with
I'll pull it up here in a second okay
just YouTube here so I would say sight
unseen that I am extremely confident
that CNN let a gross weird question get
through their system there's actually a
serious point to be made about this all
right let Jesus
I mean if yeah if Steve Scalise is
promoting it then you know that you
don't need to trust David Duke without
the David Duke without the baggage his
own words human population growth has
more than doubled in the past 50 years
the planet cannot sustain this growth I
realize this is a poisonous topic for
politicians but it's crucial to face
empowering women and educating everyone
on the need to curb population growth
seems a reasonable campaign to enact
would you be courageous enough to
discuss this issue and make it a key
feature of a plan to address climate
catastrophe
well mostly the answer is yes and the
answer has everything to do with the
fact that women in the United States of
America by the way have a right to
control their own bodies and the mexico
city agreement which denies american aid
to those organizations around the world
that are that allow women to have
abortions or even get involved in birth
control to me is totally absurd so i
think especially in poor countries
around the world where women do not
necessarily want to have large numbers
of babies and where they can have the
opportunity through birth control to
control the number kids they have
something i very very strongly support
okay so this is really clear what's
going on so one we can dismiss the
scalise all the nonsense about Bernie
supporting one-child policy that's Alex
Jones stuff but I'll take the two
serious parts of this he heard that
question as a question about
reproductive justice and birth control
and he's right the insinuations of that
question and I don't know where that
woman's coming from maybe I'm being
unfair to her but the insinuations of
that question are very sinister and I
remember there was somebody who was I am
in the show that was trying to get me to
get obsessed with population rates and
my answer continues to be a hundred
percent no one because it's a disastrous
way of framing it and the reality is is
that we all know that if you put in
place programs that Bernie's talking
about which we all support birth control
decision making about a woman's own body
Poverty Reduction health care all of
these types of things that does reduce
population growth if you're worried
about that but the broader point here
and something that I was actually just
talking with Liz forensic about on my
show you have to question the relentless
obsession in Western I could
and Western NGO sector with the
population growth of profoundly poor
societies and I mean this goes back to
the 1970s counter critiques from places
like the ecologist magazine and
indigenous rights organizations why is
the Gates Foundation so concerned about
a population growth in Malawi
I mean look again I've already taken a
sincere concern about public health and
women's rights off the table that's fine
we don't and that was what Bernie
thought he was responding to but if
you're talking about simply population
growth it's that's absurd absurd I mean
these places where people have this
obsessive focus you're talking about
individual average greenhouse gas
contributions and and climate impact a
fraction of the individual impact of
people in the United States it's absurd
and then blowing it up even broad
broader and thinking of it in an
actually intelligent way these things
are not about individual consumption
they are about structural questions they
are about capitalism they are about the
limits to growth they are not about an
individual footprint this is a this is
Vox and and this is a this is a very odd
exchange with Bill Gates and Ezra Klein
on global progress oh there's no video
basically progress in the fight against
poverty may be about to stall why the
poorest parts of the world are growing
faster than anywhere else particularly
especially in Africa listen to Bill
Gates and Ezra Klein discuss global
progress in 2018 poverty is not a
natural phenomenon in Africa or anywhere
yes
there's ecological factors maybe a place
has a drought may be a commodity price
gets hit sure but the reality has
natural resources Africa has a ton of
natural resources you're talking about a
place that one and I'm I apologized to
people who don't like history one never
got compensated for being systemic Lee
robbed and just
for hundreds of years and this applies
across the colonial map and in most and
a lot of African is say okay so you have
systemic theft then in the modern
iteration you still have trade
agreements that are profoundly
unfavorable as well as us and otherwise
back kleptocracy x' and then if you want
to pull up the you know example of like
oh well how come Singapore Singapore was
colonized well Singapore is a tiny
island nation state that exercised any
narrow advantage in the global
marketplace and still by the way is
simply like places like Hong Kong Dubai
and Singapore poor people just don't
exist in a structural in these places
and to the extent they do and they do
they're in really bad positions whether
they're getting priced out of a housing
market there's insufficient services in
a place like Hong Kong we're in a place
like Dubai yes there's a small group of
Emiratis who incidentally have a
socialized system in the sense that they
get property they get health care they
have incredible benefits and then the
rest of the system is running on
feudalism on literal indentured
servitude I mean this is an as well as
you know I'll just say liquid capital
will be the way all euphemistically put
it so if Bill Gates was interested in
dealing with African poverty he would
demand complete debt relief and he would
suggest that we have some type of global
investment fund to support ecological
preservation infrastructure and
empowering African movements and
institutions that would be a genuine
interest how you could look at a whole
system's problem and get focused down to
the rate of birth in a country that has
barely an ecological footprint to begin
with is to put it mildly going to the
wrong source of focus and to put it less
mildly is a very very disturbing
up point of focus
should make people go back to some of
our most darkest times in history and
I'll specifically like read up on the
history of eugenics and I'm not saying
that that's the intention I'm saying
that that is the intellectual
infrastructure that people might not
even know they'd be enacting and even in
order to even have such a ludicrous
question about how places that have been
colonized and then subjected to World
Bank and IMF austerity programs which
would not allow them to do the type of
public investment that allowed a place
like China to grow and a variety of
other geopolitical questions and and
factors to go down to the rate of well
they haven't sort of opened their
markets up enough yet actually some
places have Kenya has been growing
really fast and there is some poverty
reduction there's some not poverty
reduction because the the questions are
systemic is my point
that type of thing really irritates me
and that's a very you know
Bernie's answer to that it's totally
fine I think though that he didn't you
know and a lot of people wouldn't catch
the darker implications of what she was
saying there's a really disturbing
implication there and then yes is bernie
suggesting one-child policy no we can
move on from the nonsense
yeah Margaret Sanger's eugenics aren't
exactly helpful for the abortion thing
in 2019 most profoundly not and you know
right exactly I mean that's a good
example of sort of like you know don't
is when some right-wing conspiracy
theorist brings that up are they doing
it in a disingenuous reactionary way
absolutely and is it also true and not
particularly helpful for putting across
a serious vision of integrated
reproductive justice that tells with
structural racism and colonialism yeah
it's not focus on better models and a
better thought process speaking of the
disturbing history a couple of weeks ago
good old dummy Dave Rubin who really I
mean the guy really is do what you mean
conservative youtuber Dave Rubin Servat
of youtuber Dave Rubin
I think we might have sped up the
process here a little bit he came back
from vacation and who boy is our boy
full of ideas now I want to just say
what I find interesting about this I
actually think there's very few people
at least I know and granted I don't
spend a lot of time on like resistance
Twitter or whatever but I don't I don't
hear people calling Trump Hitler and
some of the people that I've heard
called Trump Hitler meant it as a
compliment
and you could probably find them in Dave
Rubens YouTube chats but it any people
were just describing one of the books
one of the few books Trump famously owns
yes right do you read it don't read
anything yeah but Trump coffee table
book coffee table book 9 comp or no is
it was it mine Khan for a collection of
Hitler's speeches I might have been the
speeches yeah anyways Dave Rubin I look
as always I can barely give you a sort
of play-by-play of like this birdbrain
acid trip we're about to watch but Glenn
Beck is there and it involves Hitler and
Trump and what do you know Glenn Beck
and Dave Rubin accidentally echo an old
Nazi chestnut keep calling this guy a
Nazi who's probably just kind of a New
York corrupt businessman yes you know
trying to you know get some power here
or whatever it is if you I mean the
acknowledgement that he's a New York
corrupt businessman like wouldn't you be
interested in maybe talking about that
occasion I'm gonna say yeah the
co-president is a corrupt businessman
that's interesting okay Dave you know
get some power here or whatever it is if
you keep calling him a Nazi it's not
what you're doing to him that's gonna be
the problem it's what you're doing to
yourself because if you keep saying this
guy's Hitler well now you've really
painted yourself into a corner because
now Hitler does some good things right
the economy's kind of chugging along
might get out of Afghanistan we're not
bombing Iran you know I'm sorry fuzzy
okay if we're gonna give Hitler real
estate if we're gonna give Hitler real
estate developer credit for not bombing
around okay all right let me okay
Afghanistan we're still in and we've
been killing record numbers of civilians
so we might get out of Afghanistan
Afghan
the longest war I believe in US history
at this point and still hasn't happened
kudos for talks with the Taliban I guess
but that might be a little bit of a
stretch to give Hitler credit for that
one and obviously when I say Hitler I'm
being facetious and just following
Dave's lead here not bombing Iran what
did real estate developer Hitler do when
he got into office well he tore up an
incredibly successful deal that
prevented that from actually being
something that was seriously on the
table so that would kind of be like
saying that someone went out driving
totally blitzed and drunk ran over a
bunch of mailboxes put tire marks
through somebody's lawn but at the last
minute swerved from hitting a group of
school children waiting for a school bus
and her still by the way threatening to
kit those same school children on a near
daily basis so I just want to say Dave a
little bit of a stretch I know Dave
hasn't been you know has been on a media
fast but he might want to check out the
Rubin report with Marianne Williamson
where she explained that exactly yes I
would say that the Rubin report with
Marianne Williamson explained to Dave a
lot of things that apparently he's
forgotten in his media cleanse out of
Afghanistan were not bombing Iran you
know tax cuts we regulated some stuff
some things that most of America I'm
also sorry again so you must like Obama
Obama deregulated some things gave some
folks some tax cuts and most assuredly
did not bomb Iran in fact the Iran deal
is probably the best thing Obama did we
regulated some stuff some things that
most of Americans think are pretty good
well you can't suddenly be like you know
that Hitler guy yeah you know Hitler did
make the Autobahn
no one credits Hitler for the
auto-return yeah
some some people do and we'll get to
this in a second but I just love because
I had said this interview broke on TMDs
to the night we played a little bit of
this I just was like Dave Rubin needs
direction and whatever else you say
about Glenn Beck I think Glenn Beck is
clearly a more competent human being
than Dave Rubin in my view and I just
love that Glenn Beck with like his
history and his politics is the one sort
of being like yeah right but let's talk
about Hitler too long buddy
and dave rubin who a barrel dave rubin
who's a couple weeks ago is being like
yeah but if you do talk about how bad
slavery was wouldn't that like
jeopardize the holocaust being bad so
but this isn't all this is actually
great three arrows did this video check
out his youtube channel it turns out
people actually do credit Hitler for
creating the albedo bomb that is the
number one point right there is a group
of people that have credited Hitler with
the audubon and one I guess I'll just
say up front not exactly true and this
idea that he created the Autobahn and
the people who gave him credit for it
was a very specific group of people sort
of it does economic policy but there
were many that people supported so we
could simply dismiss this argument
because it's not factual Allah never
promised employment for all and getting
unemployment down and the economy
rolling again was less due to innovative
public work schemes but I'd like to
combine this with kuratas other points
regarding Nazi Germany's economy
the innovative Public Works schemes that
Crowley describes weren't really as
innovative as you might think
in fact there's even a name for this
called the autobahn myth because the
idea of the Autobahn started circulating
long before the Nazis took over and some
stretches were even already built of
course those were then downgraded to
country roads by the Nazis because they
wanted to exploit the idea of the
Autobahn for propaganda so Hitler jumped
on the bandwagon of increased mobility
and wanted to build 1,000 kilometers of
Autobahn every year which should provide
600,000 Germans with jobs in reality
though this girl was never met and at
the height of the
destruction not more than 120,000 people
who are given work through this program
in addition to that there were numerous
problems during the project and strike
leaguers who wanted better or safer
working conditions and the fair pay was
sent to concentration camps of course
who didn't hear about that in the Nazi
propaganda instead every newly build
strip of the Autobahn was celebrated
with the big inauguration and lots of
camera teams to circulate the images in
state-run media in fact these images
were still propagandized even when the
work on the Autobahn had come to a
complete halt they were successful
though in connecting themselves to the
building of the Autobahn in the mind of
the public often to this day as
demonstrated by crowdy while at the same
time sweeping under the rock that the
Nazis actually vehemently opposed the
idea of the car only wrote as they were
called in by my Germany because they saw
it as an instrument of Jewish capitalism
nyjah's crowder Asumi you Jewish
champion that sounds good nobody put a
very specific ideology credits the
Autobots Heiner the point that whoops
mmm good luck on the blaze day yeah
enjoy yourself buddy
get that walled garden quick oh yeah
we're gonna do more on that Dave Rubens
Terms of Service and the coming days
Jesus too dumb at any speed and honestly
like that guy like that's incredible I
say this all the time I don't idolize
people who have platforms right some of
them are brilliant some of them are
definitely not I think a lot of us are
you know just trying to put it together
do the best we can there but but there's
usually some kappa this this is like I
can't even I'm not gonna say a single
other place of employment or profession
because one it wouldn't even be true and
two it would be insulting people that
shouldn't be insulted like I I have
maybe never seen in either real life or
through television or any other form of
broadcast media somebody as stupid as
Dave Rubin like I I'm totally serious
like I that is a jam
I I mean he's a you know what he what
he's really doing is he's he's debunking
a lot of so-called positive racism and
essentialist myths about Jews because I
could tell you see not all of the Jews
not all of us are smart some of us are
extremely stupid I speak really fast but
I'm actually a total idiot
all right I'm sorry I keep forgetting
yeah whatever so it's all gravy baby
we're not gonna win the profanity Wars
no we're not gonna win the profanity
Wars uh but I tell you what we might win
the war against back pain you may
remember Sebastian Gore caja as a guy
with very interesting academic I work
for him yes I was a political
commissioned officer he was a
politically commissioned officer for
Donald Trump I mean actually honestly he
really is and then his his father and
his family had some super interesting
political connections
his wife to his wife I think is in the
government now but she also worked to
think with David Irving as a research
assistant and I believe they and I also
believe that she helped strip funding
for groups like Christian pickle Amy who
helped D radicalize right-wing
terrorists why would she want to do that
and you're why the Trump administration
would do you fund something like that
very interesting very curious so um but
in some ways Gorka really is I mean who
a lot of us were saying like hey he
should get deported because of possible
connections to extremist organizations
it also may be just because frankly
hungry hasn't been sending their best
but he really is the quintessential
American in the sense that this guy is
yes he's ridiculous he's silly he has no
idea what he's talking about the fact
that he could go tour the country as a
quote-unquote terrorism expert tells you
basically everything you need to know
about the horrifying scam on the war on
terror and the
security industry in general but man is
the guy a hustler and after getting
booted from the White House booted from
Fox News having a talk radio show which
is not exactly a growth market except
when a comedian Chris James is pranking
it ooh he does not like those hilarious
pranks that our buddy does Gorka is here
to save us all and this is actually
beautiful because you could be a Muslim
and benefit from this check out
sebastian Gorkhas latest offering
sebastian go to here for relief factor
let me say that I have never before
endorsed a pain reliever the father-son
owners of relief factor asked me to
endorse their 100% drug-free product I
absolutely couldn't say no there are
simply too many people like me who are
struggling day after day night after
night with pain from the aging exercise
or just everyday living yeah definitely
not exercise would be my guess I would
like to take everyday living Alex do you
have trouble key down move your Mustang
the art of war license plate is it
sudden - I don't know and of course I
only said yes because after years of my
personal lower back pain I am now
pain-free it's like the best thing in
the world I'm out of pain and chances
are you can be in less or no pain - by
ordering this that's a very lawyerly
statement there I've hunted hade all out
of it you could be maybe a little bit
cleaner
you might also potentially in a certain
scenario benefit as well as tourist
results may vary
hey and chances are you can be in a
lesson will no pain - by ordering the
three-week QuickStart Pete and Seth
Talbot have discounted it to only 1995
go to relief factor calm or
800 583 anything and he is turning over
the tables in the swamp and he is
turning over the tables of black pain I
knew this day would come but I didn't
expect it so soon my first day without
back pain the rats the hyenas start to
each other yes sorry if we don't get to
enough calls for watching the Sebastian
pork fish oil addict Sebastian doctor
here for relief factor let me say that I
have never before endorsed a pain relief
disc but when people shaft Albert the
father and son owners of relief factor
oh yes those they're 100% drug-free pot
now 100% drug-free to me seems like 100
percent placebo but nice I've also been
taking an incredibly heavy opioid
regimen as well it might have something
to do with why my pain has disappeared
hey FDA you see me home see me rolling
FDA absolutely couldn't say no there are
simply too many people like me who are
struggling day after day night after
night with pain due to aging exercise or
just everyday living and of course
hosting a nationally syndicated am talk
show where we talk about who liberals
and the Muslim only said yes because
after years of my personal lower back
pain I am now pain-free and chances are
you can be in less or no pain to 95
chances are you might feel a little bit
less pain death was like this will
totally help
possibly Seth and his dad said that this
was definitely not scraped from an
oyster tin we are now - powered the era
of The Pajama boy is over the era of the
fish oil salesman
[Music]
I had a mera Lagos summit wow I can't
wait for the second commercial when he's
like if you like me sitting at a desk
all day talking on the radio your lower
back may hurt hi I'm Sebastian yoga if
you're like me and you're embarrassed by
constantly having to ask your wife to up
your allowance for your Mustang that
stress goes straight to your lower back
someone to get those for Sam we won't
tell them you buy them
it's official and it's so good because I
I hurt and now the pain is gone and it
might possibly help you lower back good
and what I do is I go and I sit down I
have an ice pack and then I swallow the
fish oil while I apply the ice pack and
pain free okay seven dad don't worry
we'll keep it moving I'll spend about
five on this one hello man cavers and
welcome back Michael Serna which made
the local news here in the Bay Area for
the oddest reason last week he witnessed
a smash-and-grab robbery at the Apple
Store in Burlingame California the
such robbery at that particular store in
August Wow as per usual for corporate
security guards did not engage
ironically shot on iphone certifications
i witness report made the kron4 and CBS
news with none of the anchors explaining
who he was and why it was in town
coincidentally there was a one person
protest at a Marxist bookstore last
Saturday was met by about fifty Anti Fog
counter protesters Sergeyevich also
posted a video okay that's that's funny
all right let's okay one more Colorado
guy if the US were to in reinvigorate
and allow fur ocean of unions workers
rights paid leave in etc workers would
be benefited and subsidized just like
corporations are now the difference is
that wealth would be more fairly and
evenly distributed rather than given
exclusively to the 1% and the CEOs which
have Gua caused gross wealth inequality
we see today Lula Libre left his best
and much-loved everyone yes indeed let's
go to this forum last night Bernie
Sanders I had a couple of actually let's
I'm sorry we'll get to Bernie Sanders
second I wanted juxtapose do we have the
common law Harris thing so I think one
of the biggest efforts that the
corporate sector has done has been to
try to brand the ecological crisis as
like a boutique concerned of the
affluent and then at the same time there
has been in fact a big growth industry
in making ecology a boutique concern of
the affluent that if you use a reusable
bag if you shop for you know organic
food if you have socially responsible
investments quote-unquote socially
responsible investments your quote
unquote doing your part and again I
always really want to be clear none of
these problems will be solved by
individual action or by consumer choices
period full stop
however it's great I try to make small
choices in my life that will be positive
for the environment as well one of the
great benefits of living in New York
City frankly is not owning a car and
actually that probably cumulatively
does have a bit of an effect on
emissions right but most people are not
in a position to make that choice I buy
organic food I do think it's better for
the environment and healthier I make
absolutely no bones about it so my
argument is a not against these actions
it is against the mindset and the
propaganda that is taking a massive
collective action problem that
implicates the very nature of our
economic development and of capitalism
itself and reducing it to affluent
consumer choices of people who
incidentally pretty much definitionally
are part of the largest carbon emissions
in the world right if you're an average
US citizen your emissions are very large
now I hate those metrics because we
shouldn't be worrying about your
individual emission we should be
worrying about exons admission we should
be worried about bp's admission and
their politics we should be worried
about the emissions of the entire US
military footprint these are the
structural questions we have to deal
with now the second order problem here
in addition to the idea just being
completely conceptually wrong that your
individual choices whether they be
vegetarianism or anything else can save
the climate they might be of a nice
benefit but they will not solve the
problem is that as with so many those
other things it allows the right-wing to
find frankly yes trivial elitist
top-down solutions which are basically
trivial and probably end up being
annoying to most people like a straw ban
which again before all of the frigging
im's come in great you know what I I go
to some bougie coffee shop that makes
you're sure to have ecological reusable
straws that's very nice and I even
sometimes take my carry mug too so I
don't have to use a cup these are lovely
things but if you're on a national
platform talking about dealing with the
most urgent question of planetary
survival and you're not talking about
systemic policy changes to deal with the
ecological crisis and then you're
handing Donald Trump a beautiful
chestnut to run with for the whole
campaign
a chestnut that isn't gonna do anything
banning straws it won't even do much in
terms of dealing with the specific
pollution crisis around plastics which
is huge well that's what common law
Harris did last night are a big thing
right now
yeah do you ban plastic straws I think
we should yes I mean look I'm gonna be
honest it's really difficult no response
from the crowd Wow because it's nothing
I mean obviously yeah it's just Barris
yes I mean look I'm gonna be honest it's
really difficult to drink out of a paper
straw when you've had if you're just
like if you don't gulp it down
immediately it starts to
so we got a perfect we're going to like
this is gonna be playing in the
background of some dystopian 40 like
when they had their last cycle of chance
and one montage will be trump saying
it's a Chinese plat and then another
will be her being like how we're gonna
need to really perfect things before we
do the straw band I mean this is just
embarrassing but but this is all you got
unless you're willing to do a Bernie
Sanders green new deal unless you're
willing to say we are going to spend
over 16 trillion dollars we're going to
slash military spending we are going to
radically invest in things we're also
going to implicate the protocols for
environmental justice for indigenous
peoples rights all in Bernie's green New
Deal's if you're not willing to do that
I mean it's kind of the Al Gore
phenomenon Al Gore has done some good
work in highlighting these issues though
there's a lot of problematic tendencies
and how he frames it but you can watch a
two hours of Apocalypse porn in the end
it's like I would change your life bulbs
it's completely does not fit it's a
process right you don't just cause
anyway I think we could do a little bit
better than some of those flimsy plastic
straws but we do need to bend the past
we're gonna have much more we senator
Harris coming up and just okay utterly
embarrassing utterly pathetic
and look I will say and maybe I'll cover
it more later uh there were big problems
in what Elizabeth Warren had to say
about this the scale of the problem this
these economic nationalist arguments she
makes which I don't agree with because
my politics I actually think you know I
could see their salience for some people
on the right bothers don't care about
borders bosses don't care about borders
and neither should we frankly in terms
and and especially they want an issue
like this I mean this isn't a gesture or
a slogan like open borders can be in
certain context this is literally a
global problem this is climate change
climate change is is quite literally a
borderless problem and I don't agree you
know a job guarantees that covers 20
million people in the United States and
has dry a transition plans is a social
justice package not there's gonna be tax
incentives to ensure that the Green
Revolution is done in the United States
old Clinton Obama style stuff I'm not
into it now where she shined was in
contrast with Kamala Harris which is
that this ain't about these little
nonsense decisions and stop asking
questions like that cause some of it
dang is on cheeseburgers right there are
a lot of different pieces to this and I
get that people are trying to find the
part that they can work on and what can
they do and I'm in favor of that and I'm
gonna help but I'm gonna support but
understand this is exactly what the
fossil fuel industry hopes we're all
talking about
[Applause]
they want to be able to stir up a lot of
controversy around your lightbulbs
around your straws and around your
cheeseburgers when 70% of the pollution
of the carbon that we're throwing into
the air comes from three industries this
is it okay this was excellent
this was impeccable this was so
perfectly stated and needed to be done
so just nothing to but kudos for
Elizabeth Warren on that the only slight
thing you'd append to it is you're not
gonna be able to do that by greening the
military no I'm certainly not and again
guys you know I know people who get very
touchy about all of their various
candidates and I will say to Warren
people those are precisely the
criticisms that you would want from
people who took your candidate seriously
and who just genuinely have a different
world view and it's true her green
military proposal is not going to
achieve these things let alone deal with
if you have some concerned and I think
frankly you know look I understand
people don't care about foreign policy
but you know there's plenty of things
that people might not care about that
don't affect them personally and I have
to say a US citizen not caring about
foreign policy is the most narcissistic
thing I've ever heard in my life
and also short-sighted because it will
come back and bite you okay I mean I
think now a lot of people can see oh
maybe the reason may be all that Lula
stuff in 2018 does kind of affect me in
the form of the future of my ability to
breathe so that absolutely it's not
gonna happen through some green military
and it's interesting who she does and
doesn't put on the chopping block
Bernie's trying to put everybody in the
chopping block but kudos to her for
putting in fossil fuels on the chopping
block this is Bernie Sanders from last
night getting real about basically just
the scale of the problem and who's gonna
have to pay for it or excuse me this is
number two excuse me this is him and
this is actually Bernie Sanders making
precisely that point which is that this
is a foreign policy question this is a
military-industrial complex question
yes it's gonna be a massive price tag to
save the human species thirdly we are
not going to have to spend money on the
military defending oil interest around
the world
we can cut military spending there as
well yep
beautiful that was a significant step
and again
Bernie's voted against all of the
military budgets put forward by Trump
Warren has voted for all three this is a
crucial area of distinction then Bernie
goes on and makes the point about
basically talking about who's gonna have
to pay for it and as with everything
else single-payer health care you need
to systemic Lee redistribute resources
that have been illegitimately gained if
you don't have a plan for that you don't
have a plan for 21st century democracy
ecology or justice
Bernie's putting it on the table here it
is there's folks out who just heard you
say they talk about higher taxes and tax
payers out there paying more would you
guarantee to the American public tonight
that the responsibility for sixteen
point three trillion dollars which is a
massive amount of money wouldn't end up
on taxpayers shoulders well it'll end up
on some taxpayers shoulders as well and
the fossil fuel industry you're gonna be
paying more in taxes that's the show
yeah and I happen to believe in general
that at a time when we have massive
levels of income and wealth inequality
where the richest three people in this
country own more wealth than the bottom
half of American society
when major profitable corporations like
Amazon who made over ten billion in
profits last year didn't pay a nickel in
taxes am I gonna guarantee Jeff Bezos
he's not gonna be paying more in taxes
no I won't boom and that really is the
bottom line like look I I understand in
the conversation of single-payer to be
clear to people look yes
there might be a top and actually
Artesia just put this brilliant recently
yes you might on the up front pay a
slightly higher tax rate almost
definitionally for over ninety percent
of the population or a vast majority of
the population you will save on
other end from your medical bills and
medical expenses that's true and there's
nothing wrong with transparency about
that and there should be transparency
about that however again where is a vast
majority of this money gonna be coming
from to fund things like the green new
deal and single-payer it's gonna come
from breaking up the American oligarchy
that's what it comes down to that's the
bottom line if you look for at the plans
that people have put forward in Britain
on dealing with the housing crisis like
the idea of actually okay you can own a
house but you can't necessarily own the
land underneath the house that needs to
be put in a common trust to generate
games for all we are going to need to
find new and innovative ways to break up
the just orderly sclerotic concentration
of wealth and resources in this country
and across the world and one of the
simplest and most direct ways that looks
are well we're gonna take money from
global US military empire and we're
gonna put it into a green new deal that
transitions the economy not greens the
military transitions the economy and
we're also gonna pay for it by taxing
the hell out of people who should not
have a fraction of the wealth they hold
to begin with in any democracy or sane
society okay let's get to the third leg
of the forum look Joe Biden has no
serious plan on climate
he has no serious plan on anything and I
mean honestly I don't even want to make
a joke out of this this was disturbing
to see frankly I mean he's the physical
questions are going to come up because
things like this are happening in front
of our faces so he basically started
bleeding from his eye blood vessel which
can happen because of stress or certain
other reasons I hope he I mean honestly
I'm honestly I hope that is okay he
drops up no I really think he should
drop out to take care of his health yeah
this is the guy ask him about this
Goldman and then this is important
because the about the fundraiser today
Joe Biden after this summit after this
forum where again he spoke a lot of
platitudes into his credit he's very
honest he's not going to be in fracking
he's not gonna move aggressively to make
the planet inhabitable just as he told
billionaires your life won't change
Ender me so he got a question from Isaac
Larkin who's a doctoral candidate
Northwestern University about who he's
fundraising from have to ask how can we
trust you to hold these corporations and
executives accountable for their crimes
against humanity when we know that
tomorrow you are holding high-dollar
fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman a
fossil fuel executive and the fact of
the matter is that what we talk about is
what are we going to do about this
corporation what have we done and a law
everywhere along the way for example
I've argued and we've been pushed for us
suing those executives were engaged in
pollution those companies were engaged
in pollution the $4,000 fine yeah
$4,000 fine all right this is a
everybody check out in general Kane
Aronoff she's I've interviewed her
before I believe yep socialism and
ecology a really good reporter here she
is under Moxie now she I guess has a
clear understanding of who Joe Biden's
raising money from then Joe Biden does
as my colleague Killa Lacey at the
intercept reported shortly before the
debate as it seems like Joe Biden may
not have been briefed on before before
he took the stage he is scheduled to go
to a fundraiser tonight with Andrew
Goldman who is the co-founder of a
company called Western LNG and so what
the debate ended up being about last
night and that Anderson Cooper ended up
talking about was whether or not Andrew
but is technically in the management of
this in the day-to-day operation the
day-to-day operations and so there was
there some back-and-forth online and
the end Anderson Cooper sort of
corrected but you know as Splinter dug
up and as you know I think my colleague
that the intercept really sort of
affirmed androgel Ben is a co-founder of
this company just last year in a filing
in Canada he was listed as among the
senior senior management of the company
I think there's it would be very hard to
argue that Andrew but it's not very well
bound up in in the natural gas industry
and yet Joe Biden has taken the no
fossil fuel pledge what does that mean
and what was your assessment of last
night yeah so he's taken the new fossil
fuel pledge and what groups like oil
change international in the sunrise
government had said especially will
change international is that you know
while technically while Andrew Goldman
has not sit on the board is not in the
SEC filings of Western elegy as a fossil
fuel executive the you know going and
going to a fundraiser with him certainly
violates the spirit of the no fossil
fuel pledge so I think by my guess would
be is that Biden did know enough to lie
in that forum what Joe Biden is a liar
he lies all the time Joe Biden is not
honest and Joe Biden has a thoroughly
awful record across every major domain
of policy and also he's been recently
lying about his vote for the invasion of
Iraq which and I just have to say I'm
gonna be covering this more Joe Biden
not only and it seems insane to have to
make this distinction but there were
clearly people like John Kerry or Chris
Dodd or they were and this is not
exculpatory it's disgusting okay frankly
was disgusting voting for the first
authorization and the only person who
voted against it was Barbara Lee but
particularly Iraq there were people who
clearly knew that it was a stupid idea
and did it out of a political expediency
and he could take your pick Joe Biden
was a was it was a hawk among Hawks and
he's lying about his timeline in
changing with regards to Iraq now I know
for some people they think that you know
going and killing over a million people
and
probably even just the broader sweep of
all of the deaths we've caused from
Afghanistan to Iraq and so on oh that's
just history and focus on the future but
I'm sorry it's it's still pretty recent
and the guy didn't say I was
categorically fundamentally wrong and it
retains my and it changed my worldview
so let's be real you're calling from a
six 100 area code who are you where
you're calling from hi Michael can you
hear me yeah
what's on your mind what's your name
first this is Steve from Autobahn hey
Steve uh not much I was really impressed
with interview today and I wanted to get
your sauce on something okay um she got
me so I just want to go up the stairs
I'm sorry but so about two or three
months ago you had a economics professor
on Scottish guy war flight Oh yep I had
him on TM yes yeah mm-hmm yeah okay I
got confused fine just for people might
not know he kept he had a prediction on
what was going to happen with Rex it and
Jeremy Corbyn how Jeremy Corbyn is using
brexit as a means to break them apart
he's got a really good lecture on the
point mom caller yesterday was talking
about having a strategy for the left
with with medicare-for-all
it looks like that's our big one right
our first one we should do yeah that
allows that's true we need contrast it
like it's the major thing that causes
bankruptcies and stuff like that I
wanted to know what you guys think our
next big strategy would be after that
what would be the bomb that we would put
on service chest after that I actually
think I think what Bernie's done with
the green new deal has actually really
made it that thing because he's made it
so comprehensive and ambitious and by
bringing in the international dimension
the fact that there's a I think it's a
hundred billion dollar fund for trends
for developing countries the fact that
there's adopting the 1992 protocol and
indigenous peoples rights and
sovereignty from the United Nations the
fact that they've adopted the protocol
on environmental and racial justice with
regards to environmental racism in the
United States with the job transitions
and the the universal job guarantee I
think that between single-payer and the
green New Deal those are two Spears at
the heart and and the way forward but
I'll let you go and I'll get Matt and
Brendan's thoughts to I really
appreciate the comment Thanks do you got
okay
Brennan you guys have thoughts I mean
orders okay it's my quick answer order
of operations evaporations game in Iowa
just as a point of order you all have
plenty of listeners who don't vote
well of course voting is a tool I think
you're all are wrong to reduce it merely
to it merely being a tool if there is no
subjective ethical component to it at
all I recommend checking out Jason
Brennan's the ethics of voting in this
regard well one I just want to say
you're lucky the I am that to me instead
of Sam because that would have just and
we're lucky too because that would be
cool except I see a sharpie is it too
and I used the tool oh god I like PTSD
fancy the Sam do I already know my
responses which is like I don't care
that much about voting one way or the
other to read about the ethics of voting
just vote a smart way and then continue
on with the rest of your life there's so
many other books I haven't read before
to have to read it's that that's the
thing is I we don't take voting as
seriously as the people we argue against
in this thing we just say just do it
smartly and don't advocate doing it
stupidly it's very simple and you know
what I realize the distinction is that I
might make sharply and maybe Sam and I
don't see eye to eye on this maybe I
mean maybe we do but I would just say
when I meet people who are genuinely
disaffected and I mean that it could
mean any number of things usually means
economically whatever right
they don't have the time they're working
to their work they're part of the 5
million that the Washington Post doesn't
recognize working two jobs or maybe
they're working no job right they're in
a position where they are really
alienated and their instinct to be
cynical and disgusted and not take extra
time to find their way to a voting booth
to vote for somebody who yes actually in
a broader sense is also terrible
I'm not criticizing those people ever
and I think it's so presumptuous and so
arrogant to lecture them and tell them
that they should be thinking about this
and that that that's ridiculous the
burden is on everybody to do better and
try to rebuild that trust and frankly
even you know in the Wisconsin
conversation you know I just have to say
because I look Russ Feingold was a good
candidate some of the people that
malaika jabal he interviewed had a deep
institutional memory that was
specifically about the Clintons and
others were people that were less you
know informed and just disaffected but
I'll tell you the people have a deep
institutional memory about the Clintons
they probably also remembered that Russ
Feingold voted against voted for welfare
reform and voted for John Ashcroft so
let's be clear about people's records
here too but that being said I would
never my criticisms about not voting or
whatever is is never aimed at people
that would fall in that category but I
got to tell you like this this I am like
you're reading books about this you have
a melodramatic self of ambition put it
on you have a self narrative about the
ethics of vote like dude come on and
honestly and I'll give you one other
example I grew up in a community and I
sure don't do this I mean I had periods
of my life run and play taxes but that's
just good standard payment but like I
don't do this but I knew people who were
I knew a family growing up they lost our
house because they were public antiwar
tax resisters okay they they would write
on their IRS memos that they were taking
therefore they paid state taxes but they
were taking their their federal income
tax we're going to the victims of u.s.
foreign policy and they did they were
very active in the
with Reagan's wars in Central America so
you want to talk about subjective ethics
and how it relates to the u.s. system
and by the way that's and I'm not
recommending this thing but it's a risk
I don't take it's a serious risk but I
know war tax resisters okay that is
serious object subjective intervention
on the system okay
voting is you show up and if you have
the privilege to not be suppressed you
go into a booth if it's in the
primary of an opportunity to vote for a
great candidate may be like Sanders or
some of these great challengers like
Michaela will so Shah had Butare okay
then in a general election you sit down
you say of the strategic assessment here
what is gonna be the least harmful for
most human beings and what is gonna get
the most breathing room for more radical
forces and then you vote that way and
I'm saying this is somebody that was
subject I told people to vote for
Hillary Clinton and I made clear and
this has always triggers the other set
of people Hillary Clinton is disgusting
Hillary Clinton's policies in Haiti
alone like there's a lot of ridiculous
conspiracy theories about the Clintons
but I don't get offended like you know
when they do hashtag Clinton body count
the problem is it's the wrong body count
there is a body count in some of these
foreign policies they're despicable so
my subjective ethics are utterly
offended by the Clintons but guess what
I had to think of several million
dreamers as but one of a couple of
examples whose whole life can be upended
in a way mine would not be so I go I
take 15 minutes and I vote to minimize
their suffering I don't have a whole oh
I couldn't do it give me a childish ahh
it's like voting base elections are just
like when the music goes out on in
musical chairs and you just got to sit
down the actual positioning is
everything you do outside of elections
and you want to get yourself in goods
actively right and then you know maybe
hope for better chairs that's it and
honestly I feel like at this point if
you don't get that point then cool but
then don't
and certainly pray to God don't I am a
call with Sam because Sam still gets
lost in that and it's just it's done
it's over
boring as helll conversation I've got
one more point about you know if you
want to do one of these votes to like
let's say you want to vote for Green
Party in a swing state stop acting like
that's not a pro talkative measure and
or just keep it to yourself
right if you do that the intent is to be
provocative right you are intending to
provoke a reaction so own it like this
like it's just my opinion I should be
allowed to well then don't tell me about
it word HDB you so you are talking about
something about Sam going off about this
to Shay got him
uh though let's be fair if it was Sam we
would be midway through butter is
Elizabeth Warren much more likely to
lose than Bernie if she does it will
destroy the progressive momentum set us
back twenty years is the establishment
will claim they told us progressive
could do better
Bernie crushes Trump blah blah look to
be honest leo I that's a real scenario
to me yes I
Bernie's definitely everything indicates
he's a much stronger candidate against
Trump and the Democratic Party elite
used Michael Dukakis to say that the
left had lost the election so yes that's
I don't like to go too far on these
things yet but that is a yes I would and
frankly I didn't read other part of your
message so I would skip the other more
inflammatory stuff and stick to those
two points because they're actually very
sound The Daily Beast put out a really
important write-up of the donor lists in
districts that went from Obama to Trump
and again even if this is two hundred
thousand people that you need to flip
back in key states they you need to flip
them back to win I actually take winning
seriously those maps are filled with
Sanders donors he's lapping it him and
Biden lead Trump by the largest margin
in the polls that's both the best chance
for progressive politics and definitely
the safest if not one of the I mean one
of the savers of that V safest bet
against Donald Trump that's just reality
so far Connor from PA hey guys I called
a few months ago I haven't
enough time since I'm a candidate in PA
working to flip our Township board to
democratic control for the first time
ever sorry if I get a shout-out for my
Twitter at Conner for d-town and my
website is Wood Wood - Oh H a an ol al o
n comm it would mean a lot love you all
of the best tweeted us and we will push
it all right I want to get to sound
number 12 and then we'll take one call
but it's the Yemen thing this is
important so basically the war continues
in Yemen there was a negotiation process
that halted thing very briefly but the
reality is that the day in and day out
the United States the UK and Canada are
continuing to coordinate with provide
weapons for and Saudi Arabia is still
committing a genocide 'el mass murder
campaign in Yemen everyday drone attacks
under the trump administration have
actually escalated in Yemen
significantly as well and this is a
report from melissa park an
international expert on yemen she
delivered at the UN geneva-based Human
Rights Council on the present state of
play in Yemen the Sanders bill would
have cut arms off from Yemen Trump
vetoed it this is still one of the
greatest atrocities it's a genocide that
the u.s. is backing every single day in
summary our conclusions are as follows
the parties to the conflict in Yemen are
responsible for an array of human rights
violations and violations of
international humanitarian law some of
these violations are likely to amount to
war crimes there are certain states who
are well known to be supplying weapons
that includes the United States it
includes the United Kingdom and it
includes France to name but three the
group of experts has recommended that
third states prohibit the authorization
of armed tribes
transfers and refrain from providing
arms to parties to the conflict this is
because of the prevailing risk that such
arms will be used by parties to commit
or facilitate serious violations of
international humanitarian and human
rights law so we need to keep centering
Yemen that's really the only answer to
it and remember that the Saudis are
responsible for genocide they're with
their partners the United States the
United Kingdom and arms sales from
Trudeau's Canadian government as well
Sofia Navarro five six - hey guys please
tell Bernie peeps to come down and to
calm down and hi hey guys please tell
Bernie peeps to calm down and the
unnecessary auntie Warren stuff on
Facebook and Twitter her she and Bernie
will hash out the differences and I
believe they'll be on a ticket together
so you might be attacking Bernie's
running mate well I have to really know
what you're referring to I definitely
see some people you know like as an
example if you're constantly complaining
to me because I am you know do work and
in friends with Emma biglan as an
example and every time I do a tweet that
she's gonna be on my show it's like mean
don't do that it's a bad look look it's
annoying read a book or get some
perspective on life
absolutely so I mean sorry shot shots no
I agree so look there's there's and and
we already are in the phase of the
campaign I mean obviously everybody
knows you got the yang fans Jesus Christ
you have Tulsi fans Jesus Christ Camilla
Harris fans really overworking how
obnoxious you can be and Sanders fans
can be incredibly obnoxious and those
are based and then of course Warren fans
can be extraordinarily obnoxious which
I'll explain in a second I mean
basically we're talking and and that
pretty much covers I guess also booted
jej I guess and they are pretty
obnoxious but I mean you know we're
talking about anybody who has any kind
of organic constituency online and and
so they all have supporters that can be
super
and reflect the worst that being said I
noticed a tendency that is very
ridiculous and annoying and and I say
this both as a Sanders supporter but
also somebody who just sort of watches
this stuff and analyzes it one there are
a lot of people in the warren orbit who
have you know any criticism of her
including policy based criticisms they
freaked out about and get upset about
and have a problem with but then they
also passively receive a horrific
disgusting treatment of sanders and
benefit from it and don't call it out so
if you want a game and the Sanders
campaign and people who are officially
around Bernie Sanders as well as most of
his media surrogates are either hugely
complimentary of Elizabeth Warren or
frankly people like me and I know some
people we know whine or whatever but
just in terms of reality I criticize her
own policy and a worldview I've said
from the beginning that I respect
Elizabeth Warren there's a lot of good
things that she's done and I have
fundamental differences and that's okay
that's politics if you have a problem
with that then again read a book get
outside so if Warren people want that
they're gonna need to and starting from
the campaign do a lot more and that was
a statement she did the other day I
think was a positive signal in some ways
on that although then she echoed the
talking points from Sanders on
movement-building but you're gonna have
to if you want that kind of power T in
social media you're gonna have to go up
against the people who constantly lie
about and just have disgusting rhetoric
about Bernie Sanders because he gets it
from every single angle and so that does
create a bunker mentality because it's
true
everybody's at war against Bernie
Sanders and the interests that he
represents and working people uh and and
so and then that's just the other part
of it which is that yes we understand
people can be obnoxious and ridiculous
and so on but you know it's okay if I
criticize her military-industrial
complex policies that's fine it's a
disagreement it's an important
disagreement maybe I'm you know I mean
you know maybe you have a different
worldview
maybe it's okay with you to have an
empire you just want to green it or
whatever but we can debate those things
that and and in some ways that's the
ultimate reflection of respect and
parity between two candidates when you
are cuz look Joe what am I gonna argue
with Joe Biden about he's a corporate
hack
he's bankruptcy Joe why the hell is even
running Elizabeth Warren has put some
really good things on the table she's
you know and so we have a debate and
there's a fundamental difference there
and that's the other problem some people
are trying to suggest that their same
thing they absolutely are not and that
gets clearer and clearer by the day so
have a good solid respectful debate
that's great and that should go for
everybody but don't if you want that as
a warrants Porter you've got to give
back in terms of the smears and lies
about Bernie and also and this goes for
everybody do not confuse policy
criticisms and worldview criticisms with
somebody like hating your candidate or
something and I could say at least in my
case I think I've been pretty clear
about the candidates that I really don't
like and Elizabeth Warren is definitely
not on that list this is not beanbag and
this is not being back deed you're
calling from a 702 area code who are you
where you're calling from 702 are you
there hey Jay what's up what's on your
mind until every inmate in the United
States can vote every inmate is a
political prisoner I buy it I think it
should definitely vote I agree with you
I support that I agree with Bernie I
think that was incredibly courageous of
him and I think it's correct he took a
little bit of heat for it but it's okay
some of the major emancipatory movements
in the history of the u.s. were not
democratic for instance the abolition of
slavery in this country the Civil Rights
Act
these were pushed through for more moral
and ethical concerns for the
intelligentsia not necessarily because
they were democratically popular and
then to expand on that we also need
salaried voting in this
the you know Andrew Yang's freedom
dividend you know let's face it that's
it's not even going to get the job done
it's just a device to extend capitalism
into perpetuity however if there was
salaried voting for instance in every
midterm people were paying perhaps $500
to come out and vote I mean that would
bring them out of the woodwork and
really empower the working class into
voting well let's think about that I'll
give you think about that I think I'm
not sure I honestly that's totally new
to me I have to reflect on that I
appreciate the call man thank you I
might have misunderstood but I mean I
don't think like ending slavery was a
democratic process no I think he meant
it meant that that it was the it was the
it was the rights thing
it was a human right and the right thing
to do that may have went against popular
white they like like if you polled white
people at that time what a majority of
them support or oppose getting really I
would just say like also like but I
would wave agitation also had a big
party play on that horse of course all
right final call of the day sorry to
everybody can't get to all of you you're
calling from a 9 1 o errorcode who are
you where are you calling from hey
Brendon what's on your mind one that the
question yeah about George Wallace and
the segregation forever speech because
yes I let everybody when we were at the
Chicago live show you asked a really
good important question about Chicago
Alice and segregation forever okay go
ahead yeah because I'm just want to
mention it here audio is also because I
think it's one of the motions because
only about like a thirty five minute
speech but it's one of the most
important speeches for those on the left
to know because it in this speech is
pretty much lined up the entire modern
conservative playbook
you know so you've got like 15 minutes
and he's already talking about you know
big government and like three minutes
later he's talking about progressives
and liberals
campus and next he's talking about
liberals basically being the real racist
and career being take up taken out of
gold and a lot of anti-communist
rhetoric and uh anti welfare and handout
rhetoric - so it's like a really nice
thing because I've noticed that the
right-wing tries to stop the debate with
when it comes to racism by basically
keep it around hatred when hatred is
really only the most extreme form of
racing you know even even something
might sound a little strange at first
it's like white supremacists don't hate
black people in fact I would say that
they love them as long as they don't go
against the status quo you know and this
is why you have a lot of conservatives
who would prop up Booker T Washington's
respectability politics over that day
we'd be Dubois or even like Ross enough
so on like Thomas owl or whitewashing
MLK and for the only quotes they know
are the one basically the ones were you
know black you need to find their own
emancipation proclaimation and don't so
we'll definitely I definitely I so the
segregation for every speech by George
Wallace and I'm actually working on
something on that too I appreciate the
call man and thanks so much for coming
yeah thank you thank all right take care
all right folks we're gonna let me see
get to the final I am of the day in a
second and then we're gonna close out
here final I am of the day I'll be
shameless on this one because it was a
funny line
and this should be well I guess it would
be the name of a biography of Dave Rubin
but that's never gonna happen so maybe
we'll just make it a YouTube video name
holy crap Mike too dumb at any speed has
me dying alright thanks everybody we'll
see you there
see you tomorrow in that to get
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah clock is ticking
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
