[Music]
alright let's take a call out of the
gate you're calling from an 8 for 7 area
code who are you where you calling from
and my coach Josh from Chicago hey Josh
how are you Josh I you know I hate
Melinda Katz Melinda Katz is not good
what's going on not good what's going on
ok so I've been working on this actually
oh great in fact I spent a lot of my 4th
of July going through data and stuff
like that
stead of barbecuing but I think so
basically as people know on Election Day
Tiffany come on declared victory by like
1,100 votes which is of course not a
sizable Mart it's about a percentage
point victory I think is what she had
and we were told by election experts who
know what they're talking about which
they said it's basically mathematically
impossible for Melinda Katz to win even
if I should have to get something like
70% absentee ballots right on when they
come to absentee ballots the day before
July 4th July 3rd in the evening Melinda
Katz declared a victory after not saying
anything by 20 votes on the absentee cap
because the Board of Elections threw out
a bunch of affidavit ballots and didn't
count them a lot of these affidavit
ballots are thrown out for stupid
reasons including literally they're 114
in court right now saying they basically
did not fill out that they were member
of the Democratic Party in the party
field and actually there is a bill right
now that should be on Andrew Cuomo's
desk which would actually be forced
those affidavits to be counted it would
actually prevent a lot of reasons for
why people have to sell it affidavit
ballots in the first place conveniently
Andrew Cuomo's refused to sign this I
don't know why it's weird I'm surprised
but I usually divide the line of
democracy he declared he was the left
you know I don't know I I think for me
and
I think this is the thing that I know a
lot of us said at the time during the
primaries in 2016 or some people said
that those primaries were stolen
we're felt like the Clinton people were
stealing the primaries and I don't think
that was the case I think Sanders just
lost you know he didn't run a good
enough campaign well I mean yeah and
then the snails are wrong he I mean look
I think he well whatever right we but
like yeah this is a stolen election this
is what a stolen election looks like and
these people are trying to steal an
election because this is a bigger deal
than aoc winning and this is a bigger
deal than even someone like Julia
winning because of the implications that
this has and also the fact that
borough-wide election no I I think that
there's look there's no question and by
the way I'll just say maybe I shouldn't
open this up but I think like look the
big picture is is that yes Hillary
Clinton won more votes than Bernie
Sanders and I think there were some
areas that if I recall there was you
know there was some ridiculous stuff
that was you know look there were places
that like it literally was the rules
right but I there was some caucuses that
Bernie won but Hillary ended up getting
more delegates from I those are that's
clearly a problem right I have no I
wouldn't be shocked that if you know if
Sanders Clinton was a 50/50 race and it
came down to some vote counting in
Queens I would yeah you know I was is
exactly the type of thing that I would
be looking for in terms of tipping the
election in an illegitimate way so yeah
that's what they're doing
it's a machine and I think this is a
good point of like not getting into you
know yes it's it's it's stolen if if she
I mean this is more analogous to the way
2000 was stolen yeah in Florida I mean
that's what they're doing they are they
are getting ballots that should be
counted to be thrown out on the most
spurious of technicalities to you know
to basically drag their preferred
candidate
the finish line yeah that's totally
illegitimate democratically illegitimate
so even if it crosses you know whatever
boxes because Cuomo hasn't signed this
law it's fundamentally an illegitimate
election I mean in the same by the way
it's a different circumstance but that
was you know that was what was great
with Stacey Abrams origin like I
acknowledge that I'm not gonna be
governor they're not gonna graduate the
guy whose whole win is based on voter
suppression ya know so what are the
state of things now though I mean is
this still in play yeah I so I think
she's gonna win I think Obama's gonna
win because right now there's about a
hundred fourteen ballots in court the
court date was supposed to be yesterday
but it's been pushed back half of the
manual recount okay so I think there's
two scenarios here that are working in
our favor one the fact that I think
these actually it's funny enough the
judge is actually a Republican judge
they moved it from the Queen's Supreme
Court to the Brooklyn Supreme Court and
actually that's probably better for us
than if it was part of the Queen's
Democratic machine right one of the
judges yes so I think these votes are
going to get counted to these people I
mean I spoke to one yesterday I'm not
gonna go to any details but this person
was a registered Democrat and the other
thing that I think is working in our
favor as well as if people remember and
I don't know how many votes Bill Nelson
gained or lost in the manual recount but
that really didn't matter because it was
still it it wasn't close enough to
really be affected by a manual recount
this is now 16 votes because we gained
about four we gained four votes when
they did open up five affidavit about
six affidavit ballots and found five
Burcu bond you know I think it's very
also very likely that this will get
flipped back the Caban on a manual
recount or it's gonna come become even
closer
I would advise people not to pay
attention to Shawn King on this because
you've been tweeting some pretty
erroneous facts people don't know what
an affidavit ballot has been cast for
and until they open it up I mean a lot
of affidavit balancer she's never open
um I would call Christina Chung who's
done a really good job of reporting very
thorough and it actually
you don't have to be biased to show how
ridiculousness processes and her just
likes back to the matter of reporting on
this shows just has like almost the
perfect I don't say satire but it's the
perfect critique of these people because
it shows just how stupid these people
are will Josh ridiculous yeah so but
okay so that's one scenario and then was
there a second scenario well the worst
scenario would be if Melinda Katz this
Katz keep track I think this is gonna
keep getting dragged out for a while I
don't write as very possible winner
isn't even declared in July I don't know
what the rules are about WFP running
Caban in the fall if Melinda cath is
indeed declared the winner but I mean if
WFP could run her I I think there would
be I mean I I'm not I think there's no
doubt that if this that is they actually
axle this for her that there needs to be
whether it's independent or whatever
else we would need to figure out a way
for Caban to run in the fall WFP maybe
I'm a little wary of them in some ways
but if they do it that would be great
and that would be a perfect line for her
to run on but I would say even looking
at just potentially a completely
independent run yeah because I think
Katz is very dangerous actually
um there's been a lot of in her history
that's been revealed including the fact
that she at one point dated the founder
of the guardian angels in New York Chris
Christopher Silva yes she did thank God
it would that's actually pretty funny
okay alright so she's kind of like a
Sopranos character alright um Josh I
appreciate the call we'll stay focused
on this all right man yeah thank you
appreciate it
