actually let's go to Brazil just a
couple of things before we play this
video to bear in mind one the further
news this past week that really laid
bare how obvious what's happening with
Lula is okay so Lula has been in prison
for several months now they haven't
allowed him to run for president even
though he is the lead candidate and a
massively successful politician they put
him in jail on the flimsiest of evidence
and they haven't allowed him to speak to
the press this is a country where the
guy who stabbed balsan ro was granted an
interview I think within a week of
stabbing him and leaders of drug cartels
regularly conduct interviews from prison
they've blocked his ability to speak to
the press consistently last week one
Supreme Court justice granted him a
right to have a newspaper interview and
another one actually revoked it again
just proving again and again and again
the reality of this being a judicial
coup and this is also coinciding with
the Brazilian elite realizing that the
traditional center-right austerity
politics is not going to win and they're
throwing their support behind jerub-baal
son ro and the fascist in his fascist
candidacy the brazil's most influential
farm lobby has endorsed him and he is
now getting solid support across the
brazilian business sector and there's
reports that workers are both being
threatened about voting for a PT Workers
Party and also illegal bribes and other
things to sort of patronize you know
workers votes as well as a lot of
doublespeak on what bolson Arrow's
regime would mean in terms of workers
rights now we know that he's advised by
a cago school economists including
someone who was involved in advising
Pinochet we know that there's work to
rewrite the Brazilian Constitution which
the Brazilian Constitution in the 1980s
actually quite pro-labor and a big
mission would be to gut labour in that
Constitution and also that the far-right
Ave Angelika 'ls are saying that the PT
are Satan worshippers and they're
freaked out about the vice presidential
candidate Manuela who is the head of the
Communist Party and would be the vice
president under Fernando Haddad this
video with Danny Glover and mark rice
brought summarizes again not only the
judicial coup against Dilma and the
absurd imprisonment of Lula something
that has Noam Chomsky said does make him
I mean I think it's indisputable the
most sort of prominent political
prisoner in the world today but also the
real stakes of a guy like Jared ball
scenario who's advocating even more
police and military judicial murders and
plays in favelas as an example in a
country that's already overrun with
small arms from the United States and a
huge amount of murder and violence on
the periphery implemented by state
security apparatus ha's city councilor
Mariela Franco was assassinated several
months ago her killers have still not of
course been brought to justice let's
watch this video this one is a really
unusual election because first of all
the most popular candidate the former
president Lula da Silva is in jail and
he would have won the election by all
the polls if he had been allowed to run
in the particular four centuries of
poverty they had a violent economy they
extended their relationship with other
country in Latin America the Workers
Party was first elected to the
presidency with Lula in 2002 and then he
was re-elected and then he could only
serve two consecutive terms and so in
2010 one of his ministers Dilma Rousseff
ran and she won and
then she won again in 2014 now that
period was a very successful period for
social and economic progress in Brazil
and then in 2015 there was a recession
and the right-wing opposition parties to
Dilma who was in office took advantage
of that and they impeached her they
didn't really have a crime they accused
her of a kind of an accounting
manipulation which all previous
presidents have done in governance - it
was a power grab but then they still had
the problem that Lulu could run for
president so with a very politicized
judiciary it went after Lula and he was
convicted of taking a bribe which was in
the form of repairs to an apartment
basically and they never showed that he
owned or stayed in the apartment or
rented it or that it was his in any
legal way they didn't have any material
evidence either we have to do something
about this but way at the same time
understand that this is not only just
happening Brazil it's being undermined
and other countries in the region as
well the question about what has
happened to all these governments in the
region with introduced policies that
were more friendly to poor people and
friendly to indigenous people what is
happening to those particular countries
and certainly those leaders who
initiated those really progressive
changes the leading candidate is this
congressman enjoyable so narrow in the
press they compared the trumpet to be
honest that's actually unfair to Trump
because he is so extremist and so openly
racist and misogynist the Leicester
nightmare basically what he represented
some is the same type of ideology of
Donald Trump he's extremely to the right
he certainly is it attacked not only
African religions is also called for
intervention
as well you have to remember this
country is a relatively new democracy
it's only 30-something years since the
dictatorship progressives have to be
concerned not only what is happening
here in the United States but also
concerned about those who progressive in
other countries in Latin America as well
and certainly Brazil has won those
progressive forces so that's all true
and also you know the forces are
aligning the elite in Brazil that might
have wanted to brand itself as not
engaging in coup activities not
repressing the Workers Party not having
just a pure class resentment driven
vicious austerity regime but still
wanted to say no of course we're not
actually embracing of the overtly
fascistic policy politics of a
jerub-baal Sandero they're lining up
behind him as the Workers Party has
consolidated behind Fernando Haddad and
even the financial press like Bloomberg
depicts Haddad and Workers Party is
somehow sort of outside of the
macroeconomic mainstream the course the
great irony is that the Workers Party is
a social democratic party governed in an
incredibly moderate macroeconomic way
while still lifting upwards of 40
million people out of poverty so that's
a very very big election and if you're
concerned about this sort of global
fascist pathogen Trump Modi or bun you
should be very concerned about ball
scenario in Brazil there's a lot of
people's lives on the line
