[Music]
is Lindsey Graham he is going out now
too I guess
further this is what we played for you
in terms of the Fox and Friends weekend
was yesterday Sunday here is today
this is the next step we've got to run
cover for president Trump he's told
these people to leave the country these
congresswomen he's told them to leave
the country ha ha ha but words have
consequences when they're said by on
Instagram not so much on Twitter
according to Fox and Friends well here
is Lindsey Graham running to Fox again
trying to sort of make it seem like well
I don't know if Trump's tweet was racist
but these women deserved it we all know
that a OC in this crowd are a bunch of
Communists they hate Israel they hate
our own country they're calling the
guards along our border the border
patrol agents concentration camp guards
they accuse people who support Israel of
doing it for the Benjamins
they're anti-semitic they're anti
America don't get down aim higher we
don't need to know anything about them
personally talk about their policy oh
there he is he's defending them now
right they're communists they're
anti-semites they hate this country
but don't go don't don't call them like
those things immigrant don't get
immigrant on them don't get don't get
don't do that he had that strong Brett
Kavanaugh hearing energy there yep yeah
with a pitch of McCarthy you know let me
just say this I I wish John McCain was
alive to see this hey I don't know I
don't know why that would give me such
pleasure - look at the look on John
McCain's face if he had to see Lindsey
Graham what a horrible horrible horrible
despicable human being
and I don't know you know I this is a
Republican Party folks this is it this
is it and the people who are gonna
respond to that I get news for you there
is nothing that's going to you're not
going to sell them on anything else I'm
sorry you just simply not that's just
not going to happen and fishing in those
waters is is like literally trying to
fish with I don't know I mean like a fly
rod you can spend eight hours in the
water and you can slap it slap it slap
it slap it and maybe you'll you'll hook
one and you'll come home with one fish
but it is if you need to get a net full
fish that is not the place to do it kind
of makes me want to run for office to
show up what a real America hating
communist looks like exactly yeah that's
the other thing about this America
hating thing is when a OC
breaks down in tears in front of that D
in that DHS Committee about how you're
doing all this stuff in front of the
American flag like there's a lot of
people that might point out you know the
type of things like this is what it's
always happened in front of that flag at
the same time like being someone who
wants to redeem the actual promise II
however mythological like I think AOC is
doing exactly what should be celebrated
by that crowd yeah of course
we've got two different and the news
forming they're not communists they're
not communist and in and of course
that's always been on some level I think
like particularly in this day and age
just a surrogate for the word they're
not white like that's what communist
means interracial marriage not white it
also shows that the word socialist
doesn't work anymore yes go to communist
yeah exactly yep we got to juice this
baby hell yeah and by the way like I'm
totally fine with people on the inside
using one strategy and people on the
outside using another if a OC wants to
get up in front of the flag and call
them out I'm not living up to America's
Promise that's great at the same time
I'm really working on the outside to
convince people that America
is bad there you go watch out Lindsey
Graham so of course all of the grifters
get in on the act
at this point you're Newt Gingrich you
know you're in the final chapter and
you're just happy to get on television
and if you've got to get out there and
say some say some crazy ass things then
you'll do it
here's Newt Gingrich on with the weekday
Fox and Friends stooges brian kilmeade
asking if Trump being racist was a good
political move quick the president
inserted himself in the middle of this
intramural fight between the speaker and
and the squad was that a good political
move well I think the President believes
that the more he can get the country to
look at the so-called squad the more he
can get him realize how radical they are
and how fundamentally anti America and
their views are in the long run the
better off he is I think he would like
to see the closet incidentally as we
suggested earlier when Lindsey Graham
was calling them communists when Newt
Gingrich says get the country to look at
how radical they are and how
fundamentally anti-american their views
are I get news for you that's also a
code for not white how not white they
are in the long run the better off he is
I think he would like to see them as
sort of the the front page of the
Democratic Party and any and I think he
thinks anything he does to elevate them
is to his net advantage is he right oh I
think so but yeah oh I've got to think
about that because I still may want to
be to get a job yeah I think so David
Axelrod thinks he's right you tweeted it
says it's a it's a tough strategy it is
a tough strategy but I don't think it's
actually gonna work to be honest with
you
Trump did this too with
Barack Obama it didn't it didn't have
had the impact on Barack Obama it was
effective in terms of Hillary Clinton
here's Axelrod with the deliberate
racist outbursts Donald Trump wants to
raise the profile of his targets drive
downs to defend them and make them
emblematic of the entire party it's a
cold hard strategy but doesn't mean it's
necessarily an effective one and the
question is there's no doubt in my mind
they found that Nancy Pelosi as a target
was ineffective in 2018 because when
they say San Francisco politics now that
used to mean
gay she's gay she's for the gays and now
that just does not have the same
resonance because we've had marriage
equality for what feels like a lifetime
now it's only been like four or five
years and guess what these people living
in Ohio guess what's changed in their
lives nothing in Michigan nothing in
Pennsylvania nothing I was just down
there you couldn't tell the difference
between pre marriage equality and post
marriage equality everything was just
the same and they have had a lot of a
lot of mileage out of really I mean
hundreds of years of examples of
demonizing people of color as an
effective political strategy so the
question is we already know that like
85% of Republican voters knew who AOC
was the question is how does the
Democratic Party respond to this like
just because it's Donald Trump's
strategy to elevate for women of color
who serve in Congress because it's going
to activate the racism of his base does
not mean that the strategy of Democrats
should be like um we're not really
affiliated with them like we're not we
don't have the
the brown people cooties on us like that
I mean that's what Nancy Pelosi
ostensibly is trying to do to salvage
the front line Democrats and I Got News
for you not gonna work not gonna work
that ship has sailed
after Barack Obama if there was any
chance I don't know that there was any
chance I'm not even talking about
morality here I'm just talking about
sheer hard strategy you really only have
one choice which is to push further to
leverage them to drive out more people
to vote this is a this is basically a
war of attrition folks this the these
sort of like sneaky measures that Nancy
Pelosi can put the cork back in the
bottle put the genie back in the bottle
because all you're gonna do if you're
gonna try and convince whatever tiny
amount of people that are in this pool
that are convinced about that the
Democratic Party is not the better of
the two parties in representing these
people and look the fact of the matter
is there's no equivalent in the
Republican Party there's no four women
of color who are representing people in
the Republican Congress right they don't
exist
and so as bad as the Democratic Party is
the association with these women is
legit if you want to suppress people of
color in this country you have one
choice when it comes to an electoral
strategy and that is to vote for
Republicans and the idea that you can
convince any of these people that well
you know it's def call Democrats or
Republicans it's not gonna work it's not
gonna work and so here you have Donald
Trump
basically saying that these people hate
our country he's going to a demand an
apology from the freshman congresswoman
who clashed with Pelosi Pelosi
apparently is putting on the on the
floor a vote to condemn Donald Trump
which is smart because you have one
choice here now Donald Trump has I would
argue even before Donald Trump all the
social science shows it we had that
professor on who wrote that book
identity crisis
up until Barack Obama 50% of non-college
educated white people still thought the
Republican Party was to the left of the
Democrats when it came to race to the
left of the Democrats when it came to
race holding on to the vestiges of the
Republican Party that their parents had
probably told them from from from from
Lincoln from you know the Dixiecrats and
they didn't realize it until Barack
Obama got elected
well they realize it now so Donald Trump
is gonna play his strategy and there's
only one way to match this strategy you
double down you think we're a party that
supports brown people I Got News for you
you don't know how much we support brown
people you think that we're a party that
is a vehicle for brown people you don't
know how much we're a vehicle for brown
people cuz here's Donald Trump he's
gonna double down here he is
[Music]
great manufactures great workers in our
audience - they put a lot of their
workers here you're not happy here in
the US if you're complaining all the
time very simply you can leave if you
leave right now come back if you want
don't come back it's okay to mistaken
somebody they would say them so speaker
Pelosi said make America I mean they're
going all-in with this down you're
going all-in now just a reminder you
remember his speech at the DN at the RNC
right the Merrick is a hellscape he's
campaigning now and they've shifted he
thinks he's gonna do Reagan now if you
don't like Trump's America you can leave
but here's the bottom line they are
static this is the thing that like it's
you know the Donald Trump won with a
smaller percentage than Mitt Romney they
are static the Democrats right now the
idea that they would alienate for people
who could go and get those votes in
Wisconsin and Michigan tomorrow
it's just it's just stunning like you
you they're just the game of mitigation
is just not gonna work anymore yeah well
this is why it comes off so
disingenuously when the Democrats try to
possess and position themselves as being
good on race right like you you can't
give an inch too
people especially not right now when all
that's at stake is at stake so I feel
like people would trust them a little
bit more if they didn't continue to
distance themselves from these four
women if they didn't continue to beef up
the militarized border like all of these
things put the lie to their their
pretensions to some sort of diversity
project well I mean look the fact is is
that they are the Democrats I mean I
mean it puts the lie I don't know what
Nancy Pelosi has articulated that but
but the the reality is the Democrats are
diverse they are diverse it's just that
the leadership wants to distance
themselves from the reality of the party
and that that strategy is just not going
to work anymore it's I don't know that
it ever worked frankly but it's not
gonna work anymore it's just not gonna
work anymore yes that's what I mean
that's who I'm talking about when I talk
about how Nancy Pelosi is happy to use
these people in a photo-op
happy to have superficial diversity but
it went and their votes yeah and well
but when it comes down to it she's not
willing to do anything for people of
color in America uh I it's a horrible
horrible strategy it's just a horrible
strategy but again I think it may go
back to just wanting to maintain her
power in this branch
