[Music]
here we have reports of a 16 year old
Guatemalan boy the fifth or sixth child
that has died in custody of ice and the
the Border Patrol in one of their
facilities he apparently had the flu
went untreated for a week and here is
Laura Ingraham just about a year ago
talking about how lovely these
accommodations are you know there's a
precedent for this it's when they used
to call a Guantanamo Bay Club Gitmo
when Limbaugh did it and they talked
about how this was a what a vacation
spot and you get three squares a day
here is Laura Ingraham saying that these
prisons that kids are kept in these
cages basically like go on Exeter or
Andover so since more illegal immigrants
are rushing the border more kids are
being separated from their parents and
temporarily housed and what are
essentially summer camp camps or is a
San Diego union-tribune described them
today as looking like basically boarding
schools yeah
boarding schools I know I I mean I'm
sure I did not go to a boarding school
but I'm sure the cages and the the lock
doors being the ability to leave all
part of boarding school and here is Ben
Shapiro
according to him one of the good Jews
talking about how it is so offensive to
criticize Laura Ingraham about this is
that what she is discussing is that
people actually are being treated pretty
humanely in detention centers which is
generally a true story
okay nonetheless Budi judge wins some
points with the left for saying all of
that sort of stuff and and because he is
coming off as moderate because of the
way he expresses himself as a moderate
he's able to get away with pushing very
extreme policies this is the
how to plan so Buddha judge says it's
offensive that we are keeping kids in
cages and Shapiro says they're being
treated pretty humanely almost like
they're humane people do I'd want
judging but that's the game right there
too I mean that's an extremist extremist
position Buddha jag articulated what
absolutely should be moderate consensus
which is you don't put children and
freezer lockers right yeah
