[Music]
meanwhile the the House Oversight
Committee will be voting I believe at
about two o'clock today on contempt
charges against Bill Barr and Wilbur oz
in short the issue here is how did a
question about citizenship end up in the
2020 census and we have never had one in
the history of this country the sentence
calls for the measurement of all peoples
in the United States this is a
constitutional requirement not citizens
the citizenship question was inserted
between the DOJ and Commerce Department
it's actually in front of the Supreme
Court right now the argument that the
DOJ said was we needed this to enforce
the Voting Rights Act in certain
districts we needed to make sure that
there was enough mining area
representation in elected offices now
the Voting Rights Act has been in effect
for over 50 years the DOJ has never
needed this information and this case
went to the Supreme Court the Supreme
Court is deliberating on it a 1 week ago
maybe two weeks ago it was revealed that
it was been found on a dead Republican
operatives computer by his daughter that
he had drawn up extensive plans for this
question and actually had done models
statistical models how this plan if this
question was asked on the census how
would it impact voting patterns in Texas
how would it who would it favor
they found I'm paraphrasing but I think
it's actually direct quote it will help
non-hispanic whites and Republicans gain
more electoral power in Texas then this
same guy drafted
letters that were used verbatim by the
DOJ to send to commerce for this request
so the Gov the House Oversight Committee
is looking for information between these
two and Donald Trump has now claimed
executive privilege why the White House
would have anything to do with this at
all is beyond me well it's not I didn't
stand why they would do this but their
justification for it here's Elijah
Cummings we also now have evidence that
president Trump's advisors began
discussing citizenship questions long
before the president took office after
his inauguration the president discussed
the idea with his top White House aides
Reince Priebus and Steve Bannon who in
turn pressed it with secretary Ross and
although we have limited information
about this scheme we've been blocked
from fully determining the real reason
the administration sought to add the
citizenship question we know the real
reason I mean it's all there and those
hard drives and that has been admitted
to the courts so there's a lot of things
going on here around this issue one is
the obstruction that the White House is
involved in in hiding this material the
other is whether the Supreme Court is
actually going to take the fact that
there's all this documentation that all
but proves in fact I would say proves
that the reason why the DOJ asked for
this information this question to be in
there was part of a political program
not one by necessity this is a
constitutional requirement that they're
infringing upon and they are knowingly
doing it and there's documentation to
prove it
here's a Oh C at that same hearing think
that this is a debate about whether we
should be asking who is a citizen or not
in this country
census is a constitutionally mandated
operation that we are required to
implement every ten years it is one of
the most vital and sensitive things that
we do in our government any change to
the census any addition of a question
usually takes five years of a process to
make sure that it is vetted that every
word has been tested to make sure that
it is effective because it is one of the
most important things that we do so it's
not that I want to this is not about
whether or not I want to know who is a
citizen in the United States or not what
I want to know is why after why this
question was added why two years have
been shaved off of that five year
process I want to know why we have
skipped every normal mandated procedure
what in testing how this question gets
added in the census I want to know why
it was why this question was magically
added after we have seen that a
political operative new and detailed an
intent to intimidate racial and
immigrant communities for a partisan
purpose saying this will hurt Democrats
and help Republicans that's what I want
to know I want to know why Wilbur Ross
why secretary Ross continued to meet
with people of disturbing political
affiliations after his own
administration warned him to stop he
came right here and I asked him did you
continue speaking with him after this he
told me no we had an email and he did he
did I want to know why people like Chris
Kobach with the documented history of
overseeing effects he has a resume of
voter suppression techniques in the
state of Kansas I want to know why folks
like that have their fingerprints all
over the most sensitive census
operations that we have as a United
States government this determines who is
here this determines who has power in
the United States of America that is
what we want to know I want to know
about corruption that's what I want to
know about the racism that
and the and the very disturbing history
that we're seeing here that's what I
want to know and so we gave the
opportunity to ask we asked why are all
of these things happening why is all of
this connected why are there so many
people everyone from Steve Bannon to
Kris Kobach having their fingerprints
and their political intent all over the
United States Census why and what do we
get nothing so we'll hear about that
vote today it's a very important vote
and and just the question of it right
now
the invoking of the executive privilege
there's like I say there's two major
things that are happening here one is
what's going on in the house in terms of
this there's really more than two
there's the underlying question of the
census and the implications of adding
this question there is the question as
to whether there's going to be real
consequences for the White House
withholding these documents when they
clearly have no reason to do so
whatsoever
there's no executive privilege there's
no there's no advice and consent that
the president has in regard to the
census that should be sensitive in any
way if it is not politicized and then
with all this that's going on this is
going to be if the if the Supreme Court
rules that this question can stay in I
think it's going to be the inciting
event that in the event we do see a
Democrat control the the presidency and
the Democrats controlled both houses
you're going to see massive Supreme
Court reform based on this very question
because this is it would be
unconscionable if they ignored this
evidence that it was politically
motivated
Propst uh-huh fleurs daughter yeah Majan
finding that info on your dead dad's
computer like I think you're it sense
this corruption plans I have a feeling
my understanding is that their
relationship was was strained and I have
a feeling it had some stuff to do with
his work I mean he was considered the
architect of the gerrymander I mean this
guy was responsible for disenfranchising
millions of voters millions and millions
of voters and immiseration a lot of
people as a result
