[Music]
consistent listeners the longtime
listeners of this program will be aware
that I have a little bit of an obsession
with Felix Haider a little bit which is
a function of the late Wayne Barrett who
was a multi-decade 30 year long reporter
with the Village Voice he may not have
been with the Village Voice the entire
time but he covered Donald Trump for
decades and he had lung cancer the last
several years of his life he covered
Donald Trump like no one else in the
country for four years one point I think
Donald Trump tried to buy him out
essentially and I could do let's make a
deal and we had weighing on once maybe
twice in the run-up to the election and
I had spoken to him just a little bit
about this as well and the thing he kept
saying over and over again is it's Felix
ater and Felix aider of course is was is
the guy was the guy who was negotiating
the Trump Tower in Russia
Felix Sater is by all accounts has
reported to be an asset for the CIA and
the FBI so much so that Loretta Lynch
when she was the US Attorney running the
eastern district of Manhattan wrote an
affidavit saying what a great guy and
how helpful he was when he was on trial
for stabbing a guy in the face with a
champagne flute I think it was because
he's smart he also supposedly according
to reporting I think this was in The
Washington Post was responsible for
getting this
cellphone bin Laden cellphone that led
to his assassination he was money
launderer so he's kind of like a hero to
you in a way to a hero sort of I could
see you kind of admiring him in some
ways the champagne flute then oh well I
was giving you more credit than that I
was the phone number thing the money
laundering oh yeah all right
he's an interesting guy he also was
literally working for the Trump Inc
during this time and I imagine was being
run out of the New York FBI office money
laundering as a way of giving people
giving these agencies information about
the movement of money it's probably
weapons a whole host of things and I
suspect one of the things he was he was
laundering money from other places into
this place the United States and I
suspect that it landed somewhere in
apartments owned by Donald Trump yeah
exactly
I don't know I have theories about it
but they're all half-baked theories but
for some reason you know he's he's
testified but apparently they were
calling him back and they were supposed
to do this like three or four months ago
and it just sort of they punted for no
reason it seemed and he was supposed to
come in on Friday overslept didn't feel
good Fridays are tough yeah
Frye is tough he claimed he had claimed
the michael breath brooks amendment and
didn't show up because he was sick wait
there's an amendment all right guys have
a great one oh man I'll see you guys
maybe not necessarily soon but there's
some story around him and I suspect it
has to do with the reported mutiny that
was taking place to the New York FBI off
in the fall of 2016 but who knows just
interesting strange stuff coming out of
there
so alright with that said I don't know
why I went on that tangent cuz we're
talking about Felix a derp um yeah
because it Felix later Felix that's your
guy that's my guy I enjoy I enjoy that
guy he's very enjoyable for me to follow
because we were talking about how he was
gonna supposedly finally gonna testify
and then sure enough did you ever watch
x-files yeah so there's like the
cigarette smoking man who's a kind of
mysterious woman smoker I think those
were the storylines I was I was
interested in but I watched on TNT and
it was kind of out of order but then you
often would get just the monster of the
week type storylines and those are less
interesting
I think Felix satyrs sort of like the
cigarette smoking man of this right
Trump saga right it's true he always
just always seems to come back into the
picture and then just sort of slides out
don't know what so that's about all
right
