let's talk a little bit about Matt
Whitaker this guy is the he should be
recusing himself I don't know that he
should have ever been appointed of
course not but by his own measure he
should be recusing himself here he is on
this is him let's see where he says this
is re Melbourne covering this on Matt
Whitaker on the radio saying that he
thinks the Russian interference story
has been proven false now look whether
you think the Russian interference
materially impacted the election or not
there is no one within or without our
government who disputes the fact that
the Russians interfered in the election
sometimes it's material sometimes it's
not this is not like you know this is
not like you don't need to see a result
to have attempted to do something and
but here is Matt Whittaker the guy who
is overseeing the investigation as to
whether or not there was collusion
involving this this interference on a
radio program here it is here's this
audio that's been unearthed of Whitaker
this is Trump's new guy denying that the
Russians interfered with the US election
the left is trying to so this this this
theory that essentially Russians
interfered with the US election which
has been proven false they did not have
any impact in the election and that has
been very clear from the Obama
administration so there he is indicating
one conflict of interest he would have
in terms of he has already prejudged an
investigation
that is not that is still ongoing here
is Whittaker in several 2018 news clips
describing how Trump might fight against
Muller and Rosenstein by cutting off
funding this of course is problematic
insofar as it indicates a certain
predisposition towards the investigation
the Department of Justice is not going
to be extorted we're gonna do what's
required by the rule of law I think what
ultimately the president's gonna start
doing is putting pressure on Rod
Rosenstein who is in charge of this
investigation the indictment alleges
that the Russian conspirators want to
promote discord in the United States and
undermine public confidence in democracy
we must not allow them to succeed well I
could see a scenario where Jeff Sessions
is replaced it was a recess appointment
and that Attorney General doesn't fire
Bob Muller but he just reduces budget so
low that his his investigation grinds to
absolutely almost yes so there you have
Whitaker before he was named chief of
staff to Jeff Sessions basically
outlining how you'd go about closing
down the Muller investigation without
actually closing down the Muller
investigation just a third experiment
yeah just a thought experiment but
here's the problem based upon a standard
that Whitaker laid down himself in
defense of Jeff Sessions recusal
Whitaker should recuse himself as well
here he is I think he was on the radio
or no this is a on the radio and maybe
he was talking to the foundation for
accountability and civic trust here he
is the reason he recused himself is not
because there's anything for him to hide
right as it relates to the Trump
campaign and ties to Russia as a lawyer
if there is an appearance of impropriety
and as soon as the you know sort of the
outrage from the left occurred you know
he knew as a
that there that is an appearance of
impropriety because there there are
people suggesting that he did something
wrong so he has to you know it's a
conflict he has to recuse there you go
there's an appearance of impropriety
well so I think the left and speaking
out has basically fulfilled Matt
Whitaker's own standard for what would
constitute a reason to recuse yourself
and boom
thank you Matt Whitaker that's the
Whitaker standard there's no problem at
all so if you have an invention that has
not found the funding source yet get in
touch
I missed that video he was talking about
something totally different like a ten
minute segment on a Thursday it was so
awesome this will help you get to a hot
tub if you idjit also the rush
investigations total see the
White House now putting aside the fact
that Whitaker by his own standards Matt
Whitaker this is the acting Attorney
General now former chief of staff of
Jeff Sessions putting aside the fact
that by the Whitaker standard which he
expressed in explaining why Jeff
Sessions had to recuse himself according
to the Whitaker standard Whitaker should
recuse himself and he's out late or he
laid out plans on how one would stifle
the Muller investigation without
actually ending it here's the part that
also should scare you a little bit and
this is what makes me believe this guy
is a Mike Pence hire this is schemed out
from the people for the American Way
Matt Whitaker was at a conservative
forum in April 2014 he was a candidate
for Republican US Senate nomination in
Iowa he also ended up working on Sam
Clovis's I think campaign Clovis was had
to leave because of his Russia
connections
apparently but so this video was saved
by people for the American Way and here
is Matt Whittaker your new acting
Attorney General talking about maybe we
should have a little bit more religion
involved in what we do
well it's someone that's interacted with
the federal judiciary a time or two I
will tell you that I have a unique
perspective on federal judges and you
know while I agree I want to understand
their judicial philosophy and whether
they understand natural law and natural
rights and then the founding documents
and how they fit together
I don't think that gets us far enough
because natural law often times is used
from the eye of the beholder if you will
and what I'd like to see is I'd like to
see things like their worldview what
informs them what how would they live
their lives are they people of faith do
they have a biblical view of Justice
which i think is very important because
we all know that our government live
itical or New Testament I'm a New
Testament and what I know is is is as
long as as as they have that worldview
that there'll be a good judge and if
they have a secular worldview where this
is all we have here on earth then I'm
going to be very concerned about how
they judge that guy is awesome
not only does he look like a bouncer in
the Meatpacking District he
believes in God and that's a big
league justice I mean I bet you hated
Joe antha the the moderator tried to
point out sort of the absurdity of what
he was saying by suggesting you know
you've got to be clear on which Bible
you're talking about a New Testament you
guys think we're talking about the Bible
Bible that non freak people read he
could have said are you talking about
the Koran and which we are Shas about
that we're talking about the Quran shut
would you like to open a falafel stat
come on get serious
your new facts or any general ladies and
gentlemen still arguable as to he's
certainly less qualified than Jeff
Asians but and but maybe he's slightly
less racist as long as you're Christian
but I would be surprised if that was the
case we just need to get off the
Democratic plantation there you go me my
fellow superhero Kanye we're working on
it because you know there's just
buildings don't have 13 floors that's
divine law
