[Music]
theda the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of an ele
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday April 2nd 2014 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
professor of sociology at UC Davis and
author of leftism reinvented Western
parties from socialism to neoliberalism
professor Stephanie Mudge be joining us
meanwhile Democrats to issue subpoenas
in the wake of the white house security
whistleblower revelations then while
they're at it tomorrow they'll vote on
sending William Barr a subpoena for the
Muller report meanwhile Trump punts on
Republican magic care for all until
after the 2020 elections and Neal gorsek
leads the way for the Supreme Court
ruling that cruel and unusual punishment
in the forms of painful executions a ok
as the moon
wayde's its way through Lake Michigan
meanwhile Department of Homeland
Security
Department Homeland Security assures us
that white extremist white extremist
terror groups no bigs
as it disbands the domestic terrorist
intelligence unit hahahaha disbanded
Trump attacks toward a Reba pajama boy
is Obon a while Donald Trump attacks
Puerto Rico cuz why not and today big
election in Wisconsin for the state
Supreme Court
get out vote if you are in Wisconsin
super important meanwhile fundraising
numbers release Ernie crushes it
doo-doo-doo-doo to go screw yourself all
this and more on today's program we were
just playing some a Joe Jackson in the
pre-show if you listen to the audio
podcast you can hear the music that we
play but we can't put it on the video
because it it gets us dinged and then it
becomes a real problem but back back in
the day when I was in high school if if
someone saw if you saw that someone had
like look sharp or I'm the man in their
record collection their record
collection maybe even jump and jive then
you knew they were cool that's basically
it mostly look sharp and I'm the man but
nevertheless that was basically yeah you
knew they were a hip cat total did you
see total hip cast in a new you woodsy
the yet you would see the album you just
be like groovy man oh my god you have a
magic 8-ball totally it's so cool it
spins around and every time it's a
different answer
so the the fundraising numbers were
released
today and end of the quarter nothing as
big as as Barack Obama in q1 of 2007 but
different constraints obviously more
candidates running this time around with
with a greater ability to fundraise so
the pie may be a little bit bigger but
there's a lot more people who are
saddling up to cut the pie and eat it so
but the big and have we heard betos
fundraising numbers yet no
we'll wait those totals of his yet but
Kamala Harris announced yesterday that
she raised twelve million dollars from
more than two hundred and eighteen
thousand individual contributions in the
first quarter of 2019 somebody can do
the math as to what each donation would
would amount to Harris of course had
raised 1.5 million in the first 24 hours
and then Bernie and then Beto ended up
crushing those numbers I guess 98
percent of Harris's donations were under
$100 interesting well that's also like a
weird that's a you got to dig into that
I want to see those numbers divided by
parents arrested for truancy well here's
the thing I mean and look this stuff
gets overblown like there were nine
hundred thousand contributions made to
Bernie by five hundred in something like
twenty thousand people the average
donation was twenty bucks but you've got
people basically who made two
contributions you know four hundred and
fifty thousand of those people more or
less four hundred thousand made to
contributions which pushes down the
average number of contributions and blah
blah blah but I mean look people know
the broad contours of this story
and and so you know people getting
caught up in this 500,000 people though
is a lot of people to donate to a
campaign 20% of those are new from I
guess from last year I mean excuse me
last last go through so he's picking up
people they're obviously still I think
two million people donated to Bernie at
one point or another last year so
they're still you know and at one point
five million people extant can't
anticipate that all of them will choose
Bernie again this time because they were
choosing him because he was one of two
choices really last time so who knows
but the the bottom line is Bernie got
big numbers people waiting to see what
betos numbers are and the real import of
this ultimately will be how long will
candidates stay in the race how long
will they be able to afford to stay in
the race the you know these numbers in
some ways have more importance to a
Harris or a bet oh because they've got
to make a case to big big donors in the
primaries and Bernie obviously won't be
doing that and so the numbers that war
that that excuse me the Harris and Beto
do at this point and Warren just uh you
know said goodbye to or finance chair
because she will not go after big
donations and I think he probably is
like well I can't do my job then I need
to go I work on a commission and so I
need to go somewhere else but for those
people who are gonna ultimately need
more money from big donors three to six
months from now what they get now has a
lot of relevance so you know Bernie's
going to be in the race until the end
folks and that's clear here and it does
not appear that he's
gonna be raising so much money that it's
gonna scare other people out of the race
I don't know that that could have ever
happened so you know I don't know at one
point like box office numbers became
like the the most important thing in the
world and these fundraising numbers are
important but they have you know you got
to put them in context as to what they
actually mean and Bernie's going to have
plenty of money to raise to run the race
that he wants to run and it's just a
question of how much money are the other
candidates that are you know in many
respects trying to be the the anti
Bernie or the non Bernie candidate so we
shall see but here is Bernie Sanders and
he was at the was this the that the what
does it weed the people
yeah the We the People Town Hall this
was yesterday and Bernie basically
explains that this policy of so-called
right to work in other words we're
fundamentally kneecaps unions and really
prevents workers from their right to
organize in many respects yeah he's done
with that legislation that we've
introduced says in America workers have
the constitutional right to organize
that's called freedom of assembly and
therefore in that legislation we outlaw
the ability of states to pass and
maintain right-to-work legislation there
you go that's accent that is really
that's clear that's especially important
because we're kind of close to getting
federal right to work right now
right or as I like to call it right to
work for Less I mean on someone's I like
to call it right the work for less I
mean on some level I think we have a
version of that that came from the
Supreme Court I mean this is this is
going to be I mean
this is part of the problem is that and
and there is we're going to see and I'm
already seeing this a like on the
antitrust level more and more written
about the the technical assessing
whether this stuff can actually be done
without a broad-based legislative you
know support because judges are going to
shoot down a lot of this stuff and those
are all I think valid points but
second-order points you need to first
have a political leadership that has the
will to do these things and the
intention to do these things and then
they need to make the argument not only
must they appoint judges and and whatnot
but then they need to make the argument
that it requires more legislation than
we we have currently and so to a large
extent I've read these articles I may
talk about them but in the final
analysis it's a second-order issue at
this point it's it's it they're
perfectly valid arguments but from a
political standpoint they're largely
irrelevant because the prescription to
deal with this stuff is basically the
same you need to have elect people to
office who have the will and the policy
to do these things and don't forget also
he's gonna need a ton of grassroots
support for all this legislation like
yes Megan Day said the other day in
order to get anything done
this movement is gonna have to keep
going it's gonna have to expand and get
more intense and perhaps you know we're
so far away from even seeing the
contours of what things are going to
look like in the general election and
who knows you know what happens if
someone like Bernie gets into the
general election in terms of what it
does for for the grassroots but
before we get there today the majority
port is being supported in part by
simple habit simple habit is a mobile
app it provides a massive and diverse
library of five-minute guided
meditations that sounds great for you
soon well I was gonna say forever for
you you you feel I feel like you got
your your guided meditation wardrobe
allotted game oh okay
sort of we can go into that more
specific but as you know there's a lot
of evidence of the benefits of
meditating it's a stressful world folks
and the benefits go beyond just dealing
with stress building mental acuity
simple habit has over 2,000 guided
meditations specifically designed for
different parts of your day and just
about anything might be dealing with in
life they've guided meditations for
mindfulness mediation meditations for
anxiety for depression for when you're
having trouble falling asleep
meditations for when you want to
overcome procrastination or for when you
have something important going on at
work meditation is designed for parents
because children are difficult
they have meditations made specifically
for when you're waking up or your lunch
break your children are difficult when
you've gotten home from work when you're
going to bed I am getting closer and
closer to starting a meditation regime
I've dipped in a little of the chickens
getting lavender is in your eye we're
gonna let go of that the thing that
makes it easy is this right like for me
it's always about the bar to entry and
simple habit drops the bar to entry
different people are trying to
accomplish different things with
meditation simple habit is able to cater
to just about anyone regardless what
their goals are with meditation or how
much past experience they've had with
meditation the variety of guided
meditations simple habit is what sets it
apart simple habit just one the 2018
Google Play award from best
well being app it's available for iOS
Android and on a web browser and the
majority report audience can try it for
free for a week go to simple habit
dot-com slash majority and if you're
watching on YouTube or listening to the
podcast we put it in the show
description simple habit calm slash
majority alright we're going to take
quick break when we come back we'll be
talking to professor of sociology at UC
Davis Stephanie Mudge
but leftism reinvented
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
sociology at the University of
California Davis author of leftism
reinvented Western parties from
socialism to neoliberalism Stephanie
Mudge welcome to the program thanks got
to be here so you're a book essentially
outlines three I guess eras of of
leftism as seen through the prism of
four different parties left parties in
the United States the Democratic Party
and then three different ones in in
Europe just tell us just broadly about
the the broad contours of what you're
looking at in terms of which parties and
really going back until the the late
1800s right well the four parties as you
said one of them is the American
Democratic Party which is sort of a
outlier in some respects the other three
parties are the British Labour Party in
the United Kingdom the and the German
and Swedish Social Democratic parties so
so I pick out those parties for
different historical reasons they're all
sort of very influential in their own
way the German Social Democratic Party
is sort of the original mass party of a
sort of socialist Marxist left and the
German and Swedish Democratic social
democratic parties were also very
tightly well on the Labor Party's is
also of course were very tightly
connected to labour movements in some
cases where drivers at the National sort
of national level organization of labour
movements and so in the in the early
part of the timespan the book covers
those parties are really the focal point
because they are drivers of what I call
socialist leftism
so where they speak a language of that's
that is very familiar to anyone who's
read the Communist Manifesto they read
it and they speak a very explicitly sort
of Marxian socialist language and then
I'm at the Democratic Party isn't really
part of the analysis at that point
because it's doesn't speak that language
and never been a Socialist Party or
right arm at the political arm of the
labor movement so then the the scope of
the book kind of follows a
transformation especially in those three
parties those three Western European
parties between the turn of the 20th
century and the sort of around the 1930s
1940s the timing varies a little bit
where they start speaking a language
that sounds a lot more like the language
of academic economists specifically at
Keynesian economists so they start
speaking in terms of wages and prices
and full employment and and controlling
government through budgetary devices and
fiscal policy and by that time the
Democratic Party especially in the New
Deal period starts speaking in a very
similar language so one of the arguments
of the book is that there's sort of a
convergence and the ways that central
Left parties in Western European
countries speak and the way the American
Democratic Party speaks in the that kind
of comes together especially in the
wartime and interwar periods and then
the the final transition that then all
four parties are a part of or expressed
in some way is between the mid twentieth
centuries or of 1950s 1960s which is the
peak period of what I call Keynesian or
economistic leftism and the 1990s which
is the point at which all of the parties
I deal with start speaking in a
different language which is what I call
neoliberal eyes leftism
and the hallmarks of that is a sort of
low trilogy its emphasis on markets
strategy and sort of market conforming
policy okay so let's let's go back and
and and dig in specifically because I'm
sort of my I'm sort of fascinated
because on some level there's you know
there
Elizabeth Warren who's running for
office now is associated with this this
idea or you know I don't think it's her
idea but she's you know many respects is
like sort of executed along these lines
of personnel is policy and on some level
that is the the you know the the essence
of what happened as you track these and
these various parties in terms of their
the way that they were reinvented in in
in some respects and and then ultimately
in the end it almost like takes us to to
AOC in some respects and maybe that's
just because these are the things that
I'm covering on a daily basis so it gets
a little bit I'm a little bit myopic in
that way but let's go back to that first
era and then we'll work our way up just
talk about the the the the personnel if
you will or the the X the so-called
experts at that time when we start off
as these these parties are our
socialists and in and this is in Europe
give us a sense of like what's happening
in the u.s. that that tradition is not
is not engaged I mean you know once we
get into this what you call the economic
leftism you know or Keynesianism
there's a convergence but what where was
the the the Democratic Party or the u.s.
left at that time uh or you know or what
where's the I guess the Democratic Party
a and B you know let's talk about like
those those actors who were providing
the socialism for the European parties
right well I mean there was a very
active socialist party in the 1900s and
1910s especially in the United States
and it was actually increasingly
powerful in an increasingly influential
it had a large number of seats it was
led especially
by Eugene debb's who was actually a
pretty successful presidential candidate
I think and I think the years maybe 1912
that he pulled the most votes so there
was and that was linked to you know it
was it was a workers movement it was
linked to if it was have been a very
strong labor movement in the United
States and I was capable of calling
general strikes and other sorts of
things so so that was going on but it
was really separate and really in
opposition to to either both of the
major parties and it's important
remember the Democratic Party at that
time was not actually it was it was sort
of associated especially with politics
of the south had a strong southern
contingent it was not strongly
associated as strongly associated with
the progressive movement was sort of
politics based on expertise and
knowledge and analysis and deliberative
progressive projects that was more
associated especially with well
originally with the Republican Party and
with its break off Progressive Party and
headed by Roosevelt Teddy Roosevelt so
so the Democratic Party wasn't really it
was sort of a big tent it was it was
especially grounded in the south and in
you know a sort of racial politics and
wasn't associated especially with
progressive politics ores and certainly
not socialist politics but I had
progressive elements and so what I focus
on the thing that happened inside a
Democratic Party and this has to do with
the way the party is organized
unlike European parties it can't really
the American parties can't really police
their boundaries in the same way they're
not sort of organized bureaucratic
hierarchical entities that can police
their ranks and so the story that I tell
especially is about the 1932 campaign of
FDR and how figures inside his campaign
pull academics into the famous brain
trust who are mostly lawyers but there
are a few economists there Center
especially at Columbia Columbia
University in New York and how that
becomes a base
once that campaign is successful and
after you are moving to the White House
how the sort of experts and academics
that he brings in with them become sort
of recruiters of other kinds of
academics and experts especially
economists who who who drives the
formulation of what becomes New Deal
economic policy and it's in that process
that Keynesianism or Keynesian economics
which had been really marginalized well
remember Keynes famous book the general
theory is interest of unemployment of
employment interest and money sorry
comes out in 1936 by that time the New
Deal administration is already in place
there are already economists who are
some of them are sort of
institutionalist some of them are become
sort of Keynesian after cantinas and
becomes a thing but that's really
marginalised from the academy but
because they're already located and the
federal government they already have
access to the political power they're
able to kind of formulate Keynesian type
policies and legitimate and mainstream
Keynesian economic thinking and it's
it's from there actually that Keynesian
economics that Keynesian economists
become after that they're able to kind
of become more prominent in the Academy
places like Harvard and MIT so I mean
it's sort of counterintuitive as to it
rather than this this Keynesianism being
it I mean adopted by the administration
and in some level it makes it yeah in
some ways the argument that I make in
the book is they kind of constitute each
other you know so
Str kind of builds I mean he had a very
eclectic administration in some way
there were lots of different kinds of
people and it's very experimental
administration they were trying all
kinds of different programs to deal with
a massive problem of unemployment and
political unrest and so yeah so they
sort of the argument I make is they sort
of constitute each other so and one
thing that's happening also inside the
economics profession which we have to
remember is a much different a very
different profession than much smaller
among other things what
but one thing that's happening that may
be familiar now is that there are
younger economists who are frustrated
with their professors were frustrated
with professors especially here we're
telling them that essentially nothing
can be done on a policy level about the
problem of unemployment and they sort of
defect or chased out of the Academy and
nr and find a home in the in the New
Deal administration just you know I want
to make sure though that that you also
touch on you know what was happening in
Europe and so far is like so that the
the idea that because I think now it is
it's almost impossible for people who
have a casual relationship with politics
or even even a more less casual one to
conceive of the idea that that bringing
in so-called experts from academia or
economists was not you know was a that
was not necessarily the way that things
worked right and I think this is
important because there is a we we now
just assume in at least the conventional
wisdom in our politics is that well this
is an economic argument as opposed to it
being a political argument I think part
of that is because of the you know you
you you know you you you touch on the
context of the book is that it just so
happens that these people were brought
in and there was there was a perfectly
functioning political you know way of
doing politics without a so-called
expert in the economy supposedly right
yeah an expert in the sense of
specifically sort of credentialed
academics you know with with super
formal training in economics it is one
of the most striking things as you look
especially to the to the European
context and all of the European cases
what I show for the Labor Party and a
Social Democratic parties that I that I
analyzed in a book is that their their
key remember these are working-class
movements these are not so the sort of
rank-and-file of these of these parties
are
not highly educated people at all and
even the leadership relatively speaking
compared to leadership of the older more
established parties especially the UK
hear it they're not they don't have
elite academic credentials and so the so
called sort of experts that they that
they have the people they bring in who
have expertise on matters of budget and
economic policy or journalists and
lecture and public lecturers and they
have no they have no particular training
and economics which in the British case
at that point isn't even really you
can't really get a specialized
credential and economics at that time
that's something Keynes himself john
maynard keynes myself had i think
exactly something like one quarter or
one semester is training and economics
he was trained in statistics and this is
true of the other countries i study as
well that desert of key economic experts
are not economists as we would think of
them now there are people who have a
great deal of knowledge and they have a
great deal of ability to speak and
appeal especially to working-class
constituencies but they're journalists
in the german case they're more sort of
highly educated but the key economic
expert in the german social democratic
party in the 1920s was a man named
Rudolf hillford Inge who was trained as
a physician so they're essentially in
those cases they become economic experts
by virtue of working for newspapers
journalists weeklies working in
editorial capacities and as journalists
that are and all of those outlets are
associated they're either sort of
directly funded by Social Democratic
parties or Left parties or they're
affiliated in some way but they're not
it's true they're not they're not
academics at all they have they have
very little if any academic training so
when we get into this next era where in
the United States
Keynesian czar recruited and then in
some respects the
the FDR's administration essentially
elevates Keynesian and I guess it's sort
of like a you know a feedback loop on
some level how does that how does that
change in in and in some respects in
terms of the Democratic Party
it makes machines to have been a vacuum
in some respects that there was not you
know that there was the because so many
things were being thrown against the
wall there was a lot of opportunity
there for one you know contingent I
guess to emerge
how did that happen in in Europe well I
try to trace out processes on two sides
one is that the Social Democratic
parties I'll just say less parties it's
easier are becoming viable parties of
government in the early 1900s and as
they and what I mean by that is as
opposed to having sort of one or two
people who are able to hold office they
have more office holders and they it
becomes possible for them to enter into
coalition's or to even become governing
parties as that happens they start
worrying about the leadership starts
worrying about kind of recruiting the
next generation of leadership and for
instance in a British case they start
they set up clubs and and summer camps
and things like that in on University in
the Oxbridge campuses for instance so
that you can kind of think me to create
channels for entry into into the party
especially through sort of universities
and university educated circles in order
to recruit the next generation of
leadership and the next generation is
then as sort of connected to
working-class politics are socialized
into into working-class politics through
the parties but they're also
academically trained and there's a
particular interest because of the
problems at the time problems of finance
and unemployment and taxation budgetary
management and
and problems of radical inequality which
are not that different from now they're
interested for all those reasons and
economic expertise people with academic
economic training and especially with a
capacity for statistical analysis one of
the things that people with economic
training can do is they can provide
statistics on things that they thought
were problems but weren't necessarily
sure what the scale of the problems were
so on an employment for instance it was
disputed in the 1920s exactly how big
the problem was and what the problem
what the sources were of the problem and
you know therefore weather or anything
could be done about it so part of is
that the parties start sort of becoming
more formal organizations larger
organizations more powerful political a
more powerful political presence and
they start recruiting or kind of you
know pulling in trying to draw in
leadership part of it is just especially
in the British case the problem of
wartime economic management
this is especially in the British case
the government itself becomes a
recruiting site for people with economic
expertise because it's required for
wartime planning so that's what's
happening on that side on the other side
it's really in the period between the
1920s and say the 1950s that economics
becomes a sort of full fledge autonomous
academic discipline and one that is that
is relatively consensual in a sense that
the methods become mycological
orientations become more consensual and
Keynesianism or sort of candy and style
thinking becomes a sort of orthodoxy and
so there's kind of these changes going
on on both sides and one of the reasons
that economics becomes so consolidates
as a prestigious profession at that time
is because of its political influence
it's because economists are being drawn
into government and into political
parties and so there's sort of two sides
going on right which is that you know of
sort of politics and political parties
becoming more dependent on economics and
economics sort of consolidating growing
being or demand there being more demand
for training and for economics training
in economics degrees and growing in
prestige because if it's growing public
influence so that that era essentially
lasts until the 1970s early 70s when
when the party experts as you as you
call them now now having gone from you
know journalists and and sort of other
public intellectuals who are shaping the
the policies of these various parties to
the extent that you know we can include
the Democrats in that maybe less so but
certainly in terms of Europe and people
should understand it it's also the idea
of bringing certain lived experience of
the working class into these parties
gives way to the to the can ziens and
then in 1970 or so the party experts
shift again and to what you call well I
can't pronounce it to this transnational
eyes finance finance oriented economist
yeah there I think you should have had
like some like I in there so I could
call it like a knife or something but
TFE transnational finance oriented
economists and they are you you don't
necessarily call them neo liberals but
they have a neoliberal almost I guess
worldview what what's the distinction
and what does that mean well what I'm
trying to avoid there is this sort of
explanation by name-calling especially
in the European context in the 1980s and
1990s to call somebody on the Left and
the Labour Party or Social Democratic
Party and neoliberal was to call them
Thatcher
you know was to accuse them of selling
out and becoming and sort of adopting
the positions of figures like Reagan and
Thatcher so there was a politics to it
that I was trying to avoid what I was
trying to but nonetheless it's it's true
that in the 1980s and 1990s and all the
case
that I look at you start getting figures
and all of these parties who see the
world and what you might call a
neoliberal way in a sense of seeing the
world in terms of markets as forces out
there sort of beyond the reach of
governments beyond the reach of politics
beyond the reach of humans to manipulate
or control for any particular purpose or
end say full employment or raising wages
or whatever and so what into the
worldview that you find is a world where
there's kind of markets out there and
what politicians can do is only adapt to
what markets require and try to work
sort of with them in order to benefit
from the growth and that market spring
so that's basically just an idea of
markets being a force of nature
and exactly our comporting I mean this
is where the big change happens on some
level too right because it's like our
comporting to the you know to gravity to
physics act and you know instead of us
being able to go and build a building
that is shaped a certain way we have to
build it in a way that it doesn't fall
because gravity exists in physics exists
and we can't control that and it changes
it really has a fundamental change in
the way that we perceive politics too
right yes exactly so what I would I try
to trace in each case is first of all
that this is this sort of neoliberal
ethic this way of seeing things there's
a transformation centered in economics
especially by this by the 1980s 1990s
American economics really lies that the
center is highly influential of a much
larger much more globalized or
internationalized profession and it's
and so this sort of neoliberal ethic I
focus especially on economists at the
University of Chicago many of whom are
sort of insofar as our political their
Republican our right-leaning
but because they're influential in the
profession and because they offer a sort
of definitive explanation of the crises
inflation and unemployment in the 1970s
they sort of change that the orthodoxies
of the profession when I say what I
argue is that they sort of kill
Keynesian ethics so as opposed to
neoliberal ethics where the idea is
politicians are helpless in the face of
the market and the only thing economists
and politics should do is tell
politicians how to adapt markets the
Keynesian ethic was a more sort of more
oriented toward discretion and strategic
trade-offs as in the economist job is to
do their analysis bring it into politics
and then present politicians with
different possibilities you know if you
do ask this will be the consequence for
inflation unemployment or if you do why
you can do this but to be sensitive to
the necessities of people who are
representing who are our elected
representatives you are representing
constituency I just wanna I just want to
tease this out just in terms of like so
does what's this what's that so with
Keynesian economics it starts with what
your it's explicit about with about
starting with what your agenda is as
opposed to finding the world as it is
and right like so it's like you can I
mean can you just tease that out a
little bit because I can get you know
the the neoliberal worldview that you
know really we're just trying to figure
out the truth that exists out there and
in nature this these markets and you can
either comport to them or not and if you
don't you're going to get crushed
whereas Keynesian has more of a of a
room to say like okay this is your
agenda this is how you would achieve it
but but more explicitly saying like
you're making a choice of what you want
right I mean how explicitly right I
think it was pretty explicit I don't I I
wouldn't say so my argument here isn't
that economists were kind of explicitly
adapting their their analysis to
politics but Keynesian economic analysis
the core of it at the heart of it was an
understanding it there was a
trade-off between unemployment and
inflation you could have more of one or
more or the other but not both
which is why why other economists argued
that Keynesianism was dead in the 1970s
because you had both but in that way of
seeing things then the trade have
actually came back after the 1970s let
me just say that but that way of seeing
things if you think about it the people
who are worried about inflation are
people who have money that's its fans
and people who have a lot of financial
wealth and the people who are worried
about unemployment are PR working people
and we should be clear is why why if you
have a lot of money you don't want it to
be devalued and that's what inflation
does and it also exactly if you've lent
money to people inflation makes it
easier for people to pay you back
because their wages are going up your
interest rates are fixed theoretically
on the loan that you gave them and so
suddenly they're doing 40 hours a week
of work and they're having more dollars
because of the inflation and their
payments are fixed though so that's
right okay exactly so so the language of
Keynesian economics and the sort of
basic problematic of Keynesian economics
is sort of idea that there's a trade-off
between these two things
there's also a language of politics you
know the language of political and of
the economic interests of different
constituencies in a way and so so that
sort of whole mode of analysis allowed
in particular less parties to to deal
with sort of conflict of interest
between those constituencies right and
and to think explicitly about how
especially or to what extent it could or
should prioritize its main constituency
which for the course were the wage
earners the working people but you know
if they're on government you also have
to deal with with holders of money you
don't really have with banks and finance
and so so it was sort of a technical
analytical language a mode of analysis
that also allowed left parties to govern
in a way that was sensitive to the
demands of their constituencies but
thinking about the world in terms of
markets the dictates of markets as
forces out there it's a very different
mode of analysis and it doesn't really
mostly though the argument that I make
is that economists and and I emphasize
these are still sort of left-leaning in
the u.s. Democratic or in the European
context social democratic economists
self-understood Democrats and Social
Democrats but if you understand the
world in terms of markets as sort of
forces out there then the kinds of
prescriptions you give attend what I say
is what I argue is that they're sort of
prescriptive instead of prescriptive in
other ways in other words it's about
what you can't do right you can't you
can't spend this money you can't you
can't do things that markets especially
financial markets won't like right
because you're basically trying to just
push against like like like the waves
coming into the ocean it's not right
you're not gonna get anywhere and so
right and what's interesting is that
this for neoliberalism to flourish it
needed essentially to consume the
left-leaning parties because it was the
you needed for linear liberalism to to
flourish it needs to remove any
impediments and there were none on the
right to neoliberalism right I mean that
was just simply those impediments being
the interests of non moneyed people well
I think there were impediments on both
sides to be honest I think that this
sort of move to the embrace of whatever
makes markets happy what you see during
this time of the rise of neoliberal
politics in general and that you know on
the right and the left is growing
political alienation disaffection dis
identification from parties in the
American context declining membership in
the European context you see the birth
of new far-left and green parties you
also see the far-right anti-immigrant
parties that are now they're now very
powerful
in Europe and elsewhere emerging during
this time so I think this politics
it had impediments on both sides but I
think that what happened is that
constituencies that were sort of
alienated or for whom you know these
politics it didn't help them
I think they defected from politics on
the left the really significant thing I
think is that left parties are supposed
to be in theory anyway sort of
mouthpieces or representatives of poor
working-class people are people who
don't have a great deal of political
power they're supposed to kind of speak
for them in theory and historically
speaking that's been how they position
themselves and so it's really important
when they start embracing a sort of
market or neoliberal world view it's
really important that they in a way play
a role in trying to persuade those
constituencies that they should see that
they should come around to these
policies that really don't do them any
good positive for instance labor market
policies or welfare policies where
instead of them having secured pensions
or generous and employment protections
that instead they should give up those
kinds of protections and they should
only qualify in the United States for
welfare if they're also looking if
they're also participating in labor
market and low-wage jobs things like
that
these are not policies that are popular
with people who don't have great job
market opportunities or don't have
possibility kind of moving up the wage
scale but you know it was really left
parties that were responsible for trying
to sell those kinds of policies as in
their interests and in the long run I
think it's clear now anyway that that
didn't work and so where are we at at
least in the context of you know let's
say the the democratic party but I think
we could also you know obviously I think
people are familiar enough with what's
going on at the very least and
in the Labour Party in UK like where
where are we at in this stage like are
we on the cusp of another if you were to
write this book 25 years from now are we
at the at the cusp of sort of reverting
back in some way to a or maybe not
reverting back but I guess finding a
different era of where the party leaders
or apparatchik so I guess are so you
know reoriented I think it seems to me
that what's what's happening now is is
more like the 1920s or 1930s than like
the 1960s or 1970s in a sense that in
the sense that I think it's obvious to a
lot of people that the workings of the
economy or workings of markets aren't
really reconcilable with the interests
of communities with political with
political representing with meaningful
democratic political representation you
know there's a real concern around
especially in the u.s. of course about
money and politics and effects of
inequality on democratic institutions so
you know I think there's a recognition
of that inside the Democratic Party I
think it explains the growing popularity
of the Democratic socialists I think and
Bernie and Elizabeth war and people and
Elizabeth Warren especially because of
her very incisive critique of the
workings of finance I think that there's
a very similar the kind of fractures you
see now inside the Democratic Party it's
in a way it's sort of like the 1920s
when there was a fracture between well
all that both the mainstream parties in
the Socialist Party the difference I
mean there's also a huge number of
differences the one difference but I
would emphasize the most is that the
economic world is not at all the same so
and and the thing that is different
is the role of Finance and the ubiquity
of debt both public debt and private
debt household double debt is absolutely
off the charts and there was there was
nothing like that in the 1920s in the
1930s it makes the moment a lot more
unstable in my opinion now than it was
then
and inside the Democratic Party I also
think the world is very different in the
1920s there weren't tons of think tanks
in Washington DC there weren't political
consultants there weren't I mean that
you know these kinds of this world is
sort of professional politics that we
see now didn't exist then there was a
much smaller world it was a much less it
was also a much less diverse world than
it was a world where politics was
dominated by white men and so it's and
by immigrants from Europe also so it was
you know so those things are very
different but in terms of this sort of
depths at the fracture and can and
people making a new connection between
or tying making connections between sort
of dysfunctions of the democratic
process and dysfunctions and the
economic world are very similar where
that's going to go you know I would love
to say with any certainty that it's all
going to get worked out I'm a little
worried that that it gets worked out
only after some series of new crises but
yeah hope springs eternal yeah I I hope
that that's not the case I do have a
great deal of hope right now for what's
happening sort of the broad progressive
ranks inside and outside a Democratic
Party right now
indeed leftism reinvented Western
parties from socialism to neoliberalism
Stephanie Mudge we will put a link to
your book at majority dot F M thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it
thanks very much for having me it's my
pleasure all right folks gonna take a
quick break
heading to the fun half
the program just a reminder you can
support this show by becoming a member
and when you do you support the daily
free half of the show and then we give
you extra content every day every day
bonus content as a way of saying thank
you for supporting the work we do in the
in the in the free show
I'm already I'm looking at Matt queueing
up the bull Prague's frog is a genius
animation of this of the fun half song
well pretty so many talented people in
our community it's kind of insane also
don't forget you can get
oh just coffee co-op this month you
don't need the coupon code majority and
you will get 30% off this is the month
to try all the various just coffees
you've been thinking about trying to see
if you like them at a 30% discount could
they plug in the coupon code just so
they know that they're coming from us
sure it always helps plug in the coupon
code but you don't need it but put it in
there and and but you will get 30% off
you can try all the different types of
coffees and then see which one you like
and then buy a five-pound bag of that
stuff so we've gotten in here
gotta get weed we're down we're gettin
down well no we got it in that container
there but well yeah we're almost gone no
more there's no more so checkout just
coffee dot co-op also again join the
majority report comm today is Tuesday
Michael is here yes no emergency room no
doctor's notes and I think you really
need that oh definitely and so what's
happening for the podcast yeah for the
podcast bro what is happening tonight is
Kim Ives who is
the editor of Haiti liberté he's gonna
talk about that the real story behind
those American mercenaries that were
caught in port-au-prince several weeks
ago and how that relates to ongoing u.s.
interference in Haiti then malaika chip
Ali's gonna join us we're gonna talk
about 2020
and Wisconsin how to make things happen
then of course a postgame with a lot of
other things from Turkey to Brazil to
South Africa patreon.com slash T mb/s
Michael Brooks show on YouTube Jamie so
this week on the anti Fattah on last
Wednesday I put my cell phone camera
last Wednesday's episode we gang explain
brexit with the help of our friend near
al sha and thanks to the Tory is utter
incompetence it's still very relevant
the situation has not been resolved in
case you are wondering then at Friday we
released a bonus episode where we talk
to some of our patrons that was pretty
cool
I think our listeners are extremely
quality I must say and then this week
we're releasing an episode on the G lage
own uprising in France which has been
ongoing for many months and shows no
signs of stopping so watch out for it
Matt coming up on Saturday is Oscar
Wilde the first proponent of a fully
automated gay luxury space communism
well he is maybe for a couple of those
things and probably not the first but
maybe one of the most notable so look
for that I was into automation he was a
big machinery guy
Kropotkin was too wild got it I think
probably from Kapaa he's like man is
made for much more than much better than
disturbing dirt meaning like sweeping up
so I need machines to do all that stuff
oh yeah I can't have communism if we
don't have machines just don't make them
too smart and then they'll overthrow you
all right folks see you in the fun half
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous you're a little bit upset
you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you
idiots we're just going to get rid of
you alright but dude dude dude dude dude
dude you want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur good
 exactly I'm happy now
so win-win it's a win-win hell yeah now
listen to me two three four five times
eight four seven nine oh six five oh one
four five seven two thirty-eight 56:27
1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
Wow don't you see everybody's taking
their dumb juice dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
seat I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars just come here
not bad use me you all right gonna
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there
take whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber lastic I'm feeling more
chill already Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to I see some people Shitler
what's such No
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
I feel like I could song makes so much
more sense to me now after seeing the
reaction it's true that's clearly where
they started immense talent what's
happening in North Carolina uh I guess a
North Carolina GOP chairman and others
have just been indicted on fry fraud and
bribery charges I don't know if you got
this is only north on NC nine is that
what this is or something different I'm
literally just saying it just is so deep
it's a deep state right that's right
so deep deep State weird that
Republicans are getting involved and
stuff like that so deep let me get this
out of the way here ladies and gentlemen
I will turn on the I am and let's go to
the phone call from a nine one four area
code who's this where you call them from
nine one four area code lady Sydney
dami JMO JMO Jim are you gonna turn your
phone down buddy I I did I'm sorry
wait a minute I'm sorry I'm sorry no boy
how are you Sammy hi guys hey hey hi Jer
mo what's uh what's on your mind Jer mo
alright well first of all I haven't
taken your advice and got those clips
for mine up for my ears ears to hold my
glasses you're kidding me number two you
know Sammy do you know I'm from Yorktown
Heights New York no I did not know that
and that's where a OC went to school
high school well yeah I guess I'm
calling to tell you this but a or C it's
really interesting with this town I live
in
the Mercer family I believe they lived
here one time Wow Wow what's going on
there yeah
Jer mo AOC and the Mercer's what's
happening in that time that's not nice
all right now listen yeah also there's
another guy that's a head of a
Republican think tank
he went to Yorktown High School but I
can't find his name I can't I'm having a
hard time finding him but anyway listen
the other thing you did and what I was
up to and I kind of I didn't really tell
you what I've been doing okay
I've been doing a little research
investigating the town of art
Westchester County is spending 8.7
million dollars to repair it's called
the County trail way it goes 22 miles
and I can't I just can't believe they're
spending eight point seven million
dollars and I've been walking in and
taking pictures and stuff you know there
might be maybe two million dollars right
in repairs that need but not eight
million point seven yeah so it's just I
just you know I don't mind pay I want to
pay taxes but I don't want the money
wasted for the bike trail by yeah trail
and walking trail well so it's kind of
fun I'm enjoying it all right well when
you have the in Sam likes wasting tax
dollars and as you know chair mow send
us an email at and send us with your
report what do I not like lavend yeah
the German I love wasting tax dollars
oh wait the release of the jerem Oh the
chairman chairman
on the walk you better send it all to us
who are gonna subpoena you is there any
way we could spend more on this in
Tarrytown I think we're looking a lot on
the table fenelby contracts Jeremiah
you're Michael you're right that that's
what happened that's exactly what
happened they were complaining that the
towels that weren't on the trail are
complaining that they're not getting any
funding but as they should all right Jim
actually you know I was I was in a part
of upstate this weekend that New York
City owns a lot of and in one way it's
great right as they just keep it you
know what the reservoir but even beyond
that yeah I didn't know how they just
owned quite a bit of land by like
arkeville and these other towns up there
and and it's it's it's awesome from an
ecological standpoint but it's also like
the property values are so high that the
only people that can buy it or in New
York City or like being an oligarch and
there isn't much local economic activity
and I'm wondering it was like a third
way up there yeah wait real quick all
the new houses going up now are like
million dollar houses he's ridiculous
but uh and I'm really behind aoc I
really I think she's fantastic
well I can't thank everybody right man
Jeremih ladies and gentlemen no Josie
partners up with German who exposed the
walking trails in Tarrytown uh this is
really bad
let's go to the im's water boat from
cashmere michael tracy has brought out a
darkness in me that didn't exist before
I intend to pick on him all week
hopefully it triggers some memories come
on yeah come on what character from the
movie Ice Age is written to be a schmuck
if Michael Tracy reminds me of Sid the
schmucky sloth then you're you're get
you get hashtag be best everybody yeah I
do best and also even if although I want
to be best can I just say I am not
entire he might crave this on some level
so just knock it off that's true he
might and so to help him with that let's
just play this one clip because I
thought this was actually pretty funny
he's been on a quite a tear on Twitter
and I thought this was funny now of
course I've made it quite clear and
folks who listen to the show on a
regular basis that I'm not particularly
happy with the direction that MSNBC has
clearly gone really four to two and a
half years I mean even prior to the
investigation or maybe just leading up
to it I think when I got fired and
rehired I think I'm on record is saying
which has been basically public record
that they have basically been hiring a
lot of Republicans and you know in many
respects hacking to the to the to the
right I think you know covering the
investigations to the extent that they
do is you know I mean yeah but in part
it's also a side from it being a huge
rating spoon also a something you can do
that without being particularly
political you know an investigation is
investigation now we don't like all of
the military-industrial complex people
and MSNBC either yeah of course I mean
it used to be owned by General Electric
it's not like that II it's not like it's
dude and all of the problems are
symptomatic not call it I found this to
be somewhat ironic because I've been
following Tucker Carlson's career for
20-some odd years and back in the day
when I was a comedian and a sitcom actor
and a sitcom writer my friend Janeane
Garofalo as you know was recruited to go
on to television and talk about talk
about why we shouldn't go to war in Iraq
and one of the shows that had her on a
lot was crossfire and she became sort of
friendly with with with Tucker I think
they would would would smoke a lot of
cigarettes together back in the day like
outside of the
CNN booth you know in between and I
think and oh well let's yeah let's put
them okay so but here is here is one
exchange that they have between the the
two Dan Carlson says I respect the
opinion of many who disagree with the
idea of war in Iraq that was back in
just I think right up I don't know if
that was let's see March 10th 2003 so
that is right either at the start of the
war it's just within days of it probably
days away from the the bombing and you
know I'm a little bit offended he said
by the by the constant descriptions of
motives that President Bush must have
this is all for the oil companies it's
to his avenge his father this sort of
stupid kind of psychobabble president
says in the end he's doing this because
he thinks Saddam Hussein is a threat to
the United States do you believe it and
then he goes down to talk about how
there's proof that Saddam Hussein is
training al-qaeda folks yeah of the all
the not proofs that was from Thursday
February 20th 2003 I don't know if you
have an image of that but I will read
from the transcript again with Janeane
Garofalo oddly enough you know why they
brought you Nina right because of her
expertise in foreign policy
no and Geneva would be the first person
to say then and now they would call her
and they'd say why don't you put on this
professor or this activist no we want
you so that we can make it like the only
people who are in any way arguing
against this war are actors or no excuse
me actor says Hollywood liberals exactly
well then perhaps you can answer this
question why is the head of the CIA the
Secretary of State National Security
Adviser the prime minister great but all
said we have seen evidence that there
are members of al-qaeda live
in Baghdad there was an agreement
between al-qaeda and Saddam are they
making it up talky tuck tuck tuck tuck
into tuck tuck tuck tuck tuck Wow
hope he's reminding us of his own
foibles when he ruthlessly exposes the
nonsense of the Russia covered and he
goes let's see a very quick off the top
of the head of this is why what is Iraq
done to us attempted to assassinate an
American president allowed terrorists
harbored to interact to kill an American
diplomat just last year in Jordan
apparently signed an agreement with
al-qaeda trained al-qaeda web members in
the use of chemical and biological
weapons this guy got it so wrong I don't
remember exactly why I'm bringing this
up oh wait a second let's just go to the
tape where Michael Tracy is explaining
what is really at the heart of this
whole Russia gate that is so offensive
to him the point is that this Trump
Russia's story is a media failure of
comparable magnitude less death I posit
I'm sorry he's saying comparable
magnitude to weapons of mass destruction
in the lead-up to Iraq and and to his
credit rewinded here he does say but
less deaths significantly less deaths I
think I would add like hundreds of
thousands of less deaths
maybe maybe million maybe a million less
death well whatever less deaths be a
failure of comparable magnitude less
death thankfully but just as much just
total in a billion total factual
indiscretion and I feel like something
similar is going to happen where the
people who were proven decisively wrong
and have proven to have deceived the
American people for two plus years now
approaching three years actually they're
not going to pay any kind any price
they're not going to face any
consequence if you or I or normal people
failed at their job miserably they would
probably I don't know get demoted maybe
even fire they would suffer some kind of
reputational consequence but so maybe
they get possible maybe they'd get it I
think that time show we don't even have
to
perform a hypothetical in this situation
because if you or I and the you is
tucker carlson and keep it up because
we're gonna go but the you is tucker
carlson what would happen if he engaged
in something like this that led to the
much more deaths hundreds of thousands
maybe million deaths well of course what
he would do is be able to host you on
television and have been on television
almost the entire time there was a brief
time where he had to start his own
company called the Daily Caller so we
don't need to hyper hypothesizes it's
amazing that we can see this type of
reaction from Michael Tracy about all of
these people and he may or may not be
right about them even if I stipulate
that he's right about them and makes it
even worse that he's going on to this
show but of course it must be from the
purest of intentions because of course
he is the most righteous he has the
truth he has known the truth all along
this is all part of his grand plan and
we must just sit back and let it wash
over us bleah they would probably I
don't know get demoted they'd even fire
they were a lot of reputational
consequence but not so for the possibly
also the best part is the stone face on
Tucker Carlson one wonders what's behind
those eyes as he doesn't even blink I
wonder if he's going through I hope no
one has Google I hope no one remembers
mutational consequence but not so for
the media elite who have been leading
the charge of this story who had a lot
of influence on these security state
officials like Andrew McCabe who
launched the
one of the investigations in to trump at
the FBI you know listen to Andrew McCabe
on his recent book tour it almost sounds
like he's a devoted reader of David Frum
at the Atlantic who's from you know he
worked for George W Bush he helped coin
the axis of evil phrase he was a leading
advocate for the Iraq war he's also a
leading advocate of Russia Gate there's
a lot of cross over there and you know
but Andrew McCabe seemed like he was
just you know scrolling through Twitter
or like reading the New York Times or
something you didn't have any privileged
information that we know of that led him
to launch these unprecedented
investigations we'll see that that's
actually like the president yeah the
other clip I would say yeah when I just
said no because I think that this is
very this is actually more honest and a
lot more rigorous than spreading lis
nonsense about Al Qaeda being trained by
Saddam even though like they were
absolutely on different sides of the
equation politically this is this is
after the fact oh this is way and this
is this is Tucker's version of owning up
to his mistakes I see that's how I would
say and now is this what do you know
when this video was I just want to know
if it was two thousand several ear I'm
just curious
Zillah know for or after the time that
he said that Iraqis were What did he say
in that tape that we played recently
dogs literate primitive monkey okay yes
semi-literate primitive monkeys okay all
right finally Alan Greenspan says in his
book that yeah of course this Wars about
oil and etc etc he said that to someone
at the White House she said we're not
allowed to talk about oil I think this
war should have been about oil
I wish posits about oil does everybody
remember what I just read in that
transcript exactly where he was mocking
Janeane Garofalo three or four years
earlier for saying it's about war are
you crazy
Hollyweird design it pretty it's about
Al Qaeda psychic projection should have
been about oil I wish it was about oil
we gotta have lower gas prices why would
the Bush administration say to him we
can't talk about oil as we prosecute
this one deeper question I know read
time I just
I don't know why what would be wrong
with having a war over oil we have
that's a striptease I mean that's it
that's in our strategic interest what
what would be I mean that isn't the
whole point of wars to advance our enjoy
oh I know
there you go whatever definitely
definitely it now to be fair I'm sure
when Michael Tracey goes on that show he
has been able to convince a couple of
the Fox viewers that this whole Russia
thing was a hoax so at least he's
getting out there with the word and you
know doing it because it's uh in
repairing the body politic as it were
which I think was one of the one of the
issues was that what any other bird is
the phrase body politic I my metric now
is really simple it's like if you if
Michael Tracy went on Fox and pivoted
steadily to the Iran deal and the
consequences of Trump destroying that
then no problem he wants to go there and
trash the Russia thing that's my trade
off wait I haven't seen any wild
hypothetical yeah well that's actually
the sad point right it is a wild type of
thing total no one's done that of course
not the whole thing is just a parable
for when all left contrarian ISM goes
wrong and when and I will say I read a
piece about New Yorker did a piece on
Tucker Carlson I think in either the
summer of 2017 maybe and what was funny
is he actually implied in that piece I
think in retrospect very shrewdly to the
person covering for The New Yorker he's
like you know I have a different view of
Iran than a lot of other conservatives
and you're you're gonna start we're
gonna see what its gonna be like how Fox
viewers respond when I start doing like
more nuanced presentations of Iran
essentially that never happened but it
did give him some juicy New Yorker
profile quotes for the people reading
that before
that's interest to be fair if you go
back and look at the the stories he was
doing when he launched The Daily Caller
it was to revive
of actual journalism on the 1900 but of
course to circle every square he got
booed at CPAC I believe when he said
that yeah everything is everything with
that said here is let's play the yeah
let's play this um want to hear
something pretty funny this is pretty
good the New York Times is doing what is
like what are they doing an op-ed a
video op-ed I'd be curious as to who
produced this and but do we know who
paid for this I don't know but I do know
I went to a brand conference
presentation once and the New York Times
video vertical I don't know she produced
it okay now here's the thing this could
be a native advertising for lower
advertorial perhaps for the opposition
well well let's let's dig into that
afterwards because I think that's
relevant in some respects frankly but
here here we go there is total chaos in
Venezuela hunger lack of medicine and
latest nearly the whole country had a
blackout but most of the conversation in
the States focuses on what Trump is
doing about Venezuela and rumors are
spreading that the u.s. is considering
military intervention all options are
posit a rumors spreading really mean by
that I mean we have we have government
officials saying we're not taking it off
the table
I think it's like it's been reported
that there are it's not rumors but go
ahead this movement on the American Left
against any US involvement in Venezuela
is gaining traction
we've got Noam Chomsky Roger Waters
Oliver Stone boots Riley yeah
Mario see Jill Stein and Bernie why have
you stopped right now one second just
imagine do you think the New York Times
would allow an opinion piece that
attributed the the right you know the
the position on the right to like Jon
Voight like into people who don't have
any type of like political power now you
know for talk radio for instance on the
right has legitimate political power you
have politicians who go and basically
kiss the ring but you know boots Riley I
like I like his movies but boots Riley
is not you know he's not it's not a
political powerfully a powerfully figure
dealer when Nancy Pelosi said if the COO
releases another album or they say I'm
too close with Silicon Valley I'm done
right in the absence of like real
leftist leaders we look to celebrities
it's bad no no but the point yeah right
but the point in the context of this is
that with the exception of Bernie this
is a ludicrous LAN Omar she's doing a
list of wall of like own irrelevant like
presidential candidate and then a bunch
of like cultural figures that are great
but not like you just saw by bringing
out we're going to have an actress on to
talk about why we should not invade Iraq
precisely as if there's no one else out
there you don't know how to feel about
this topic but you do know how to feel
about these people right exactly
you see Jill Stein and Bernie why have
you stopped short of calling Maduro of
Venezuela addicted well and of course
we've got this lovely guy doesn't hunt
Venezuela it is not a good look when
your slogan is co-opted by a tyrannical
dictator now truth usually loves
authoritarian but this time it seems
like it's the Liberals who are signing
with one no I am not gay pro-trump
military hawk the reference my spirit
animal is
Ruth Bader Ginsburg yeah who are you but
Barry is dangerously glorifying a brutal
dictator and promoting inaction and that
is the worst combination for ordinary
Venezuelans deposit promoting inaction
it is promoting inaction this notion
that we have in this country that we
necessarily can fix everything that it
is a our responsibility to fix
everything not not just anything but
everything not one thing or some things
but everything that we have the ability
to do this despite the fact that we have
an incredibly long history of effing
things up and making them worse
regardless of what you think is going on
in Venezuela and it's obviously in
contention the idea that we have the
ability to fix it is not founded in any
historical assessment of what we have
done in the past
let me also maybe a contra how it will
also work for who I'm sure that the
plans we have work for this person's
family like that is the spoiler alert
right I know I'm sorry we're stepping in
the lead here but just like one of the
ways you can look at what's happening in
Venezuela with all of the usual
stipulations and caveats about Maduro
and the failures of Bulevar and
government right now is the still
massive class and racial stratification
of who opposes and supports a coup there
and frankly just as you can say there's
quadrants of people in the united states
who voted for a in my view absolutely
awful candidate like Hillary Clinton
because they also still understood that
their material interest is better
represented by the Democratic Party same
situation here ordinary Venezuelans
first off if you look closely at these
protests it's very unlikely
you know an actual Venezuelan why do you
bro yeah yeah how do you bro are you bro
trust me if this marries this footage
from I believe it's protests in the
United States that sort of makes sense
like we the way that there's like big
rallies in Caracas against us
interference as well as for coos they
both are prominently featuring
Venezuelans but protests inside the
United States are predominantly
represented by Americans it also seems
like if you wanted to tell the United
States government your government not to
interfere in another country I mean
after all we seem to have set the bar
which i think is a very good bar that
other countries should not interfere in
other countries attempts to determine
who's going to be the leader right you
know if Russians protested the hacking I
would want to go to Moscow and see how
many people from New York were there
because if they're not there it's if
this was an actual Venezuelan protest it
might look more like this
second let me remind you what's going on
back home
inflation is a two point six nine
million percent
what do ideas are so worthless so we
should let's invade that's not nutrition
let's invade let's invade we could also
I guess do the row kana option which is
the immediately relieve some of the
suffering by lifting sanctions yeah
there are things that the US could do to
help but they're not involving the
military that is that is promoting
action yes but not the right kind of
action you're it's almost it's almost an
inaction because it's a not and the
action that I want now here's that that
completely disinterested person's dad
who's just out helping for Venezuela is
there any type of like this person's
opinion might you should know what
perspective she has other than just
being funny yeah I mean well funny
this is father my father my father my
father this is this is the daughter of
Ricardo Hausmann Jennifer house Mary
Joey Joanna Hausman
she was the the comedienne who provided
that funny funny opinion piece and her
dad just coincidentally was named to be
the country's representative to the
inter-american Development Bank by one
Guido that name sounds of really
familiar to me oh he's the guy who wants
to replace Maduro that is a pretty rich
the apple doesn't fall far from the tree
I went to did did she just declare
herself the top drawing comedian in the
country
there you go I just outsell everybody
she really tipped her hand elsewhere in
the video when she also criticized
Shabbos
because Chavez had massive support from
the poor people of Venezuela and her dad
in addition to what he's doing now was
the economics minister for the Perez
austerity government that came for
Shabbos that he tried to overthrow and
then eventually he just won multiple
elections in a row so yeah but how many
members of the Chavez administration
think like her YouTube video now this is
pretty cool
Ricardo Hausmann dad this sweet surely
deserves at least an honorary mention
among this year's most sexist comments
since Johanna Hausman is my daughter she
is not entitled to her own opinion she
must be speaking on behalf of some male
figure that tells her what to say
seriously seriously woke politics are
very easy to able to harness if you if
you don't have a material basis for your
politics my father my father my father
and my father's my father more woman
imperialists and and and understand he
is reacting to someone saying the New
York Times failed to disclose her
material interest in in this which is
that her dad is literally part of the
opposition government now that's got to
be relevant no it's no look to be fair
yeah it's obviously totally sexist of
course to judge the merit of somebody's
work and not do disclosure if it's about
woman is automatically sexist of course
and the second point just to be fair I
know and we all live in New York all
sorts of open mic errs and people with
fledgling YouTube channels are regularly
asked by the New York Times video
vertical to do International Relations
videos and I think we should disclose
that it's true so of course it was took
probably the New York Times is like
that's unbelievable that her father is
part of this coup government
waiting because we just saw her 10
reasons why like Maduro 'he's like a
lame dad video and said she should do a
video supporting a coup in Van Halen's
at comedy club
it was a Thursday night I'm getting
hammered she comes up she does a little
riffing on Maduro and I'm like boom
let's get her to shoot a video now wait
wait wait now there is actually one
scenario where that might actually be
true and there's plausible deniability
but Barry Weiss's in Australia so that
didn't actually right exactly Wow I mean
I know that boots Riley is not an
academic or a political leader as such
but I think he had a very good tweet
about it when he talked about how like
not all Venezuelans are the same right
there is a ruling class of Venezuela
that has certain interests and when
somebody says oh you should listen to me
because I'm from Venezuela like that
doesn't tell you all you need to know
about where that person is coming from
oh oh oh if you're talking by the way
I'll just say this I would say not only
that in general and if you're talking to
a upper middle class person from Latin
America say someone without a germinal
of their politics that is actually a
Venezuelan Haussmann yeah I didn't
realize Houseman was an indigenous last
name the Houseman mined gold for many
generations the golem of Havana
yeah creative talent runs in the family
maybe a little too so it's just I it's
it's pretty stunning that the the times
would run I mean look you can run that
opinion piece but it but here's the
problem also I think with with with a
video production like that is you're
putting a lot of resources in you know
it's one thing to say you take a written
piece first of all you should obviously
always disclose
well you know well it's not a random
opinion and particularly when she is in
that piece relying on her bona fides as
a Venezuelan as if that automatically
qualifies you to to have some type of
authority but when you have a production
when you make a production like that I
mean first of all just getting into New
York Times in and of itself provides
some air of authority and to have I
don't know $10,000 $20,000 I don't know
how much they put into those productions
30,000 it could literally be anywhere
from 10 to 70 $80,000 could have gone
into that production depending on way
they they do their work over at the
Times well that also implies a certain
amount of authority and it's highly
highly problematic well someone called
them out the New York Times they're like
uh did she not disclose this affiliation
to you the song and they dug they dug in
they dug their heels in well that's just
what we we showed that times did
meanwhile ben shapiro
still waiting for that phone call
there's nothing worse than swiping right
and not getting a response
the anemone that's where ben shapiro is
so much so that he asked his camera crew
please don't shoot me straight on
because i can't do me the side give the
side shot for me because i am afraid for
people to see my eyes the inimitable
alexandra Ocasio cortez over the weekend
she suggested that she wants people to
debate her which is odd since when i
actually challenged her to a bait she
accused me of catcalling so does that
sick of her calling for a serious
conversation when she won't have one
with any one of merit chris hayes just
throws her softball after softball weeks
ago let's have this conversation really
what's her serious conversation there's
yours conversation that everybody
criticizes you is in the pay of the
various right-wing forces
[Music]
Elmo earnestly debate she won't return
my phone call returned my phone calls I
text her several times and all she ever
does talk to it - Chris hey so there's
nothing on ben shapiro also not
returning Sam's phone calls that's right
well I don't have to return his phone
calls if she won't return my phone calls
stop pulling her pigtails she's not into
you but she she does sell a lot of a lot
of advertising for the right-wingers
that is definitely true and Tucker
Carlson Reid equip ed and but in the
middle of writing a love letter to her
unrequited lust
I have never desired Don Jewish flash
more in my life a virgin I practice it
now I have different visions oh please
please please please please please
debate me look at my teeth there Steven
Moore is having some problems folks
aside from being a deadbeat dad and
Steve Moore and asides from being a
deadbeat dad and also not being able to
keep not seemingly knowing much about
the implications of all the policies
he's pushed he had no idea that I could
get this ugly look I have more I was
just about it's good qualifications I
think as anyone to be on the Federal
Reserve Board but they don't want to
talk about my economic ideas they want
to assassinate my character and as you
said Lord that's what the left does
consider the source Steve Moore at it
I'm not backing down on this one I
wouldn't if I were you
we'll be right back yeah I've got just
about a good of qualifications as
anybody turns out is he not an economist
now is that right is that is that what
Iran is he's not did he get disbarred by
I don't know Curtis I'm not clear that
he he was sort of like an autodidact
it's very strange talking to friends of
mine who care about like the
independence of the fed and how I know I
often have always sort of been cynical
about that but then this Trump happens
it's like we're gonna put these
quacks on the basically well let's be
fair to Stephen Maul in a room full of
 and smear artists when I was
initially sentenced to Robben Island it
was because god damn when he wanted more
child support and I refused I was going
my own way it really does bring a lot of
people together though saying that the
more would be a disaster when you have
like straight reporters basically going
on going oh I've had multiple
conversations with him on TV where you
got like five factual things wrong in a
60 second hit you know you have a
problem let's go to the phones calling
from an 8 for 5 area code who's this
where you calling from hey Jeff from
Rockland County Jeff from Rockland
County what's on your mind yeah I'm
sorry you saw the the wonderful pwnage
of sam Harris from a Juan Cole and that
was wonderful to see on Twitter I did
see that having a son and Murtaza
Hussein as well yep well we talked about
it with the guests yesterday a little
bit yeah go ahead yeah what I also want
to talk about how also in relation to
Israel at in the moment
well I'm noticing and what my brother's
living with over there is that there are
a lot of really right-wing extremely
fanatical extremely fundamentalist
leanings in Israel who want to
essentially try to erase sort of any
sort of historical nature and trying to
figure out like if there was essentially
the existence and identity of
Palestinian people ever existing it's
and you can see this in Israel becoming
very mainstream you see like Benjamin
Netanyahu saying well there's no such
thing as a Palestine
well that's been going on for a you know
a long time you know I mean early on in
this
Joe I'm trying to remember was it 2012
maybe I had an old friend Benny Brunner
on who had done a documentary entitled
the great book theft
it's a documentary that tells the story
of the community that existed in
Palestine and the the social identity of
Palestinians through the theft of a lot
of books from Palestinians that
ultimately now live in a museum
I'm not a museum a library under lock
and key
like a whole section is it Matt did you
see is it the great book theft we look
for that Benny Bruner folks can search
through and see if they can find that
that that is that the great theft by
Khalid Abu no it's it's Benny Bruner the
great book robbery and that documentary
tells the story you know puts and he
Benny you know was an Israeli and and
now I think he lives in I can't remember
Sweden Denmark but yeah I mean this is
this has been this has been an ongoing
thing and you know that has been part of
the systemic way that Israel has been
denying Palestinians any type of
autonomy or you know equal rights in the
context of Israel is by denying that
there was no such place as Palestine and
and and that there was no unique
Palestinian culture as a way of
basically saying you know we just just
showed up and in fact I got a call yeah
I've seen this argument I've got a quote
here from Moshe Dayan that I just came
across the other day Moshe Dayan was
I think one of the one of the premier
you know generals in in the independence
fight for Israel and he in the it was a
eulogy he was giving and I can't
remember to whom but he said basically
to the effect of like yes the the the
Palestinians hate us because we
dispossessed them and and you know this
was in his I think calling for you know
some measure of understanding about that
as a as a way of building some type of
bridge so you know there was an
awareness there and and it's it's been
denied and you know that has been part
of the the purpose but penis I've seen
this also with people you know
attempting to say like like that somehow
like the present Palestinians as almost
like foreigners I've seen this really
bizarre human being made as if like as
if they weren't Jews thousands of years
ago during a Muslim conquest that
decided to convert to Islam
when when when they came over and it's
just and it's just this really bizarre
you know thinking that presents them has
like oh it was a whole bunch of arrows
that came to Israel and they somehow
there were no people that were there
prior that or Israelites that were there
prior that may have converted you I'm
not I'm not a hundred percent sure I
follow what you're saying but the people
can check that out if they have any
questions as to the existence of a
Palestinian people as however in a
Palestinian society they can go check
out this film it's it's pretty it's
quite clear appreciate the college every
alright call calling from a 701 area
code who's this where you calling from
hey this is Tom from Minnesota Tom from
Minnesota
what's on your mind Tom hey well I just
wanted to give a shout out to Michael
for one for his a great interview with
Mercer bar darn sorry speaking at a
conference in December and yeah she does
some great work she's excellent
um and then I wanted to talk about kind
of like MN politicians gaining the
national stage we've kind of had a bad
rap for that I guess in the last few
years and specifically I want Ashley it
seems to me that there's that if people
think that it was appropriate which I do
for Alf Rankin to resign as a senator
then there should be more pressure for I
think globish are to back out of the
primary I guess you know it's not to
equate key issues but I guess to
acknowledge that they're so intertwined
and endemic issues in and of themselves
that is one to get you guys depending on
that because of this should there be
more pressure on Klobuchar because of
the reports of the way that she treated
the people who work for her is that what
you're saying yeah exactly yeah I mean I
I have to tell you that I think you know
I I think it should be a factor in which
people you know consider her candidacy
frankly I think there's there's there's
some just issues there in terms of I
think like her emotional maturity level
I mean I you know I I believe those
accounts and and I don't think it has I
mean look I think it's it's problematic
in in so far is the sort of perspective
that that you know bosses can perceive
their workers as chattel I am and I
think that's high
problematic and I'm not convinced that
that wouldn't have implications for the
way that she perceived sort of policy
and you know systemically I mean I think
if you can do that on a personal level
then you you don't necessarily have the
the proper appreciation for people as
humanity but I I personally would have
liked al franken to have had an
opportunity to go through a process to
sort of adjudicate and assess those
charges against him because I I don't
think there was enough clarity about the
situation I mean I and maybe it's
because I you know came from a comedic
background but the real impetus for that
was the photo of him you know and I'm
not I don't think that fits into the
same category as others but I agree I
agree with what Sam saying and I also
just more broadly think that there needs
to be you know look I said as soon as
this happened with Klobuchar our I said
that if clova Shara's first response was
these things happened and I apologize
and I've worked seriously to address
them
then I would have no problem and that's
actually generally broadly like much
more my perspective like in general I
think that like we need to think in much
more sort of restorative in less
punitive ways on the other hand all of
that being stipulated and I agree with
everything Sam said about a process and
that's how I certainly would have
responded to Klobuchar if that had been
her attitude but you know as things
stand now there's a insane disparity
there and not only is there an insane
disparity it was very disturbing to
watch people marshal like woke arguments
to defend like somebody throwing
staplers at their people I mean that's
that's actually really wrong and
unacceptable for anybody to do well I
think it speaks to some of the issues
around b2 right
because bosses are allowed to be
terrible to people in all sorts of
non-sexual ways and non-gendered ways so
there's a bad neoliberal way of looking
at me too
saying oh well everything else about
work is fine and great so long as your
boss isn't sexually harassing you and
then there's the more kind of leftist
and bottom-up version which is using it
as a way to say oh what about what what
else about work is shitty that we
shouldn't have to put up with anymore
yes 100 I agree with that a hundred
percent and it is just on a discourse
level it's you know it's it's stunning
that there are people that could
actually hold the perspective that like
that that somehow okay or empowering
that she does that to her staff it's
actually super twisted and disturbing
appreciate the call calling from a 508
area code dude are you calling from
Central Mass Oh what's the mic what's up
how you been I'm doing well how are you
so uh I had a interesting thing I was on
Facebook today and I got this
sponsored site that I should check out
called the intellectual dark web
community what are you doing on Facebook
bro are you doing on Facebook bro you
like sitting on Facebook like I have
like a rational response to you and
whatever and now you AdWords are all
messed up yeah I guess I don't know what
happened but somehow I got locked in the
algorithm so I have actually gone on to
the IDW community site wait I don't
understand how can I do that if it's
actually the dark web how do you get
there you have to hack it did you say I
think they sucked me into the matrix
what's the password did you know the
password
you know I think they're trying to get
what you talking team I got many miles
to go boy the ass where these ideas
the password is hierarchy good passwords
ideas accepted ease capitalized that can
never remember that
Seabury to get add so I I was I was
actually just calling to ask if you knew
about this and and to say that if you
did I think it's malfeasance that you
haven't told us about it I agree for
about a year now and I've not heard
about this dude send a link send along I
think we not heard I need to be
strategic about this but we need we do
need some of the fans to set up sleeper
cells on that and just just
reconnaissance being strategic is to use
the phrase sleeper cell you know what
come on guys but seriously sleepers
first of all I Got News for you the way
that we get into that thing is by
doubling around behind it through the
doc doc web and then once we shoot past
it into the doc doc web we come back
towards the light and just get into the
doc web and that's the way that we yeah
we get them from the rearguard move
coming from the daka web do it from
where I stand on your doc web you gotta
get back exactly
you call that a doc web your doclet web
is like daylight it's like an either
racist thought experiments I did on my
web I'm in the super doc weapon this is
so much why'd you find it out see now
you can create your own the in the
intellectual back of web editor I don't
even see race cuz it's too dark in your
deck in here I thought everybody was
black I'm just feeling around that's
what it is
send us a link at majority reporters the
gmail thing I will definitely I want to
say one thing though
there is a group there's a bunch of
groups and they're all like Jordan
Peterson fans Ben Shapiro fans
Joe Rogan fans you know that's the
that's the name of the group
yeah but my favorite one is the Oh
where did it go the Dennis the Prager
University alumni you know what though
you know what the Dennis Prager alumni
the you know what the Dennis Prager
Diploma looks like a bill you just
watched a couple of YouTube videos get a
confirmation that I paid uh commie by my
bike my pcs counted comedy professors a
Holocaust buyer down what happened call
from 778 area code who's this were you
calling from hey guys this is Lance from
Vancouver Canada Lance from Vancouver
what's on your mind Linux well I got a
funny story for you guys I've run a
comedy channel on YouTube we had about
seven thousand subscribers and we made a
bunch of videos that were you know
making fun of Joe Rogan and PewDiePie
and how they kind of have ties to you
know all trite indoctrination and stuff
like that
and then yesterday on April Fool's
YouTube shut our channel down and we've
got a lot of reason to believe it was
because of a pretty coordinated all
trade trolling attack on the channel
plaguing them for things like scams and
misuse Wow so wait so how do they go
about doing now so enough people swarm
your channel give you negative reviews
or something and that sets off some type
of algorithm for YouTube is that the way
it works right so what what had happened
before is we made a video on Mark Rand
Dazza which I don't know if you guys
know he's Alex Jones's lawyer as well as
a whole bunch of Nazi signals and
alright big thing and he kind of makes
them all hide behind the banner of free
speech and stuff like that so we made a
fake commercial above mark grandes about
him Bheema scumbag lawyer and he's you
know the scumbag lawyer who will fight
for the Nazis and almost kind of stuff
and that was the first
we ever put up where it immediately got
flagged as hate speech from you know
thousands of users and we were very
curious as to why and once we looked
into it we you know we talked to YouTube
we talked to Vimeo Vimeo actually shut
her account down once we put that video
up and the guy who wrote the original
article for The Huffington Post that we
based our whole comedy routine on
contacted us and said you know your
video was was funny was accurate there's
no reason why a popular figure in the
public sphere shouldn't you know be
above reproach shouldn't be allowed to
be mock like that and what they do is
he's like I have a strong suspicion that
there's a coordinated attack against
these kind of people well you know but
go on 4chan discord service stuff like
that and they flag your videos for
specific things in our case we were
flagged for trying to scam people a lot
of money how or posting like external
links stuff we've never done so and so
what is the idea do you then contact
YouTube but of course there's no I mean
I I wouldn't even know how to contact
YouTube is there when they shut you down
do they they send you any type of letter
saying that there is any type of yeah we
got a letter that basically said you
know you have been found in breach of
certain guidelines regarding scams and
money and stuff like that you guys don't
even collect any money you know yes you
guys don't even know we've also we've
never linked to external sites we've
never asked people for money we have
nothing to do with that we were just
making comedy videos about alt right and
and right-wing figures did you tweet at
YouTube we did so yesterday actually was
it was pretty amazing we went from
having a really terrible day to this
grass roots explosion online happen
there's been thousands of people
tweeting about it you know YouTube is
getting indoctrinated with it right now
so I mean I'm really hope you have a
sample reformulate a formal response
sorry paid again do you have like a
Santa like I want to retweet something
right now is it like a Twitter account
you want yeah it out yeah these guys are
good oh I've seen I've seen some here
those guys are good
yeah I can tweet to you right now the
gist of everything that happened it's
it's folks go to the at the surf ser f
surfs
TV the surfs yeah T se RF s TV well you
know keep us updated tweet at us and we
will try and retweet and I would also
suggest that you you get folks to tweet
to the Young Turks because they they
deal with people at YouTube and and I
don't know that they can do anything but
you know and I would also definitely
tweet to to Dave Rubin because he's very
sensitive to these issues
I'm not being physician I'm actually
going to do anything about it but you
the opportunity to live I mean you know
if there's anybody who knows how to
complain to YouTube it seems to me that
Dave Rubin has mastered the art so and
if you want to set up you know or maybe
there's a real person that you know in
your head that works at YouTube but you
want to communicate today feel free to
do it as well so basically Dave keeps
getting trolled by some guy who claims
to be writing like with an inside source
in Silicon Valley oh yeah I do it was
this bad but it just so disturbing well
listen so do you have anything that you
want to do other than just you know keep
retweeting your stuff to YouTube no no I
mean that's all great we're actually not
looking for
people to see you know take time out of
the day to do anything it's just we just
wanted to get the word out because you
know it's it's one of those things where
I I think it's a slippery slope I think
if it's it's something that is proven to
be effective especially is like the
methodology by the alt-right
that hits something they're gonna keep
doing yeah it's gonna be a strategy
we'll see again and again all right well
I appreciate your calling and good luck
with it and I think you're right thanks
for sharing that with us appreciate
community definitely Canadian can tell
that I'm not looking to get people to do
anything crazy with their day just we
had a bunch of Nazis just throwing off
fossil YouTube for no gosh darn reason
but um anyway started take up too much
of your time
[Laughter]
[Music]
talented listener Sam are you jealous of
Tucker's comment about Chris Hayes and
do you as a single man wish it was aimed
at you seems wasted on Hayes since he's
married let's let's revisit these
questions here is Tucker Carlson talking
about AOC and the green new deal Town
Hall that took place on Friday night of
last week Tucker's upset and he should
be apparently like they can't even get
erectile dysfunction drugs to advertise
on on his show anymore it is literally
like full of filler my pillow my pillow
that's what I saw there was a two-minute
now my pillow that guy's been
advertising on WABC back when it was the
station that carried Limbaugh and
Hannity in fact I saw him folks will
remember in the last in the debate in
Las Vegas between Hillary Clinton and
Donald Trump I was in the press area and
at one point they had like they cordoned
off an area
where all the Trump people came out and
the my pillow guy was traveling with
them or was a guest of there so he was
walking around with like James O'Keefe
and that whole crew is that some sort of
a OC shaped body pillow girlfriend thing
it is I think it's just like a where's
mine
god only knows what kind of material
that my pillow is made a body pillow
anymore
what is it too bad for the earth all
right let's play let's play this clip of
Tucker Carlson really really jealous
that AFC will not come on his show but
if you think New Year's is depressing
how would you feel if you thought that
all life on this planet was ending soon
three million years of human history
erased forever plaid now no one thinks
that all life on this planet is going to
cease to exist that is not the that is
not the the concern the concern is that
our civilization and our societies will
become highly highly tenuous and
destabilized because of the massive
changes in our climate that are in the
offing within a decade or two maybe more
or at least within a couple of decades
we will be beyond the ability to
mitigate these changes at all and what
you're going to have when you have broad
swaths of the earth that are if not in
uninhabitable because of constant
flooding or because of constant droughts
or because of
radical changes in temperature and
ability to grow food you're gonna get a
lot of refugees and we have seen what a
one conflict in Syria and the refugees
that have poured out of Syria has done
in terms of like destabilizing the body
politic in in Europe what if we see this
times 10 or 20 that is the problem but
first you've got to start with the straw
man before you knock it down sad isn't
it Chris Hayes think so Chris Hayes is
what every man would be if feminists
ever achieved absolute power in this
country apologetic bespectacled and
deeply deeply concerned about global
warming and the patriarchal systems that
caused it on Friday Hayes hosted a town
hall event can be your little to have a
cereal what do you mean this is the
future that feminists won just a levels
construct a feminist laboratory close
your no Hays bro you're not you're not
you may be version two I'm like version
one where it's like we need there's a
little too much assertive okay I'll tell
you what Michael Tracy it's like whoa
whoa whoa calm down that's actually yeah
that's not good all right but let's
continue on Friday Hayes host to the
town hall offense on MSNBC with
congresswoman alexandria kasnia cortez
it was designed to promote her green new
deal this apparently seemed like a wise
idea to executives over at NBC the very
same news outlet that's been 2 years
lying to you about Russia brings you a
29 year old former bartender to teach
you about science Hayes framed the terms
at the outset of the show unless we do
exactly what dr. Acacio Cortez says the
entire human race has only 12 years to
live
you go fighting experts I'm sorry I'm
just so bad about that yeah I mean
FoxNews could have scientists on if they
wanted to teach their audiences about
science right they don't do this as
opposed to all the scientists that we
never allow on this network to talk
about things all that you're all that
you're that cable television can do is
either is promote white nationalism
that's well they have their expert in
house eventually actually died out
following a long horrible decline yeah
but that's not the argument I mean that
that's possible but that's not the
argument the argument is that we're
going to have mass you know mass loss of
life and table eyes what not Hayes no
cell right there
sorry about said you exactly right JB
I'm sorry yeah I apologize here is uh
this is a pretty fun clip Mehdi Hasan
who has been really really making Sam
Harris look foolish on Twitter and in a
way that is almost now I would even say
that he's like doing it during his
breaks - it's it's it is it's crazy like
like Mehdi Hasan doesn't it doesn't have
enough to do it's like one of those it's
like going on those guys like playing
like you know one-man band sort of like
off like you know just on the side like
Oh incidentally bang what if many a son
wasn't employed then we'd be facing an
entirely different set of circumstances
for him owning me on Twitter what if it
was all of the time he had in the world
because there was literally nothing else
for him to do we need to confront that
thought experiment here is Mehdi Hasan
talking to the Israeli ambassador to the
United Nations on the question
of a two-state solution to deal with the
palestinian-israeli conflict do you
support a two-state solution both the I
support direct negotiations what do you
want to do now is exactly with the
palestinian-israeli government's formal
position is a two-state solution they
claim Prime Minister Lee who claims to
support a two-state solution do you he's
ambassador to the United Nations yes or
no very simple support I understand how
rude it is to ask a yes or no a simple
question whether whether this ambassador
agrees with the stated policy of his
prime minister but because that is
completely out of the bounds to ask a
yes or no question yeah why is he being
so mean to him why is he trying to box
him in to the United Nations yes or no
very simple support I suppose direct
negotiations I'll give a negotiations to
water needy do you support a two-state
solution at the end of those
negotiations like the rest of the world
like your Prime Minister claims to yes
or no I support the two ending so
complicated to say I do because I don't
support a two-state my dear I tell you
why I tell you why because here at the
UN I'm used to countries mainly trying
to come to the end of the conflict
without having a dialogue I'm not giving
pretty much anybody these rainy
government claims to support a two-state
solution but you clearly don't because
he won't say so on the show
it doesn't walk that way if you want to
have any progress in the Middle East
the Palestinians should stop the
incitement stop the payments for
terrorists 500 million dollars a year
and enter the room in negotiating with
us directly they can come to the UN he
supports a Palestinian state I mean I am
just so offended to see Mehdi Hassan ask
this guy yes or no question
all right let's not turn the lahood
apartheid government and segment into an
entire Michael Tracy sub suite what ha
ha projection Wow
I hadn't even occurred to me no I mean
it's funny it's well that guy that you
know one guy's an ambassador to the to
the UN and has a lot of those writers or
some steaks notable individuals two
notable individuals private notable
individuals I mean I I think like you
know that is the the the problem if the
two-state solution is not even a
concession to that you can subscribe to
publicly before you sit down with the
the Palestinians I mean I understand the
the constraints that might be an on an
ambassador and you're getting into a
negotiating situation but either it is
the policy of the Israeli government or
it isn't and if you make sitting down
and negotiations a prerequisite to
getting to to getting to the two-state
solution like that is that's like you
know things are so bad they've got to
get a lot better until you just get to
or things are so bad they got to get a
lot better till they are horrible you
know that's basically what you're saying
why why is he doing that do you guys
have any insight I think the reason well
I think that's it it's just like they
don't want to concede anything it's also
I use the government even saying it
supports the truth that's the thing I
mean I think Mehdi was being effective
there and pitting him against Netanyahu
but it's not exactly like Netanyahu
reversed himself formally during the
last Israeli election himself he said he
didn't support to state it anymore so
it's it's and then he went back after
the election it's obviously a lie and
pretend but it's election time and I
don't know what Dan especially is these
new parties emerge like even look who
still has like less like 1% of like
let's pretend about this process but the
emergent right-wing parties are quite
formal like no we're not going to do
this so I don't know presumably he also
just even I mean everything sam said and
also he probably has job plans after
he's ambassador the United States
doesn't want to piss off his own future
prospects let's go to the AIIMS V spa I
hate to keep harping on this but the
destiny debate is in two days and it
seems like each day it's we'll talk
later I'm sorry we don't what is the
destiny debate is in two days
are you debating destiny and it's in two
days and it's going to be three or four
people in a yeah I guess apparently like
we don't know how many people are
involved or what the questions are and
so we just haven't gotten the
information and I'm not I I like destiny
I'm willing to do something with him but
I'm not really like I already debated
sorry guy that's been done and I don't
know that I can do it on Thursday to be
totally honest with you hey I also have
a nonviolent communication class to
catch up against Chris Hayes indeed and
Lucia hey guys you think it's useful to
talk about politics with your Republican
families or relatives I personally don't
find it productive and kind of waste of
time because I won't ever change their
mind uh uh yeah I I mean I think it's I
think it's worthwhile I just wouldn't go
I find with people that you are family
members with or close to and you will
see on a regular basis much better to
play the long game instead of trying to
convince anything anybody of you know
any broad topics I would just start with
small things and put a seed of doubt in
their mind like I have relatives who
have been Republicans they hate Trump
and so I'm just I just like you know in
passing like when I think that when I
sort of project like though they're out
of earshot I'm just like I can't believe
how much Mitch McConnell supports Donald
Trump hey would you a pass
those piece like that's that is
literally what I do just drop little
things like that that don't sound like
they're meant to convince anybody of
anything just like whoa Mitch McConnell
the whole Republican Party is completely
behind Donald Trump but I'm not I don't
even want to talk politics today that's
basically the way that I I do that and
my hope is that you know a couple years
down the road maybe I can get them to
just not vote Matt's light blanket in
Phoenix it's been brought to my
attention you don't think I'm a real
blanket just because I'm not the heavy
Midwest blankets you're used to for your
information I've heard from lots of
notable people privately your problems
will sleep here more related some
plant-based issues that you have then
with me being a real blanket
best wishes going forward though no
plant issues in Phoenix the majority
report Goodreads page has pull up asking
members which book from March 2019
interviews they're most interested in
reading
I hope I'm hoping that if we get enough
votes we can all dedicate ourselves to
reading that top pick as a club although
it may be tough it's my local library is
checked out of all copies of utopia for
realists you can find the poll by going
to a searching majority report podcast
group we've got to put that on the
website will you just make a note of
that we're gonna do that to Colin from
Nebraska what happened to the one-on-one
basketball game between Sam and Michael
I would do that too and remember that
one I don't either but I'm down to what
anything I mean as in just in any of
these contests you know you're pitting
again different weight classes versus
fitness athleticism but then also
directionless talking basketball yeah
basketballs gonna be weird what are you
like I'm like a point guard you're like
a power forward
yeah sounds like a power forward in the
Charles this is the chose Charles
Barkley fouling grabbing your shorts
like well he's partly he's told too hard
he's total like mass in your chest look
what what that's not foul being played
game it's gonna be like the Jordan rules
pistons-bulls Dragonslayer also could
use a shout out for Chicago run-off
elections mayor's being decided in
alderman races which could end up with a
couple more socialists in office also
Canada has election something to all
right go ahead go vote Chicago
[Music]
AJ Hoodman a roadblock for Bernie seems
to be that his base in general election
would be white working-class voters and
people of color this would be a problem
because white working-class seems to be
moving toward Republicans and wealthier
college-educated white voters seem to be
moving toward Democrats I don't know
Winnipeg Craig I hope you haven't
forgotten about the 100 year anniversary
of the Winnipeg general strike it's next
month no Brendon has that down right
Brendon Winnipeg general strike we
should get somebody on that that would
be interesting actually
secret identity politics anyone else
trouble by the optics of Pelosi
addressing Joe Biden as though he's
she's a camp counselor telling a
twelve-year-old boy to make room for
Jesus at the dance on the last night of
camp he's 100 years old I get it that
Trump is more obviously grotesque but
what's the point of being offended by
the the tape and then making the
ostensible Democratic frontrunner a kid
from the a SunnyD commercial that the
reference is too 90s to remember for Ben
props to Jamie for calling it on creepy
Uncle Joe Biden's inappropriate behavior
thinking man's Tim Poole hi my name is
Michael Tracy it's like you got to
stipulate you know like back off of it
but if you JJ cool on the AIIMS I was
trying to watch em are today but I was
interrupted by Matt bender in his
livestream competing yeah head-to-head
instead of worrying about pac-man bender
might be the real challenge I was trying
to walk what the hell the Chris loboc oh
I was agnostic as to whether or not you
would win the debate with Michael Tracy
then you won and I was totally
vindicated thanks Sam I knew you could
do it whose teams we need to keep
harping on the formulation of how
insurance companies make their money
charge as much as possible denies
service is easily the most accessible
and clear way to turn people away from
their private insurance I mean the
difficulty is this is that
for a long time until the patient
protections now you can still find out
but it's still it's harder how many of
us will need our insurance in a time of
real crisis you know statistically not
that many you just get your insurance
you know it's there maybe it's too
expensive you got to pay the copay what
not all of that but you think that
you're covered in it in a crisis and you
don't find out that you're not until
it's too late that's part of the problem
but yes I agree with you I love Sarah
Palin hey Sam since you're a just a
no-good carpetbagger from that crap hole
New England let me help you out a bit
send my lat LaGuardia it's not even a
debate LaGuardia is the most prestigious
school for any of those artsy types or
you could send her to school that
specialize in radio and broadcasting
because we all know that she's the heir
to the show sorry Michael in reference
to that maybe we should take a look at
repealing the estate tax I love the show
and I'm going to ride with it as long
into the future but it would hurt the
listeners if milah had to liquidate the
show to pay the estate taxes on it
pyjama boy hey Sam what do you think of
what's uh-oh we're gonna hit 500k on
what on YouTube that's what binge
oh yeah we're at $499,000 turning into
500,000 sort of looks like it's well
it's a split screen with one of our
rivals an account comparison that's all
bandit vendors doing vendors doing
vendor stealing some of a little bit of
progressive voices Thunder insider II
look like anymore not the job on video
what do you think about Warren school
and breakup agriculture monopolies she's
been great on policy and I hope she'll
hang around the race I think it's great
and I think it's really well overdue
there again there is some question as to
whether
now a judiciary that is packed with
right-wing justices will allow that to
happen but but I the the will is
important
I always keep talking about the courts
because your sellout Space Ghost
great interview today one quibble the
heart inflation unemployment trade-off
attributed to Keynes was never part of
Keynes original work it was a simplistic
notion adopted by post-war policymakers
the misattribution held because
academics and students learn from
textbook summaries and not primary
sources neoliberal scapegoated canes for
stagflation in the 70s 2d legitimize
fiscal policy and promote austerity on
Sen Keynes was always right just saying
don't throw the baby out with the
bathwater and when the baby was never in
the bath to begin with interesting thank
you space goes calling from Connecticut
maybe I'm hearing things but I heard
Tracy say magnitude not magnitude on
that table Mugello even among
left-leaning people I talk politics with
I keep regularly running into her into
anti-union rhetoric unless they
themselves are in a union how do we
inform people about unions better and
rebut the lazy effective union worker
stereotype
I feel like this group of left-leaning I
mean frankly I don't know that you do it
that way I think what you do is you you
make legislation to make it easier for
people to unionize you show them the
material benefits that comes from being
in a union and as the those the number
of those people grow they talk about
their firsthand experiences otherwise
you're just talking about hypotheticals
and I don't think that works I think you
need to show that unions provide
material benefits not just for the
workers themselves but and not just for
workers in the industry itself but also
in the community that's what the
teachers unions are doing quite
effectively and you know I had a
conversation with the head of the flight
attendants Union on Ring of Fire and she
has a similar perspective on this and
she I think you know I wouldn't be
surprised if in a couple of years she's
the head of the afl-cio
yeah we talked about this a lot on the
anti Fatih - most people are radicalized
through struggle in their real lives and
you don't even need to have to be a
radical to like unions and to see the
benefits but more people just need to
organize and people who grow up in union
families understand it intuitively and
people for whom it's disconnected from
their lives really don't all right I got
time for one more call we got two three
four people on hold for 90 minutes
exactly
so Jamie give me a number one through
ten six and we will go to the closest
one which is 7 7 Oh - who's this where
you calling from
hey bro from Las Vegas bro Flamingo from
Las Vegas you are the last caller on the
program today bro flamingo thank you
very much how you guys doing today doing
good what's on your mind there's two
things real quick suppose we got to go
so shout out to Jamie because you know
Jamie you really called it out you said
about Joe Biden about you know this
guy's can have some things come out and
you know I was kind of on the fence
about it but I gotta give you credit
where credit's due correct when I saw
the second woman come out I was like man
Jamie called it there you go
come in I don't think I don't think he
has a chance at this point I mean two
women out the gate before you even
announced things gonna get worse by the
way - absolutely I think we just know
it's gonna get worse it's going so many
times if you believe Uncle Joe in X Y &
Z also uh two more quick things I just
saw on MSNBC you know uh 18 million
Burnie raised this quarter it was just
they just released it that's the first
thing I saw that's pretty good that's
pretty good news yeah and the last thing
I want to talk and last thing for our
job is that I read that you know people
like you know like Barry Weiss make it
McConnell I don't know what work -
welfare scheme that the guys
guys get you know keep writing stuff but
I still make him a call those article
reparations and it was just like this is
ridiculous
never say like these could even get jobs
even say he was one of those things
worth like really like make him a car
loan reparations and you know she's from
libertarian wing nuts just wait I don't
know Megan McArdle reparations like plug
in whatever cliche you want like I can't
even think like what is that that's like
letting like you know a cat fly a plane
like that I can't wait to see how she
ties it into kitchen gadgets next time I
have Chad vigorous auntie MBSR
definitely gonna grade that that column
listen and listen guys real quick this
isn't the Washington Post
think about this for a second you got
like Bret Stevens like you know
sometimes gonna pick up a trash I mean
like Maureen Dowd and all these other
people look like just these guys are
just so done like get some like fresh
people get some like actual manga people
get much less people right right well
that's that I can't remember who wrote
this piece about what the New York Times
does in terms of the right like they
claim they want to hear all voices but
the reality is is that folks like Bret
Stevens and Barry Weiss
they don't represent the right Roth not
right
they represent nothing they a very
specific set of interests that are very
narrow and if the New York Times really
wants the right represented frankly they
should put like they should have rush
limbaugh or they should have you know
you know the real right and if you
really want to do it but of course
that's not really their agenda then they
might actually have to put on the left
as well which would be at least as
threatening to them I would imagine but
I mean let's face it the real the the
what would constitute the real left does
not constitute the entire like
the fact is is that the most right
person in this country will represent a
bigger slice of the right than the most
left will the left in this country and
and so it's B it's very easy for the New
York Times to to put a a you know a a
right wing voice on there but they won't
do it because the right wing in this
country are lunatics
whose fault up that like it's partly
their fault if the Overton Window has
shifted so far to the right well this
was but the thing is though to your
point saying I remember you had a
gentleman on just talking about where
some of these guys get the ideas and
stuff even platforming people like and
read these articles about you know again
like impress Stephens David Fromm and
all these guys you give you that's a
secondly saw and I'm bill kristol of all
people still get a platform MSNBC yeah I
mean I mean this is this is journalistic
whitewash you stop talking about is my
home but it's not a coincidence that
like John Bolton all these dogs and
wingnuts and Neil Confederates are still
running around so you just don't Stu
show you that these guys still have some
place somewhere but like you said a very
narrow slice of the electorate and you
know kind of like the meet the
Republican district complex thank so
much people to call that Jerry Jean
juniors first term Sam and John Bolton
talk about the disintegration that
Republican party on that's very black
Chris hey uh and I agree with what John
says but it's the whole party and it's
been yet Lee for a long time Ashley
Feinberg got some meeting notes for New
York Times editor James Bennett talking
about say you know I this was from
December 2017 so after Trump won and
they're just talking about like the
papers mission I guess I mean I think we
are pro capitalism you said later in the
meeting the New York Times is in favor
of capitalism because it has been the
greatest engine of it's been the
greatest anti-poverty program an engine
of progress that we've seen so that's
where they're coming from okay Steven
Pinker that's when they won't have burl
P right that is what no like why does
poverty exist in the first place I would
say we're objective
we pro-capitalist there any open Micah's
who had the daughters or sons of
opposition leaders in a place that we're
trying to start a clinic maybe we could
do like a funny kind of ironic Pro cool
video and that way we could reach out to
a younger market how many how
many people were homeless in feudal
times do you think not a lot cuz serfs
lived on their land anyway just just
just talking capitalism yeah that's a
tight said I think it's sort of apples
to oranges I think a little well they're
talking about poverty like this form of
poverty has always existed and
capitalism came along to fix it which is
not true at all
okay I just think the homeless thing
with feudalism is a tough heck apples to
oranges type of city well they're
they're making that apples to oranges
comparison they're like oh people were
poor in the way that we understand
poverty and they capitalism came along
to fix it which is really erasing a lot
of the nuance what they mean is you have
iPhones now yeah dole Inc did you see
Carlson's tweet about Hayes I didn't
there's a lot of internal grassroots
social change in Iran now bhai has been
oppressed tortured execute over the past
hundred seventy-five years behind have
created successful online university
because banned from schools also a radio
program that reaches Iran IANS with the
truth which no there's a high issue very
big issue in Iran definitely
John Speaker is a cook in lieu of a
limousine service in the AMR Studios I'm
willing to offer bike rides to any in
person guess it'll be a three tier
service good ba boy Biden whoa lady it
was just a compliment
mo brains hey Sam boots Riley's defense
unlike senator Harris he actually showed
up at to the Oakland teachers strike
indeed no he was out there promoting a
strike fun to Spencer is Matt a portland
fan are just into the devil's lettuce
I like Damian Lillard two more Hortons
packed packs court hey Matt have you
read the princess Casa masa
by
we James it deals with the politics of
revolution the stakes about people the
precarity and possibility in the points
of liminality no I have not look into it
and the final I am of the day Rand oh
did you guys see that Saudi Arabia gave
Khashoggi Skidz a bunch of money did
didn't get a chance to talk about it
today we'll talk about it tomorrow see
you tomorrow
[Music]
I was late I just got
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
where the choice is made
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
