this week Kamala Harris announced her
candidacy came out big 20,000 people
rallying a rallying in Oakland
California then CNN Town Hall which set
a record for 10:00 p.m. viewership on
CNN what give me your sense of her
rollout and what possible problems she
may foresee with her candidacy well I
thought first of all I thought I thought
it was very well done
you know shota it showed a good you know
of some political savvy on her part and
also you know obviously she's got some
good people I think that are you know
prepared to run a professional well done
campaign so you know why would I expect
any less I shouldn't but you never know
I mean I think I was I found it rather
impressive that she was able to command
so much attention as she rolled it out
and you know she's a ninja she's an
interesting person because she has you
know I had thought she was going to be a
little bit more in the kind of and I
think she is she's in the in the
mainstream Lane here you know as is sort
of in contrast to maybe Warren and
Sanders further to the left more you
know veering toward senator and she is
on certain issues and she has a bit of a
more mainstream a kind of reputation but
the the medicare-for-all thing which it
which you mentioned she was as unabashed
a proponent of medicare-for-all as I
think I've ever seen outside of you know
people you know lefty kind of activist I
mean when I asked her you know do you
know do you think we should we should
this means that we should get rid of
private insurance and she said yeah yeah
actually we should I thought wow I mean
that's that's taking it beyond I think
where I would have expected someone in
her Lane and I think what that says
about this this race that's coming up
here I mean setting aside Howard Schultz
and and Mike Bloomberg and the
billionaire boys club and maybe Joe
Biden I think that this is going to be
where the you know this is going to be
the kind of you know fulcrum
of the discussion about about healthcare
which is obviously it's a huge issue it
was a huge issue in 2018 it's going to
continue to be a huge issue because we
haven't settled it yet and so what this
is doing is it has now you know the old
Overton Window trope but it has now
moved this discussion within the
Democratic Party way further then it's
been up to now and the centrist position
even the Schultz's and the Bloomberg's
are kind of saying yeah well we need a
public option you know and there should
be some other kind of way that you know
they're saying it in a roundabout way
but that's essentially what they're
saying is some kind of Medicare buy-in
is the compromise position and you know
the Medicare for all which is where
Carla Harris is is now you know this is
this is the position that they're going
to be speaking against so I mean I find
that really fascinating I find it
fascinating that she is so
matter-of-fact about it and that you
know later she did say you know yeah
well if there's something else that
people come up with her there's another
Avenue to get there you know I'm for
that to which she's shown in her voting
record I mean she was a sponsor of the
Medicare for Bernie Sanders Medicare for
all bill in the Senate so she's been
there for a while but this is really
fascinating and and you know we're so
we're going to see I think for the first
time in a long long time a mixture of
issues and positions around those issues
that is fresh and new and exciting for
people to watch play out and in that
regard I'm really happy that there's so
many people coming in because I mean I
think the discussion is going to be very
vibrant and and painful frankly I mean
this is not going to be easy at these
things never are but it's going to be
it's important because you know if the
Democrats now I'm just going to go up
30,000 feet here and just talk about the
politics of this the Democrats you know
Trump brand we're going to make America
great again which was his you know it I
mean basically he's saying we're going
to go to the past I'm going to get rid
of all this progress all these you know
these people from other countries and
immigrants and you know and
african-americans and all this political
correctness we're going to go back to
the good
days I mean that was his pitch the
Democrats are not that's not their party
their parties that's why they call
themselves progressives it's why you
know that they win when they look to the
future that's how Democrats went not by
throwing back to the past
so whatever they do whoever is carrying
those messages this this idea this
concept of a sort of array of fresh new
approaches from Warren's wealth tags to
you know Sanders and you know his his
economic program you know this new idea
you know like things like mmm tea and
you know auntie the idea of deficit
spending and and on foreign policy as
well I mean that's still being developed
but I can see that sort of churning up
as well so I mean that is really going
to be key for them I mean it's one you
can run against Trump and they will have
to of course but that's kind of baked in
I mean everybody know he's he's a
jackass right I mean you know the
Schultz is right on a certain level that
that's sort of he is who he is but this
isn't this new sort of you know group of
ideas and approaches I think is really
going to be key and I it's kind of
exciting to be honest I mean I just see
this develop it's not the same old stuff
well right look we got to take a break
when we come back I will I will I will
try and be optimistic that we're
actually going to see that exchange of
ideas I my take on Kamala Harris's walk
back was a little bit different I was
surprised a little bit by that frankly
but let's take a break we'll talk a
little bit more about this and then
we've got a touch base on what's
happening with sort of the the
concurrent story of course in Washington
which is the mauler investigation and
the fact that Matthew Whitaker is going
to have to testify to the House
Judiciary Committee while he's still
Attorney General
I'm Sam cedar we'll take a quick break
we'll be right back more with Digby
