[Music]
Donald Trump back in 2016 at the New
Hampshire
rally and somebody yells out to him or I
guess ask them a question about the
problem we have in this country it's
called Muslims Muslims we know our
current president if he is one you know
he's not even an American we need but
anyway we have training camps growing
when they want to kill us
mm-hmm that's my question when can we
get for it we're gonna be looking at a
lot of different things and you know a
lot of people are saying that a lot of
people are saying that bad things are
happening out there we're gonna be
looking at that and plenty of other
things um and so you could see it's sort
of the evolution of like in his mind
he's going like hey wait a second can I
get away with this
this is gonna fly I guess it will I
guess I can go a little further and
there we have it I mean that you know
this the we all look at like this guy
like lunatic but there are he does have
over fifty percent support in multiple
states across the country he does have
forty some odd percent forty five
percent approval rating his approval
rating in the Republican Party is over
90% so when someone you approve of
someone who has the authority of the
president United States which you know
look we don't have a monarchy in this
country but to the extent that we have
anything that comes close it would be
the presidency wouldn't it and you know
I don't want to get too esoteric here
but the way that Kings became Kings was
because God placed them there so even if
we have a sort of a monarchy substitute
which
captures the imagination of a let's say
close to half of the population let's
say it's only like a third of the
population right just a third of the 300
million people in this country more or
less when they hear him validate what a
lunatic like that says president's
Muslim we got a problem we have we up we
have a problem in this country it's
called Muslims when can we get rid of
them when can we get rid of them I mean
rid of them and then you combine that so
you've got this sort of like you know I
don't know what percentage of the the
American population or the white
population around the world perceives
Donald Trump as sort of somewhat like
you know godlike because he's the
president's but it's not an absurd
assertion that there are millions of
those people there's some people who
think he's in shape and and to basically
say like you know we've got one problem
I mean yeah the people who commit these
type of crimes are mentally unbalanced
but that's also on a sliding scale and
you're giving more oxygen to these sort
of embers that are out there and this is
what you get this is why there is a rise
maybe it's just a total coincidence that
there's been a rise of hate attacks and
hate groups and violence in this way but
maybe and maybe it's not what Ann
Coulter doesn't understand is that
there's a cultural permission it's not
just the policy yeah so a lot of
neo-nazis appreciate me being here sure
said in the manifesto right Trump's not
gonna give us everything we want I don't
like him as a policymaker he's getting
the message out there exactly white
nationalism exactly so we're in a war
with these people
and we need to get our message out there
of anti racism anti hierarchy in general
