folks
pee poo to judge what the heck is wrong
with this guy you know I know
Millennials they don't have they don't
place roots down right isn't that the
thing about Millennials they're very
mobile rootless Kozma pops their
rootless right well Pete Buddha judge is
showing us how easy it is to move
through stuff when was this video from
do we know this is from January do you
remember January what's that
February sorry February do you remember
February that was a long time ago folks
February that was oh gosh eight whole
months ago let's look and see how far
peabody judge has moved began he's a
millennial here he is on Morning Joe
talking to some dude on Morning Joe I
think what we have to decide is are we
going to keep being defined by these
where these fence posts are or are we
gonna do what the right very
successfully did over the last 40 years
and redefine them medicare-for-all is a
great example again you know ACA which
was a conservative proposal came to be
caricatured is left-wing by a very
disciplined right-wing message machine
right what is Medicare for all it's a
compromise I mean in the UK you got
national health care that would be the
left-wing the true left-wing position
the true right-wing position is free for
all all corporate and the compromise
position is a single-payer system where
you have private doctors but a public
payer we've got to stop allowing the
right to move the the goal posts and
characterize the it's not okay so there
he is Pete Buddha judge in February
saying the center the debate is actually
Medicare for all and we've got to stop
allowing the right to move the goal
posts right I mean that's what we've got
to do but ladies and gentlemen that was
all the way back in February that's not
where we are today right Pete talk about
that moment that we just play
in our intro where you went at it with
senator Elizabeth Warren about her
medicare-for-all plan and you wanted a
simple yes or no answer of will she
raise taxes and and what she ended up
saying time and again was Americans
household costs will come down with her
plan what does it matter to you what
bucket it comes out of well not only is
it important to have yes or no answers
to yes or no questions at a time when
people are so frustrated with Washington
speak but also there's still been no
explanation for a multi trillion dollar
hole in this plan I have a lot of
respect for Senator Warren but last
night she was more specific and
forthcoming about the number of selfies
she's taken then about how this plan is
going to be funded and that's a real
problem especially when there's a better
way to deliver health care coverage to
everybody look what most Americans want
is to have an opportunity to walk away
from their private plan to have that
what I call Medicare for all who wanted
alternative but also to be able to keep
their private plan if they would prefer
and I think that's the right answer
especially when you do the math and
realize it's also an answer that is paid
for unlike the Medicare for all whether
you want it or not plans that still have
this giant question mark over how it's
supposed to work you know that one of
the things I love about juxtaposing
those two clips is you hear him back in
February where he wasn't sure what lane
he was gonna run in and he was just
maybe speaking from actual just like you
know policy knowledge and like lick
let's be honest medicare for all is the
down the road center middle obvious
thing and we shouldn't allow the
right-wing to use their talking points
to convince us of otherwise and then he
learns from himself like he's got
artificial intelligence almost because
by October he's actually spouting some
of those right wing talking points but
let's see if we can't get this his
algorithm to relearn why he knew back in
February hey I'm a different time the
Medicare for all plan
is a better plan with the help of dr.
Don Berwick the former Medicare
administrator who's going to explain why
a public option a Medicare for those who
want it won't work this is simple and
frankly I'm very I think that Bernie or
Warren should have delivered this
message
they both had opportunities to do it
they didn't do it they need to do this
they need to start pointing out that the
plans that people to judge and others
are presenting is basically unicorn
plans they will not work as they're
talking them about this it could be
cheapest all hell if they want but they
won't work and here's Don were Berwick
to explain why I'm a little worried
about the public option for a kind of
technical reason insurance companies
want to provide insurance to people that
don't need it that's how they make money
and so anything that can be done to game
risk so the public option will be used
by all the people who really need the
insurance insurance companies would then
try to find ways to have people who
really need care go to the public option
which would enrich it would make it
would it be a good business case for
them and that's not good for the country
it's not good for the country because
then it becomes even more expensive
that's the other half of that equation
when the sicker people the people who
need the insurance go into the public
option it becomes more expensive because
you don't have as many people paying in
you don't have the people who don't use
it 80% of our medical costs are borne by
20% of the people you just don't know
which 20% they are until they get sick
and then when you do if they all move to
the public option and the healthy people
are all are in the private option then
instead of people's payments into an
insurance fund paying for the sick
people
it goes to shareholders and is frankly
inflated for how many people actually
use it in that private sector and then
as a public sector standpoint we have to
pay
more because essentially those
shareholders those CEOs those Board of
Directors they're taking the money that
would make the system work for everybody
it's going in their pocket instead of
being spread around to people who need
it for health insurance I'm going to pay
for health care and so it's time for
Bernie and Warren to shift the debate
instead of addressing like how are you
gonna pay for it because we know how
you're gonna pay for it you're gonna pay
for it with taxes and it's gonna be a
net savings to people in terms of cost
but then the next step is to say your
plan doesn't work because of the basic
functioning of insurance in fact
insurance companies used to be in favor
of a Medicare expansion or buy-in at age
55 and why because they calculated that
they could make more money by offloading
people from age 55 to 65 because
statistically speaking you'll probably
have people with more ailments in that
age group then you will in younger ages
or to the extent that they have in
younger ages you already see them before
they get B before they come for your
insurance you can price it better and
that will be offloaded to the public
sector but then they didn't need to do
that with the ACA because they got all
the subsidies from the government to
sustain their business and that's why
they changed their mind on that and
that's why Joe Lieberman changes mind on
that back when the ACA fight was
happening but the bottom line is the
public option it just simply does not
work in my work in the context of the
exchanges insofar as you're talking
about a limited pool of people defined
by people who don't qualify for other
insurance like at work but we know what
the the point of having employer-based
insurance is it is to control their work
that's why they anticipated there was a
surprise in the way that the exchanges
worked within the context of society
there was an assumption that companies
would stop offering health insurance and
say to their employer in employees like
look I'll give you a small subsidy you
go buy it in the exchange because that
way I don't have to deal with any of
this mess but it didn't happen nearly to
the extent that was projected and it's
because it wasn't just about cost to the
companies it was about control over
their employees and you want to empower
labour one of the ways you do it a big
way is by not making them beholden to
management to make sure that if their
kids get sick they're not going to be
indigent yeah and then once the public
option is weighed down and bloated and
crashes because there is still a private
market they can point to that and say oh
look the public option doesn't work the
worst part about it it's not even the
existence in my mind it's not even the
existence of the private market is that
you're not making everyone pay into the
public one that is the problem you need
to have everybody pay their premiums to
the government to make the government
insurance work those premiums I mean
their attacks but it's all attacks it's
just a you know one's a private tax ones
a public tax so paying premiums feels
like a tax it's I mean it's a you know
like the the concept of tax is a little
bit fluid they called the penalty to the
ACA attacks it's not it was a penalty
but at the end but you know my I get a
budding lawyer Matthew actually I always
introduced to this notion
he would give his kid you know its kid
wanted like an orange juice he brings
the orange juice over and he goes he
takes a big sip and the kid is like what
are you doing why are you drinking then
he goes stacks it's a little tax or you
know a bite out of his ice mine taste
whatever it is exactly exactly
that's cool that's good pair tax can
mean a bunch of different things is it
safe to assume that all of the people
fighting against Medicare for all and
for plans that are not gonna work
understand this it is him well we know
that people judge understood it in
February now maybe he suffered some type
of head trauma and forgot it by October
but he knows he knows I mean you know I
mean maybe it's just maybe it's the
political cowardice that is a function
of I just don't know we can sell this to
the American public it's conceivable
that that that's one thing like you know
Adam Green would come on the show years
ago and say you know one of the things
that they were trying to do at the p
triple c was to go in and show
candidates that they can take these
positions and show them polling that
that suggests that there's a lot of
support for them out there and
candidates didn't actually know this I
mean I think you know you can never
underestimate ignorance as an
explanation for a lot of stuff but I
imagine people to judge understands this
I mean he was a McKinsey you know
consultant he's so smart
all right here is
