[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday November 5th 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today we are
less than 24 hours away from the final
day of voting for the midterm elections
and early voting has broken records
across the country but doesn't mean
anything
meanwhile House Republicans are running
from Trump but does that mean anything
lastly Trump's full-on racist gambit
will provide us a brief moment of
clarity at the end of this week we will
get a sense of just where this country
is at and meanwhile in Georgia Secretary
of State Kemp pulling out all the banana
Republican stops while a federal judge
in Texas who heard the ACA case which
could essentially destroy the
protections that we have against
pre-existing conditions and rescission
and life
caps is he sitting on his verdict until
after the election
today marks u.s. Iran sanctions kicking
in as the EU looks for a workaround and
a shooter in Tallahassee who killed two
women was a YouTube racist insell
youtuber conservatives scammed for a
hundred and fifty thousand dollars well
not quite but certainly worth a smile
and the Supreme Court to hear a case
that could very well nuke separation of
church and state
and lastly law breaking corporations
getting billions and dollars worth of
fines punted by the Trump administration
all this and more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen so forgive us for
the late start we had some technical
difficulties today and but we will get
through it I was at a wedding over the
weekend and not a particularly liberal
crew of folks but everybody seemed to be
I just don't remember more people being
more invested in an election than these
midterms a lot of people telling me they
were headed to well really across the
country to get out and Dornoch so I
found that very encouraging I just don't
meet that many people who you just don't
I mean in the course of years doing this
I just have never seen so many people
who are this active hard to know whether
it's going to make a difference and it's
just it's very
difficult to anticipate we know what the
polls say we see some tightening in the
generic ballot depending on which poll
but I think like the aggregate of all
those is somewhere around 7% we have
said quite often that there was a sense
that you need about nine percent to
overcome a lot of the gerrymandering in
many of these districts across the
country but again predicting who is
going to be in the electorate is the
biggest challenge for pollsters and you
know Friday night I was on Hayes's
program again and Charlie Cook was on
beforehand and he was saying that
Republican consultants you know seem
worried and he made the point that look
you know the national polls were
accurate in 2016 it's just that there
were a couple of state polls they were
inaccurate well I mean really we don't
even have a national election this time
around so these polls are smaller in
many cases when you're doing a smaller
district now theoretically you should be
able to get it right but there's less
resources put into those type of things
so we just don't know is the bottom line
what we do know is that more than 34
million people have already cast their
ballots early or by absentee that is a
50% increase over the total number of
votes early votes cast in the 2014
midterm elections so more than 50%
increase
I imagine still you know this piece is
from a day or so ago and I imagine
numbers are still coming in and of
course there's early voting today in
some places turnout is up amongst all
age cohorts amongst all racial groups
and educational categories older voters
still make up a disproportionately
large segments of the electorate but
that's because they started with a
larger portion of the electorate in
terms of engaging
however the Delta the difference between
their sort of the rate of increase in
early voting amongst young people versus
old people is encouraging if you believe
that young people who are coming out
early are going to vote for Democrats
now there's reason to believe that but
we'll see among voters aged 18 to 29
turnout is up in 39 of 41 states for
which data is available for voters 30 to
39 turn up is up in all 41 states where
data is available so it appears that the
2018 electorate will be slightly younger
or I should say significantly younger
and more diverse than the electorate
that voted four years ago there's reason
to believe that that is encouraging for
people who want more democratic members
of Congress in Texas there is data that
shows that more than four hundred and
twenty thousand people have voted this
year for the first time that's four
times higher than the number of
first-time voters who cast a ballot in
2014 that's pretty stunning I mean
regardless of who those people are
that's pretty stunning that you have
four times the amount of first-time
voters in a midterm election voters
between the ages of eighteen thirty-nine
made up a little less than a quarter of
the total Texas early vote four years
ago those voters made up just 13% of the
electorate now the rate I just want to
be clear on what we're saying here
so in 2014 they were just 13% of the
entire electorate presumably I mean we
don't know where their early voting was
so we can't make that apples-to-apples
comparison but at least in the context
of early voting they have a higher
percentage of voting this is the thing
you got to ask yourself that we don't
know yet is are we seeing I do these
early voters constitute people who
wouldn't otherwise have voted or are
they simply cannibalizing what the
turnout will be on Tuesday we don't know
we won't know until Wednesday but in
Arizona young voters have grown to 17
percent of the electorate
up from 10 percent in 2014 the number of
Hispanic voters casting early battle
it's doubled while the share of the
electorate that is white is down 3.5
percentage points the number of in
frankwit and new voters who cast ballots
this year both more than doubled so this
is these who these are good these are
good if you're gonna ask for numbers for
early voting numbers these are the
numbers you'd want to look at this is
what you want they don't necessarily
mean anything but they're in absence of
bad news which is you know arguably good
news in Georgia voters between the ages
of 18 and 39 account for more than 21%
of the early vote that's almost up 10
percentage points from 2014 young voters
in Nevada Ohio Tennessee and Wisconsin
have also grown dramatically as a share
of the electorate and why this is
important it's not let me read down what
NBC News Democrats have a seven-point
advantage over Republicans in the final
national NBC news/wall Street Journal
poll so for those people who want a
democratic-controlled Congress not
surprising 94% of Democrats do
three percent of Democrats want a
republican-controlled Congress and you
know african-americans eighty four
percent want a democratically controlled
Congress eight percent want a
republican-controlled Congress the God
said that being said uh right no one can
hear them I guess it's not that blacks
it it's blows it or whatever I don't
know Latinos fifty-seven percent to
twenty nine percent 18 to 34 year-olds
fifty-seven percent to thirty four
percent so you get a big chunk of people
just don't know white with the college
degree fifty six percent versus thirty
seven percent women fifty five percent
to thirty seven percent that's a pretty
substantial gender gap seniors fifty
four percent to forty percent want a
democratically controlled Congress
overall all likely voters and that's the
difficulty that you have is that fifty
percent versus forty three percent we
don't all likely voters we just don't
know
whites forty four percent want a
democratically controlled Congress in
fifty percent want a republic control
control Congress the Republican Party is
a party that practices identity politics
ninety-five percent of their support
comes from white people if those white
guys get them get them
there is the Democratic Party obviously
has a far more diverse base of support
white people with no college degree
sixty percent
it's the highest cohort want Republicans
to win
thirty-six percent want the Democrats
independence 35 percent wanted
democratically controlled Congress
twenty three percent want a
republican-controlled Congress and
ninety-one percent of Republicans so
those numbers are relevant insofar as if
you project those numbers and you can't
really do this you can do it to give you
a semblance but if you project those
breakdowns upon the data that we do know
about who have voted early then that
looks good for Democrats but I want to
remind you in 2016
early voting suggested Democratic
strength and enthusiasm in Florida do
you remember there was some like report
like a week before in Florida it was
like this is a ninety eight percent of
this is gonna be a landslide in Florida
and it turned out not to be a landslide
for Hillary Clinton didn't work out that
way no but we saw enthusiasm of Florida
North Carolina and Nevada in the end
Clinton only carried Nevada so this is
my way of saying everything I've been
saying has been somewhat masturbatory
and for that I apologize
but it's important to you know look it's
these are these are gonna be important
points going forward at the very least
this is what you can be sure of the work
that has gone in to get people to the
polls early has paid off in getting
people to the polls early to what extent
that's going to mean in terms of
Congress we don't know yet
folks do you love the thrill of an
escape room looking for clues and
solving puzzles well now you can bring
the mystery home with hunter-killer
Rob I think you might like this Hunter
Killer is a monthly subscription where
you become a detective immersed in a
murder mystery each month a fictional
serial killer will send you cryptic
clues objects and letters that you can
actually use to solve the crime in real
time it's so interactive that it feels
real you can play it solo on add on a
date a game night with friends or you
can join their online community work
with other people who are at the same
point in the story as you are I started
this with Milan hi how's it going she
seems to be pretty excited about it
cool waiting for clues anything if I can
do anything if I can just like get her
off her phone on Instagram how's it
gonna be when you said dad killed
Southridge that's right well I can't
tell her that okay but right now just
for our listeners you can go to
hunter-killer comm slash majority for
10% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hurry to take advantage of this offer
hunt a killer dot-com
slash majority for 10% off your first
box hunter-killer dot-com slash majority
check it out folks
alright let's one of the things that I
think this this this election is going
to I mean we're gonna have a big problem
this and I think we knew this in after
2016 but we're gonna have a big problem
with increasingly a ill informed public
right and there's there's two dynamics
that they're clearly in effect during
this midterm one is Donald Trump is
trying to motivate his base and it does
seem to be working to come out and vote
by scaring them with notions of
a caravan of who knows how many hundreds
it could be people by the time they get
to the border but they are now on foot
over a month away on traveling on foot
there are now 5200 US military personnel
with helicopters and barbed wire then I
guess ostensibly waiting for them
spending hundreds of millions of dollars
that's anticipated this is going this
little Kabuki theater is going to cost
should let me have the parade there you
go
should let them have the parade but and
and I'm telling you this right now
you're not gonna hear much about this
after Tuesday because it's just not
gonna have the salience maybe at one
point Trump wall now it's like we scared
him off we scared him off so we're
bringing the military home one of the
dynamics is going to be what it tells us
about this country in terms of their
motivation based upon their disdain for
brown people the other thing is is have
Republican candidates successfully run
from the fact that the Republican Party
wants to destroy the good stuff in the
Affordable Care Act patient protection
bill I have said many times the best
parts of the ACA PPI were the patient
protection initiatives that is
pre-existing conditions you cannot be
denied insurance and you cannot be
overcharged for insurance as a way of
denying it you cannot have lifetime caps
you can't have yearly caps you can't
have rescission in other words you have
health insurance that's taken away when
you need it you're under 26 you can be
on your parents programs there are
certain ten essential benefits that
health insurance must provide to
actually constitute insurance that's
being under
by the garbage that Trump is giving
waivers for but nevertheless and like I
said there is a Republican lead lawsuit
against the US government which the DOJ
has argued in favor of as opposed to
defending against that would do away
with all this in the meantime you have
Republican Congress people all of whom
voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act
and get rid of those things and now
they're trying to pretend that they
didn't in states republican-controlled
States you had Republican leadership
denying the expansion of Medicaid
remember the first year out that
expansion of Medicaid is zero dollars it
cost the states down the road it can
cost up to 10% of the cost goes to the
states here is a clip of a debate this
happened last night or this weekend
Thursday or Friday of last week in
Ohio's 12th district Danny O'Connor is
the Democrat running troy ball derson is
the Republican is ball derson a sitting
he's not a sitting congressman is he
and but listen to Danny O'Connor I have
a feeling this might be a district that
is not flip but a one where we have
resignation but here here it is do you
also oppose Medicaid expansion because
one in every three people in Muskingum
County are on Medicaid so that means if
you're watching at home tonight
look to your right and look to your left
Troy Ball derson doesn't want one of you
to have health care you need that health
care we need that health care to ensure
that we can fight back against opioids
folks with breast cancer need that
health care so that they can live to see
their grandkids people who work hard who
pay their taxes who do everything right
need to have health care so that they
can live a happy healthy and safe life
but when you have folks like Troy Ball
derson who want to take that health care
away you can't do that when I'm in
Congress I'll fight for you I'll fight
to make sure that your pre-existing
conditions are covered I'll fight to
safeguard Medicaid
expansion because I know what it means
to people here in Zanesville Danny when
we did the state budget and we look at
everything and I served on the Finance
Committee when we did this over 50% of
our state budget is Medicaid so what do
we do we go in and we look at it there
are other ways there is reform methods
in the state legislature we have
reformed Medicaid we have looked at we
have addressed issues we have saved two
hundred million dollars in the last
three GA s
working on Medicaid and making cost
welcome that's how much a life is worth
from someone you can you can still
provide health care this is not about
too many people in Muscovy or am i I
want health care for everybody I want
health care for everybody I want
government for working people and we can
do and why do you want to throw people
off their health I'm not going to throw
them off the health you just said you
oppose Medicaid expansion that's not the
monster that is not you're throwing him
off their health care but I don't have
Medicaid where they any go that is not
throwing them off their health care one
who we have we're fairly we have fairly
qualified health centers in this
community well use that counties don't
even have doctors the accessibility in
your old Senate District has a doctor
all you got to do is go on google and
you'll find them okay okay let's move on
and I posit so this is scattered it
exactly now he is the sitting
representative in Ohio's 12th because
Tiberi
resigned and he was elected I think just
this in in this August just to fill in
this special election to fill his seat
but he was a former troy ball decision
with former state Rep and the bottom
line is if you're gonna throw people off
their Medicaid and you don't have a plan
to provide them with some other type of
health insurance I don't know where are
you gonna get the money from if it's not
this federal program that's going to
come in and pay for it but they have had
to adopt this position and now they find
themselves in this rather unenviable
position where they
for seven years as the Republicans were
voting to crash of the ACA and it was
just a sort of it was a mantra and now
it's clear that they have no other plan
they're the only thing they can say it's
generically speaking I don't want people
to lose their health care but in terms
of everything I'm proposing it's for
people to lose their health care so they
have a bit of a problem and the best
they can do is just sort of smile and
look you can almost smell him anxiety
sweating and these two apparently these
two ran against each other in August in
that special election and apparently
O'Conner lost by something like fifteen
hundred votes out of two hundred
thousand votes so we just want to take
the last 30 seconds of this again yeah
let's just do that because it's a I
don't even know in August if this this
exchange had the resonance it has now
because we're seeing this across the
country where you know in in Arizona for
instance where the Republican is just
like can't you know literally lying
about the votes that she took and just
hoping that the people here like the
reporter said but but you took that vote
and then whining to Sean Hannity about
it right there kicking my ass for it
exactly and we can do and why do you
want to throw people off their health
I'm not gonna throw him off the health
Kim just said you oppose Medicaid
expansion that's not three months that
is a not you're throwing him off their
health care but I don't have Medicaid
where they in ago that is not throwing
them off their health care one have we
have we're fairly we have fairly
qualified health centers in this
community will use that counties don't
even have doctors Danny there are the
accessibility in your old Senate
District has a doctor all you got to do
is go on
and you'll find them okay okay let's
move on unless you have something to add
congressman Boland I have nothing to add
okay there you go
wow he even got the disappointed
principal treatment from the moderator
right that's brutal
Oh comical you have anything else you'd
like to add you've been totally
humiliated you're in a sweat now your
lies are so transparent and embarrassing
or even the liberal shows that will mock
you later for this will be uncomfortable
watching you right there any attempt
you'd like to make it a recovery here
I'm assuming no because that was
pathetic max damn it the cut back to the
moderator seemed like something out of
Vicksburg er actually oh definitely that
was real life maybe that maybe the
camera guy watches Vic bugger videos but
that is that's the dynamic that we're
seeing across the country I mean there
are the other dynamic is that you have
like some candidates who are literally
saying the Republicans saying like that
the Democrat is more aligned with Trump
than they are but that is the dynamic
that's happening for the most part
Democrats are leaning on health care as
a major talking point and good that's
what they should have been doing all
along well I mean that's I think that's
what they've been doing in these races
chata a lot of evidence that that's the
case
meanwhile in Georgia and this is I think
for me the some of the two most
important well I shouldn't say that but
Georgia and Florida are gonna be huge
and there's another race Keira Eastman
running in Nebraska it looks like it is
going to be out of reach for her she was
facing a huge amount of Republican money
that came in late and the Democrats just
did not step up to help her part of that
is it's so maja Nebraska and so on paper
anyways you wouldn't want to put a lot
of money in another part of that I think
she's running in Nebraska not as a
center as
moderate but rather as a full-throated
progressive and I think there may be
institutional money that doesn't feel so
comfortable with that if someone wins in
Omaha with that kind of platform it
creates pressure points all along the
line for more moderate and corporate
friendly Democrats but we shall see what
happens
in the coming days meanwhile in Georgia
Brian Kemp who is the Secretary of State
who has been on a relentless mission to
disenfranchise voters in the waning days
when the story comes out that their own
Secretary of State website is insecure
in terms of allowing for voter data to
leave leaked out this is what camps job
is his response to this is by claiming
that the Democrats have tried to hack it
I mean it's really basically the what
he's trying to do is deflect from the
fact that he can't even do his job
properly so here was Stacey Abrams
response are you concerned these races
appeals are gonna work
what I'm concerned about is that his
overarching architecture of voter
suppression of ostracization of
demeaning and dehumanizing people that
that can cause people to think that
their votes don't count which is why
we've been so aggressive about telling
people the best antidote to his antics
is to actually turn out and engage and
we've seen unprecedented voter turnout
because people understand that education
and jobs and access to affordable
healthcare are on the ballot this year
and that I'm the only candidate with a
comprehensive plan for how we move our
state forward together so there it is I
mean she's just maintaining the high
road and I can't go to his antics right
that's good I'm like this racist kid
incompetent people deal with his antics
by beating him apparently part of what
she's responding to is that there's a
robo call going out in Georgia that
sounds like this this is the magical
Negro Oprah Winfrey asking you to make
my fellow Stacey Abrams governor
of Georgia then it spews nearly 60
seconds of racism coupled with a dash of
anti-semitism here is the audio of the
robo call going out in support of Kemp
in Georgia and you know this is the
tables been set for this guy type of
stuff so who knows Oprah Winfrey this is
the magical Negro Oprah Winfrey asking
you to make my fellow Stacey
Abrams the governor of Georgia years
though the Jews who owned the American
media saw something in me the ability to
trick dumb white women into thinking I
was like them and should do read and
think what I told them - I see that same
potential in stacey abrams where others
see a poor man's aunt jemima I see
someone white women can be tricked into
voting for especially the fat one and so
I promise that every single person who
votes for Stacey Avram
we're going to get a new car so you get
a car and you get a car can you get a
car and you get a car everybody gets a
car and as far as the ways to where
whites are in the way don't worry about
them like I said in that famous
interview in 2013 white racist just have
to die this message came through by the
road to power Tom there you go god yeah
road to power calm apparently is an
anti-semitic video podcasting website so
apparently Brian Kemp apparent has a
history of falsely accusing opposing
campaigns of hacks he claimed that the
Obama administration tried to hack them
in 2016 and he's sort of wield this out
and several other races so this is his
go-to and we should add no evidence
provided never any evidence
who needs evidence evidence evidence
folks seriously here is this I found a
little bit disturbing in terms of what
we're seeing from Donald Trump here's a
Morning Joe now this is not from the
2016 election right this isn't from 2015
this is from today November 5th 2018 I
would put this in the
the file information we probably should
have known earlier if you were in a
position to have it as a reporter and
you know if that's what's so interesting
again not talking about the economy but
talking about imaginary walls and
imaginary caravans is it Donald Trump
party had those volt voters locked down
if you like Donald Trump because he was
racially insensitive and he said these
outrages sing Shorty had those people
positive for one swing in the plaza one
second
there's racially insensitive I think
it's soft-pedaling things just a little
bit with Donald Trump
and aside from from from that there's a
lot of evidence to suggest that Donald
Trump may have had those people but
Donald Trump talking about it and
reaching those people drives them to the
polls more right I mean we see it in
terms of the the rise in hate incidents
in the Trump era and we see it in the
polling frankly that the more he talks
about this the more people are inspired
to go to the polls so that analysis is
wrong on the part of Scarborough it's
not like he had in Scarborough is gonna
go under stay like he could have pivoted
he could have pivoted and done the good
things that Republic that a Republican
can do but the fact is is no I don't
think so
I think Trump has got a strategy and
this is the strategy and you can't can't
convolute it every time he's talking
about fiscal discipline or whatever BS
that Scarborough is gonna say it's a
time where he's not reminding people
that there are hoards Brown people
coming to to attack them to monkey don't
be too wonky exactly it's simple but so
continue those people it's the swing
voters and the suburbs that might have
been persuaded if this entire campaign
had been
about hey you know what my taxes have
been cut and regulations are being cut
the economy is still growing well we're
still in the middle of the Obama
recovery not as big is the Obama
recovery but it's still Donald Trump is
not completely destroyed the Obama
recovery and they would think that and
could get a lot more votes but Donald
Trump has reminded them of
Charlottesville every day over the last
couple weeks and what does that do that
inspires Democrats independents moderate
Republicans suburban Republicans the
vote Democratic well in May but I also
just say we confronted him about the
birtherism we said it's bad it's wrong
and he said in a low voice I know it's
bad but it works racism in his mind
works well one second that's what we
call in in journalism was burying the
lede I would say in fact they buried the
lede by at least two years I mean when
Donald Trump was talking about
birtherism my guess is it was during the
presidency of Barack Obama and you'll
recall these two guys with all due
respect spent a lot of time supportive
of Donald Trump early on until they
found out what a bad guy he was but I
wonder if it was around the time that he
said yeah I know but it works I got the
feeling that that probably preceded that
time so maybe you know you recall when
Joe Scarborough at one point it said
like he seemed like he was in on the
joke and now he doesn't the joke being
uh stoking racial animus incidentally we
thought it was like Dice Clay and it was
a character he was doing which people
could appreciate on a certain ironic
level right words uh but then he became
the character I just really want DICE's
material went down I just hope the
millions of people who watch our show
were in on the joke as well that's why
you've got to buy a membership to
actually get all the joke material see
me can die on Westhead
next week - I really make clear that
this is ironic I really do think that if
you're a reporter and you've had that
conversation and you feel comfortable
saying it at any time on television you
probably should have said it on
television right around the time you
heard it no but that he would have said
stuff to us anymore SAFF the record ya
didn't want to burn I mean that's my
point
it's is it off the record well then you
probably shouldn't have said it today
hmm
and I don't know that she needed to
qualify it with in his mind it works at
this point in time I'm pretty sure you
know groovin that it works it's
interesting because she was disagreeing
with Joe kind of the point we make is
Joe's like the suburban Republicans are
being turned off no that's like a lot of
racism they're like they're liking this
stuff I don't I I mean yeah I had to
check the year on that clip right I mean
I think there's evidence that it's
turning off some suburban Republican
voters like a little Ron guy right but
the bottom line is you don't know I mean
like how do they not have to how do they
not make that part of their coverage
when it was relevant because it was fun
right
and it was ironic it was it was pain is
really rhetorical it was right I know
exactly they wanted to maintain access
and they were willing to like man
whatever it's not I don't know he'll be
great when he wins
remember the LeBron guy they lose the
CNN focus group and he's like he's
racist there's a guy who voted for Trump
in 2016 and whoever daca morado or one
of those people is hosting she's like
what makes you say that now kind of with
a little subtext of like dude what where
have you been
and he goes he goes well he called the
bronze stupid it's King James he's
clearly the smartest black but yeah
right right bran is pretty smart lastly
as part of this campaign that Donald
Trump is running and you know you it's
not hard to see to find reports that
Republican Congress people particularly
ones in trouble are upset that Donald
Trump has
this election about him so much and they
can't escape this and one of the things
Trump has done is made this about the
media here he is I mean this is almost
nonsensical in a way but here is and the
amazing thing is I've seen reports I
think I was just reading someone's
Twitter thread who went out interview
people to last rally and they were all
saying similar things like the media is
mistreating Donald Trump they've got to
treat him they've got to give him
encouragement to be the best he can be
instead of covering him so critically
exactly right and here is Donald Trump
on his way to West Virginia for a rally
over the weekend is that over the
weekend or is this today over the
weekend Friday saying that the real
problem in terms of violence in this
country is of course because of the fake
news no no you know what you're creating
violence by your questions you know you
are created you and also a lot of the
reporters are creating violence by not
writing the truth the fake news is
creating violence and you know what the
people that support Trump and the people
that support us which is a lot of people
most people many people those people
know what a story is true and they know
what historians and I'll tell you what
if the media would write correctly and
write accurately and write fairly you'd
have a lot less violence in the country
what kind of Hampshire College
is that you're creating violence with
that question the question is creating
violence the questions creating violence
that question is literally when that
question is literally violates my plate
and the entire White House is a safe
space all that's missing is the hand
clap emojis God right this is uh Steve
minuchin they're snapping fingers pretty
nuts check my check so Donald Trump can
be out there and saying that the media
is causing violence I mean this is the
big enough far we've gotten from the
days where they would say that it was
like the violent TV shows that are
creating violence now it's reporters
asking questions I remember back at a
time when it was bad boys too that
created violence now it's CNN honestly
like on one hand you have to ask
yourself like what the like like
theoretically the the mass shooter who
killed 11 people in a synagogue just so
angry about the tone of the questions at
the White House press pool that he went
out and murdered 11 people and don't
forget that it's Trump so not only would
Trump say that but then he'd also say
that the people to synagogue agreed with
him the press was so they treated Sarah
Huckabee so terribly we got shot there
you go
and that's what everybody's saying you
put fake news in people's mailboxes just
look what's coming to yours
all right well meanwhile with that said
Donald Trump claims that the questions
that the media asks are creating the
violence that may not be creating
violence but I suspect that Donald Trump
referring to the media as public enemy
number one is going to create violence I
mean look we already have a situation
where the Mogga bomber sent bombs to the
New York Times to did one go to the post
there was a couple media outlets that
got him ago CNN got one
and if you've never seen a grown man and
buy a grown man I mean like this guy I
would say minimum in his 40s minimum
have you've never seen a grown man get
completely agitated by a news company
you will this will be enlightening to
you this is down in Florida at a
disentis rally and CNN is covering that
rally
and then this guy nearly has an aneurysm
the important thing about this clip is
that he looks like Steve Martin he's so
exactly
if the jerk part two he becomes a
Republican the maggot said it's mine
since father of the bride but like I
just he is he looks like he's like a
manager of like a retail outlet in that
in that mall or something and he is just
extremely agitated about CNN because
they suck he is just not super mad like
I can understand seeing guys like that
at you know a basketball game or
baseball game where you actually think
in your mind I could distract this guy's
he's taken a foul shot or I could
distract this picture or this hitter for
one second and maybe I could act on the
somebody throw impact the the outcome of
the game but if you're the CNN camera
guy and that guy is 25 feet away from
you yelling like he's going to give
himself an aneurysm that CNN sucks the
only thing you're thinking is I'm done
for the day after
and in this video I don't have to do
anything else that's my job for the day
I just got this crazy guy to be fair I
do this in front of the National Review
offices but well that's right that's
right you do that has anyone checked on
Steve Martin lately strikes sucks
Buckley was a pedophile
we're gonna head into the head into the
fun half I just remind her folks hunt a
killer is a monthly subscription that
sends you cryptic clues objects and
letters so you can solve crime in real
time so interactive it feels real
something you can do and like it's you
know more fun than the venom board game
a little creepy little creepy right now
just for our listeners you can go to
Hunter Killer comm slash majority for
10% off your first box they only accept
200 members per day so hurry take
advantage of this offer
that's hunter killer comm slash majority
for 10% off your first box Hunter Killer
calm slash majority alright folks gonna
head into the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number a reminder tomorrow we're gonna
be doing a regular show probably be on
the short side and then at approximately
7:30 8:00 eastern time we're going to go
live with the results coming in we may
have some special guests I don't know
but it's basically you a lot of people
are going to be home watching the
results and if you would like to do so
with we're just you know all we're going
to be doing is more or less aggregating
stuff from various sources online and
drinking so if you are sitting at home
you intend on watching one of the cable
news things well turn on your computer
too and have us and we'll be will be
more entertaining and we will just tape
what we what we see on those channels
anyways like Chris Hayes except drunk
exactly also
reminder you can become a member of the
majority report when you become a member
we not only give you extra time every
day but we also take out the ads so it's
an ad-free experience plus extra content
and you're supporting the free show
every day join the majority report comm
join the majority report calm just dimes
a day nickels a day really
really nickels a day 10 nickels less
than 10 nickels know about 10 nickels
depends on if you're talking weekdays or
weekends also today is Monday tomorrow
is Tuesday joint tmb SMR election night
coverage tomorrow night
well sort of but not really well no but
literally yes mmm
I mean no why is that no the majority
report just a majority report I mean in
a way you could give me a little you
can't give the show a little shared
billing why not know why so stingy Wow
all right so what we're gonna do
is that was very petty and stingy and
sad but uh so we are gonna do I think
two shows next week there will be two
shows well I hope they're full what I
said I hope your shows the full next
week they said you have a wonderful day
row and I'll see you again soon I'm just
saying god yeah you said you're gonna
have two full shows next week I should
hope so because as a patron and you're
not just I don't think I'm getting
across the logical get all of the
patreon content at patreon.com slash
TPMS go to our youtube channel now we
have a quite a few clips up at Michael
Brooke show and I want to say on the
majority report homepage you can buy
tickets now to the first Michael Brooks
live show
February first in Gowanus in Brooklyn
with special guests alone in Mankowski
Bosch Carsten Cara and T Ricky Rawls
from champagne sharks
I forget the gushing out first I don't
get that one we've already sold almost a
third of our tickets and we've only been
up for under a week so get him quick
that's good
where is it going to be the Bell House
not the Bell House where we did the show
we are also we is that official yet do
we know that okay there'll be other
there's another thing happening a PAC
apparantly at the does sweet mm-hmm
competition would start kicking alright
and the anti fada yeah so in addition to
the joint anti Fattah and mr election
coverage we have what i missed it the
joint antiphon coverage we'd only met
we'd already worked that out we had
already done the billing there was just
not enough room on the on the Billboard
yeah this week we have on a very special
and very anonymous guest his fake name
is Jay Firestone he did a pretty heroic
thing actually spent three months
infiltrating the alt-right in New York
City wrote a really good article for
kommune magazine about it that's
currently going viral and we have him on
our show folks talking about the
experience what these people are like
and we have a little wide-angle analysis
of the far-right anti-fascist tactics
how to fight it etc in these dark dark
 times sweet and matte literary
hangover do enjoy coverage glad
[Music]
so this is the first election coverage
literary hangover has done it
branching out a little bit I released
some patron only content last night the
first hangover hangout I did get a bit
tipsy and some my language is a bit well
that much but I edited it down a little
bit so to talk about my trip upstate to
Lake George where I stayed at the fort
that's featured in last of the Mohicans
we talked about Matt whiners the
Romanovs and some other stuff so if
patrons you can check that out
patreon.com slash literary hangover all
right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number we'll be right back
after this Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's bought I
am NOT your employer you know I'm tired
of the negativity I'm sorry I didn't
mean to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's
win-win
oh yeah now listen to me five times
eight four seven nine oh six five oh one
four five seven six five you got a real
job instead of spewing vitriolic hatred
you left one ball everybody's taking
their dumb juice today come on dance
dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post-coital
speech with a woman I'm hoping to add
more moves to my repertoire all I have
is the dip in the swirl fine we can
double dip yes this is a perfect moment
no all right I'm gonna take a quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber lastic I'm feeling more
chill already hood Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you
guys ready - I know
[Music]
[Music]
I want to flesh this out a little bit I
mean look it's a free speech issue if
you don't like me thank you for calling
into the majority report them we'll be
with you shortly
we are back Sam is now with you right
now do you have that video did I you
look into the group I am there somebody
did a video one of our fans Brian yeah
this is a pretty good video we'll play
that in a second first let's go to the
phones calling from a to10 area code
who's this where you calling from to
one's good afternoon Sam John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio well
what's the latest John yeah on Saturday
I posted my top 70 most flippable
districts on my Twitter page I'm not
sure if you can references there but put
it up on the screen but it's a pin tweet
so since that post is the analyte
polling that's a vision why don't you
tell people what is your what is your
handle yet rock is dendrite at
cacophonous minuti dispelled and
cacophonous minuti is about CAC OPH owe
us John John
what went into the idea of making your
your Twitter handle that more that sort
of I guess
like inaccessible is this a childhood
screen name from AOL or something no I
mean I just like to you know I like a
lot of abstract music so I like you know
a lot of people say like the cacophony
and it's like they think of it as a
negative thing but I mean I actually
like you know abstract music and so I I
wanted to include that and I like the
minutia yeah so I wanted to have
cook-off in this minutia so example
orcas cacophonous I say it again
cacophonous minuti Kakaako
okay okay cop in this Miyuki did you
find it oh yeah you should come up to
Hudson with me for the 24-hour drone
festival next year I loved a lot of
drone music okay we can't we can't find
it every fifth time I learned something
so cool about you John
Wow I don't know why it's so spread out
but okay cacar okay go ahead John okay
so uh okay so so anyway on the on the
web site the New York Times websites and
they've been putting up these live
polling events since since September and
so the last few have been really good
for Democrats Michigan eighth District
Alissa slot Ken is up by seven points
over Republican incumbent Mike Bishop
and you know when we were talking about
the so-called socialist panel and you
mentioned how the advantage to run as a
person of color immediately I thought
yes if your contingency had a high
percentage or majority of people of
color in the district and it made me
think about what Chris Hayes is
observation about how in three districts
New York's 19th - Georgia's 6th and
Illinois's 14th they have two Blackmun
women and the Hispanic man running in
these districts that a majority white
districts and so I'm wondering if they
can win in these districts and according
to the latest polling you know the
question is the answer is yes and the
Siena polling in illinois's 14th
district which is the Chicago suburbs
Lauren
would who's a nurse and used to work in
the Obama administration to Health and
Human Resources his leading Republican
incumbent randy hogan by six points
reversing a four point lead by the same
pollster and a pulled agenda dinner on
October 8th in Georgia's 6th Democrat
Lucy Macbeth had a tragic event in her
life her son was killed at a gas station
when he plays his music too loud that
story made national news in turn dick
bath into an activist and now she's
leading Republican incumbent yeah Karen
handled by two points in the latest C in
a poll this is the district that John
Asif lost in the special election and in
New York's 19th district Antonio Delgado
who I have a soft spot for because his
named his son Coltrane is that by one
point in the same poll the Siena poll
over John Faso and all these candidates
are closing strong and I hope they can
win so Democrats need 23 seats to flip
the house and I've been talking about
the the two tranches of races on this
show there are 18 races that are very
likely to flip 16 Democratic and two
Republican which would be the net gain
of 14 seats which would didn't leave
four more seats for the for the
Democrats to flip to win the house I've
added five more seats to the races and I
considered toss-up and so that total is
now 30 you asked me to break down these
races on Friday and I didn't give you a
very good answer so I'll try again
Clinton won 11 of those districts and
most of those are at the top of the most
flippable races within the toss-up rail
there are five races in California two
in Jersey - in New York q in Texas two
in Pennsylvania two in Virginia and
there's a good mix of wealthy high
educated suburbs like Illinois six
California's 45th and 48th and districts
in blue or purple states with
medium-sized cities and rural
surroundings like Iowa third in Maine
second John Doe one second let's just
it's like this this dynamic where where
the idea of
a a district that voted for Clinton but
still had a Republican Congress person
what is that a function of is that
simply because more often than not that
Congress person's been there for a long
time or people liked the idea of a
splitting the ticket I mean what is that
a function of Trump I mean I think that
that it would I mean to me it was very
obvious it was Trump mean you talked
about the Vettes copal you know the
women that are activated you know you
didn't many interviews with her and
mentioned it on his show I mean I think
that that's a mostly the the main thing
so in other words there there are people
who did not want to vote for Trump but
they thought okay I'll still wrote vote
for my Republican Congress person
because that will give either a balance
you know Clinton will win and the
Republican Congress will provide a check
and or they've also come to realize like
hey my Congress voting for my Republican
congressman is like voting for Trump now
and I'm not going to do that yeah that's
exactly right I mean you see this all
the time I mean I tweeted this morning
about how in that NBC poll they have
they actually have that men were more
activated than women I seriously
question that I don't believe that at
all I mean I just
it was 67 to 73 for men I mean I just
don't see that there's an absolutely no
way that I see that happening and I mean
the women have been I mean the numbers
are just incredible I mean the
differences and I mean the difference is
in in the men's image like like that
Delgado race you know a couple pulls
back it was plus 18 for men and delaford
alka for Delgado and no it was women and
for Delgado and plus 18 for FAFSA with
men and you see that all the time these
huge margins but I mean I just think
that women are going to be more
motivated I mean I just don't I just
don't think it's gonna be closed and you
can see that also in the the stats you
were talking about some stats and early
voting that's like in in Georgia the
early voting stats are like I think it
was 56 to 44 I mean they were just
astounding so I mean I I think the
national numbers maybe it reflects the
point that you know a lot of rule men
yeah are gonna vote for Trump and
they're gonna run up the score just like
that's what happened in California right
sort of the opposite of yeah it's quite
possible in states that are so red
turnout is is a little bit depressed but
I can tell you that the 19th district
got a couple of 19th district voters
here with us today was the district that
Zephyr Teachout ran in 2014 and lost to
Faso and the Mercer's dumped about seven
million dollars into that race and my
understanding is I am NOT I'm not aware
of them doing that again this time and I
don't know yeah it's hard for it's hard
for a Republican you know mega donors to
compete with with all the the money
that's being brought in just by
individual donors I mean it's it's I
mean that's that's one of the reasons
why a lot of people are saying well you
know as you see the clothes the the
generic ballot tightened a little bit
and it's it's not tightening that much
isn't it very slightly tightening I mean
in fact of you know it's 9.1 right now
on on 538 and I think that that's more
than enough to easily win but you know
they just can't compete I mean most of
these candidates in the into the last
two weeks have had more money than
Republicans despite all the mega donors
I mean it's people power politics versus
a you know oligarchical politics and
people the people are winning and
hopefully they'll win tomorrow well
we'll see John do you have any thing
more II wanna we'll talk to you mom
okay I mean you know just some of the
the districts that are more moderate
that you were talking about you're
talking about moderate or moderate
Republicans like Brian Fitzpatrick and
Mindy's district the first District
callers Cabello and in the the 20 was it
the 26th district of Florida you know in
the district at Clinton won by 16 to
cover 7 Miami and the suburbs I mean
those are just a few of the moderates
most of these people aren't running
against moderates they're running
against like like Baldur's and people
like that you know who are extreme I
mean that's most of the Republican Party
is what you well know so I mean so
that's so that makes it a lot easier in
my opinion for for people to distinguish
the differences appreciate the call John
all right thank you
stay cacophonous and it is
yeah neither cacophonous or minutia are
spelled correctly words are spelled its
kack kack ofus cacophony in minuti but
it's like it's like he's like he's in
code or something I favored I favored
his pin tweet so people can go to my
Twitter feed and then and find it and it
really is like it's the mean if if you
were trying to come up with a name that
woods gonna keep people from barrage in
you on Twitter that would probably be
what you would do
we had a listener who sent in let's play
this kids pretty funny listener Brian
let's say is a whole name but sent in a
video as you know we have an ongoing
challenge with steven crowder and oh
yeah here it is a Brian McAllister he
shot this this or he edited this video
here it is like to think that I mean
it's really hard to get leftist guests
on our show that's just a reality we try
and book them doesn't think there's a
rape culture I usually do try and get
into an engagement of ideas ideas
Crowder interesting you know now that
we're talking about steven crowder three
or four months ago I was invited to
Politico
when they asked me if I would come I
said yeah I will if I can debate someone
now of course I threw out Dave Rubin and
I was folding he's not coming comedy
should start kicking in and so I said
Crowder and the people like great and it
all looked good and I was told that
steven crowder literally stopped
responding to their emails yes pretty
sure the quote was somebody got cold
feet
I am issuing you a challenge to debate I
will host you on any time any platform
any way to debate really the question
that steven crowder should ask is Alexa
is do I have the fortitude seaters
no you are not courageous enough to the
face of middle-aged Jew who likes facts
and figures you are a coward Steven I
know you are watching or hearing this
and everybody else knows it too there's
no way you're not aware that I've issued
this challenge now you knew it was
coming
when you backed out a politican because
you were afraid of debating me and here
it is Steven we'll see you soon maybe
I'm speaking out of turn here but you
can where you're not gay t-shirt and you
can have an opening statement right
you'll let him have the opening
statement I'm assuming oh sure
that's fantastic
you got a responder you're done I mean
look it doesn't hear that Stephen
Crowder is pretending like he's not
aware of this and I know that he is
aware of this I I out of respect for
someone who knows that he's aware of
this and does not want me to let's just
put it this way I know that he's aware
of this and he is just pretending like
he's not seeing it and that's the plan
so here is my my trying to address
members of Stephens audience look you've
admired this guy he has claimed to be
out there you know wanting to debate
ideas and he goes to college campuses
and you know finds 19 20 year-olds who
are who are young and still forming
their opinions and and probably not
adept at the the issues understandably I
don't think that I was at 19 or 20 I
don't know if Stephen was maybe he was
maybe he was but you as an audience
member
more than anyone else you would want to
see Stephen hand it to me in a debate
embarrass me show how much change your
mind maybe changed my mind
in his parlance it is very important
that you tweet at Stephen you can tweet
it both of us and say it's time for a
debate and so because I don't want you
as an audience member of Stephens to
watch him and every time you watch him
you think why is this guy running from
Sam cedar what what is he really just
full of it is he really that afraid I
don't want to ruin your experience of
Stephen in that way
and now when you watch him you'll
probably be thinking that and I want
that to end I want you to be able to
watch steven crowder and feel proud
about it instead of feeling like you're
watching something dirty because if
you're gonna watch if you're gonna feel
like you watch something dirty you might
as well watch something dirty
instead of that so I'm sorry that is my
that is my interesting lane there well
that's I just I just don't want to ruin
the experience of watching steven
crowder when his audience will have to
know the guy is sort of a fraud
so implore steven crowder to respond to
my challenge just watch porn thank you
meanwhile there was apparently
conservatives were someone played a mean
joke on them now as you are aware the
walk away thing wait didn't what the big
walk away event happened well wasn't am
I supposed to be so huge yes that thing
was a sort of washout so they switched
to blogs it Oh
so they rolled walk away into blogs it
yeah and blogs it blew up because
apparently they used Kanye's name
without really being associated and
Candace Owens grifted Kanye a bit too
hard okay that he designed the blogs at
logo and Kanye is like I didn't do that
and now I see that my my talents are
being used to spread messages I don't
agree with so everyone's upset at
Candace Owens for ruining the
spokesperson had there well that's
that's too bad
but fortunately for those conservatives
who were looking for a blessed hero they
had reformed Republican
her name was chickpeas and she wrote on
Twitter I will not hide any longer the
left has made us feel as if as if black
Republicans should hide
but not anymore hashtag blacks for Trump
hashtag walk away
hashtag Mogga in fact she was wearing a
Mogga hat
and then she posted that on last week on
October 27th I guess maybe we can half
ago and then four days after that on
Halloween she wrote thank you all so
much for your overwhelming support after
seeing this tweet my parents cut me off
and refused to pay my university tuition
so if you can find it in your hearts to
help this young black Republican pay for
school it would be appreciated and there
was a GoFundMe and there was some
reports that she had made over a hundred
and fifty thousand dollars her original
tweet got twenty four thousand likes and
eighty three hundred retweets and and
then of course you know Christmas ended
and it turns out she writes Kegel Queen
rights there's a black girl pretending
to be a to be a trump supporter and
imago folks have been sending her
donations since she produced a
fraudulent text of her parents kicking
her out and what is just JSK sks I don't
know actually
why do you all expose me baby teeing
hearted randomly right it's like ah and
then other people said it turns out it
was a fraud ladies and gentlemen she she
and there was um she did ultimately she
did ultimately cop to it she did post
this as a joke anyway has just ordered
my iPhone excess max y'all want some
from the Apple store and of course she
was joking it turns out she didn't
really raise much money at all her name
is uh well I'm not gonna give her name
cuz she's probably now going to get but
she wrote the next day hot take stealing
from Republicans isn't bad because
Republicans aren't people hey
she apparently just wanted to troll
people and she has to say that on the
phone Saturday Bryan Feldman from New
York magazine spoke to her she admitted
that she didn't raise much of anything
and that she'd refunded what she had
received that's between me and I really
yeah
asked for a ballpark figure she said I
didn't scam anybody the thing though I
didn't I just felt really weird about
taking their money this could go south
really fast I just decided to refund to
everyone and give their money back I
think it was maybe 200 bucks at that
point to get into character money I just
honestly didn't want to take their money
yeah I can't pay for school but I don't
want Republican money to pay for it just
want everyone to think I'm the finesse
Queen which I am you know we caught a
proof of concept and she she wanted to
use the attention to her advantage that
means she could she'd done it originally
just as a joke
and a lot of Republicans have this idea
that everyone thinks Republicans are
mostly racist and they're really
desperate to get that stigma off them
and I felt like capitalizing on that I
was at nine hundred likes and I told my
friend I'm gonna just I feel like this
is gonna blow up let's try and get some
money off these dumb rich Republicans
thus the go fund me was born but like
she said she didn't really do anything
and she somebody should start a GoFundMe
for her now yes good your more hoaxes Oh
venmo her right now there you go then
mission accomplished and then she can
turn around scammed all the
anarcho-capitalist if we can't get
reparations through officially maybe
this is a good way to go there you go
there you go let's go to the phones come
from two four zero area code who's this
where you come from
same about you yes
this is me who's this hey Vito from
Maryland hey good how you doing you know
what
your mind so last week I did my little
part to extend the tide of fascism I
voted early and here in Maryland it does
look like turnout is pretty pretty high
talk to one of the poll workers he said
on the very first day of early voting
and we're 40,000 people showed up
mountainous in this district where I
live so it's pretty that's pretty heavy
especially for midterm and then last
Tuesday I went to a Bernie Sanders get
out to vote rally with Ben Jealous and
did a little canvassing so I feel a bit
better but I wanted to speak a little
bit about some things I've noticed some
sort of mainstream Democrats here and
they're talking about they use the word
normal like you know when we get back
the House of Representatives things can
go kind of go back to normal and I don't
not sure we can go back to normal you
know the problem I think is that a lot
of these Republicans that are probably
going to lose are not the Trump iasts of
Republicans and therefore I think veto
that is exactly right people should be
and I made this point a couple of weeks
ago on his program but I'll reiterate it
first off the idea that the Republicans
fever is going to break we heard Barack
Obama make that argument in multiple
different ways if we take back the house
their fever will break if they get the
house their fever will break what's
going to happen is the people who lose
the vast majority of Republicans who
lose are going to be the most moderate
of Republicans they're going to be in
districts where they have had to sort of
temper their perspectives because
they're in purple districts so what
we're going to be left it with are the
Trump iasts
of the Trumpy Republicans you know
assuming the Democrats take the house
Zuma's the Democrat
win any elections so the insanity folks
is not going to end I mean this is the
way that I this is the metaphor I've
been using I appreciate the phone call
veto but it is as if you know was it
Jason from Friday the 13th it's coming
at you and if you have a baseball bat to
stop this guy
he doesn't become any less crazy it's
just that you have a baseball bat to
protect yourself he's still just as
crazy just gonna take his hockey mask
off and he's gonna say is this who I
really want to bet we exactly exactly
and so that's the dynamic that we're
dealing with here we slash up enough
sleepover parties and you think to
yourself is this really the legacy I
want to leave that is take off my hockey
mask and figure out if we can work
across the aisle let's go to the phones
come from a 508 area code who's this
where you come from it's me yes it is
you hello this is uh with the Mike Mike
from Worcester Massachusetts so wait
what's up with the Mike yeah how you
doing who's the first-time caller
fairly long timeless in a couple years
now sexually I just wanted to talk about
your I guess it was last week somebody
called in and actually I think you were
off Sam but somebody called in and said
I can't remember exactly her arguments
was essentially that the rest of the
crew there sort of adds distractions to
the to the leftist agenda of the order
of the program I don't know if those
guys remember it but I think she got
into it a little bit with Jamie over no
need to talk about capitalism so much
because everybody's on the same page did
this happen well but anyway it was I
thought in Thursday okay
yeah last Thursday so anyway the reason
why I was calling was a couple of years
ago I started getting into alternative
media and I only listen to right-wingers
and the reason was I'm hardcore left
have been for years now and I was like I
gotta understand that arguments I got to
see where they're coming from but what I
realize is that they don't really have
any arguments and what they have is a
bunch of talking points that are just
really straw man they think themselves
if you will and so I just wanted to kind
of give props out to Jamie because I
think it's great that she brings in a
much harder left perspective but I also
want to give a shout out to all you guys
because I've learned more about our side
of the arguments and the conversations
from your show then I ever did so I'm
trying to listen to both sides that feel
well and so with this I hope steven
crowder calls you up and no he's not
going to but I hope he does because I'd
love to see you wipe the floor with him
just like you did with Charlie Kirk and
I guess that's all I got to say so
thanks man keep up the good work man
congratulations on the whoa socks I
don't call them the whoo sacks I call
them the whoa socks yes and I know
you're going home in a couple of weeks
so I don't actually have my live in
Nebraska right now so I live in flyover
country I'm ready to go out and vote for
Carly Sam and I glad you guys are given
or some some voice out there to do I
don't hear much about her on the
national media so yeah I think it's the
the polls aren't looking great but it
you know what you also don't hear about
is the amount of money that's been
dumped into her to the Republican side
in that race I mean and it is amazing
they're making that she's making them
spend that kind of money there but
hopefully she'll get another bite at the
Apple but I appreciate the call Mike
well thanks here's a question for you
here's a quick question for you why does
everyone think Nancy Pelosi on the right
I can understand why we didn't like her
all that much school why does everyone
think she's so evil on the right I mean
I
the ads against Kara Eastman it's
literally like this lurking Nancy Pelosi
in the background it's like she's like
the Grim Reaper's fanny well there it's
really weird it's been a long time well
first off Nancy Pelosi started years ago
she was more progressive than she is
today right she was a member of the
progressive caucus but you got to
remember the legacy here is that she's
from San Francisco and ten years ago 10
10 12 years ago
the president United States wanted to
got on national television said I want
to propose an amendment to change the
Constitution so that gay people can't
get married I mean we are not that far
out it sort of fell off a cliff on some
level but 10 15 years ago you know they
couldn't stop talking about San
Francisco politics and that was code for
gay people and so there was a legacy
built there I mean on some level it's
really just like there's still vestiges
of that you know they did it with Obama
it didn't work very well like they could
talk about Chicago style politics nobody
knows what that means
honestly they you know and it's just
it's a much older cohort that had any
sense of it anyways I mean right well it
does but not necessarily I don't think I
not know more so than any other city I
mean I think Chicago style politics were
supposed to be like old democratic mafia
mafia and okay and control but no I
think it was supposed to be more like
daily daily Capone but it's just
organized crime in people's minds
corrupt corrupt Paul well then it became
the gun violence thing maybe I was even
a second much little racial dog
whistling going on there - possibly well
there always is because there's the
connection of crime with I mean that's
what that's DeSantis is closing argument
against Andrew gillum's that he's an
organized crime figure and it isn't just
because of the FBI investigation they
always try to make black politicians
criminal
that's the game anyways Mike that's what
I think it is with Pelosi they're also
these people here arms in their brains
like don't underestimate that the kind
of mush brained baby boomer who watches
Fox News and follows Q and on and will
tag Nancy Pelosi the DNC and me in the
same tweet is probably not firing on all
cylinders that's a really good point
actually
Thanks so yeah it's crazy they're always
talking in codes I mean it's everything
is like this coded language and strawman
attacks and they don't actually ever
even come up come up with any
information or any they don't get back
it up with anything it's always just
some coded thing of trying to get people
to react I guess it's kind of like
advertising I guess hey thanks guys for
everything you guys do I love listening
to you guys I'm really glad I got to get
through on the call it's rare for me to
even be able to to call into the show so
I really appreciate it less is best I
appreciate the call yeah Worcester
Worcester rocks
represent I wish I had a iroc-z card
award that guy didactical cracker Mike
I'm so psyched to hear you'll cover
election night live tomorrow and TM BS
are you planning any special guests any
crew or maybe just Sam Pease breath yeah
Sam we'll stop by what happened is the
Republicans talk about cultural issues
when they were in power at a minimum
just wanted to say utopian ideas serve
as a good basis to build coalitions off
and off of and I appreciate Jamie
espousing them left his best Thank You
Emma here's my Medicare for all
implementation question what will
prevent employers from pocketing the
amount they currently set aside from
workers paychecks and then the workers
incur additional taxes for Medicare on
their base pay for example when I was
hired my contract said my job cost my
employer $80,000 but I get $60,000 in
salary with one quarter of my pay
in quotations going to benefits why
wouldn't my employer keep that 20,000
under the new system so that now my
health cost taxes will come out of the
remaining 6dk I'm convinced I'm a
hundred percent in favor of Medicare for
all
but I'm not convinced people won't be
hurt by employers taking advantage of
the switch it's not like they'll start
paying me the full amount of my contract
I mean that's a good question I think
one of the things is is that there will
be other employers who will also have
that extra money and they will start to
use it to compete for workers some of
that money will go towards taxes that
they will have to pay on their end but
some of that money will also undoubtedly
go because all the employers cannot make
the agreement they will one will break
and then once one breaks I think I think
they'll that money will be kicked back
yeah employer sponsored health care
began right partially as a result of a
cap on ginning up salaries to attract
workers right at a time when the federal
government was scared of inflation so
hopefully maybe that competition will
start kicking in and they'll have to
compete with salaries again in the same
way who knows there may also mately be a
need for some type of government
incentive to that like we know that your
savings are X and you'll pay a tax
penalty so you might as well give it to
your employer employee JJ Kona C John
from San Antonio added to the joint
majority report anti Fattah literary
hangover election coverage he was
already there how is he not gonna be
there roaming mi remember my brother is
a huge Crowder fan can you make that
Crowder song available for download that
would make my Thanksgiving amazing I
tweeted about what the the video video
yep California uber Ollie's I signed up
for a hunter-killer and all I got was a
mug a bomb left has been Elvin
left this benevolent command Oh what's
up mr crew hey Sam you know how you said
that Obama didn't know who he was
dealing with Republicans I would add to
that that the left in general hasn't
known what it was dealing with the past
three or four decades because the right
has managed to hedge its power in so
many ways so when the midterms are over
then what well the one thing I have to
say is that and I haven't dug too far
into it but on Pelosi's agenda is voting
rights and it seems to me the Democrats
can reinstate can vote to reinstate
section five formula in the Voting
Rights Act and this is gonna be a very
difficult thing for senators to vote
against because the Senate ratified this
in 2007 and that's gonna be a big deal
now the DOJ is gonna sign off on a lot
of these voting changes anyways under
Obama under Trump I think maybe they
could reject them but it's a big deal in
that regard Sam's tinder profile
hey girl swipe right will you be my date
to the polls tomorrow I want to lower
the age of Social Security gone from a
seven five seven area code who's this
where you come from this is Sebastian
from Florida can you hear me yes
Sebastian I can hear you what is on your
mind
I was wondering what do you think about
the term liberal media do you think it's
true that the media are liberal or in I
mean what do you think I mean I think
that I would say probably the majority
of individuals who work in the media I
would say would probably if they were to
admit what you know their ideology was
would refer to themselves as as as
liberal
that doesn't mean that what the product
they put out is liberal I think frankly
there's a lot of reason to believe that
a lot of those people overcompensate so
you end up seeing stuff like in the New
York Times in reporting on the bombing
or the attempted bombing of 12 people
these are what the 12 people who receive
bombs said about Donald Trump like that
is a very weird construct right like
like as if you're like they desert so
the I don't think the product of the
media is particularly liberal although
like it depends on what the right is
defining as liberal at any given time
you know like I I think is it classical
liberalism or is it uh well I guess
liberalism I don't think that the the
right has a definitional set of what
that constitutes I think it is you know
whatever it is in that era it could be
like two pro-immigrant it could be they
want to they're too pro welfare or
something I mean I don't I think the
word liberal means something different
let's say between Jamie's perspective on
what the word is
and what Sean Hannity's perspective on
the word is yeah I agree I have one more
question uh what do you think of what
was I going to say
so Dave Rubin will is there gonna be a
debate between you and Dave Rubin or is
he too afraid yes he's still free yeah
but let me just not yo-yo let me just
say this in case Dave's watching I think
Dave's a really smart guy and we should
treat it more respectfully there you go
pre-show calls today right
I disagree with it but that was no
reason to demean his intellect or
anything like that no no nothing I'm
sorry I'm just congested or congestion
come for one to area code who's this
four one two four one two going once
see yes it is me yes from Long Beach
number from Pittsburgh but I live in
Long Beach how's it going Austin from
Long Beach what's on your mind
Oh first of all congrats with the Red
Sox as a longtime Browns fan I know how
that feels to go very long time without
any success so that's well I mean the
Red Sox have had quite a bit of success
over the past ten years but go ahead Oh
brown town with the browser dominated in
the early days but there's yeah and
anyways I just wanted to give you guys a
cog them up this is the first time
caller a long time listener and I wanted
that a voice of concern that I've had
that I wanted to get your guys's take on
given what's been going on for the past
couple of weeks months and years as
we've seen the kind of rise of white
nationalism and by extension you know
the hints of fascism in America and
around the world with the midterms
coming up I have a big paranoid feeling
about the Trump administration and the
various you know tentacles that have
sprouted since his election if there is
a blue wave that sweeps the midterms
we'll dissonance tration find a way to
somehow undermine it as they're already
doing in the lead up to it would to
undermine it you mean in terms of like
voter suppression like I mean you know
like extensively you know reject it not
accept the results I I think there'll be
an attempt to make it seem like the
outcome was illegitimate but I don't
think they're going to you know I don't
think we're at the point now where we're
dissolve the Congress or something like
I don't think operation faithful Patriot
is like no I don't go but listen I think
there are other the Democrats opposed
enough of a threat for them to even do
that that's not where we're at
institutionally yet and I don't think
that the military is actually on board
with that and I'm not any type of you
know right person to praise the military
but let's be real like the Bailey's
could tell Chuck Schumer like I don't
actually the Bailey's told me to
dissolve the Senate and I'm here the
party has been been very weak and I
don't think it might necessarily call
the route I don't think I don't think
that's gonna happen but I think that
look you know when you see the amount of
voter suppression that has been
institutionalized over the past five or
six years in the wake of what the
Supreme Court did to the Voting Rights
Act you know on some level that's that
is a form of what you're talking about
right it's it's it's a different form
right it's yeah it's it's it's so but I
mean we're seeing things kind of gearing
up with you know Kavanagh one of his
first you know real action there's a
Supreme Court justice was undermining
you know indigenous people's voting
rights in the Dakotas so that's already
they're coming off swinging yeah yeah
but like I say like that is you know
that they haven't made that that that
leap yet but I appreciate the call
thanks John and the ironic thing is if
the GOP wins more those results will be
illegitimate because we know all the
 that they've been pulling I mean
they're I
it'll be I haven't seen data to this
effect but I would imagine the
percentage of eligible voters is down
over the past three or four years for
the first time maybe in the history
since the Voting Rights Act
and there has been a consistent effort
to disenfranchise tens of thousands of
voters ostensibly because of voter fraud
and there are almost thus there's the
same amount of people in our studio
today as confirmed cases of of people
voting illegally how many millions of
people in our studio so many millions
there's literally caravans already let's
go call him from a six-30 area code
who's this where he come from Shalom in
the home this is David the white one
Muslim from Chicago
David the white boy Muslim from Chicago
what's on your mind buddy out of
here white boy well I just had the I had
I kind of had anecdotal evidence I guess
for what John from San Antonio was
talking about before where my parents
are suburban Republicans who they
they're they're really annoyed with
federal Republicans for for backing up
Trump and stuff but they're still
playing in voting for a Republican
governor which I'm trying to talk him
out of but it's all I guess one of the
things when I'm not very good debater so
whenever I'm talking about sometimes
we'll be like oh well I work with
government I know it's inefficient or
whatever you know so I you and the
recommendations for how to push back on
that what that I work for government and
it's inefficient yeah yeah well I don't
know they work on responder Tom joke
well no I have they worked in a major
company like I mean the the the amount
of when people see inefficiency in the
context of corporate culture they're
like this is a benefit this is like a
bonus right like the inefficiency means
like I get to work less and or I'm
getting you know that's the the there's
no in other words there's no difference
between huge enterprise
that is private and one is the public
maybe there's some differences but in
terms of like in efficiency for instance
Medicare spends about two cents of every
dollar on administrative costs whereas
the private health insurance industry
spends about 20 cents of every dollar
that's not efficient the US Postal
Service is a complete wonder nothing can
come even close to what the US Postal
Service does that is why Amazon hires
the post office to deliver a ton of
their packages and they would never ever
go do someone's rural you know deep
royal stuff for 40 cents mm-hmm you know
what FedEx is not gonna send anything
you know into the you know away from a
major city for 40 cents they're not
gonna do it for anywhere but I mean they
would never send a letter for 40 cents
it's not worth it to them I mean these
are wonders the you know people malign
the DMV but more often than not yeah you
got to go and wait for a half an hour
you know but the amount of people that
it's serving is incredible there's just
nothing it go you want to compare go
check out your cable service go return
your cable box you want to talk about
the efficiency of the pry of you know
it's just it just so happens that
government handles the the most
complicated difficult stuff the VA for
instance take the VA the VA is a massive
enterprise and it is it gets very good
grades from people who use VA services
it is far more efficient and desert in
delivering health care but understand
that the health care that the VA
provides is so specified and so atypical
because they are dealing with
people who have been purposely put into
the worst situations you can for mental
and physical health and so they deal
with traumas that normal doctors don't
see that normal hospitals couldn't
possibly take care of they deal with
psychological issues that civilian
populations just don't deal with and yet
they do it mm-hmm and short of some very
well publicized problems in some
specific places get very good grades
from its patients and when they get
assessed in terms of the work they do in
terms of outcomes give very good
rankings and this is all you can look
this up and you know print it out and
give it to your relatives but you're
talking about a massive undertaking and
it is when we talk about government
provided healthcare that's the only time
where you have a government takeover of
health care is for the most difficult
patient group in the country that's our
vets so you know those are examples of
that not to mention social security
which is basically poverty insurance for
your old age and or obviously orphan and
survivor insurance that is incredibly
effective
it keeps 2/3 of our population out of
poverty I mean there's there's failures
there's a lot of regulatory failures
because mmm the obstacles are funded or
whatever well there is the private
industry who's who's trying to fight the
regulation yeah but you know we don't
you know you can compare it to like
compare you know rates of like of
contagious diseases you know etc etc you
know there if government was more
involved in vaccine you know for
instance like there was a lime I you
know because of my time upstate I know a
lot of people
Lyme disease I was talking to a guy the
other day who had Lyme disease for a
long time and he was telling me still
has arthritis from it
there was a Lyme vaccine that was
produced like 20 years ago only at about
a 70% success rate which is actually not
bad
it's not great it's not bad too
expensive for them they took it off the
market they weren't making enough money
now
that's super efficient right like profit
mode but if the government was more
involved in that it would be pretty
efficient to not have hundreds of
thousands of people contract Lyme every
year maybe it's more so appreciate the
call hmm Thanks
Thanks maybe if white people then screw
everything up government work a little
bit more efficiently devil there you go
that's true Islam
yeah we've also got giant houses and
buildings sitting empty while people are
homeless on the streets and Jeremy
Corbyn was talking about expropriating
some of those and using them to house
people who need it so that's pretty cool
and and that's not as you can redefine
efficiency right well that is quite
efficient to do yeah I mean there are
some instances where the private
industry can be more efficient but
that's because it's less democratic
right like if I don't want to pay a fair
wage and I don't care about unions and I
don't care about the environmental
impact of what I'm building or how it's
going to hurt other people's property
values around me or their way of life or
whether I caused kids to have birth
defects or people to get cancer
I can much more efficiently move through
you know any project right so it's just
not even the right frame for talking
about government as far as I'm concerned
but but it
premise sidequest but it's also it's not
the it's not the right frame it is it is
people have to understand what that
means in the context of private business
and of just any endeavor it is far more
efficient to not include the concerns of
everyone around you to do something
right I mean just in any endeavor what
it is the most efficient way for me to
walk down a busy sidewalk is to bowl
people over but that you know that's
just the reality of it but that's not so
great for the people get bowled over it
spends sorry
just being efficient sorry just not
being politically correct I don't have
time for political correctness exactly
to worry about your concerns
folks I saw a report from CNN
it blew my mind I was I was in South
Carolina for a wedding this weekend and
so CNN was the only thing available at
the hotel and I saw this report and it
was the the host on the show was like
we're gonna show you images from Yemen
of children starving to death and it's
heartbreaking and etc etc and I was like
oh good this is good the American public
needs to know our role in what's going
on there and how devastating it is I
mean the UN has been warning us now for
a couple of months and really I mean
this has been going on for months and
months and months but I think there was
another report just like less than a
couple of weeks ago that said we are
right on the cusp it may be even too
late to stop one of the greatest
humanitarian crises crises that we've
seen in generations in Yemen and it is
because of the Saudi war and blockade
basically being waged on Yemen
and they are able to do this for one
reason and that is because we enable
them we enable them with logistic
support logistical support with armament
support look we're not even just we're
not turning a blind eye to this we are
literally making it possible for them to
do this and so I'm watching this report
and the closest they came and horrible
images of individual children completely
starving to death like sitting on a
medical table they can't even roll the
kid over on his back because of the pain
from malnutrition and they're talking
about how heartbreaking this is and the
only thing that they the only reference
in this like five minute report was at
one point they said the saudi-led
us-backed coalition that was it
just those words were the only words
that basically would indicate to the
American public Oh incidentally you have
the ability to end this almost
immediately now the story was also
pegged on mattis saying that they have
30 days to try and wrap this up
it was pretty weak tea particularly when
you see this from a donald trump as to
his regret in selling armaments the
saudis now understand the Obama
administration followed the same course
they didn't enable it as much they did
it supposedly in retrospect and I don't
know how you would assess this as
supposedly they thought like Oh
constructive engagement if we're part of
this we can maybe hold them back and
they did supposedly have some shackles
on the amount of civilian control and
they thought it would put them in a
position to prevent something like this
but it's two years
later and the Trump administration just
went just did what the Obama
administration did but with no
restraints whatsoever
here is a Donald Trump sitting down with
Jonathan Swain and Jim VandeHei for that
Axios program let's talk about foreign
policy big issue what do you make of the
situation in Yemen right now I think
it's a terrible situation I hated seeing
what happened with the bus and the
children because that's pure it's a
horror show when you see a thing like
that you saw the bus well I was gonna
ask you because I mean I know you know
you're very proud of the arms deal you
did with the Saudis but that was a
us-made bomb
no it wasn't operated by you as people I
know I've been like it's the same reason
that weapons are people are the best
operators in the world so does that
bother you when they use an American
like a weapon
Jonathan bothers not strong enough that
was basically people that didn't know
how to use the weapon which is horrible
would you ever stop selling them arms if
this continues if you keep saying I
don't want to see that that is a
terrible thing what's going on in Yemen
generally is a terrible thing and we're
gonna see and we're looking at Yemen
very carefully right now we are actually
studying Yemen very very carefully how
easily it is probably right now the
worst place on earth yeah UN says that
do us right okay well I I didn't know
the UN said it but I say how would you
handle it differently if you were the
South I I'll be talking about a lot of
things with the Saudis but certainly I
wouldn't be having people that don't
know how to use the weapons shooting at
buses with children the Defense
Department plus it for one second I mean
this is if it wasn't so tragic it would
be sort of funny to watch a guy who
clearly doesn't know what he's talking
about talking about like manin look they
know how to use the weapon so I'm gonna
remind everybody of what they said about
that bus bombing which is our bad we
thought somebody was in there that
didn't turn out to be in there right
they were not in other words not they
were shaving for the bus right and we
knew kids were there it's just that the
the target that the kids would have been
worth sacrificing for didn't turn out to
be in the bus so our bad
so so this story of them not knowing how
to use the weapons first of all it's a
lie
second of all if that was the case then
that's exactly why you would use as an
excuse that we're not gonna sell it to
you anymore because you don't know how
to use the minutes killing civilians but
but but again understand he's focusing
on this one story cuz he knows about it
he may or may not know apparently he's
not aware that the UN said we're on the
cusp of a massive massive humanitarian
crisis in terms of the deaths of tens of
thousands of children more hundreds of
thousands from starvation but continue
the Defense Department says it does not
make tactical targeted decisions but
does improve their targeting quote from
malice I will tell you that we do help
them plan what we call kind of targeting
the defense secretary Geoff we teach
them how to use the equipment but that
doesn't mean obviously not good enough
yeah I'm not happy about it I'm not
happy about it but we'll see what
happens with Yemen when Congress in the
last defense bill they included a clause
that required Pompeo the Secretary of
State to certify that Saudi Arabia and
the UAE were doing enough to avoid
harming civilians now remember about a
year or two ago shortly after Trump came
in office he relaxed the rules on
attacking civilians in Yemen that we had
passed on to the Saudis so you
immediately saw more civilian casualties
so Pompeyo had to provide that
certification shortly after the bought
the bus bombing Pompeo provided the
certification that said that they were
doing enough to reduce the risk of harm
to civilians and civilian infrastructure
resulting from these military operations
of these governments that is a quote
from Pompeo he also said that ending the
war in Yemen was a national security
priority in the United States would
continue working with the Gulf allies to
pursue peace talks
we could end it like this by simply
saying no more weapons we're just not
gonna sell you the bombs any we're gonna
refuel you in air either that's another
major part of how they're able to do
this and there's not a lot of options
for them unless they want to wreak
ompletely retool their entire military
they don't have a military they have a
lot of gadgets from us but yeah exactly
they don't they have jets and fighters I
mean they need us so we have leverage in
other words let's go to the AIIMS
callin from nebraska TM BES approaching
corporatist status with a effing sellout
of its live event doe how can media
continue to say the economy is better
and not at the same time report how
Trump and family and Republicans are
gutting the Treasury what's a good two
sentences that aren't snarky I could use
to describe Jordan Peterson to someone
who's been reading his stuff but not
attached to him mystic charlatan he
little snarky preneur not snarky at all
I think you you could say that he is
misguided self-help author selling
misogyny in the guise of of enhancing
young men's self-esteem and has also
found a convenient I think to attach his
ship to sort of soft conservatism in
some way that is not well thought out
Jabby
Kegel Queen how can I be a jester in
that court Mitch from Houston Pelosi ads
are all over Texas to just tell Trump
that Yemen was Obama's idea John from
San Antonio forgot to mention if people
want to follow my alt Twitter account
it's just John from San Antonio but
first you need to translate it into
Sanskrit
is that true
and our GTA we protested Steve Bannon
speaking last night in Toronto on the
police pepper sprayed us and arrested a
bunch of us Jesus Patriot gay are that
sexy very proud boy Joey Gibson and his
 tiny are planning another rally at
City Hall in Portland Oregon with his
wide-eyed Jesus freaks on November 17th
counter protesters are encouraged to
turnout retcon you and Janine were on
Morning Joe in 2005 not morning Joe it
was Scarborough country at that time you
were both badasses and my favorite part
was when Janine called Scarborough a
propagandist I looked it up in
celebration of your show's birthday
happy birthday mr you and Janine rah
thank you very much Congressional
baseball fan as we prepare to enter the
offseason it's important that we keep
the hot stove hot and Americans engaged
with the election tomorrow I feel the
slogan blue wave has lost speed please
feel free to use the much more engaging
bases-loaded play ball America attorney
Andrew very happy that Sam finally took
my advice to do a dumb-dumb left show as
I have been pushing for at least two
years remember I am the an ideas man
I'm also very humble to Emma's question
about Medicare for all it's a win win
let's say your employer pockets the full
savings from no longer having to pay for
your private insurance directly under
Bernie's bill your insurance will be
better under Medicare for all because
you'll be able to pick your doctor you
will have no deductibles you will have
no co-pays and dental and vision will be
covered though it's unlikely for all
employers to simultaneously sit on the
windfall forever especially smallish
businesses yes but presumably the
argument is that she's making is that
yes my Medicare for all will be cheaper
but what what will the money that I paid
for
for all those deductibles and
co-payments be relative to the to the
taxes that will be increased to pay for
that Medicare for all for that
individual that that's the question and
it's a legitimate question
but I think there are definitely fixes
for it none of this stuff is you know
can't know how that employer will react
and it's very contextualized like I say
if there's two people in that same
business or you're you know they're
gonna have to step up because the other
person's gonna offer that some of that
money to their employees yeah they're
still gonna have to compete in various
ways for workers right and like this is
another thing I just thought of I know
not everyone's in a union but healthcare
is such a big part of union negotiations
right now and if that were taken off the
table they could focus more on
negotiating salaries and control and
stuff like that communist dog can super
engineer Matt come up with a jingle for
Election Day we should have we should
get some it's a stock like we do a
package you go ball everybody's on the
money with Chicago style politics
primarily it means downward distribution
of power through wards and ward bosses
who can use be used to control electors
through contracts and jobs call from a
two one five area code who's this where
he come from
it's a shame from Billy Shane from
Philly what's on your mind
yeah I wanted to take you back off of
what you were talking about earlier with
uh Nancy Pelosi and how the demonization
of her is kind of a vestige of old
homophobia associated San Francisco I
think that a big problem with the way
most Americans view politics today is
that we're blinded by this American
exceptionalism and and in short really
not as aware to global trends as I think
we should be and I think a really great
example of that is Roy Moore and the way
that he's kind of brought I said we used
to think of as kind of just ideas
specific to Russia maybe and Ukraine and
some other places where they've had
influence but like the idea that George
Soros is sexual and some nature
is is very much a component of fascism
itself and this this manifesto from this
extremist holy war guy you know it's uh
III feel like we have to pay more
attention to the way this is all one
story on almost every level of detail
and I think that will really help our
messaging in the future Q and just to
get a clearer vision of what a
health taper in so thanks for the time
and go on thanks Shane come from an
eight four seven area code who's this
where you come from
hey it's Josh from strata hello Josh
from Chicago what's on your minds
I'm canvassing right now by the way I'm
taking a little break from canvassing so
I just want to say that I'm being a good
patient patriotic scissors I know some
people are gonna be doing voter
protection tomorrow
and if you are call in tomorrow you know
we're gonna we're going to be talking to
Sean miquellee in the first part of the
show and then we'll just open it up
he'll probably do a short one as people
are out there and then you know return
later for the night but how is it going
where are you canvassing Josh Bay Ridge
actually no I'm sorry
Gravesend I'm trying to flip Marty
golden seat who Marty golden is a racist
 who probably should be in jail
but um and Rogan artist at the candidate
it's not very civil Josh how's it
looking out there Josh pretty good I
think they have a good shot I think
Bouldin is largely gotten in because
there hasn't been much pressure to him
yep and I think now there's a real
serious challenger and his past has come
to light in a way that hasn't before and
also this Challenger is actually very
progressive and people now know the
difference between a Democrat and the
Republican as an artist as campaigning
on things like near kalfa
and rent control and you know things
that would signify to the average voter
oh yeah there's a there's a difference
you know there's something I can do by
voting let's queue no all right Josh
appreciate the update I can I just can I
can I call can I talk quickly about two
races yeah you guys remember that wet
blanket John Asif yep
so Lucy Macbeth has a real chance in
that mystery kenneth karen handel i
think largely because she's campaigning
on something which is gun control yep
and the polling is looking pretty good
flips out she lost her her child right
yes I can't remember the circuit she
wants a child but it was gun buyers
right yeah I was gonna say lence so : is
looking good on that it shows that if
you run on something besides the deficit
you might actually be able to flip
voters also Jeff King in Pennsylvania
I was foam baking for her earlier or
yesterday I think she has a real shot
she's flipping these normal Republican
voters who have not woken up to the fact
that Republicans want to rob them of
their social safety net and I think
especially with the dairy farm crisis
that's going on with massive
corporations taking over sort of
mom-and-pop or small dairy farm I think
she's she's speaking to that she has a
really good shot at flipping that and
also liz watson in district 9 in indiana
another very progressive candid and she
not only is she running on medicare for
all but she's also not playing into some
traditional dog whistling that i think
some candidate in swing districts like
to do especially when it comes to
immigration and so if the young voters
come out in indiana if you are an IU
student or a student in Indiana and can
vote in that district please do because
they actually could make a difference
than flip it so are you guys doing the
show tomorrow afternoon we're doing one
at noon
for a little bit and then we'll be back
at around eight ish okay I'll call and
talk about the McCaskill race tomorrow
because I'm a former Missouri resident
very cosmopolitan appreciate the call
buddy come from a 585 area code who's
this where he called from hey this is
Annie
I'm calling from Canandaigua New York
how's it going good how you doing any
good so I just wanted to quick to talk
about strategy for I hate to say it but
for 2020 we actually pretty long game
before we get there but so I'm really
big for Bernie I you know I did all the
things that you need to do to try and
get somebody elected for Bernie and you
didn't work out but I think that in a
lot of ways we're really missing the
boat
if we don't throw ourselves completely
in with Elizabeth Warren and hear me out
hear me out I know there is a there the
cultural zeitgeist of democratic women
that we would ignore to our peril we
whistling past the graveyard by not
trying to put somebody in that is and
I'm sorry to say has at least the
qualification of being you know hourly
being female you know and being you know
feminine okay and what the first
gatekeeper is first hurdle to get over
is going to be is getting those women a
very large and vocal amount of women
behind us and in a coalition for
somebody who is very far to the left
like Elizabeth Warren comparatively to
the people that they will choose if we
don't choose someone they've already
been on board with all right Annie let
me let me here let me do this let me do
this don't let me let me let me just do
this let's let's table this conversation
right until after tomorrow and I'll tell
you why
not just because you know there's an
election tomorrow you know that what
precedes but but let me just let me just
finish right we will see tomorrow I
think tomorrow is going to show
just the strength of women in terms of
their voting power and I suspect that
the the argument that you're making is
going to be very similar to the argument
that Elizabeth Warren is literally gonna
make to Bernie Sanders or is going to
try and present because and I think you
know we will have a better sense of this
you know I know and I and I agree but
this is kind of more of a prediction
tonight and I really want to get out in
front of this by saying at least to the
Mr audience because you know we're a
tight-knit group if you if you think
that we should you know go full there
against is the about against a media
that is 100% against Bernie Sanders even
though he is the most popular and
well-liked politician of our time
hands down across the board everybody
likes the guy they they are the
gatekeepers to money and to an to
distribution of his message and honestly
they've already they've already sort of
made nicey-nicey with Elizabeth Warren
and if we don't pick somebody that
they've already been okay with in a way
guess who's gonna get some money it's
gonna go to a corporate you know hack
like like cory booker my hair i think
this is not right I understand your
argument let's have it
appreciate the call though let's have it
after the midterms and incidentally go
 yourself the mainstream media tried
the same thing with Corbin and it didn't
work
Bernie 2020 I think the money
I think the first blow whatever we're
not gonna talk right calling from a two
four zero area code who's this where you
come from we've got twenty two collars
on yeah yeah in the tie yellow hello
Esteban from Baltimore
Esteban from Baltimore what's in mine
oh man like so many things I mean I've
been on first along but one more thing I
just want to suggest and as the possible
guest to you and I'll try to email you
and actually don't know the gentleman's
name but in the professor from Morgan
State University Law School I believe
here in Baltimore and it's a he it's a
study of regarding kind of distribution
of demographically in Baltimore and
there's if you look at it on map it's
something that's kind of known as a
black butterfly and a white what is it a
white line or something there's sort of
a two sides of Baltimore that or Moute
are predominantly or more applicant
American more poor you know all the I
mean what I guess my big point is like
it sort of looks at the
intersectionality of education health
care poverty housing you know all and it
seems they're all kind of kind of rest
on housing and racial discrimination to
a large degree but there's there's just
this very distinct pattern you know in
these areas he's so into this best
so this guest that you're talking to
rely on their car decide public
transportation sorry yes the guest that
you're talking about they they did this
report or they've commented on it I
believe it's a paper that this professor
wrote and did we a got you ate well
anyway it was related to lawsuits that
were being against this company they
took advantage of the fact that people
in these areas are so reliant on their
cars and at the same time are extremely
poor so if the car breaks down they
don't have the option of another you
know they're at the mercy of whatever
auto shop is kind of accessible to them
near where they are and so they were
just from my understanding very
predatory and their practices and there
was a I think it was a successful kind
of a lawsuit against it it kind of made
me think of if you mass torts kind of
yeah I mean
okay great thanks and thank you so much
for all you guys do thank you
go boat all right we got time for one or
two more calls I'm sorry folks we got 22
callers on the phone on the line right
now if you have been hanging on the
phone for less than 45 minutes to an
hour we will not get to you calling from
a two one five area code who's this
hello hello yes this is Ryan outside
Philly apparently actually in Mindy's
district where we have this being said
that's gonna win again unfortunately um
maybe you know maybe you and Mindy
should have gotten together and done
something about this tweeting so no no I
know I wish so we talked a lot about
voting rights and stuff is there any
reason you would say that anyone should
not be allowed to vote because for me I
would probably argue that there's no
reason we should even have an age
restriction on 18 because it doesn't
there's no doesn't make any sense to me
lower it's a 16 yeah I I think I think I
would lower it to 17 I think you want
seniors in high school or whatever that
is I think you want seniors in high
school to vote because if seniors in
high school are voting that is going to
basically infect the rest of the high
school with this notion of like it's
gonna make them more aware would it
would I not want like you know younger
kids to vote I mean I don't know I guess
they would vote yeah I just think it
would be I mean I guess cuz the only
thing is that you'd say that they'd
probably go to the where their family is
what already we have so many people that
are stupid that don't are uninformed
anyway well no I mean I don't I wouldn't
have brought my kids but I think kids
would probably vote as their parents do
the problem is is that you would
probably get a disproportion of wealthy
kids being able to vote as opposed to
kids you know and so that I mean I you
know that's what strikes me I mean it
would probably be a wash if everybody
you know could vote just as easily as
everybody else but III don't think
there's something and I
so frankly I think I think you know the
fact is is that kids brains have not
developed and it's not that I'm worried
or that I mean just physiologically
there are certain and I wanted
Peter said part part of part of the way
that you know that you communicate that
to kids is that they don't have the same
responsibilities as as adults and you
know so like when a kid says like why
can't I drink a glass of bourbon tonight
dad you are it's because your brain have
not developed in the same way and it
will cause more physiological damage
well it's like a conversation that's
about to take place in ten years from
now with you and Saul just happening now
oh I love that
dad why Kevin you know if your kid
approaches you as a teenager with like
why can't I enjoy a nice nightcap of
bourbon maybe you should let them have
it
a tiny one now water one down for you
but I mean that I that's the only reason
but I think beyond that I'm with you but
I would say 17 I mean I would certainly
say everyone should be you know
guarantee the record anyway but yes
alright appreciate the call billionaires
shouldn't be like vote no yeah
billionaires you can't vote you already
got too much power take your choice
campaign contributions or vote pick your
speech no you can't do those either all
right yeah you just can't do anything
you're just gonna be killed you can't
join it a cell right here right
you can watch Jamie zero or six zero or
six zero or six six okay final call the
day it's from a two six nine area code
as opposed to a 2-0 something area code
who is this where you come from uh this
is Lawrence coming from Michigan
Lawrence in Michigan what's on your mind
um as a as a black progressive I find it
difficult to communicate with a lot of
my friends who are liberal about issues
that we should all agree on
um I don't understand where the
roadblock is with with some of my
constituents and I want to understand
and I want to ask why is it that when we
talk about why the when certain issues
are brought up like criminal criminal
justice reform and people will bring up
Chicago like it's like that's the only
place that black people live but people
are not talking about the cross sections
of gun control of talking about how
places that are full of corruption how
they fundamentally disenfranchised black
people not just black people but women
and other people of color I don't
understand where the disconnect is
coming from when I'm when I'm talking to
other liberals about about these issues
the latest conversation that I had was
about right-wing the right-wing
terrorists fighting terrorism in the
response that I got from some of the
people that I was talking to you were
saying that black people commit more
violence more gun violence per capita if
you look at crime and violence
statistics online and I wasn't
understanding where they were getting
this information from so I was just
trying to see if I could share some
light on on that issue so wait I I'm
unclear what you're what you're asking
you're saying that you had a
conversation you were talking about
[Music]
right-wing terrorism and we should just
say like let me just like to find that a
little bit more specifically in 2009 the
Department of Homeland Security said
that there is a growing problem with
domestic terrorism from the right from
like sovereign citizens and these type
of organizations there was a lot of
pushback from Republicans against that
report they dropped that report
the FBI has basically you know
totally but but his completely drained
resources from that pursuit because of
the Trump administration so when you're
talking about that right-wing terrorism
you're talking about like the shooter
like you know we've had probably what is
it almost been a dozen people in the
past month who have been arrested for
bombing plots I know we had some and I
think it was Kansas who were arraigned
who tried to use on their defense and
their sentencing that that Trump had
basically they had Trump syndrome or
whatever it was so wait so you're saying
you got really successful so you bring
that up with some of your friends
presumably white friends and they say
that's not a problem because there's
violence in Chicago basic no basically
the argument that that that ends up
happening is that they'll pull up some
statistic saying that if you look at
murders and just murders in general in
the United States that people of color
submit and commit more murders and per
capita you're saying I
yeah per capita and I'm I find it
difficult to convey to them that like
these are these are people who are
liberal but they but they're they're
they're strong second amendment stand
standing people which okay well look
which I III mean I don't know what your
what they're what they're trying to
argue I mean it's it's conceivable to me
that there may be that there there may
be it's conceivable to me it's per
capita there may be rights there may be
rates of gun violence that are higher
amongst African Americans it's
conceivable there's a lot of that
violence you know like is can be a
function of you know
like in Chicago a lot of that violence
is you know essentially drugs and it is
gang-related and and that is a function
of our drug laws and keeping people in
close quarters with poverty and sort of
systemic suppression of people but I
don't I mean if I was going to argue
about let's say you know stronger gun
safety laws
I would simply remind people that on any
given day there are multiple toddlers
who are shot or shoot someone with a gun
that's a problem that oh it's more than
once a week there's no doubt it's more
than once a week in this country I would
also say that providing limiting the
access of you know of hardcore weapons
will undoubtedly you know if you do it
nationally will undoubtedly lower the
amount of gun killings do you have
across the board we've seen that in
Australia I mean it's it's harder
obviously if you can get if you're
selling you know if people can cross
across state lines and get guns easier
or leave Chicago and get guns easier I
mean that it did you know sort of
there's a problem there but I'm not I I
can't explain why why your friends
respond the way they do they're racist
yeah no I didn't want to highlight right
there was a way of soft-pedaling that
your friends are terrible here's a thing
you could also bring up to them which is
that the Second Amendment as it
currently stands does not apply equally
to everyone right we've all seen Maya
it doesn't it doesn't apply equally to
black people at all like that we would I
definitely agree with that when a
twelve-year-old child can get shot by
the cops for holding a toy that's that's
not equality so if we want to start from
that point maybe it could help us have a
more sensible read on gun control that
doesn't assume that everyone currently
has the right to buy guns and personally
I'd rather do it without expanding the
reach of the police state and the
carceral state because I think that's
something that's always going to fall
disproportionately on poor people and on
people of color but there are certainly
things you can do at the level of the
manufacturers and the people making tons
and tons of money off of this a great
market that manufacturers and falando
Casteel falando Casteel falando Casteel
here is a an example appreciate the call
Lawrence thanks for listening
here is a Georgia gun owners is now
concerned about these black guys walking
around I guess with weapons in they
posted a bunch of pictures of guys
walking around with guns I know what
Chango was on them I mean that's a
little bit hypocritical right thank you
just a bit you think of Georgia gun
owners doesn't say Georgia white gun
owners or Georgia Republican gun owners
it's blood you would think I thought you
guys preferred we did subtext you would
think you would think that they would
have an issue I'm down in South Carolina
it was pretty nuts like almost you know
there was a bunch of buildings where
they have just a sign no no concealed
handguns in there
how many times did somebody ask you if
you were from out of town boy
everybody's out of town okay Oh cuz it's
where was it again Charles oh he did
yeah that's a real tourist look like
yeah look like it the whole place was
built or all right folks we're out of
time in terms of calls I apologize still
have
well still eat on the phone do a bunch
of IMS reverb can't wait to see Sam
drunk tomorrow Sam you make politics so
sexy thank you very much I will be drunk
tomorrow that is the plan be silly it's
time for Occam's razor approach to
Republican thinking they don't like
Nancy Pelosi because she's an older
woman so gross right gotta think reptile
brain there's also a Hillary thing where
she's just been in the spotlight or the
in the targets for so long I'm saying I
think it's just like it's it's just it
will be anyone anybody goes into that
position you know some people might be
easier than others like they tried to do
with Harry Reid like rush limbaugh used
to come Dirty Harry then that it was
like dingy Harry called him dingy Harry
and it was just like what I don't even
get what you're trying like I can't even
see what you're trying to because he
would just come on TV he's Dirty Harry
Clint Eastwood yeah is he called dingy
Harry as if like you you know look at
Harry Reid and go dingy there's what I
don't quite get it they couldn't touch
him and part of it was cuz he's an old
white guy and so they didn't have like
it don't have as much in their arsenal
to go after someone like that not in
color there's a reason why Gilliam and
jelous were ten points down in their
primary polls prior to the vote but
ended up winning their races everyone
should keep that in mind and most
polling Lices uses a likely voter model
all right we'll hope so not color I know
you have villains glasses goal
embarrassment to journalism
Axios aired their full Trump interview
yesterday came complete with credit with
credits outtakes clips to drive home how
contrived and worthless it was what is
that show anyway just like mild-mannered
British dudes pitching softball
questions at Trump time doing news down
that's how we're doing the news human
Brian who writes far left policy any
idea one would join those conversations
read the Jacobin look at
you know join the DSA I mean literally
writing policy I mean yeah there's some
people in DSA but there's I mean Marisa
bara darin who's on my show a lot writes
specific policy for warren and for
Gillibrand but I mean that's something
they really need to build out in general
far left policy is sort of an oxymoron
right now but maybe someday it won't be
sued Arthur what do you all see is the
defining positions that differentiate
between the left and liberals universal
verse targeted programs and
democratizing the economy beyond just
redistribution and then I would also say
there's like a tactical differences too
on some level cool and not cool
I lack his first of all I think the
left has embraced all different kinds of
tactics through the years like there are
people who embrace electoral ISM there
are people who think that it sucks there
are people who think we need to do all
those things at once I think Michael
really said it in terms of economic
democracy and like like here's just one
good example liberals want to help the
poor right they want to redistribute
some goods and some services to help the
poor have slightly better lives leftists
want to eliminate class Society we don't
want there to be poor people to help so
it's it's like a fundamental
restructuring
I think versus a technocratic tinkering
well I mean I think though that if you
want to look at the the left broadly I
think the idea is universality of policy
versus targeted welfare state and and so
you would have free college as opposed
to means-tested you would have or one
where you would have to work the money
off you'd have a free collar jobs you
shouldn't make it you'd have Medicare
for all as opposed to just Medicare
Medicaid that covers perfectly social
democratic versus liberal but actually
where the the these terms become
relevant but the more like democratic
socialist part would be things like ma
Drogo
in Spain like there actually needs to be
large parts of the economy or what they
were proposing to do in Sweden in the
70s that come under much broader
conceptions of public and worker
ownership and that isn't necessarily
part of you know necessarily a social
democratic case because the Social
Democratic you're more just focused on
serious redistribution which is great
but there's a distinction there yeah
there are many different kinds of
leftists too so well yes but I'm saying
as you cross the spectrum right and you
go from liberal to say those left I I
think you know liberal Social Democrats
liberals or leftists I think they're
they're left of liberals yeah said your
mom ever think about that yeah I think
so
they're the rational thing about
podcasts universality is is you should
totally podcast about I think one more
important I mean you know what you
should do and should do a podcast about
that dead space another stuff and
whatever and we will run the
world I mean I want to abolish profits
just throwing that out there
you should do a podcast about that Paco
Sam could you talk more about the GOP we
were hacked by Democrats strategy campus
using if close races show hacking but no
evidence who is from what happens who
investigates nobody there is no there is
no apparatus to deal with any of this
and on some level until you make voting
a federal right there there's no there's
no mechanism in which to create an
apparatus all you have is the FBI saying
to the Secretary of State of this you
know like I just want you to know we
noticed some activity it's a real
problem
Jared from Connecticut a.m. our crew can
I get a shofar for my dad he'll be
working as a pole protection legal aide
in southeast Connecticut all day sure
Hugo
[Music]
spending all day cramming legal tax
relevant law like he's back at
Connecticut College he gave me my basis
in decent politics and shows what it's
like shows like yours have focused my
beliefs thank you everyone in sight
please everyone vote left is best all
right we'll do three more IMS we dinara
my wife and i purchased a subscription
to hunt to kill it was great fun we
sorted through the wait a second
putting ATM card time side filing the
torrent social security manifesto pieces
together we listened to the recordings
of the nasally semi hybrid Aquinas darn
I'm at work what was the victim's name
Stan okay I don't know where that was
going that seems either a or
something rich or both proletarian those
numbers and found if you remove white
evangelicals even the white non-college
educated folks break for the Dems
interesting Wow kind of those evangelist
a penny for your thoughts i all want to
express support for the collar lives
from last thursday or thoughtful and
respectful comments express the
frustration I've also had with Jamie
somewhat formulaic anti-capitalism
response they can feel like a hammer
that sees every problem is a nail I very
much appreciate you Jamie your smarts
and the fact that you bring a woman's
perspective and energy also appreciate
practical the DSA info you bring however
the constant anti-capitalist trope often
likes the deep and more nuanced thinking
I count on from Mr thanks all five of
you chill II don't know what to do
without Mr and this time of dangerous
and rising fascism will have a lot of
time to do respond to that tomorrow
night as we have but not too much time
because we shouldn't go that late
tomorrow night I mean seriously Jesus
Christ you're not already anticipating a
big late night are you oh yeah because
look I mean if they win that's great and
then we leave early it if they lose oh
that's a bummer we should all go or a
separate race drink by ourselves goodbye
the solution is to just let me talk for
longer and then the nuance will really
come out there you go folks it's the
class exam ado do you The Daily Beast
had an article yesterday pointing out
that in modern times when a president
loses the house and midterm they win
re-election do you think this trend
continues I hope
not I think people over look at trends
like this especially when they're spaced
out over years and the the actual
condition has changed so much I mean try
I mean Busch won his midterm elections
and he got reelected - I mean the sample
size and the condition the sample size
isn't big enough and the conditions
change too much Bartlett 68 my next-door
neighbor is stereotypical
Charlottesville all right tiki torch
marcher he flies a Gadson flag in a cast
and flag Jesus he really got dressed up
for the Trump rally yes a draped his car
with those flags before going his
brother and those across the street was
involved in coding for the third printer
3d printer company I keep wondering what
it was like to watch Germany change from
via our did not see in the 30s and if
that's happening here from a societal
point of view is similar well we'll tell
you after well you know in the couple
years - more brah bromance ly are y'all
hiring don't think so but send us an
email at majority reporters at gmail.com
Sean is the final I am of the day in a
Dennis Miller voice hunter-killer where
you should pretend to sell the crap
shouldn't be confused with a
hunter-killer where you pretend to to be
Videla succeeding to overthrow Isabel
perón pop-pop-pop see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know sir
[Music]
I was and I just got cut the truth
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
