[Music]
meanwhile Mike Pompeo not enough to to
help stoke a war or at least stumble
into a war with Iran or to completely
screw up even in their own internal
logic the attempt to for regime change
in Venezuela that did not go well for
Mike Pompeo I mean there's nothing that
I don't think America has nearly as much
of a problem with interfering in other
people's elections and leadership says
they should but the one thing that
America doesn't like is a totally
incompetent imperialist well at first
you don't succeed right exactly we're
gonna keep trying but Mike Pompeo has
some good news where others see a crisis
as in like the demise of potentially
civilization as we know it because of
global warming other people see an
opportunity here he is telling the
Arctic Council in Finland about such a
dynamic the Arctic is at the forefront
of opportunity and abundance it houses
13% of the world's undiscovered oil 30%
of its undiscovered gas and an abundance
of uranium rare earth minerals gold
diamonds and millions of square miles of
untapped resources fisheries galore
and its centerpiece the Arctic Ocean is
rapidly taking on new strategic
significance offshore resources which
are helping their respective coastal
states of the subject of renewed
competition steady reductions in sea ice
are opening new passageways and new
opportunities for trade this is this
could potentially slash the time it
takes to travel between Asia and the
west by as much as 20 days Arctic sea
lanes could
before that could come the 24th century
Suez in Panama canal's okay first off
it's incredible because this guy is
reading it as if it's the first time
he's ever read this stuff he is bragging
about the melting of all the glaciers in
the opportunities that are going to be
involved there because of all this
melting we're gonna be able to get all
sorts of like oil and gas and minerals
there's treasures in there hidden by all
that damn ice and there's also where
we're all going to live at least some of
us the lucky ones
isn't it I I can't get them that's money
but like even just I want to zero in on
like isn't it really commonly
established that like global fisheries
are already like you know mined and
fished at such a rate that fish is a
species might be wiped off of here
because you're presuming we won't be
able to fish there like we're gonna
think about all the places that'll be
thawed yeah that's what that was no I'm
not I know he's like an evil Chris
Farley character like if Chris Farley
played a real real evil son of a
that would be my point it's just like
the classic like look at this it's
February and it's 70 degrees in New York
City I think I'm liking this informant
that's the dumb like lunch pail version
of it that's the old days die babies
 yeah we went from first it's a
Chinese hoax to this the sad part
is this guy will never suffer any of the
consequence how do you guys want to talk
about new fishing opportunities you're
gonna ask me another friggin whiny
question about the journalists that was
buzz sword in the embassy come on
everybody
