[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam cedar it
is Friday April 5th 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today in
studio
Alex Perrine to look back on this week
that was and also into the darkest abyss
Mitch McConnell also on the program
today David Feldman ostensibly to give
us a movie recommendation he won't do
that
maybe he will also on the program today
White House pulls their head of ice
nominee supposedly because he's not
tough enough Michael Cohen claims to
have found new documents proving that
Trump instructed him to lie to Congress
Elizabeth Warren calls for ending the
filibuster and his Kamla Harris backing
off her medicare-for-all pledge
meanwhile British police stationed
outside the Ecuadorian Embassy
anticipating Julian Assange's ejection
and a federal court Trump nominee
upholds a Kentucky law forcing doctors
to show and describe fetal ultrasounds
to women prior to allowing them to have
an abortion meanwhile Trump tax cuts
worked JP Morgan's profits up 3.7
billion dollars all this and more on
today's program welcome ladies and
gentlemen glad you could join us in
studio we are very happy to welcome back
to the program
Alex Perrine writer at-large written for
all sorts of publications continues to
do so
Alex a welcome back to the program I
should also just say as a matter of
housecleaning recorded an interview with
Glenn Greenwald about I don't know 45
minutes ago and we will be posting that
probably on Tuesday as I make my way to
Las Vegas for the my biannual a tort
conference tort law conference excursion
that's a very big day for you what's
that debate with Glenn and all my you
know it was very nice very nice exchange
and I also thought just a four-shot I
mean there were some there was some
common ground found at the end oh yeah
oh we should say the this just in the
house has voted to end American
involvement in the Yemen war this is now
they have passed the Senate bill that
was all based on the war resolutions Act
War Powers Resolution War Powers and
Donald Trump is expected to veto
this I think it would be his second veto
and what was his first veto oh the
emergency powers said the the wall and I
do not believe I haven't seen the
numbers here but I do not believe that
they will have enough votes in the
Senate and the house to override the
veto so but it is an important assertion
of Congress's at least attempt to curb a
and I I would imagine maybe there's
other things they can do in terms of
funding but I'm not I'm not 100% sure
about that but this is a good sign
anyways at least that Congress is
attempting to assert its power a little
bit so Alex and we could talk about the
3.7 billion dollars because I I still
have fond memories of you on CNBC yes
I'm talking about Jamie Dimon yeah
but I was like being in the Vatican
insulting the Pope but let's turn to
another billionaire and of course I'm
talking about Howard Schultz he was on
America's election HQ last night was
this last night it was last night right
uh Fox's Town Hall and he was with Bret
Baier and somebody else from Alex I
think it's okay I think and Howard
Schultz is there now Howard Schultz is
being advised by Steve Schmidt and Bill
Burton and they are getting paid Millie
a lot of money I am quite convinced they
are making millions of dollars and if
they're if I'm if I am wrong they can
sue me and we can find out and discovery
but I have I've heard millions of
dollars I believe that he's and
they for literally $100,000 I would have
given him this advice how did you say
but here it is here it is don't sell you
know short well maybe I'm negotiating
against myself but but I wouldn't
because I wouldn't want to have to hang
around too much right there's a like I
think they get paid I think they get
paid like five dollars for the advice
yeah and then the rest of the millions
of dollars are just to hang around make
him feel like you're smart yeah like
when you buy drugs in high school
[Laughter]
gotta get high with a dealer so here's
out here's that here's a Howard Alex
furry here's out sorry here's Howard
Schultz describing what he would do
about immigration this is like a well
listen it cannot be solved currently
because of the ideology of both parties
but if I was fortunate enough to become
president this is what I can promise you
I'm about accountability I'm about
results I would bring the people into
the room I would say you cannot come in
here with ideology or ego what I want to
do is I want to put an empty chair in
the room and that chair represents the
American people and we're not going to
leave the room until we solve the
problem for the American people the
problem that we have with both parties
the American people are not in the room
like have a bulletin board here where I
map this out the American people are not
in the room so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna put an end to chair way
we're gonna solve the American people
not being in the room the way we do that
is do not have them in the room the
problem is this chair represents the
American people if only we had another
system whereby people representing the
American people could be in Congress if
only
much that was much better to have the
representatives of the American people
unable to speak because they're an
Indian animate objects the coffee Willy
Wonka has invented chair accuracy I am
I'm starting to do cuz I've always been
all about like you know you don't you
cannot over inflate the intelligence of
people like this and running a coffee
companies and then figuring out how to
put more sugar in coffee is not the same
as running a country but it is reaching
a point of like how to - this guy
managed Starbuck
let me just like where would this idea
where have I heard this idea of an empty
chair being an effective political tool
let's travel back in time ladies and
gentlemen to the 2012 public
inconvenience row backyard since I found
out that there's twenty three million
unemployed people in this country this
administration hasn't done enough to
cure that so I've got I've got mr. Obama
sitting here I just was gonna ask him a
couple questions so mr. president how do
you how do you handle how do you handle
promises that you've made you don't
well I know even so many people in your
party there is I mean it's the American
public was there two people in the chair
the empty chair but then let's talk just
a little bit about the idea that there's
too much ideology like how do you there
is there are a million different
solutions to the immigration problem the
problem is is that who what the
immigration problem is yes is a fun
everybody like there's like a lot of
different statements of that problem
right right and I mean it with the you
know I don't know it would be
interesting to hear him state when he
thinks the immigration problem is
because in stating that you were
declaring your ideology like you cannot
you cannot just generalize it to be the
problem if you can't if you can't be
specific about what you mean about that
because as the second your specific
about it you aren't declaring and I mean
Scheldt is the same thing as has the
same sort of brain disorder as other
billionaires do where he thinks he has
no ideology and then meanwhile he's just
like completely representative of his
class like in every single way and he's
he's you know he's got his positions are
basically like Bloomberg positions like
I basically want business to be mostly
left alone and I'm fairly culturally
liberal Bloomberg eventually he realized
like repeated every four years Bloomberg
realizes oh right I'm a Democrat like
there's a party that represents my
interest but Schultz is now he's
committed to this bit now he's too
committed to the bit to be like you
gotta say yes yes to the premise it's
just it's just like somebody who travels
to a different part of the country and
go like I don't have an accent
[Laughter]
I mean or or you know I don't have an
accent well you're the guy with the axe
I mean whatever I mean I don't mean to
pick on southern people sorry I'm gonna
clean it up like I want to talk about
work there I wanna I want to get back to
this this this notion of selling this
lack of ideology because you you we were
talking about something before you came
in but first I have to remind people
that
support for today's show comes from
third love third love uses data points
generated by millions of women who have
taken their fit finder quiz to design
bras with breast size and shape in mind
the results a perfect fit and a premium
feel
simply answer a few questions find your
perfect fit in 60 seconds then once you
receive your bra you can wear it wash it
put it to the test for 60 days and if
you don't love it return it in third
love will wash it and donate it to a
woman in need it's all part of their
100% fit guarantee this is hands-down
the most comfortable bra you'll own with
straps that won't slip tagless labels
lightweight super thin memory foam cups
they even have a line of incredibly soft
and breathable cotton bras and how do I
know this folks despite the fact that I
don't wear bras because we had a we
outsourced to the the testing of the
bras this is what we heard back I love
they don't have a zillion options so
it's easy to choose something quickly
the fit is great I usually have to
return most bras i order online even
though they're in my size I ordered to
both fit that almost never happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
but not as boring as most t-shirt bras
subtle cute details so I don't feel
basic right third love knows there's a
perfect bra for everyone so right now
they're offering my listeners 15% off
your first order go 2/3 love.com /
majority now to find your perfect
fitting bra and get 15% off your first
purchase remember you can wear it for 60
what is it 60 days and if you'd only
return it by a bunch that first time
because you get 15% off I hope I'm not
third love.com
/ majority for 15% off today and also
folks of the majority report is being
supported in part by simple habit it's a
mobile app that provides a massive and
diverse library of five-minute guided
meditations do you meditate no I should
start though yeah well this would be the
way majority report audience and even
guests can try simple habit totally free
for an entire week when you
a simple habit calm / majority Alex why
would you start meditating well you know
I've got some anxiety I like all of us
like all of us I do and sometimes you
gotta you gotta try ways to treat it
that aren't pharmaceutical there you go
simple habit has 2,000 guided
meditations specially designed for
different parts of your day and just
about anything might add you might be
dealing with in life they have guided
meditations for mindfulness meditation
for anxiety for depression for when
you're having trouble falling asleep me
I check off all these boxes I get a
meditation when you're wanting to
overcome procrastination or when you
want to have you have something
important going on at work meditations
designed for parents they even have
meditations made specifically for when
you're waking up or your lunch break or
when you've just gotten home from work
or when you're going to bed different
people are trying to accomplish
different things with meditation simple
habit is able to cater to just about
anyone regardless of what their goals
are with meditation or how much past
experience they have with meditation
this is what sets simple habit apart
they have so many varieties of guided
meditations and you have it all on one
app simple habit just one the 2018
Google Play award for best well-being
app it's available on iOS Android and
web browsers check it out now folks it
is simple habit calm / majority and my
audience and guests can try it out for
free for an entire week if you're
watching on YouTube if you're listening
to the show we put the link in the
description check it out so Alex this
this concept of of billionaires assuming
they have no ideology and appealing to
this notion of like I'm just gonna be
it's gonna be strictly competence for me
and I'm just coming in and we're gonna
we're gonna put all of people's opinions
and desires like like first of all does
this guy get
to the room if he says leave your egos
outside like getting even like walking
but aside from that this concept of no
ideology in politics right like you were
you were talking about noticing
something about what bad out and Pete
Budig a Buddha judge hmm
say are there favorite books and you
can't build too much on this but it is
an interesting observation
yeah cuz there we we hear a lot about
how and they're both extremely well
educated and they're both clearly very
intelligent but they they talk about the
books they love and people who profile
them talk about Beto's giant bookshelves
and all these other things and they are
they only talk about novels they only
talk about fiction and like Pete Buddha
judges favorite book list just came out
today or yesterday and it was 10 10
novels and you know Beto's favorite book
is The Odyssey and and everyone talks
about you know and I but so the actual
text not totally because they talked
about presidential biographies we were
the only or the only other thing I hear
about bado reading which is like but
like they're never there never
mentioning like they're never mentioning
non-fiction books never mentioning
political books books about like actual
problems facing the country you know
things like that because if I when I
were young on or it doesn't have to be
that they're all reading like you know
Michael Moore and you know a lying Liars
you know yeah total but like there's a
lot of books that baby looks like did
you this was sick burn by Al Franken
Sean Hannity would have formed my
politics but the idea that you want to
be President I mean like okay there's
two there's two possible scenarios here
and in in the the implications are not
terribly different but one is that they
they worked up a list of books
beforehand which yeah and that they were
it wasn't just their favorite ones it
was like each book I mean it almost in
some level it would be political
malpractice no not to contemplate like
what each of it what these books are
going to here it was purely cooked up
though I bet they would have thrown at
least one or two on that signified to
some of the modern political concerns
for like the Democratic
well but here's the thing that I think
maybe they would or maybe they would it
doesn't almost doesn't matter because
the the that idea is still
representative of like they want to
their promise as candidates in some
level is the the the polarization the
the schrum and Drang or whatever that's
called the everything that Donald Trump
represents like how engaged you have to
be in politics yeah yeah this is I
represent a release from that yeah
totally yeah I mean I think that I think
that's it and I think the idea that so
this is if this is the audience you're
trying to pitch your campaign to it is
the the idea that oh we can go back to
caring about Wolf Hall and we can go
back to it we can go back to talking
about our favorite our favorite novels
and not having to read the Washington
Post every day or not or even like we
don't even have to we don't even have to
read like the new Jim Crow and we worry
about that you know is a big appeal it
does to a certain part of the Democratic
yes if Hillary were president we'd be at
brunch right now yeah yeah I mean on
some level like that is I I just
distinctly remember that was the big
that was the big takeaway when Bill
Clinton was elected right after 12 years
of Reagan Bush and it was really just
like 12 years of Reagan is what the
people felt everybody was just so
excited to not have them in office and
then like we could don't have to pay
attention to politics anymore and that's
basically what happened yeah and I guess
it's gonna be interesting to see if that
works
yeah I mean again it's funny because I
do I feel like that segment of me so
maybe that segment of the Democratic
base is like features a lot of people
who donate to candidates which I sort of
lean towards thinking but I certainly
don't I certainly think for the majority
of people voting for these guys or women
hopefully uh uh the the majority of the
people voting are not are not part of
that demographic
they actually have problems they
addressed I think but like the the
people are sort of pitching their
campaigns to are definitely the ones who
are like our material problems are much
smaller than our sort of psychic
problems with how the country is being
run right and and I I think that there
but there's also you know you can also
look at the polling of like how many
Democrats want compromise yeah yeah and
that has gone down yeah and I think that
the question is not so much just about
compromise the question is about like
how how invested they are in politics
yeah and how aware they are the dynamic
because I think it's you know like a
reasonable person would say like yes do
you need compromise right right how do
these waves that sound in a normal
degree of context are normal mature
response is actually insane good versus
actually understanding what the
situation is actually what's really
interesting and why I feel like bado
feels like a throwback in a lot of ways
because hold early he's he is he's
framing everything in these because it
used to be that was how Democrats just
talked where they were you would ask
them what's the biggest problem facing
the country today and they'd be like
well we can't come together we can't you
know we can't come together no blue
america you know red America and now but
if you you're about your mouth what boy
but if you if you asked I feel like if
you asked Democrats now what are the
biggest problem facing the country
they're not gonna say well we can't come
together they're gonna they're gonna
name actual material things for the most
part all just people who really liked
our freshman year Lit class
there's also made I think though there's
among some of them it's it's not can we
all come together but can we also can we
like get back to expertise it was like a
new version of that that I see kind of
manifesting in a way oh that's not new
it's not new but it's a different
version then can we all that was a bush
oh truthiness yeah totally a bush thing
with like we got it we got a cat right
well what do you think I think that is a
also a standard I think that is like I
mean look
Democrats want good government mm-hmm I
mean and as nebulous as that term is
right they just like
they I think there was always a sense
particularly with like you know the the
billionaire class and sort of the
conventional wisdom like we all agree I
think like the the good faith
conventional wisdom pushers we're like
we all agree on what the problem is
we're arguing about how to address it
yes and I think it has become clear to
more and more people that we don't agree
on what the problems are and that's
really ultimately what politics aren't
right like coming up with the solutions
is when you when you bring the solution
people first yeah you are ignoring the
fundamental reason why politics exist
this is the thing that I feel like the
the argument people on sort of our side
have been having with the centrist for
forever now is it is they their
insistence on well we all agree what the
problems are we have different ideas to
fix them and you can look at the entire
history of how we've done health care
policy in this country and say like do
we agree with what the problems are at
home no don't clearly don't agree with
what the problems we don't agree what
the problem is with immigration no
nothing hot and I don't just mean left
and right I mean I think across the
board we don't know any type of like
consensus on what we should be doing in
regards to immigration globalization
globalization I don't know that we have
on trade I mean I'm trying like I don't
know could you we're doing on monetary
policy I mean there's one way to to
figure that out it's through Paul yeah
right like it's it's not in like well we
have an empty chair right here to rent
the American people represents the dough
we all checked here he goes to the door
we're gonna figure out what the problem
the solution we don't even we don't know
what's the problem what are you no
problem chair hasn't said a single word
about the problem we've just in here
that's why we leave that chair open for
the American people and I'd like the
status quo say nothing and that's what
is so Fasil about what it but you know
Sheldon
it'd be fascinating to me to see like if
being on Fox gets him some Republican
support yeah and I can't help but think
that like that at Burton and Schmitt
were like you got to go on fox first
yeah because that way it makes it look
like you're not going after the
Democratic Party even though we already
told their yeah we they kind of they
kind of already gave the game away which
was interesting strategically to just
tell everyone
oh yeah we're doing this because we're
it's were threatening them in case they
they nominate Bernie but uh like ah
because obviously there's an act there
is some slice of the Republican
electorate that is basically that the
Evan McMullen crowd that is right we boy
we've had enough of this guy maybe Evan
ballin could be his running mate that
would be a power ticket you know cuz
actually I can't wait to do a lot of
work actually cuz cuz Evan McMullen
really puts to bed a lot of ideas about
like the intelligence of CIA officers
that are savviness and Howard Schultz is
a walking demolition squad of CEO
confidence although I have to say we
were saying this on TMDs the other night
because we always do that Steve klubecks
sound drop for basically everything
remember that keep it simple guy the guy
with who with no neck from Diamond
Resorts International oh yeah yeah it's
like an extra in showgirls now he was on
with Stephanie ruhle like eight months
ago saying everything that Howard
Schultz is saying like being like I'm
gonna cut the money off don't don't
mention billionaires anymore he would be
a way better candidate than Howard
Schultz because he's an everyman Oleg
art this is his style would be so much
more relatable the funny thing is we
were already living in the world where
the American people started they wanted
to put a businessman in charge right we
are already living in that world they
did not choose Bloomberg or Schultz the
American people said yeah you know you
know what a business owner CEO type
should be in charge of that one right
exactly we rejected MIT Romney who is
that same guy I mean this is why you
know that that was George Bush right the
CEO president yeah and there is I think
more I think there's probably more
broadly speaking more appetite for that
the right yeah I mean or you know Center
right maybe the center left as well but
I don't know I don't I don't know
yeah I'd be curious I'm sort of
fascinated now about who Howard Schultz
might pick for his running mate
that's gonna be worth the price of
admission make it simple we have another
we have another another clip of Howard
Schultz on there just because it's so
fun and it's so you know the it really
is revealing of of this of this group of
people right like and the thing is is
that he's gonna go in he could spend
hundreds of millions I guess on his
campaign it'll be interesting to see if
he does that but it also gives you a
sense of like how twisted you know I
just imagine if one of these guys
decided like I'm not gonna be president
I'm just gonna be in charge of Education
and then all of a sudden you get Bill
Gates hmm right like that's you know
yeah okay so I think it's smarter but he
doesn't necessarily like well this is
every time you hear about a billionaire
pledging to give their fortune away to
philanthropy like they're talking about
policy they're they're talking they're
not it they're not giving it in cash to
the poor they're talking about
influencing policy every time yes and
and Bill Gates spent seven hundred and
fifty million dollars maybe more and
completely changed the trajectory of
where educational thought was going in
this country for uh you know at least
half a decade maybe love that maybe
almost a decade and and at the end of
that commissioned a rand report and
basically said we were completely wrong
and what the teachers and and
professional educators have been saying
was right and nobody reported on it yeah
I don't think it made one national news
broadcast and it completely influenced
and still reverberates through our
educational systems or any TV programs
you'd like to demand apologies from for
there's a whole host
why should you listen to teachers when
you could listen to education experts
but that's the thing they didn't listen
to education experts like they did not
listen to educators right they're people
who had been trained in teaching they
listened to system analysis folks and
they listened to quant
and then they just basically walked away
and I I don't think the message
necessarily has been fully absorbed like
they were really wrong like so wrong
that they even when they did their self
analysis and so let's listen to Schulz
make more of his pitch
so it's March Madness everyone knows
Monday night is a big game okay so this
week Tom Izzo is from Michigan State so
when I went to school with he was being
interviewed and he was asked what kind
of kids do you recruit for Michigan
State and he said there's three kinds of
kids kids who like it kids who love it
and kids who live it I recruit kids who
live it ladies and gentlemen what we
need to do as Americans is we need to
start living living our values we need
to start recognizing that we are in this
together every problem that we have can
be solved if we come together as a
nation we are all Americans we're here
tonight Republicans Democrats
independents remember I said no hate
zone this can be together do you do you
agree with me can I just say like I have
no idea what he's talking about like
we're so close hey but living it means
like I live and breathe basketball like
I play constantly like I I wake up in
the morning but it's not a question of
like should I go out and practice it's
like there's nothing I want to do other
than practice I don't understand what
that means in the context of us living
our values for no there's nothing I want
to do other than triangulate understand
what that means I just I wake up eager
to find the exact midpoint between two
competing ideal
I live and breathe and well that's the
thing is that you know a fiscal
responsibility and social tolerance but
going out one of his players in Yellin
Adam and the kid looks like he's
completely dead like he's like coach I
didn't do it I didn't do it he's living
it that's what living it is yeah like he
just said no ideology in the other clip
and he's that that's what living it is
right it's like I'm going for this yeah
like it doesn't mean this gives me an
opportunity to talk about the Schultz
egg map that I cannot believe no one has
actually done this reporting yet because
like it's already sort of known that
he's not truthful about his own
biography he went to Michigan State no
one knows why or how because he grew up
in New York City he and he was in as a
middle-class public housing that was
like the nice public housing for
middle-class white families CUNY and
SUNY were free at the time if you lived
here no one no one was going to a state
school in another state if they were
like qualified to get in maybe he was he
living and breathing it uh I guess he
was living and breathing and he's living
in breathing but he is in the past he
has claimed to have gotten an athletic
scholarship and then he'd revealed that
that was not true that's so weird you
know so like why did he go to going to a
public like not he's not like he went to
Harvard he went to a public state school
in another state had to pay money for
when he could have just come into school
for free in New York that is really
weird it's really weird
he pissed off it's just weird that
there's no story it could have been like
I really really had a crush yeah I got
an athletic scholarship and that turns
out not to be true so now there's just
no story we need to imagine a scenario
or you don't and I go follow you to
Michigan whatever yeah that is some real
old economy Howard - can we
appreciate that no help you get to me
homie make fun of Chuck Schumer for
having an imaginary family that he runs
his bad ideas by and then they
reconfirmed them for him I think that
like Howard Schultz is such an
incredible lack of more
imagination that he doesn't even think
he needs imaginary people in his own
head to talk to right and maybe we need
I do a solution to it that risks the
imagination of a new kind of possibility
so clearly that Clippers just like why
Steve Schmidt seems like genuinely like
whiny and aggrieved and Bill burr is
just like tears I'm hearing what I'm
saying and if you can see my bank bill
Burton must have talked to his buddies
and I wonder what those mean I have a
vague notion of what those conversations
were people not like dude to be a multi
million take the money take the money
and you're not gonna be hurting anybody
he's not maybe maybe it's like he's not
going anywhere
or maybe I I mean I wonder why Schmitt
so bitching about it though well because
he is doing exactly what he criticized
his former friends supposedly you know a
year like like literally their clips of
him going like the I just found out the
whole conservative movement is a graph
and that it's like it's it's just a scam
and and then all of a sudden he's like
multi-million dollar contract I mean
listen I will cop to this there is a
number I'm not sure what it is
of course but you know if I had to take
a leave of absence I could set up like
500 dummy patreon accounts just throw
them in a nice 3,000 patrons and I'll
tell you how to imagine a new pop well
no I mean I mean I
it's not inconceivable to me to imagine
like that there was there would be a
number where I'd be like listen I got to
take six to eight months off the show I
will explain in a year and a half as to
why I'm doing this and yeah that would
be great
I mean with with Schmidt - it's like if
you're if you're like one of the dozen
genuine never
Trump Republican guys like your pay days
are limited right who's gonna hire you
right no one's gonna get a decent
podcast I mean it is interesting that
like he had an opportunity to live to
his principles and be totally
comfortable Yeah right just like you
know like he did have that opportunity
right I think obviously now you don't
know literally like hey he's bankrupt
you know I mean you don't know easily as
you know like um you know sick family
member has no health insurer mean we you
know what I don't need to make sure that
they stay without health right you could
have severe gambling yeah - I don't know
that he told that Brett Kavanaugh might
have owed money to
McCain McCain was famous actually for
like just just losing tons of money
gambling was that right yeah he was but
he would just he would gamble for like
an entire weekend and just lose a
fortune that's cool well yes he's
married let's talk about somebody
you who's really living it Mitch
McConnell yeah the he his latest I guess
move has been to and I don't know if
it's quite officially happened yet but
he's gonna get rid of the a procedural
blockage to judges being nominated where
you you you're allowed to hold the floor
for 30 hours of 30 hours and then and
people should understand is like 30
working hours so it can really slow down
the process not drum I mean it can slow
down the process I don't know how to
really sort of quantify it
I mean koala but but it can slow down
the process of how many judges you get
in he's gonna get rid of that he's
gotten rid of blue slips it's pretty the
he is completely remaking the judiciary
and just to remind people about the
implications of it before we get into
this here is today a federal court in
Kentucky two-to-one decision Sixth
Circuit Court of Appeals and this is
real
stunning in a minute in terms of like
understand and I don't want to get too
far afield here but the whole Janus case
which kneecapped public sector unions is
that by forcing people to pay an agency
fee to the lawyers who negotiate your
contract if it's under a shop you are
infringing upon the free speech rights
of a of a non-union member because
they're having to give money this judge
John Bush appointed by Donald Trump says
that it is okay under the First
Amendment to Force physicians to do
something that is completely not
medically necessary for them to do their
job which is to perform I don't know if
it's to actually like perform it on the
specific women but to to show and to
show and describe a fetal ultrasound to
patients before performing an abortion
it's not even on the woman necessarily
Christ it is just like it is basically
you need to go to an anti-abortion
organization and sit there and watch a
mandatory me a movie essentially when
supports the cells but this is so this
is just one example and there are a
million examples of the implications of
a circuit court judge being appointed by
Tantra because these are about as far
right-wing judges as we have we've seen
I think appointed and they've been
pretty far right-wing McConnell has done
has orchestrated all this almost
unilaterally yeah yeah and I mean it's
it's it's his like sort of ultimate
political project and it's been going on
like you know he's been he's been
working on it since the 90s basically
but him and the Federalist Society of an
in lockstep this entire time
and like they're getting their way but
like there they're just winning and and
the they're going to have installed
these people who are going to be
basically legislating from the bench for
decades to come
I mean just like what what point do you
think McConnell was this a question of
makan because certainly the garland
thing right like yeah III think that
empty seat on the Supreme Court is one
of the most underestimated reasons why
Donald Trump is in the present oh yeah
totally yeah yeah and like so this is
what I wrote about it and I have a the
cover of the New Republic pick it up at
your newsstand so I wrote about Mikado
and yeah and he he sort of he's sort of
says as much but I think you can look at
how Donald Trump won and on the one hand
he genuinely convinced a bunch of people
who don't normally vote for Republicans
to come out and vote for him because he
was out there saying everyday like I'm
gonna fight for Social Security we're
gonna get out of these wars were in he
was out there talking like a non
Republican and McConnell was the one
telling everyone reassuring everyone oh
by the way he will govern like a
Republican meaning specifically he's
gonna appoint the judges we fund well he
was holding up a list yeah Trump was
holding up a list made by the Heritage
Foundation in the Federalist Society
yeah that was basically like here's my
one promise to you yep and that was the
indication right
yeah and that's how that's how you get a
coalition together of like people who
want to reject everything and then
people who are like alright you know
he's gonna like the the evangelicals and
everyone else are that's I think that's
wise he mobilized he was able to
mobilize the evangelicals despite the
fact being the most profane
yeah like example of humanity that you
could imagine what that also like submit
McConnell to he that him sort of in the
background with Heritage and federal
society like getting Trump on the same
page on judges it was also the signal to
like all the Republican establishment
like all right I guess like we don't
actually need to prevent this guy from
getting the nomination like we actually
can just sort of sit back and see what
happens and we kind of like McConnell's
classic movement to sit back and see
what happens it was like after the
the Access Hollywood tape people are
rushing to get statements out rejecting
Trump and McConnell's just like let's
see how this plays out he does it all
the time
he just like doesn't doesn't talk until
he sees other situations gonna play I am
amazed at how much the Democrats and the
the media failed to hold Ryan and
McConnell to account for any part of
this I know yeah crap show no and
McConnell just seems to me to be
uniquely devoid of shame oh yeah the
like his statements that he came out the
other day saying like Obama should have
done more to stop the Russian yes from
interfering in the election yeah that's
stunning just remind people why that so
so the leo the intelligence agencies are
saying like well Russia keeps hacking
these emails and is trying to it is
trying to basically interfere in the
election debt to hurt Hillary Clinton
and they had tested like their ability
to get into voter rolls yeah they they
had been testing they had just been sort
of trying everything was like a kitchen
sink like let's just sort of mess around
in all these little edges around the
election and like so they you know they
they briefed Congress in the late
briefed the leaders of Congress and
Obama and the it was like let's like
let's all put out a statement condemning
Russia for doing this just so that like
people know that it's going on and and
McConnell's like no like he's like I'm
not gonna I'm not signing on to any
joint statement with you I think it was
sticking point was like you're not
allowed to say that they want to help
Trump win like I'll be like Russia don't
interfere but you're not allowed to
actually tell the truth about what's
happening so he so he refuses he refuses
to sort of be the Republican signing
onto the statement condemning Russian
interference so he at that point is on
board or is that that's all part of his
like I'm gonna see how this shakes out
yes I don't have to take any position
that will yeah will like sort of commit
me to being on any side of this ledger
yeah because he's worried in Kentucky
right theoretically of like a primary at
one point too yes yeah I mean a couple
years ago he almost he actually in in
the end he won handily but he was so
unlike t' by the base that you know
there was a lot of energy around finding
of someone to primary him they would
people forget the mcconnell like if you
listen to mark levin or any
those people on right-wing radio at that
time McConnell was demonized yeah by
them oh yeah big time yeah I mean it's
always been crazy because he's you know
he's by far the most effective
Republican politician of the modern era
like in terms of achieving conservative
ends and in terms of consolidating
Republican power I don't think you can
point to anyone else who has been as
effective as him but they hate him
because they know he's not actually in
his heart a true believing conservative
he you know he began his career
basically as a quasi Rockefeller
Republican which I sort of have come to
believe was purely strategic and not out
of any sort of actual belief in like
moderation because you know it was this
it was a sixties and seventies and you
could still sort of believe that was the
way forward for but the the the day
Reagan gets elected he suddenly he's a
Reagan conservative and they know they
know he doesn't actually believe it he
was never like one of the sort of young
fire-breathing ultra right-wingers but
so then you know they didn't trust him
but it would also this thing where I
think during the Obama year if they were
just so mad that Obama was in office at
any Republican who was in office was
like blamed for not from allowing that
to happen right so McConnell is
stymieing Obama at every turn but it's
still like you let this man be president
like why aren't you doing right why
aren't you arresting anyone being on
American citizen yeah um so what so does
McConnell just to have no like I mean
cuz he's putting on an incredibly yeah
he's not just like like he's not going
for the record of how many judges get a
get a seated during a term of a
president he these are hard core right
wingers yeah yeah you know folks who
think Social Security was like the day
that we went communist in this country
that folks who think that I mean this is
people make jokes about a handmaidens
tale but like yeah you know so does he
care about that or is it just like he
wants to leave a mark on this country
and he doesn't really care what the mark
is he just knows that this is gonna cut
I think if his personal ambition is
primarily to have left a mark to have
been an influential and important person
but I think that with the with the
ideology of sort of people he's putting
on the bench like so McConnell he used
to be he used to be pro-choice he used
to not care about any of that stuff I
think the social conservative ISM is
partly just a political strategy but I
think that he has the sort of oligarchic
like because what he sort of started off
caring about was campaign finance and
specifically about helping rich people
help him get elected and I think that
that actually sort of became the driving
principle was this sort of cycle like
reinforcing itself where like he the
rich get to influence elections to help
people who help the rich get elected in
perpetuity and sort of and I think that
the real the real point of these
conservative judges if to to dismantle
the regulatory straight and sort of
prevent a new deal from ever happening
again and I think that's sort of the all
the stuff the evangelicals care about is
sort of like just like a bonus for them
but it's like the the real project is is
just oh that's interesting that's my
that's my sort of feeling of what that
makes a lot of sense so just like having
the he has one issue set in terms of
regulatory state which makes sense
coming from Kentucky right yeah he
doesn't want you know let's we should be
doing every we should have coal cars yes
and he's been you know back back when
they were back before they all sort of
consolidated tobacco was a big backer of
him and and but coals always been like
you know it's a huge huge part of his
campaign war chests have been coal and
like so he and he came from he came from
I mean that's the story the Republican
Party isn't it right I mean on many
respects it's like the the the primary
agenda is to roll back the regulatory
state in any fashion and the support
that the government gives to people
generally I mean more specifics some
specific support or narrow
narrowly tailored to
wealthy people but and everything else
is just sort of like our barnacles to
them that are irrelevant but also bring
along a lot of support yeah yeah and the
III think to like they know I think
McConnell knows and this is actually
another reason why he might not be that
popular among the base McConnell knows
and has always known that his agenda is
extremely unpopular and this is why his
number-one move is to sort of hide in
the background and fade into the
wallpaper because he knows he knows he
is not personally likable he is not
charismatic he has always won elections
because he has outraised his opponent at
first was cuz he was outraged with
opponent and then now it's more because
Kentucky politically has become a lot
more conservative but uh and so the the
point of the judiciary is to prevent
small d-- democracy is to circumvent it
and that's that's been I think that's
been the project basically since they
realized they were good it was a lot
harder for them to win national
elections well why do you think the
Democrats have never like run against
Mitch McConnell in the way that the
Republicans run against Nancy Pelosi I
mean well also the Democrats always
assume the electorate they're looking
for is like half Republican right like
they always assume that the people they
need to win over are ones who secretly
in their heart of hearts want to vote
for the Republican but need to be
convinced to vote for the Democrat so
like they don't and and you know
McConnell - I mean Democrats don't
believe in villainizing people they
really really really don't believe in
villainizing people and so you know he
he really is allowed I guess to get away
with so much related question why do you
think it is that McConnell has made his
career pandering to the most extreme
reactionary elements of the base of the
Republican Party and telling them you
can have everything you want and been
very successful in that whereas the
Democrats do not seem to have that
strategy on the left well we know the
the Democrats like this is a cliche in
politics at this point but Republicans
are scared of their base and Democrat
sort of hate their base which is like
that's that's the cliche and they're the
the incentives are just so wildly
different because the media ecosystem is
so different especially now like Murdoch
really really like Murdoch and talk
radio completely changed right the way
Republicans relate to their own base and
Democrats don't have like I mean because
so many of them still they like getting
their news from CNN and NPR like no one
is pushing them to be like demand more
of your Democratic representatives right
I think they might be a little scared of
their base too I mean there they are
they're coming they're becoming a little
bit more scared to their base now but
that's a very recent development yes
least their potential base as well yeah
I think that's true I mean I think
that's what like a Oh see that's what
the d-triple-c
that's what the memory of the d-triple-c
thing exactly the d-triple-c thing is
the d-triple-c and i think we mentioned
this when they announced this policy and
they supposedly had this policy it was
like an unofficial it was an unofficial
policy which is if you go after if you
are a contractor you have a political
shop or you're fundraising or your
pollster you make yeah pollster you make
signs political signs or whatever it is
and you work for a primary challenger
any Democratic into any Democratic
incumbent they will not give you they
won't give you work they'll work oh yeah
there you won't get you won't get to
work for any other campaigns and all
these consultants basically rely on the
d-triple-c and other organizations to
find work every election so and that
just the idea that they're putting it
out there is just meant to have a
chilling effect yes and and I guess the
real question is like part of the
problem is if it's not if the if the
Republican if the are CC or whatever it
is had done the same thing everybody
like that's fine because the Koch
brothers yeah that's that's the other
thing too so the incentives matter too
in terms of the money and so McConnell
his whole deal but starting from the
second day I'd like to the Senate was
campaign finance reform but he would do
it in this way
where it was originally because campaign
500 for me used to be quote unquote
bipartisan everyone agreed we should
find a way to limit money in politics
and then that was actually it was like
it was a Howard Shelton saying it was
like well we all agree this is a problem
and we just distracted the solutions so
McConnell's game for like the first
decade of his career was just deciding
what sort of campaign finance
regulations he supported based on what
he thought would be helpful to
Republicans and what would harm
Democrats but as everything sort of got
rolled back and as income inequality
meant that the rich were getting richer
and richer and they were using their
money to more directly involves the
politics he just sort of came to be like
well you know I guess we shouldn't have
restrictions because there's just like
more more money just helps our side
because it used to be sort of arguable
with when unions were more powerful that
we're more spending could be beneficial
to Democrats but like now it's like
clearly money's on the side of
Republicans but he also sort of when he
did when he did support some
restrictions it was out of this
establishment Republican belief that we
can't just let the rich people sort of
dictate everything because you know we
need to make sure we need to keep these
singles of the party institutions we
need to make keep them giving to our
party institution so we have some
control over it like they don't actually
they don't love having to like dance for
at what the cokes and the mercer course
not they don't they don't right after
because they're all four they all have
their own ego they all their own yeah
they all have their own you know
specific agendas of how to do evil
things yeah so yeah people can argue
that's where you do have that agreement
like we all agree that this is not a
problem we just need to figure out how
to avoid dealing with it in our own you
we all want to take food out of children
well exactly the question is how do we
get there right how do we start the
people right we all agree we should
starve to people how do you do Donald
Howard Schultz um in this room what is
this video now Megan McCain had a real
problem standing up for Mitch McConnell
so uh adam Parkhomenko who was ready for
hillary fame found a video of mitch
mcconnell stumbling and posted it and
megan mccain then defended Mitch
McConnell so do you want to watch the
video of him stumbling I mean I think we
should yeah if we probably just for full
context add in the music may be a bit
corny but there you go and Megan McCain
found that video to Mitch McConnell had
polio as a child and his leg is partly
paralyzed because of it again where is
our empathy and compassion laugh item on
policy if you disagree with him but this
is just gross and heartless and I mean I
think you know public figures get made
fun of and I think that's it's not being
big I have a feeling like denying
hundreds of thousands if not millions of
people health insurance a little bit
more gross you know where is our air
people losing health insurance to making
fun of Mitch McConnell falling and
that's really scary
Parko is funny he's like his apartment
he thought he's a complete psycho he is
like but he was he was Clinton he was
Hillary Clinton he had some title I
started ready for Hillary started ready
for Hillary in his title and the
campaign was like cracked like head of
grassroots or something yes but he's one
of those he's one of those people who
believes like a almost like a David
Brock type where he's one of those
people who believes we got a fight as
dirty as they do but their way of doing
it is just so confusing never like for
anything so he's like for him he's like
this is you know I'm fighting dirty just
like they do and it's like here's a
video of Mitch McConnell falling over
and laundered false information through
the New York Times in response like a
muppet trying to be mean or something
all right yeah well listen we got to
take a break we come back dave pelman do
you want to stick around we're gonna
make fun of Bill O'Reilly I think and
yeah all right I'm glad to hear that we
have other videos that we will play
today quick break and then David Feldman
will be with us
you
you
it is always an honor to have our next
guest on this program someone who I
watched with great admiration as a young
bushy-haired big-eyed what is that I
don't I can't access things bright-eyed
bushy-tailed thank you
stand up I would I would see this guy
perform in a basement in Cambridge
Massachusetts and was always I always
thought maybe someday I'll have the
opportunity to talk to him on the phone
and that day is again arrived ladies and
gentlemen David Feldman welcome to the
program David Feldman show right yes yes
that basement that I perform and was
featured in capturing the Friedman's I
don't know if you remember that is that
true development coming wait a second it
was in the cap the catch a rising star
up there no no no no the dress is a
clown I don't compute er the young
forget it thank you for inviting me she
ate I'm sorry so David I just tell us a
little bit about your show what's going
on with your voice well I'm just waiting
so this first thing in the morning so
kind of say something I'm surprised
you're having me back and I won't
mention the toupee okay I was told not
to mint and the bridge work your bridge
work on my goodness oh thank you I
appreciate that right yes okay what but
why is that the Democratic part I'm
sorry why is that a surprise what that I
bet we've had you back because we don't
agree on some things and I want to say
your listeners that the Democratic Party
is not heaven
unlike heaven the Democratic Party has
room for everybody so there's room for
you there's room for me and you know we
agree the Trump has to go and that's all
that matters let's just stick together
these ideological
dirty tests that you and Michael Brooks
all right they're insane you know let's
get rid of Trump okay what you know me
know I know I know you of course what
what what are the the tests what are the
tests that you feel like you're failing
I feel like when I'm around you and I'm
around your listeners they don't want me
in the tent because you know I supported
the invasion of Iraq Iraq as I call it
I want a nuke Iran I I want to reverse
the Civil Rights Act of 64 and 65 right
I'm Pro oil and I think some people are
born winners some are born losers and
that should be reflected in how be
invisible and rewards us in the free
market but I hate Trump and I have I
think there's room for me in the
Democratic Party as long as we don't
cannibalize our right right well I mean
those are I mean there's a couple of
those things that I feel like like are a
little bit cause a little friction
don't you think here we go this is why I
put on a hard hat and beat up hippies I
was and I went to the Reagan I became a
Reagan Democrats exactly because of what
you're talking about
there's room for everybody in the
Democratic Party right right but there
what well if that's the case like what
distinguishes it from the let's say the
Republican Party the Republican Party
it's Trump's and I hate rum and and
there's room for me you know I'm
socially conservative but I'm fiscally
liberal you know that about me I don't
care how big the deficit gets just so
long as marriage is between a man and an
obedient woman and I think we're going a
little too quickly
I'm interracial marriage slow it down
slow it down there's room for me and the
party don't cannibalize the Democratic
Party
it's true we have been pretty
we have been pretty acceleration
esthetic to the metal on that thing and
I guess to to bring about you know to
heighten the contradictions a little bit
[Laughter]
it's just something I'm a Democrat and
and marriage you know let's just let's
just say okay you know let me just get
used to it okay let me just get used to
it
Houston let's the to demand ID okay
right okay no I got you purity test yeah
I'm socially socially conservative
fiscally liberal I agree that we should
spend away we should rack up debt free
tuition at all public universities basic
universal income but marriage man
obedient woman this is much closer to
the actual center of the country that we
here on almost any mainstream news
network so thank you for bringing that
forward like this is what Morning Joe
would sound like if they actually
represented mainstream that Alec spring
yes
well yeah that was Michael but Alex
green is here don't have a bone to pick
with him no no I five years ago he was
reviewing snuff videos for Maxim the
gold are you gonna get on yeah I love
watching you it's like it's like The
Paris Review you have all these like
literati and I've been your too busy to
hang out with Michael Brooks and I
double dated which is new girlfriend
Barry Weiss Barry Weiss
oh I can't say yes for that bid at all I
really talk out of turn
David it's really now that one in
Brooklyn Barry Weiss they like took my
lady and do you want to share what this
is would we know who you're who your
date was very wise his older sister
Barry Weiss's grandmother
Michael Brooks and Barry Weiss they make
a really cute couple expense er Tracy
and Hepburn they're really cute and I
found that Barry Weiss Barry is her
middle name did you know this know her
first name is Dingle and they make such
a cute couple
it's Sam yeah you and I both have had
successful marriages I've had a few more
successful marriages than you I've had
about five more successful marriage well
the point is you've had and you need to
wrap them up to make them successful you
need to like basic lows the Luigi
doesn't where to succeed right there
needs to be a right you need to declare
victory finish the narrative the
narrative like close the deal right and
one of the things I noticed between
Michael and Dingle is that they're
compromising but I there's Michael is
turning into the man that I wanted to be
he's gonna be a great husband at dinner
we were having an argument a discussion
about Israel these are the you know
America's response to Israel and and you
know at first I noticed on this is just
wonderful to watch somebody grew up
Michael was all in on BDS and but by the
end of the evening he got
berry or dingleberry wife's she
completely caved on BBS she's all in on
bondage discipline submission and I'm
did you write this out before you came
on or I hope this is just coming out
here now Alex purring are you still
Fanning bastinado I'm sorry yeah sure
all right well David this is I wanted to
good yeah my flamethrowers in the shop
so I can't do that no let's uh let's
talk about your good friend Bill
O'Reilly now my understanding is that
you guys started out together in show
business and then your paths diverged
and now he's you've guys have come back
around in many respects he's on Newsmax
TV which I know that you were up for
this lot and you didn't didn't get it
yeah maybe maybe not I don't know but I
sure hope it was so ah this is important
stuff because Bill O'Reilly's talking
about his experience at a Fleetwood Mac
concert interacting with millennium
let's watch a little bit of this because
because real news better talk news max D
hey I'm Bill O'Reilly and this is the
Talking Points Memo last night I was at
the Fleetwood Mac concert City and I
learned something I already knew would
add Mac was a traffic group it's just
amazing to see
a Stevie Nicks 71 Christine McVie
mid-70s mick fleetwood mid-70s john
mcvie mid-70s perform for two hours and
ten minutes on stage as it's just
amazing and yeah 7:40 I guess so they
were great and the crowd was somebody's
new 40
how old is going a lot of people and it
occurred to me that there's a change
happening in America so the crowd was
you're ready for those folks now he'll
deposit the change and I don't want to
tip anything off it seems to be that
there are new people being born and
growing older let me get to a certain
age and they're older than they were
when they were born Orcas Lindsey
Buckingham is less Fleetwood Mac again
again divided between boomers baby
boomers like me who grew up with
Fleetwood Mac and then Millennial
Generation Z younger people primarily
women who admire Stevie Nicks and
Christine McVie as feminine icons so the
baby boomers are watching the show and
if really calm because they're old all
right
and they had a couple before they came
in they're mellow he's talking about
himself before I go he's saying
Millennials generally speaking god I
didn't see one without watch the show
with this in their hand it's like
sending up a phone texting every song
and they were taking some pictures but
at the garden it's it's hard to take
picture I always texted you away and and
it's the stages lit but it's not a
picture kind of thing maybe the
recording right you all have much right
in their hand almost no it's pretty
stunning so I call ability hey let's go
see plea would Xavier boo you a the car
and that I was there and everybody's no
good can we play it look I can put up
the speed so we can get to the payoff
because I'm curious as to what the big
change society's imploding I'm on
Newsmax
and there's 30 year old seeing stevie
nicks who I used to drink have to try to
do she did this is one point to speed
okay one point you people know um and
there Millennials are taking selfies and
bending over like pretzels to try to get
them in the stage and all that mmm a
couple of things okay a ban on fluid now
I know the dam for many years and some
of them are political but they didn't do
that I'm gonna sit away from all that
all right which was good people don't
pay a lot of money and it is a lot of
money go see Fleetwood Mac alrighty here
entertain his spout off stop the music
of Fleetwood Mac is classic its timeless
and there are some cons where you want
to jump up and dance and that's fine
that's what
but the Millennial Generation Z people
would never sit down from the time it's
stored at a time it ended they were
standing up and there were people behind
that you know some B's people were 75 80
and they couldn't see and the
Millennials didn't care at all because I
saw confrontation so some of us are
loaded in our mid 60's it had to leave a
major cable network ago we called black
women mochaccinos and asked if they want
an extra milk with that and we were
there and we can't stand up because
they're a little drunk those are some of
the other people that might have been
there this is all just about a story a
confrontation he had with a millennial
right this was just people were standing
in front of him that's basically what
happened I think what I've noticed about
America the way it's changing is young
people are always standing in front of
old people one of the main things
happened before it was
guy used to host Inside Edition that had
a prominent place cliff fox news he was
not standing up because maybe it had a
little bit to drink and there people say
in front of them and there were people
behind them you know so many people were
7580 and they couldn't see and the
Millennials didn't care
fitting cap not at all because I saw
confrontations oh yeah I actually had
one but regardless all right cuz I
didn't going ever many years
if this drunken guy stands right next to
me and my party on the aisle not and you
never see he just kind of ran down stood
on the aisle leaving like this and I
said I saw you you know blocking our
vision I gave a look and then I stood up
all six-foot-four of me and he ran away
and any I shook and said you want me to
I said no let's make sure he doesn't
come back so people who are standing in
the answer were they couldn't care less
they couldn't care about if anybody
could see or what they were doing and so
these people were like gyrating like I
just hit my mind that's what they were
doing I'm going you know this you know
what this is all about this is all about
narcissism and this is what's happening
because this thing is you now this is
like your hand it's an extension of your
body and if these noise if these
Millennials are dizzy people or whatever
they lose this jay-z they don't have it
that's big surprise we gotta have a hazy
people or any boys - I'm not saying the
Boomers aren't doing this but the
younger Americans under 40 really
addicted and so everything is coming
through this into here those Bing Bing
instead of coming for life into here
this in between now what this does is it
makes everything center around you
because people are texting you
instagramming you facebooking you
whatever you're doing right you you you
you you Lee Neal so therefore the
mentality becomes so happy it's about me
the whole time amazing about this hold
on pause and he is now finally coming
around to doing Al Franken's bit from
syenite live the me generation which is
stunning
Bill O'Reilly has finally finally
adopted Al Franken's perspective after
all these years it's become his delivery
of there were confrontations I had one I
just coincidentally people dance at a
concert you know that's the amazing
thing he's like he's making an argument
that is completely lacking in profundity
that phones allow us to mediate our
reality and then tying it into and
that's why people dance at concerts no
back it's like it's like going this
symphony you get drunk pregame the Opera
we done it yeah yeah I think we can't
God I hope that millennial blocked him
on purpose I would have died I mean I'm
surprised that people weren't protesting
him oh you know it would be so funny to
be standing up right in front of Bill
O'Reilly I think I might just start
going to Fleetwood Mac concerts with the
hopes that I'm gonna run into it I stand
up in front I probably would have sat
down but now that know Bill O'Reilly is
he also revealed that he wasn't in a box
you didn't have a bar he didn't have a
box here cuz someone was standing in the
aisle next to him well you could be in
an aisle in the box can't you no I mean
I'm not I'm not a box tightness right
now must be good if the officer is
coming to the guy had access and could
run away coming up in a box well whoever
did that basically a troop he knew they
put him in a special section it was a
no-spin zone second spinning he really
he's obviously red professor Ben
Burgesses book because the logic is
spectacular listen to his conclusion
now David do you get up every day and
watch O'Reilly on news max I mean is
that daily Richards ah yeah and I'm
actually writing a book with him about
his experience at the Fleetwood Mac cos
is called the killing soft rock
oh he brings it home with you watched it
to the very end he actually makes a
really salient point
oh really let's watch it let's watch it
to the end we don't have like a minute
left don't we oh yeah this is the thing
where you know you're making fun of him
but he puts it he puts a nice bow on
this and Alex purring who's a writer a
great writer he could learn about this
in terms of structure right alright
let's see here we go really addicted I
go forward a little bit so everything is
coming through you're doing uuuuugh so
therefore the mentality becomes so about
me it's about me the whole life
experience this is my Dennis Miller's
not on anymore because he's taking his
 and this plays into politics into
voting to how the country is run I'm
telling you this socialism thing what
this is this is what happened is it it's
not Ocasio or Bernie Sanders
it's that I want to give me mine my my
my my mom you know I wanna I'm entitled
to it it's a narcissistic point of view
the government is to provide me with
education medical care whatever give it
to me
and if somebody has more than me he
knows I'm technical ISM and his other
data so ideas you should be able o
Reilly's conservation whenever you want
and that's the Talking Points Memo I'm
Bill O'Reilly for Newsmax reminding you
so wait a second so if I'm to understand
this correctly in a socialist country
everyone stands up at concerts is that
what's going on yeah and everyone stands
and dances in the aisle and the more you
stand and dance the more socialistic
Wow when you run out of other people's
views of the concert to obstruct
sounds paraphrase Churchill sounds good
everyone under 30 who does not block use
at concerts has no arms great until
you're 85 years old tried to watch on
rune drive but all these young
whippersnappers are jumping in front of
you if anything I mean I know he's
probably only talking about himself I
think baby boomers almost dance more
when they go to concerts in my
experience I brought my mom to a 24-hour
drone festival a few years back and she
was she was actually annoyed that more
people weren't dancing
what hour was it though I mean by hour
22 I feel like people are just fried
that was the evening okay it could have
been dance my mom danced it was adorable
there you go and at the DSA Christmas
party as well that I helped put together
there were some really awesome baby
boomers just dancing the whole time down
a friend I took a video so fake news
bill over well David thank you for
introducing us to that bad Bill O'Reilly
segment by I feel I feel like I figured
it out now and all of I vote yes so all
of a sudden they think they should get
health care to do this joke I don't
think it's funny Alex
hi cuz it's not spontaneous it was
written down did you do it
you're funny I don't want to he said
this is going to be recorded for a new
Fleetwood Mac album entitled it
we'll do it live I don't find thanks
thank you though thank you for doing I
think you delivered it much better than
Alex would have so I could tell you that
yeah yeah well do I get honey digging
out if someone wanted to someone wanted
to listen to your your podcast what
would they do or your radio show right
it's a radio show podcast isn't it have
silver fillings and their molars IUDs we
found that people women can hear my show
if they have an IUD installed and
fillings in their teeth wait so what is
the all right
I noticed that dr. burry I noticed that
you named it after yourself is that
because of your father's mic phone use
yeah like it's all about YOU isn't it
David
what is the O'Reilly Factor fit into
that whole narcissism spectrum my factor
I mean no but I'm just saying like not
only name a show off to yourself it was
like your anyone anyone who has ever
hosted a cable news show has just no
business diagnosing another I know is
unbelievable sorry really
I look millions of dollars paid out to
the occasional about au in sexual
assault and sexual harassing Rachel
Maddow's like Chapman and this new
generation and she's going into fast car
which is her most famous song I used to
play on our email Bert complaining about
her roots show 20 years
[Laughter]
everyone is excited to see Questlove
they all have these chips in their head
it's like it's literally embedded in
their heads under now we are having
imagined ourselves so awesome I'm not
just hearing Tracy I'm hearing them
thank you Bill O'Reilly the gift that
continues to give I don't even remember
the context but my my favorite Bill
O'Reilly bit we must have been talking
about his divorce proceedings through
something and just did the family dinner
[Laughter]
we're going to take a break and head
into the fun half of the program folks
you can join us there by becoming a
member of the program and going to join
the majority report calm when you do you
fund the daily free show and then as a
way of saying thank you we give you
extra content every single day join
majority report com pennies a day
also check out just coffee co-op this is
the month you get 30% off you don't even
do the coupon code majority although you
can stick it in there just to let them
know where you're coming from and this
is for the month for you to try all
these different types of coffees they
have find out which one you love then
you just keep buying it with the 10% off
coupon that majority report offers gonna
try the majority report planned you
could try the WTF blend I've heard it's
not really that great but all the other
blends are great it's really not that
relevant yeah it's really ever since
seized here yeah ever since Obama I have
to say
kind of pop yeah
just coffee dot co-op Michael today is
Friday that means that Tuesday happened
earlier this week
Karev happened on Tuesday tenor Andrea
Bocelli
we had odd Kim Ives the english-language
editor of Haiti liberté to talk about
this wild story that broke in February
of basically these u.s. mercenaries in
port-au-prince essentially trying to
move a hundred million dollars out of an
escrow account into the president's
private account maybe put down at pipe
and get my pipe up that was the codename
for the mission pipe up pipe ok and then
we head on and then molecular bali
joined us in studio we made fun of beta
O'Rourke and talked about why Hillary
really lost Wisconsin and why that
actually matters yes what I thought you
didn't have another drop for that no
okay so you're not allowed to make fun
to anybody ever
so Mia Shankara talks about the Indian
elections and Felix Biederman of Chapo
Trap House is gonna talk about queuing
on and The Gambia
did you guys hear this story that
apparently had the head of the Gambino
family was assassinated in Staten Island
come on guys right and there at her
first everybody's just like oh
maybe like the mafia wars are coming
back but apparently this poor bastard
after working his whole career to get in
charge of an honorable fight the Mafia
family gets clipped by somebody who was
probably like tweeting at us about how
like we're covering up pizza gay so
Felix anger and talk about that and a
whole bunch more patreon.com slash T MVS
Michael Brooks show on YouTube it makes
me furious
Jamie this week on the ante fada
oh my god we spoke with Rona Lorimer
from commune magazine about the Julie
Joan yellow vest uprisings in France
that are still ongoing a lot of
interesting stuff is happening there we
also did a little musical lesson in
Fugazi capitalism and also while we're
on the topic of baby boomers and the
things that they like and we had a
little bonus where Sean Cana the editor
of commune mag came to give a little
preview of issue 2 of commie and then we
surprised him with a merciless self crit
struggle session on a recent tweet he
posted that was not okay would you like
to know what it was no blonde on blonde
is the best Dylan record prove me wrong
[Music]
blonde on blonde definitely late sixties
okay well it sounds like what's in the
time zone where it's okay to pick a
Dylan Dome there's a new literary
hangover up it's coming out on Saturday
for everybody but patrons can get access
to the soul of man under socialism
episode it's Oscar Wilde essay from 1891
where he talks about his sort of like a
narco socialism leanings and how earnest
he is about those I'm very excited for
that The Importance of Being Earnest
alright folks we're gonna take a quick
break
ahead into the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number we'll take your phone calls we'll
take your phone calls and six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty is
that number
[Music]
you
one second
thank you Michael
I appreciate that I'm not sure why you
had to step into this
joining us for the fun half Alex Perrine
who you may remember from the first half
of hi I'm back so let's let's play this
clip from from this guy Charles Payne he
is he on Fox or is he on fox business
and he's coming over to the the
mothership I know he does some stuff on
to give some insight into economics and
an economic behavior by people he is on
Fox and Friends explaining why the
minimum wage is so problematic CEO
Cortes facing backlash in some corners
for comparing Airport croissants prices
to the Fudd to the fight for a higher
minimum wage the Democratic congressman
was in I followed the news every day I
was not aware Alex you have you been
aware of this hole there there are some
quarters where people are very upset
about comparing croissant with a minimum
wage I was not I was not aware this had
sparked outrage yes she wrote Hasaan set
LaGuardia are going for seven dollars a
piece yet some people think getting a
whole hour of person a personal
dedicated human labor for 15 bucks is
too expensive so in other words you've
got to work like 1/16 of your day of
your pay has to go to buy a cross up
your cross on how many uh how many
croissants do you think those workers
can make in an hour that they're making
$15 well you know as funny as the
government can just create croissants
and you can just mint an unlimited
number of them according to what modern
modern monetary butter croissant Theory
pastry Theory a higher minimum wage the
Democratic congresswoman from New York
tweeting on Monday quads at LaGuardia
are going for $7 apiece
yet some people think getting a whole
hour of
personal dedicated human labor for $15
is too expensive well this morning a New
York Post op-ed firing back arguing your
wage is no kind of measure of human
Worth Charles Payne is the host of
making money with Charles Cain on the
Fox Business Network and he joins us now
to weigh in on this what doesn't she get
Charles well it was a clumsy attempt
right to just I mean she's grappling all
the time you know the proponents of
these minimum wage or higher minimum
wage need to understand a few things and
if there's another following tweak just
so people understand when I set this up
properly when people responded to her
she always gets rankled so she tweeted
out again at the GOP always replies to
her and she says I guess the idea is
foreign to them since their policies
treat people as disposable well think
about a standard minimum wage first of
all when you raise the minimum wage the
business has a raise the price of the
products guess who gets hurt the most
their possible house now this we we know
is not true I mean we have plenty of of
tests on the margins and those
croissants seem like they're pretty high
right now but even to the extent that
the cost of goods have to go up
nominally right what did they figure out
with McDonald's that it would like add
like literally like two cents to every
hamburger completely there are that many
more people able to afford your
croissant or your hamburgers oh well
think about a standard minimum wage
first of all when you raise the minimum
wage the business has a raise the price
of the products guess who gets hurt the
most they're poor households most poorer
households that I know have more than
one person working on minimum wage so
I'd rather have two people making $13 an
hour instead of one making $15 an hour
because that's the realistic
consequences another composite wait he
just he got confused in the PowerPoint
yeah he was first trying to say poor
households are hurt because they can't
afford as many quests and then it slid
into oh people lose their jobs and that
is as far as we can tell sort of a
complete fabrication that's been it's
like it's a zombie economic talking
point
things like I I feel like the actual
empirical data that has not shown it to
be for that to be the case then the
productivity of that second person would
have had to have been like like worth
just like literally like a dollar or
something right yeah right like the the
idea that raising the minimum wage that
you could have two people working for
thirteen dollars or one person for
fifteen dollars would suggest that the
productivity of those two people was it
was almost like completely the second
person almost had no productivity
whatsoever yet they do like to threaten
that though like when McDonald's will
automate a restaurant they'll blame
people who want to raise the minimum
wage and say look what you made us do as
if they weren't going to do that any
wealth of course of course I was an hour
because that's the realistic
consequences another thing from a
business point of view I'm a business
person right I want to be able to reward
the great workers in this sense you
reward bad workers and you punish good
work unless you give them a raise and
that cuts into your margin what that
gets back to raising the prices though
right the bottom is if you want to talk
about God no no don't don't don't tell
people that the process can raise give
you a raise but the thing that's
stopping it is it'll cut into the mark
Kilmeade like he's like tries to be
helpful really not healthy and
incidentally what he means by cut into
the margin is that will cut into his
take-home pay yeah maybe you'd want to
give other people more money but then
you get less cursing you punished good
work unless you give them a raise and
that cuts into your margin to the prices
done right so the bottom line is if you
want to talk about people being
disposable hurler standard minimum wage
snuff out the ambitions of the person at
this company who could Excel why would i
Excel if the person who's not working
hard gets the same paid that I get say
ironically if they were talking about
erasing these sort of standards letting
people go in and Excel or excel on their
own
that would actually have more potential
how do you excel on your own merit I
don't supposed to excel in other one
this I mean it is just sort of funny how
these are just zombie talking points
that are just completely disconnected
from reality at this point like it's
it's there's no who's who's trying to
who's trying to be persuaded by any of
this like who like it's I think it's
just really it's like comfort food it is
just comfort food it's just saying like
comforting like just comforting stories
that they tell themselves like this goes
without saying but just because there's
a floor wage doesn't mean that everybody
has to make the same but you know cut
into your large yes gotta protect the
margins to protect the margins it is I
think it is basically I think they wake
up at Fox every day and they're like
what is going to be the story that we
could include aoc in and and drive into
our narrative
did you see the polling that showed that
publicans have a higher awareness of who
she is than in Democrats yep yeah
everything about well you know she ticks
every box for them and this is the
o'reilly thing was brilliant - because
fox and so much of the conservative
media is just about hating your own kids
right and it is it's just like they it's
just this resentment of the old for the
young it's just driving so much of this
and so of like she is their ideal
political figure
totally but really totally in it's it's
fascinating I feel like you could just
picture interrupting a fluid Mack show
yeah she's like dancing and Steve mix is
there yes yeah I feel like not calling
her grandparents if you wanted to let
people know about the sort of the
politics just the politics not so much I
think policy of the implication but like
sort of the the politics or the of how
media plays with the politics like you
could put that stat in a time capsule
yeah and that would like I think you
know some academic you know a thousand
years now you know
like well we went I went back it was
amazing yeah that the people who opposed
her actually had a higher awareness yes
and what this said about the media
landscape at the time now of course we
no longer have the ability to play any
of this video because we banned it
because of the extreme narcissism and
the dancing but yeah then that's so
that's like there's a lot of like sort
of means when the when the people were
talking about how her poll numbers they
were like oh she's suddenly she's
underwater with everyone except women
and young people that was like the
non-white yeah and like and non-whites I
know and it was like the women and young
cool and non-whites were like didn't
know as much about her as the white men
did because the white men we're just
hearing about how evil she is every day
on here is a guy Pete hagseth who was on
the shortlist apparently of Donald
Trump's to run the VA because of all his
experience on Fox & Friends and this is
an interesting perspective to take on on
vets I I wonder if they will if they
will push this like maybe they should do
a special on Fox about how those vets
those greedy greedy vets 200 billion
dollar budget posit and I should say
this is Howard Schultz at his Fox
townhall talking about the VA our budget
and there are good people who are there
is probably a good example of a
government organization that is quite
bureaucratic and not meeting the needs
of post 9/11 veterans I will fix the VA
well that was Howard Schultz last night
at the Fox Town Hall in Kansas City
Missouri meanwhile most of the
Democratic candidates are running on
socialist ideas like Medicare for all
but with that route of that system
really work in the United States
American veterans know the answer Fox
and Friends weekend co-host Army veteran
Pete hagseth Pete you were all over
their system to this one
passions you were heartened to hear that
no I mean it was a good problem
identification right but then if you say
we're gonna fix it well there's a the
Devils in the details now this president
has gotten right from day one he has
said give veterans choice hold people
accountable make the system transparent
but what the reality is this is still a
there was a Wall Street Journal op-ed
this week that started a lot of this
discussion you like socialism asked a
veteran the VA is veteran government
runs socialized medicine and we've
pumped billions into the system millions
and it hasn't made it better okay so
let's take a lousy for one second
throughout the history of the VA which
is actually actual socialized medicine
all the doctors are our employees are
our government employees they're not
maybe not all but the vast majority and
they have one of the most complicated
tasks the VA as a whole is like almost
like like a completely socialist country
in some way in terms of the support that
it provides for vets and really for the
you know past couple years there was a
dip but the favorability ratings or the
you know however you measure that the
satisfaction satisfaction levels were
we're higher for the VA than any other
system that we have and Pete hagseth he
he doesn't like how dependent people are
on that I guess and it hasn't made it
better okay so let's take a look by the
numbers how big the VA is right now over
close to 400,000 full-time employees
over 1200 health care facilities nine
point eight million vets using it in
2017 it is the second largest department
in federal government and people when
you look at posit now do you think
they're gonna come to the recognition
like maybe we shouldn't have so many
wars yeah I'm looking at that number of
vets and I'm thinking that's a lot
that's a lot of veterans current forever
strange I'm guessing no and people when
you look at 1200 health care facilities
you know one of the things that you have
talked about and the president has
talked about is he'd like to be able
so that somebody who's disabled or needs
care doesn't have to go to a facility
they just go to their local guy that's
exactly right get the best care anywhere
is the idea and it doesn't have to be a
VA facility the number of VA employees
has gone up by a hundred thousand in the
last ten years a hundred thousand more
employees you've got an entire hospital
network only seven million of 21 million
vets actually veterans in America
actually used the VA and even with all
that manpower increase and all that
money increase you're still waiting
longer and longer at the hospital
actually be seen wait times have not
improved wait times have not improved
this is what you get from government
more spending because it's a top-down
perspective here's the hospital you use
within this radius and you get this
doctor as opposed to empowering the
individual to say I've got a knee issue
dr. Jones down the street could help me
with it and the dollars could follow me
to get that it you're still getting on
lists to get of course you see their
house their doctors fortunate look at
this veterans crane a disability
compensation if you compare after World
War two 1.5 million veterans 2017 four
point five million but this is a really
complicated discussion this is about
disability ratings that which isn't
always necessarily tied to health care
but the idea that this the health care
you get is about service-connected
disabilities if you're if you go to war
and you get injured we'll take care of
you so when you come home they try to
rate what how much how disabled you are
and that's how much care you get well I
could be rated for fifty percent right
now if I wanted to be I mean just to
have it totally and that's know this out
there I could do ear and ankle and knee
and back and report because it's
proportional for different injuries that
you have groups out there vets groups
mostly encourage vets to apply for every
government benefit they can ever get and
when they leave the service because well
why not right the government's giving it
out to me the ethos of service is I
served my country because I loved my
country and I'm gonna come home and
start the next chapter of my life and if
I've got a chronic condition mental
physical otherwise the government better
be there for me but otherwise I don't
want to be dependent on I don't a
grenade you got oh yeah all those all
those all those vets who now one of the
reasons why that number could be higher
is that we don't have as many people
dead after conflicts we have more people
injured
and the I mean there's there's a couple
of things to unpack in there but the VA
handles unique injuries that are a
function of war that you don't get in
any you know in just in civilian life a
and B just this idea that somehow vets
now are just getting me like are to grow
a beard yeah they're all they're coming
home from the war and getting on the
gravy train they just can't wait to get
those handouts when they're back from
war I mean they could always bring back
trench warfare that might cut down on
the number some I don't understand why
they don't more vets don't follow Pete
hexxus path and leverage other vets to
score points on Fox News that's really I
think I think they're not risking the
imagination of a new posture like
welfare mercenaries they are they're
only joining because they want health
care get him out of there disloyal let's
go to the phone to call them from a 786
area code who's this where you calling
from who is it try to uh
like back off your phone a little bit I
don't know what you're talking on but it
is not clear how about no this is better
much better all right I'm just calling
I'm one of the you know famous daca
Olivo and I mean going to college here
in Florida for about ten years now about
to finish here with a veterinary degree
and a PG and Frankie I'm planning on
leaving and I've been having a lot of
conversations with my friends that are
really really surprised to hear like oh
man you've been here for so long why are
you leaving now why don't you wait till
the next election well everything's
gonna be better and these mean people
that I have been talking to before that
like hearing don't vote for Trump it's
gonna ruin my last it's a serious and
they think
okay no probably gonna go get a good job
somewhere else where are you gonna go a
lot of people have really shitty labs on
this where are you gonna go
probably the Netherlands that's me from
you know one of the better Mexico's Ferg
Y is known to be somebody take it so
Mexico country so if I understand you
correctly you have friends who voted for
Trump who did not understand the
implications do they understand the
implications now I mean it sounds like
they don't yeah they still don't it I
mean I've been friends with them for
about three four years before that's
cool and yeah I had one of them
approached me you know clinic outing in
Texas and he was kind of offended by me
saying like man I can't stay here this
sucks like you know you can't live left
like this just to be clear it's because
you're you're constantly waiting for
this sort of sword of Damocles to drop
because you just don't know what the
what the findings of a court case is
going to be as to whether you have to
uproot your life within a couple of days
or months right exactly
we have to renew every two years any
time you send in your paperwork to renew
you're just there waiting and degree
that was supposed to be a PhD and a new
Bien degree together and as soon as
Trump won the election I had to change
my plans and put the PhD on hold because
you know in case I get kicked out and if
you get degrees quickly so that was
immediately after the election yeah and
big consequences what what were the
circumstances in which you ended up in
the States
okay I came here with my family that had
a but that was in prison for two years
in Uruguay waiting for trial big family
problems with my grandfather a nice guy
who's paying off a judge to keep my dad
in jail
finally when when the case got to the
Supreme Court Rule I he got let out
because it was okay there was no
triangle so we came here we play for
asylum
she had a desperate and maybe 10 years
process that was already my junior year
of university here we got a letter
saying that you need to leave your
Asylum case is not approved since then
my thanks one of my uh one of my
sister's was married to somebody and she
became a citizen my parents are citizens
they're here
they're staying I've been actually lucky
because they they have kind of figured
out their lives they're making you know
two hundred thousand dollars a year over
so they support me a lot I don't know
how other people do it that's probably
the main reason I've been able to get so
far to stay they kind of made it but uh
it's not easy man it's not easy
Wow well I I don't know what to say my
heart goes out to you I'm sorry you're
going through this and I'm sorry it you
know I'm sorry for all of it I can tell
you is I wish you the best went in and
so you you're about to finish this
degree is that right yeah Kiki within
another year and that's that's also kind
of you know 2021 when things hopefully
will change but yeah the plan is to
leave around there Wow alright well you
know check back in with us hopefully
things will yeah
I'll turn better quicker but I don't
know how that would happen but I just
wanted to say also before I go I'm uh
I'm a student I live off of loans
I make no money but I was able to cancel
my Spotify account a couple months ago
so I can start giving you guys money to
see you guys do a great job and if I can
do it a lot of people can and they
should you guys do a great job well I
appreciate that but I want to remind
people and you two people should not put
themselves in any type of like financial
stress over it happy to let people all
right there so there's always there's
always expenses that are superfluous so
we can you know make it work all right
well I appreciate it thank you very much
that really I appreciate that a lot
all right man good luck all right thanks
a lot thank you there you know it's very
easy for a large swath of the country to
just feel that the implications of of
Donald Trump's election is just about
having somebody who's gross in the White
House also should we just maybe like you
know think of how terrible the situation
is for that guy and he's in a very nice
position relatively speaking yeah yeah
yeah let's go to eight one three area
code who's this where you come from
hi Laura
what kind of phone are you using yeah we
were a free hangout up sorry yeah so my
my question so I'm half Portuguese half
American and my dad works for US aid and
I'm just I'm sorry and I'm also
currently an econ in an International
Studies major here in Florida and I was
thinking about like what your thoughts
are on about like international aid
because like I have concerns because I
grew up around it and like like I'm the
one hand like I feel for people I'm like
I think what the United States is trying
to help to certain extent but in your
hand you're also destroying local
industries like what it comes to mind is
like floating industry and like Kenyan
youth Africa including decimated by
donations by donations of clothing yeah
exam
like they used to have like a little
textile here like I know I can't go
there for five years they had like a
textile industry there that can like the
80-mile on today and like it got
completely decimated once they started
something like free clothing interesting
I was wondering what your general
thoughts are about thang-thang
denominator I mean in general I think
obviously I mean I didn't know that I
wasn't aware of that dynamic to be
honest with you and I think it's a you
know I think it's a function of the type
of aid given in in specific locales but
broadly speaking I I mean generally for
I think the question is you know how do
you go about doing it how does it not
get sort of captured in some way by
various industries or constituents
agenda that is imposed on other
countries I mean I think you know
broadly autonomy by you know giving the
recipients of this aid more autonomy on
how it in what forms it comes is
obviously the best thing to do I don't
know I think though that's a really it's
a hard thing because how do you how you
functionally decouple those things is it
is it is very hard in practice and also
I think maybe the frame of aid is a
problem because you there that I mean I
don't know anything about Kenya I'd like
if you email I would like to read more
about it but I know like I've been
covering Haiti a lot recently and
there's a very serious dynamic like that
in Haiti to the point of people not even
being able to like set up a local you
know you go and get a medical degree in
your Haitian you can't practice medicine
in Haiti like the whole space is totally
dominated by a NGO and a big an aid
industrial complex which also correlates
with World Bank and IMF like basically
at or even you go to Africa like I
forget the stat but there's some like
everybody talks about the amount of aid
that goes to Africa but it's it's either
equal to or dwarfed by the amount of
taxes that leave the country and
resources that migrate to the global
north so in some ways it's kind of like
corporate social responsibility it's
like you know if a penny on each of your
cup of Starbucks
goes to some like nice little eco
initiative I guess that's nice then you
know if it doesn't but it's not just
coffee right where it's like oh this
business is actually built in a way that
really works for everybody right and so
I think maybe there's an analogy there
and we need to rethink and and things
just like debt relief are more important
than eight yeah like right stop
imprisoning these countries on colonial
debt structures which is literally what
they are they're historically unchanged
yep there are always strings attached
when you're talking about NGOs and
charities there are always politics
behind it and I know I've talked about
this before but like really the concept
of mutual aid versus charity one of the
differences is you actually talk to
people you ask them what they need you
ask them what they want before you go in
with this one-size-fits-all solution
that you want to impose on them so it
might be harder if you know people don't
have a really great democratically
elected representative but you you
always got to take it to the people
first that's what I would say let's go
to the IMS pajama boy hey Sam love the
show of course I of course but I think
you really need to consider how much
Michael Jaime Matt and Brendon are
cutting into your margin exactly
actually very little we have strict
cross controls I mean that's why we
can't
hey Winnipeg Greg can West Coast comrade
hey Winnipeg Greg can we we can cover
more Canadian politics next time you
have another crack smoking mayor
otherwise don't get your hopes
[Laughter]
what should the balance what should be
the balance scorn and respect me towards
voters who are super not supporting
Bernie I don't think you should be
voters shouldn't be the object of things
like scoring I think right voters and
that being said I think not supporting
Bernie is a character defect
JB can any of you explain what the
d-triple-c is exactly it's not a pack
when it's when it's to their advantage
to be considered part of the party
they're considered to be part of the
party when it's to their advantage to be
considered independent of the party
they're considered to be outside the
party how can this be addressed
well the d-triple-c is the is an
organization that is that it whose
members are members of Congress right
and it is not it's not the DNC
it is specifically campaign the campaign
committee for the house right Democrats
exactly it's the House caucus yeah
setting up their own party
infrastructure or sub I guess really in
some ways sub party infrastructure but
they obviously pour money into campaigns
so all the Congress people have to go
and raise money and kick a certain
portion of that back to the d-triple-c
how does that compare to the p triple c
that p triple c is a outside
organization yes that basically I think
they did that with their name to provide
a sense that they're trying to push that
caucus to the left so a lot of American
politics when you're talking intra party
politics is get so much agitations
derives from the fact that we don't have
coherent political parties like they do
in parliamentary systems like there is
no Labour Party here the Democratic
Party is sort of a fiction right like
people don't belong to the party and
there are these organizations that
represent the party in an abstract way
but you're not you know everyone you in
the UK you can be an actual member of
the Labour Party who votes for the
leader of the Labour Party and you can't
do that here right I mean that's the
thing that I feel like you know you know
I don't want to harp on this too you
know one of my pet peeves is the whole
notion that the the election the primary
was rigged somebody sent in an email and
I didn't read it terribly care
but it was trying to prove that the
primary was rigged because Elizabeth
Warren had said in 2017 that the DNC was
rigged by Clinton yeah
which was in many respects that was true
yeah like she had taken she had a deal
with the DNC in terms of like personnel
and in terms of like funding and whatnot
that was anticipating her being the
nominee which is different from saying
that the election is rigged right and if
Bernie had the same it lined up the same
way nobody would be complaining about
that well and it wouldn't have made a
difference in the election all other
people would think that that's the thing
is that it wouldn't have made a
difference in the outcome of the primary
somebody wanted me to point out too I
guess it was at the end of the day was
it Wednesday with the we had an IM
saying that Nevada went Bernie won and
only got one delegate from Nevada and
they were counting the super-delegates
that are added at the convention and so
just this just real like this stuff is
not helpful and also wildly inaccurate
okay but you did admit that there is a
structural advantage given to
establishment candidates and I think
it's fair to be critical if that that's
yes I mean it's also the case with our
entire society like there is a
structural advantage for for people who
are closer to money have a closer
property about the bit this is what I
think about the big R is exactly what I
meant about the fact that the party is
sort of a abstract thing and not an
actual thing causing these fights that
are and the way we nominate presidents
is insane
so it's like it's a crazy way to
nominate like so maybe we could all go
back to the drawing board and dream up a
new way of doing it that would be fairer
and more democratic but for now it's
just this hodgepodge of accumulated
traditions but like people are not like
that yeah the the Democratic Party
you're you
can't really you know you can't say it
has done a thing you just have to talk
about specific factors yes and that
actually ties into to this whole thing
with the Muller investigation to say
that Democrats have done something it
doesn't make sense these specific you
have to be frightened
yes Adam Schiff has made a career off of
this yeah a couple of those other dudes
have made a career off this but to the
extent that you can talk about Democrats
you could talk about people who ran in
the 2018 election and they almost like
all of them ran on health care yeah
that's just a fact um and also I'll say
something that might be unpopular with
certain people and I'm not even sure
like I actually I like Daniel bessner
has a little bit of a critique of a
barber knees sort of like global
authoritarian frame he actually raises
some good concerns about it but like
even somebody like Sanders who tipped
his hat to it a couple years ago like
immediately pivoted towards this bigger
argument about like how does this fit
into a pattern of oligarchy and
authoritarian governments like there was
a lot of different ways that it
manifested and I say that as somebody
who is like a hundred percent on board
with like trashing you know MSNBC and
right as I know we are I'm not
interested in relitigated argument but
it's like it you're right I mean it is
just literally not true that there was a
block of Democrats that did anything
it's basically never the case that's an
impossibility yes there are only
entities that play different roles
within the context of the party and so
there isn't even just right and even
just a genuine tierod ideological range
of it is that publican I think our
morality traits that you could attribute
to people who are Democrats that is more
more accurate of a description
descriptor than the Democrats actually
doing a thing broadly you get a broad
like a set of potential potentialities
of policies that could be executed when
you elect a Democrat
and they range pretty far depending on
what topic you're talking about well I
guess yeah right cuz it's like if we
broke it if we broke both parties up
into euro style parties like yeah the
Republicans might have like they'd have
like one full-time Jesus fascist
something or other party they'd have
some type of religious thing maybe one
other just sort of like pure
pro-business deregulation thing but the
Democrats might legitimately be like six
parties yeah yeah and and also and then
if you did have like it's foolish to say
they're the same thing in this context
but as an example okay I think if there
was a Republican faction that just
turned into like some four or five
percent vote like like the Liberal
Democrats in Germany right like they
really are they're just they want to
deregulate the German economy that's it
you would get Democrats that would join
that party and then you get Democrats
that would join a bougie Green Party yes
justine would be the yeah that would be
the chair exactly and then so yeah so
even in that comparison there's way more
complexity amongst Democrats yeah
forgive that sound folks that's you know
they're doing all this work in the
hallway here and it all looks worse I
walk down the hall good morning I'm like
did they purposely design this to look
like it was older and I guess I'm kind
of night
this looks like Institute Law Institute
looks institutional and like I don't
know like a motel 6 unbelievable secret
identity politics the best Dylan album
is John Wesley Harding blonde on blonde
has way too many words I want to hear
more I want to hear more about these
greedy disabled vets local local pizza
historian Shultz is just doing that tech
thing where they rediscover something
everyone else already knew as if it's
new or novel like when Apple offered
human curated news editors or that
zero-emissions below-ground refrigerator
a
sure-sure
Schultz has just discovered using a
group of people chosen by other people
to represent them in government I know a
republic Dole Inc djt history with
Puerto Rico involves millions spent on
future hotel he's mad because he lost it
all no hotel mad at the Puerto Rican
governor Kentucky Fried comrade hey Mr
chrome worried about this beef with
David Pakman his show has a thriving
community behind it
collars and I am hers like dissident
Pakman the crystal Epoque Minh Mike from
Pakman PA come on guys Ronald Pakman why
are corporations held accountable to the
truth by the SEC but politicians are
allowed to lie as the SEC Ben lawyer had
a really good line that I saw the other
day where like the judge was like in
your opinion could he say anything that
would violate the agreement and the
lawyer was like no no nothing he says
could possibly violate let's go to the
phone's come from a 509 area code a lot
of people got in you've been on hold for
41 minutes 509 509 let's try 3 3 0 who's
this where he's come for hoping for an
O'Reilly drop hey Sam it's Ryan from
Ohio Ryan from Ohio what's on your mind
ok well I haven't called in a while and
I think it's time for me to finally tell
you guys my full name which is Tim Ryan
from Ohio Tim Ryan and I recently
announced my candidacy did you know that
I'm the only candidate to be endorsed by
somebody who ran for Democratic leader
of the house
myself last night congratulations good I
know I didn't win that race but I've
looked inward and I've realized that
much like mitch mcconnell's polio I
didn't try hard enough
yes that's exactly the kind of joke that
I approve of thank you
could you imagine so I have a list of
people for my cabinet when I become
president a secretary of state is going
to be Jerry Springer course right from
Ohio Jerry defense Neil Armstrong press
secretary Omarosa Secretary of Education
LeBron James well Marilyn Marilyn Manson
is Marilyn Manson is going to be my head
of the EPA oh yeah and the moment you've
all been waiting for
my vice president the man himself mr.
cliff schecter actually be a pretty good
I could see him as a Democratic VP just
being like and we're gonna get out there
we're gonna out he says because the
Republican base or a bunch of guys yeah
stupid
you know I hate I hate to say this but
you know they're a bunch of fat losers
you please he plays a spiro agnew row
[Laughter]
appreciate him good luck good luck thank
you and wonderful we got the first
interview with him as since he declared
during her close Schecter Star Wars oh
he did he was wondering where Kucinich
was gonna be Wow all right we got time
for one more phone call I think call
from an 8-3 one area code who's this
where you come from oh yeah I got on
this time this is Eli from Los Angeles
hello Eli from Los Angeles what is on
your mind I do so I have a quick
question this is just something that I
think I've kind of when I'm
you know the sort of socialist
InfoSphere people talk a lot about
raising taxes is kind of like a
practical medium you know instead of
just like we're gonna overhaul
capitalism and get rid of it just like
let's raise taxes and pay for all of
this welfare state it feels like the
first thing that a lot of countries run
into when this sort of thing happens is
capital flight and that if you have a
just about anywhere on earth that can
act as a tax haven it seems like kind of
Impractical to go about doing this sort
of thing and I was just wondering if
you've thought of any sort of solutions
for that I don't I mean I know that that
it's been a problem in some countries in
the past that France I think had a
decent amount i III don't think it's
gonna be as big of a deal in in the US I
think that you know advantages that like
when the the Scandinavian countries had
capital flight and capital strikes even
and I don't the US has it advantages and
that everyone sort of needs to do
business here yeah I think there's I
mean you know I think we're fairly I'm
not saying that it's not going to happen
at all we're fairly well situated but I
imagine there's also sort of penalties
that you could put that would make it
much harder because of how many
transactions are done in dollars and how
many transactions go through our
financial system you could capture those
in a way that you know a Scandinavian
country even France you know and maybe
EU has changed that dynamic on some
level couldn't do so I'm not as
concerned of it being an issue frankly I
was thinking that instead of you know
instead of the the like how are you
gonna pay for this all right in a way it
is sort of how you're gonna pay for it
but I was thinking that every time it I
don't know if this is working to
campaign but you could basically if I
was out there campaigning and releasing
proposals for things like Medicare for
all and adjusting corporate tax rates I
would also like to see announce sort of
announcements of corollary proposals of
how exactly you're gonna punish tax
avoidance and do the types of things
that Sam's talking about you can start
outlining a whole infrastructure of how
you can basically basically punish that
but I'm not giving in the United States
yeah I mean it will take advance our II
I also think that like it's a bit of a
red herring like you know like like
these problems there's a level of
sophistication now we if we really want
to stop capital FRA or to make it make
there be serious pain involved with
you're taking your money out of this
country we can do it and a I mean
there's there's no doubt that we can
make it much more prohibitive but you
know like that's not that's a part
that's like a second order policy issue
I know it's not a reason not to do it
obviously we need to do we need to have
a stronger welfare state
but like the penalties need to be so
harsh that it's not just seen by
companies as the cost of doing business
which is more or less what it is now I
mean I'm thinking about all the
outsourcing that's already occurred with
pretty much zero penalty but it also
speaks to the need for a real
progressive International which is
something that Bernie has spoken about
at length already he wrote that op-ed in
The Guardian he met with Yanis farah
Farkas about it because yes the more
countries sign on to minimum standards
of Labor minimum standards of social
provisioning the less that the less
you're gonna see that happen and that's
happening in Mexico right now we're on
low obviously with way less power and
you need leadership that can actually
support somebody like that and fighting
that and I guess that's actually
something that you kind of have in a way
pointed out is that the United States is
in a unique position in order to be able
to put these sort of capital restraints
on example still need access to our
market other countries don't really have
that strong of a position and they don't
have a strong of like currency and stuff
like that either and so kind of like we
can where where the big stuff on the
street and so we're able to say like
yeah you need access to our market but
other places like Mexico like even
though it's still a large market like
they don't have as much leverage right
and so it's kind of another thing I
wasn't thinking about specifically about
the United States but just in general
places raised taxes like how can there
sort of be like a global way to figure
out how to tighten the capital flight
having having the United States do it
would help in that effort well and
that's also actually loops back to the
to the debt forgiveness conversation and
stop like as an example how those annual
arrangements with the Caribbean because
like people always like oh yeah the
Caribbean like that's where people
launder money it must just be because
like these governments are like you know
corrupt or something not exactly there's
a whole history and structure behind how
these places are you writing a deep a
well it's like Bernie Sanders said he's
like a bright in this room as an empty
chair that represents Mexico appreciate
the friar to raise that taxes in the
room yeah we are done with phone calls
let me take a couple IMS wu-tang clang
Jeeva Sam Marin is the new Todd Phillips
Joker movie he's the is in the new Todd
Phillips joke oh that's awesome what the
hell is this world coming to I thought
we were canceling creepy old guys who
only date women half their age I was
okay I thought we were canceling I
didn't know what it said I know I'm so
good and I'm not on a lot of drugs but
it's freaking me out that there's a
double Michael Brooks today did someone
switch my sudafed whip acid J double for
Michael Brooks Asst blog on Boylan came
out in 1966 and then he had his
apocryphal motorcycle accident that
removed him from public life for two
years and that is only a small reason
why 66 was perhaps the most pivotal year
of the rock era are we gonna say this is
overrated as the doors or less oh my god
Jesus Christ that was expecting it i
eras here there aren't even any boomers
in the room if we I have most look oh
boy go could you
he's Merkel's poet laureate oh wow my
libertarian friend who I try
to get to call into the show last year
but decided not to after hearing about
Sam's tweet that got him fired is now
supporting Beto for president looks like
they're babies libertarians supporting
benefit president that makes sense do
you remember there was Josh Marshall had
posted an email he got from the guy who
who works with Jonathan while err on
there working at some Park I can't
remember what his name was some
political scientists who said that Beto
and Bernie share a their share some
voters because the subtext of both of
them is similar in terms of their
outside of the mainstream and they're a
little bit more niche and certainly that
would explain like a libertarian
interest in in Beto I mean there's no I
don't see any policies that sound to me
libertarian per se it's just he's got
like a we have Liberty in this context
II good on we yeah that was the only
reason he got it he got elected was weed
oh we yeah that was his like his mane oh
right
but that was his main court of policy
plank but now if we can't smoke this
reefer what are we doing here you have
can't light this up I don't know why
we're here there is something really odd
about him for a very long time there has
been the etiquette of puff puff pass and
I believe in that it's it's like it's a
metronome for him yeah it really is
interesting I mean and weird I think I
think I like I like with Malaika so
tattoos that she's just like so much
energy anyone with that much energy is
probably not working that hard I think
it's it's he's totally like the first
hour of a party where a lot of coke is
going around and it's all like I'm gonna
start this business and then we're going
to get into real estate and then and
through but there's a lot of
collaboration yeah that's more specific
than beta would ever get that's probably
he would just want to start a band with
you right I wonder if that isn't also
get on the drums there isn't something
to that to to sort of like constantly
remind people of his age yeah relative
to other candidates in the I think
that's possible
all right
let's take a couple more IMS childhood
polio no I'm not wait John McCain's
tumor gets one okay good eye but few
people know that it was actually me who
caught a case of Mitch McConnell Jeffrey
Cuomo New York state budget which was
recently passed included a provision to
gut the legislative oversight for public
authorities projects such as Amazon this
oversight was part of the reason Amazon
project was scrapped now the governor
has free rein to push through a similar
project in the future he is such a
scumbag yeah Ryan from Ohio when I heard
the new Joker movie was about a failed
comedian I'd hope that you were attached
Sam super disappoint to find out where
does that really what it's about
wait a second what is he what role does
Maron play in this movie he was Neufeld
he's a joke he was the filthy medians
mentor is he to leap no no it's hey was
a court your guys at work and who are
your guy the news I this new Joker movie
is like if you put the Joker in the King
of Comedy like that's what that's like
what I see but it's Joaquin Phoenix
Shawn he's one year smoke-free wertha
shofar yes indeed
[Music]
christow poor bill l can't express his
rugged individual if the selfish
millennial generation z collective is
dancing in front of him
alright well Stevie Nicks is here I
can't see though I wanna just 71
Christine McVie mid-70s all right we
gonna explain that you so much for
joining us always a pleasure to have you
into if people want to follow you just
on Twitter or look for me on Twitter at
Perrine and pick up the the new republic
yeah get that he's on the cover it's a
really good piece all right we will do
three more Iams welcome to Kentucky it's
springtime in America baseball is back
alright I'm not going to do that one
wouldn't computers happy Friday all can
I get a shofar for officially becoming
the first time homeowner today and being
forever ain Mr schmuck I can see
street-legal
love how that guy just blows past the
fact that he knows dual income
households that are still poor what the
f right
and the final I am of the week higher
wages can increase productivity the wage
profits share is not set in stone the
problem with capitalism is that a
commodifies labor entreats human beings
as just another input in the production
process so on Monday
[Music]
no sir
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
