I get afraid sometimes that for all the
time we spend talking about how stupid
Dave Rubin is we don't talk about what
an he also is also a very
genuinely bad person and you know the
hustle in the United States is you know
the the far right or the new centrist
the far right are the new Libertines and
so on and that isn't true obviously
first of all as evidenced by the fact
that they aren't across the board ardent
free speech advocates and the old ACLU
model which I have a lot of respect for
it's evident in the fact that they never
talk about any serious policy issues
it's all just sort of Circle Jerks about
Twitter controversies and other
relatively inconsequential things and
it's glaringly evident when as an
available Dave Rubin you know planning
apparently on voting for Donald Trump
for president that should sort of show
the store but this is another level here
this is actually incredible this is dave
rubin appearing on the pro-bowl scenario
YT channel in brasilia brasilia
parallelo and just to be clear jr bolson
ro in addition to promising savage
austerity pension cuts labor cuts abuses
of the poor and vulnerable brazil and
carrying out the interests of western
corporate interests which obviously
there's no controversy about that we've
all seen Dave talk about Amazon you know
the the Koch brothers are plugged into
you know the sort of air vacuums in his
head about these things but he has said
a lot that you know I mean never gets
tired of mentioning as a gay man and
never gets mentioned you know tired of
saying that he you know opposes identity
politics
well balsa Niro has talked about beating
his kid if he was gay his sons and
people affiliated with him have
celebrated the assassination of Mariela
Franco who was a
being a City Councilwoman and this is a
government that is not only neo-fascist
incoming neo-fascist government it's no
way hiding the ball on its plans for a
ruthless vicious social agenda including
increasing police violence so it's a
good example of the reciprocity of media
because these people are gonna take on
the latest trends of the extreme right
in the United States that's why you have
a cabinet ministers in the ball scenario
government who talk about cultural
marxism the old John Birch Society
conspiracy theory which has been
recycled into Jordan Peterson and now
here's Dave Rubin the classical liberal
helping spread propaganda for a regime
that is literally promising to ban
protests which I might some might
consider a form of free speech and is
celebrated mass killings we have a very
similar problem that you guys have in
Brazil I mean the media has basically
lost all credibility the line that I
like to say is that many if not most
journalists they're not journalists
anymore they're activists general Heston
Buddhist Jake Achilles imposes so coming
back there's more that's not news what
what is news really is what's really
happening in culture what are people
really thinking about I mean just the
salawa stuff who's just home Dodgers I
love how like even when you're trying to
do like a serious actually this is a
really bad guy clip which Dave Rubin is
an incredibly bad disgusting morally
vacant person he's just so stupid that
it's hard not to laugh but no I can't
take any more if you have any even
cursory knowledge of modern Brazil you
know that the entire of
mainstream Brazilian media including
state media was ruthlessly opposed to
Dilma Rousseff and Lula da Silva and
have spread every manner of rumor
innuendo about the Workers Party covered
bolsa narrow with kid gloves The Wall
Street Journal endorsed him
the Brazilian mainstream press either
endorsed them or treated him with kid
gloves and they all supported ax
traditional coup that removed Dilma that
actually in his dim-witted way I mean
he's that's that's just a big lie
that is that is actually literally
fascistic big lie that isn't even like
oh that's wrong on the merits because
you have to consider this news source
it's like no the Brazilian media was
uniformly and ruthlessly committed to
destroying democratically elected
governments of Dilma and Lula and in the
last couple of weeks of the run off they
may have before the run off because by
the time the runoff happened they
consolidated behind the fascist balsan
arrow they may have ran a few pieces
being like hey this bowls an arrow guy
when he said that like you know
afro-brazilians are inferior or people
around him talked about killing gay
people or the plans to hand guns to
everybody so they can kill people or the
proposals that police should be able to
shoot people in the favelas without like
any legal consequences maybe that's a
little bit and oh this story of somebody
from a supporter of his carving a SWAT
stick into a teenage girl's stomach we
should look into that
or even what happened last or two weeks
ago which was two members of the
landless movement literally being gunned
down at a camp those things and that
wasn't covered in mainstream Brazilian
media at all so Dave Rubin dishonest
horrible person I'm sure he's too stupid
to know and doesn't care how am I
supposed to know what's going on no I
just want to know the ideas the ideas I
mean they were saying that the idea is
that did a there was a lot of ideas
going on and that both scenarios
interested in ideas both scenario has
wonderful scenarios main advisors and
I'm gonna be looking into this more is a
Brazilian who lives in exile who right
in Virginia and believes that cultural
Marxism is destroying the planet and is
a former astrologer and he is one of the
main intellectual architects and ideas
man along with of course Pinochet
advising Milton Friedman style wall
street advisors who are gonna ram
through destroying labor protections and
I'm sure of course Dave Rubin doesn't
know any of that
but he doesn't care to know sounds very
interesting to me though oh whoa whoa
whoa whoa boy
astrology and hard ride politics my ears
are burning my ears are burning
Wow
