you know we see the problems with trying
to go for impeachment right now but the
pooh-poohing the idea of accountability
for the president I think is highly
problematic and it's come up in the
context of this college admissions
scandal where you know in some ways
that's the the subtext is making it to
the text right like where you know the
subtext is we have a deeply flawed on
merit our you know merit-based system we
we like to pretend it's merit-based when
we talk about our society but the
reality is is that if you tell me what
you know
zip code you're born in I have a very
good chance of producing
you know or what tier of college or
university could it all just based upon
your zip code and when US attorneys are
saying this is a real fraud this is not
like donating money to a school and
getting your kid in that way I think
there's a real sort of like
misunderstanding about what is angering
people in this country well I do too and
I think it's funny because you know
there's all this corruption there's this
layer after layer after after fraud and
corruption in government and in all the
elite institutions but there's something
about that scandal the the cheating
scandal that I think may be more
illustrative to more people than those
things you know I mean I think people
sort of guide politics it's all corrupt
I think this is something that average
parents sitting around you know filling
out helping their kids fill out their
applications and trying to put money
away to help their kids go to go to
college and looking at you know how
difficult and expensive it is and the
student people looking at their student
loans that they're having to pay every
month for a year upon year upon year
necessarily it touches many many
millions of people and here you
a group of people and they're not even
at the top echelon right the top echelon
just do exactly what you said they just
buy a building or do a donation or you
know offer some kind of a grant for
something and you know say Jared Kushner
being the top example that I think
everybody thought of when this whole
thing came up his father I mean Jared
Kushner is really was a very very
mediocre student and is a very mediocre
mind and had no chance of getting into
an elite University and his father who
had no attachment to Harvard by the way
it wasn't like a legacy or anything or
somebody who you know it wasn't even the
old boys club this was a strictly
financial transaction he gave 2.5
million dollars to Harvard and they let
his son come I mean I've just Nick that
to me that's just abroad I don't see any
other way to look at it there's nothing
there that indicates that there was any
reason beyond just the money that
allowed Jared Kushner to go to Harvard
and this was written about many years
ago I'm back in 2006 and a guy named
Daniel old golden wrote a book about
these legacy students and how this is
all done on the elite level and you know
the benefits that you get from getting a
degree from one of those those schools
is enormous I mean just the contacts the
prestige the ability to get jobs
throughout your life make money you know
be part of that you know Club of elite
students and graduates is invaluable and
these people just say you know they have
the money to go by and now these other
people they're you know they are big
they were they were business moguls
Hollywood people people who obviously
had money but they apparently didn't
have that kind of money the kind of
money where they can just go buy a
building you know I mean they were there
they're you know they're wealthy and by
my standards vastly well it is compared
to me but you know I think I don't think
they thought of themselves as being that
wealthy and maybe a lot of people in
this country sort of look at them and
think well you know they're they're
well-off but not you know among the
super-rich and and but yet you know
they're striving to get that elite
status to get into that thing and just
to go for such a crude form of fraud I
mean this kind of stuff where they were
doing photo shops of
kids you know pretending to be athletes
and cheating just blatantly on the SATs
and bribing you know coaches in various
colleges I mean that's the kind of thing
where you think you know these people
really assumed they could get away with
this they just assumed they had know
that there was no risk to them that this
was just fine they were they were
blatantly breaking you know any kind of
ethical rules much less the law and and
the rest of America we're just here
looking at who do you people think you
are you know who do you people think you
are so it late it just lends itself to
sort of it as an examination of what is
going on in this country this but what
you say is this lack of accountability
this kind of elite impunity this this
you know this you know ongoing sort of
sense that the rules are different for
average people and then they are for
these folks that they can get away with
murder and the rest of us have to play
by the rules
and as you say though I mean as you
discuss the characteristics of those
people it it sounds like Donald Trump it
sounds like I mean it sounds like all of
these people who have been operating and
they're like you say they're also
probably right because for the most part
they're able to just go around do this
throw money at stuff make everything you
know problems go away that they're you
know it's impossible to to touch them in
any fashion there's nothing they can do
that in any way you know they would be
held to account over so the this is you
know this is this is indicative of a
bigger problem I think and I I think
it's a mistake you know there's
obviously like a lot of you know I guess
sexiness to the story but I think it's a
mistake to sort of perceive this as the
the real story again this is sort of
like Madoff versus the financial crisis
there are you know we cannot see the
lives that are implicated not by the the
fraud that these 39
individuals committed but the entire
system that makes it harder you know the
way that we fund lower education you
know K through 12 the lack of you peak
you know universal pre-k and daycare all
of these things are implicated it seems
to me when someone applies to college
and gets in so it's it's really it's
shocking and it's certainly of this era
I will say that very much of this era
now we just have a minute and a half
here and before we go into the to the
next segment but I want to talk about
another thing that seems to be of this
era and we can talk more about it in
like I say in the next segment but the
Republicans are now negotiating and
about to come to some type of resolution
on a bill that purports to clawback
power for Congress but in fact it is a
bill that allows Donald Trump to get
away with his emergency order and does
it in such a way that it makes
conservatives feel comfortable that no
Democrat can tread on these in these
footsteps again we got to take a quick
break when we come back let's talk about
this because it is highly problematic it
seems to me and of course very typical
of the behavior of the Republican Party
in the Trump era
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back
