[Music]
Marcy wheeler but before we do many of
you have probably seen this story it's
all over the place that on his trip to
Japan Donald Trump famous for having an
issue with John McCain John McCain
having an issue with Donald Trump they
didn't like each other folks there is a
worship called the USS John McCain it
was named after John McCain's dad when
John McCain past they recommissioned it
as being named after both of them Donald
Trump did not go to that ship and speak
to the the seamen who are are in in
around Japan stationed in Japan he went
to a smaller boat called the wasp I
think it is and my friend Larry who was
a naval seamen himself Larry Murphy
tells me that boats small that's a weird
boat for someone to go on at the time
and it has come out that apparently the
White House not only wanted to avoid the
USS John McCain but put a drape over the
name while he was around so that he
couldn't see he didn't see it and none
of those the seamen I think stationed on
that boat were allowed to hear his talk
I mean classy stuff here is Donald Trump
explaining that he didn't know anything
about it
it was his underlings
it's a wonderful exercise in watching
Donald Trump's cowardice but it also I
think has some relevance to what we're
going to be discussing today in terms of
the Muller report here is Dharam
that they were banned from
what happened I wasn't involved I would
not have done that I was very angry of
John McCain because he killed healthcare
I was not a big fan of John McCain in
any way shape or form I think John
McCain had a lot to getting President
Bush a lot to do with it to go into the
Middle East which was a catastrophe to
me John McCain I wasn't a fan but I
would never do a thing like that now
somebody did it because they thought I
didn't like him okay and they were
well-meaning I will say I didn't know
anything about it I would never have
done that
I heard sellers old went on we had a
tremendous group of sellers from various
ships it was a beautiful day but the
McCain thing I knew nothing about okay
now maybe you can choose to believe
Donald Trump or not choose to believe
Donald Trump here that's irrelevant the
fish rots from the head down and the
head of the fish is certainly rotted
there's no reason to believe the rest of
the carcass is not also rotted but what
this also exemplifies was something that
we were talking about when the Muller
report was issued and again you don't
have to read the whole report read the
first two the first two chapters you
you'll get all you need to know it was
clear that Muller's task was very narrow
in terms of looking at the question of
what we coloca leak all collusion but
there is of course no legal there's no
crime you can commit with collusion he
had to look at something very specific
which was a very specific conspiracy
charge wherein with the two things that
the Russian government was involved in
that is the hacking and leaking of the
emails and in the social media
shenanigans did any
from the Trump campaign actively
coordinate with those people to do that
stuff did they trade material aid to
each other essentially in doing it and
they found that they did not or I should
say he did not find sufficient evidence
to find that they did that's more
accurate he specifically Muller or the
report specifically says we do not in
any way that does not in any way mean
that we didn't find the two parties
weren't working in concert in other
words that and they go on to say that
one party did something that the other
party reacted to the second party did
something that the first party reacted
to but they never coordinated those
things it's almost as if like you know
or anticipate what the other person
wants and then goes ahead and does it so
maybe Donald Trump doesn't say to any of
his staff I hate John McCain and if I go
there I don't want to see his ship and I
don't want to talk and I want to
actually disgrace the ship in some way
by taking it out on the sailors maybe
Donald Trump did not say that
maybe we believe Donald Trump that his
staff knows that he hates John McCain
and goes and does something that they
know will be pleasing to his staff I
mean to him and then Donald Trump is
like you guys did that and gave me
deniability
I'm not gonna coordinate anything with
you but here's a raise
here's some job security you see the
point there there's collusion in some
fashion they know what each other wants
but there's no conspiracy because they
haven't coordinated it won't someone rid
me of this troublesome aircraft
indeed and I think if you read the
report you see that there's a lot of
that I mean if you have the other 30,000
emails Russia go ahead
the Russians are thinking do you think
Donald Trump wants to win yes let's talk
to someone not affiliated campaign this
is a good time to drop these emails when
this tape comes out this also might be
why the Trump administration is so
understanding about Mohammed bin Salman
and Jamal Khashoggi yeah sometimes
people just get the idea that they want
something done and they do it and you
can't you know these things happen they
came from a good place the heart was in
the right their heart was in the right
place yeah
