you and I I think have talked probably
on multiple occasions about the NPV this
is the national popular vote and it
didn't even occur to me that after this
past midterm elections that the the
terrain may have shifted explain to
people what the NPV is and why this is
in many respects one of those electoral
reforms that Democrats can actually
implement without controlling all three
branches of the federal government
that's exactly right and it's a
wonderful way to bring it up I am Bob
McChesney and I've written a number of
books together working on a book that
actually won't come up another year or
so but on it's called this way out and
it's on the things you can do without
amending the Constitution and maybe
without even having full control of
government although some of them would
require that and you're pointing to
something that is critical
first off let's begins the the premise
that the electoral college should not
exist it's it's a bad entity that both
parties should be opposed to for a
variety of reasons it allows losers of
the popular vote to become president
United States and so we want to get rid
of it
usually when you have a reform in
American politics one party or the other
gets excited and tends to advance it
more aggressively Democrats have a real
reason to be aggressive in this because
twice in the last sixteen or less 18
years they've won the presidency in the
popular vote and then lost in the
electoral college so you have a argument
for getting rid of the electoral college
and amending the Constitution to do that
is a great idea more power to you it's
just hard whereas there is this
alternative developed by Jamie Raskin
and a number of other thinkers which
says let's just have the states agree to
a compact they'll all agree legislators
will pass it to say that if enough
states to equal 270 votes what you need
to win the electoral college agree to
this then we will award our electoral
votes
can because there's really very little
controls on this to the winner of the
popular vote and this is strikingly pot
it's doing very very well as an
initiative right now Colorado's working
on it we then you know it every year
more states you know jump in and sign on
you literally have not you're not after
270 yet but you have a substantial
number of states there's a lot of
electoral votes that are bought into
this this is one of the potential
reforms that you might do I advocate a
new article in the nation advocate is
simply saying don't I seem to start
talking about the electoral college
on a whole bunch of levels a whole lot
more because it is absurd to be in a
situation where you literally um win the
presidency by three million votes and
don't get it and you can't just let that
happen because then when you start to
look at it I think this is one of the
things that's moving a lot of these
reform efforts in the states actually
even nationally is that three million
seems like a lot of votes the truth of
the matter is that there but for a
couple of twists and turns you can get
up to five million eight million ten
million volt March and somebody can lose
the presidency of the United States but
ten million votes and still assume the
presidency because of the electoral
college this is something that every
Democratic candidate for president
should make central to you know what
they're talking about
it was part of a broader reform agenda
yeah it's fascinating and people can go
Google is and I think we're right now at
around over a hundred and seventy
electoral votes in terms of like I think
twelve states that have signed on to
this but there we picked up some some
Democratic houses in this last midterm
and we could see we could see this you
know we could be picking up we could be
a lot closer to 270 certainly maybe if
not you know in the next year or two but
certainly within two years we could be
pushing over 270 but the meantime we
have run out of time John Nichols always
a pleasure thanks for updating us on it
