[Music]
see how you guys are doing I wanted to
tell Sam so I am a libertarian but I'm a
libertarian socialist I want to let you
know that that kind of that thought
exists out there that there are
libertarians and they can be saved you
know I mean yeah I am aware I am aware
of the libertarian socialist so what
does that mean you you know central
government is that it um well I mean
like I think like common sense about
that or like a little bit pre-emptive
but basically yeah like decentralized
localized direct democracy between
Confederated like small states you know
like baby towns or cities and they kind
of come together and it's just like a
very bottom-up structure instead of a
top-down structure right and it's just
an emphasis emphasis on you know local
cooperation and freedom you know yeah
what and what's what's the point of that
what do you think you get out of that
that you that you don't get now well I
think it's um it's just like a lot of
like more equality you know what I mean
and it's just a like everyone working
together towards a common goal so so
long I think like when we look at
someplace like Ferguson for instance yep
the locality there now under the Obama
administration the police force was
under a a DOJ order that was taken off
when Jeff Sessions came in what do you
do about a situation like that where
actually the same dynamics that you have
on a on any other level take place there
but are actually much harder to dislodge
talking about like you know like racial
resentment between different ethnic
groups in the same community I mean you
could do racial resentment you could do
corruption I mean
we're a mass you live but if you live in
whitens ville you probably know that the
level of corruption there if you're an
insider in whitens ville is higher than
it would be even on the state level
right no yeah and I and I think a lot I
mean like it's not about a direct
transitory just like right from here
like from the situation we are now to an
idealist is sort of like you know a
communist or any sort of like extreme
far leftist society I mean obviously
there's a lot of progress that we have
to make and I think a lot of people is
especially socially you know I mean and
the reason I kind of called in was
because I think your guests kind of had
it right where I think a lot of what
Mike divides us is artificial and if we
can like come to get like if like mutual
cooperation is honestly the most
efficient way and the best way for
everyone and I think a lot of data backs
that up and especially like what until
you think about corruption and any sort
of like racial resentment or things like
that I think it's driven more by like a
personal sort of like a lot of those
people need justifications the way that
they think or they do and if we can
break through those that that would lead
to a better you know it's like it led a
better society for everyone so I mean I
think especially corruption and you know
societal dis like discord are mostly due
to things that divide us and that before
we before we were transition to some
sort of like idealist or sort of society
that is those are the conversations that
we need to have like right yeah I mean I
I the the the only problem I have with
what you're saying is that I don't know
what the magic elixir is going to be to
make people o people better I mean if I
mean if and I think this is the if the
idea of full-on socialism or you know
even communism is that you cannot allow
any of the
any capitalism to exist because
eventually its will to power is such
that it will you know those embers will
will will catch fire and will eventually
subsume the the common benefit well it's
not just that though like crises
economic crises are endemic to
capitalism and they're gonna keep
happening as long as we have it well I
mean I think it's possible economic
crises might be you know part of
everything but any type of system that
you have but maybe not but nevertheless
the economy but nevertheless if the idea
is that a little bit of capitalism can
be bad you know in the context of a
society because it can come roaring back
in terms of power I would just suggest
that capitalism does not exist floating
around that it is it is an idea that
that is born out of some people who want
to exert their will and they will do
that in any context and and that it's
pretty easy to have local communities go
sideways and if you don't provide any
type of state counterbalance to it I
mean broader you know in our instance
federal counterbalance I think there are
there are times where it's a problem I
mean slavery and now granted slavery I
know was certainly could be not fully a
product of capitalism but certainly
capitalism was the fuel that that drove
that but there was also you know a
mentality I'm not saying that in this
day and age we have slavery but the idea
of like we're going to oppress certain
people in our in our you know the
smaller societies or our smaller you
know localities and and just like I just
have witness it living in a small rural
town man it's like Steven the people you
you see a
a decent amount of sort of you know
small scales corruption but it's people
helping people
I mean look just say not suppress you
dude but legitimate question as a
libertarian socialist how are you not
calling in about rose Java yeah I guess
I don't I know much about that I mean
I'm not actually not not severe but
actually read about it because it will
give you some concrete examples of what
you're interested in oh yeah it's and it
by the way it's totally fair to say I
don't know enough about this to comment
on it I feel like more people should say
that but I think what our caller was
saying was that libertarian socialism is
not an ideology that can be applied in a
vacuum and sometimes in order to move us
towards a libertarian socialist horizon
whatever you want to call it it will
involve moving through a face of more
government and more state power like we
know that right-wing libertarians are
our enemies we know that these
quote-unquote small government
conservatives are enemies I would prefer
social democracy to that certainly
everyone would on this show and that
involves a certain amount of greater
state intervention so you have to you
have to apply it in a smart way on a
case-by-case basis looking at the
conditions on the ground but another
another Society that I think is a really
good example of libertarian socialism in
action are these uppity PSA's in Chiapas
and I actually went to go visit them in
a town called event ich where they let
Outsiders come and I learned a little
bit about their their society and their
mode of governance which is basically a
libertarian socialist society the towns
that are controlled by zapatistas are
kind of federated together and they have
these councils usually the terms on the
council's are very short people are
selected not any standardized way they
can volunteer or people can volunteer
them and they make all the decisions in
accordance with these Assemblies of
townspeople and like you can say yeah
the people in Chiapas are culturally and
ethnically homogenous and this could
never scale up this could never work for
a big diverse place like the US
you know that you partly have a point
there there are challenges involved
there's all kinds of Buju ideologies
that divide people from one another like
racism sexism homophobia etc etc but I
really think that we can we're gonna
have to overcome them if we ever want to
win and create some kind of better world
for ourselves appreciate the call mark
