[Music]
syria's asked the question at the United
Nations about nobel prize very likely
and definitely you will be deserving a
Nobel Prize oh I think I'm gonna get a
Nobel Prize for a lot of things if they
gave it up apparently which they does
well they gave one to Obama immediately
upon his descent to the presidency and
he had no idea why he got it and you
know what that was the only thing I
agreed with him on yeah there we go I
was where was that badgering this speech
but you know what I love
that was pretty medication that was
pretty that was before they drugged me
in the bathroom without I like what what
I think is amazing though about all of
the fake Obama like there was this
Republican obsession with this nonsense
they did they talked about the
teleprompter for years there was the
suit thing when he came out wearing like
a tan suit or something and they tried
to make that a thing but it was it was
perfect because it was like the
Republicans definitionally could not
talk about his actual scandals and you
know liberals went or progressed or
centrist or whatever wouldn't hold them
him accountable for that either so you
had an administration of like you know
bank bailouts and drone strikes and all
of this stuff but because none of that
was on the table they did have to go
like he uses a teleprompter tan shoot
tan suit the best one was Obama's
hip-hop BBQ fails to create jobs that
was pretty great it was true actually
though oh really common doing creating
jobs we created a fire party sorry white
people let's go to four six nine area
