the last time that you and I spoke was
actually right after the the Cavanaugh
and Ford hearing this was before the
decision or I guess the forced decision
where the Republicans had to agree to a
an FBI vetting of Cavanaugh on the
stories and the accusation surrounding
him
I think everyone remembers that the FBI
investigation was rather incomplete they
interviewed only four witnesses they did
not follow the leads there are stories
after stories of people who were in
college with Cavanaugh who were in high
school with Cavanaugh who had
information for the FBI that the FBI
simply did not accept would not sit down
with them would not receive would not
report to the president that was all
part of the program where the FBI
investigation was to be a big whitewash
and then ultimately Susan Collins cast
the deciding vote had to confirm
Cavanaugh Joe Manchin Democrat took the
free vote and ended up voting for him as
well but I think and we can talk about
whether we think that would have been
different had Collins not voted for him
and here we are in the wake of that
Cavanaugh has now officially been sworn
on to the Supreme Court of the United
States I don't think he is quite sat
down and heard a case yet there was a
case this week that implicates voting
rights that was basically punted at a
4-4 but left it to the Circuit Court
decision we will talk about that as big
implications for Heidi Heitkamp
and the chances of the Democrats holding
or capturing the Senate I should say in
the fall but let's let's stop for a
moment and I want to talk about Susan
Collins you wrote a piece this week when
susan collins gas-lit the nation was
that the Republican Party's final
surrender to trump one of the things
that has come out of this is the
notion of nevertrump errs seems to have
more or less gone the way of the dodo
bird if you are where a never Trumper
and you are still a never Trump er in
many respects you may not no longer be a
Republican that seems to be the way
you're pitching your books these days
but give me your sense I mean was that
the moment that when susan collins
basically decided to rebrand herself was
that the moment that the party the
republican party and donald trump sort
of lost any daylight between them well
that's what I thought I mean I had you
know we'd watched this whole thing
unfold of course everybody was riveted
to the story of you know the Cavanaugh
hearings and then the FBI investigation
which as you pointed out was you know
something of a sham and and and I've got
something else to say on that later that
has to do with the further ramifications
of that particular you know arrangement
that was made between the White House
and the Republican Senate and the FBI
but as far as Collins is concerned I
think you know we were all waiting there
had been this sort of dance that was
going on with Jeff Flake and Susan
Collins and Lisa Murkowski and Manchin
and they were all speaking in corners
and people were saying they were trading
boats and making deals and what-have-you
and this idea of the you know the quote
never Trump errs or maybe just call it
you know the the independent moderates
in the Republican Party that there still
existed this sort of that last vestige
of some kind of a conscience and in the
past
Lindsey Graham would have been one of
those guys or you know I'm John McCain
or whatever Lindsey Graham turned into
it you know a vicious poisonous reptile
during this situation I mean he was out
front and he was fully embracing
trumpism which is just vicious that he
was attacking you know rape survivors in
the hallway saying you should have
called a cop you know I mean he was
horrible absolutely awful and so but you
know that isn't coming for a while I
don't think it was really surprise
but Susan Collins particularly in this
situation with it being an issue about
rape survivors and you know me too and
women's rights which she was supposedly
one of the last you know defenders in
the Republican Party I think people were
you know still sort of expecting
something from her and that speech that
she gave highly anticipated we all knew
it was going to be the deciding vote was
basically a sort of a moderate version
of a Trump speech and that she fully
went with Trump which is that she that's
why I put it that she gas led the nation
because she portrayed Brett Kavanaugh
completely the opposite of what he
actually showed himself to be to the
nation in that hearing that you and I
talked about last time we were together
here she said he was a mild-mannered you
know thoughtful conscientious juror
jurist and in fact you know we saw what
he was he was a threatening petulant
schoolyard bully and she portrayed him
as being the opposite of what we all had
seen in other words she said you can
believe me or you can believe your lying
eyes and that is Trump that is the
ultimate expression of trumpism and for
Susan Collins they put her out there she
willingly in fact it seemed eagerly went
out there said that the the protesters
that had been protesting at the Senate
went along with the entire Republican
line on that that they were all violent
and it was an angry mob and you know all
this and basically they were all women I
shouldn't say all women there were
plenty of men there too but it was led
by women many of them raped survivors
themselves who flew in to protest this
and she's there Susan Collins the
moderate protector women's rights
calling them an angry mob so she had
come I think that signaled I think the
final last gasp of the Republican
establishment that might have at some
point stood up and said no to Donald
Trump I think it's over
it's done Susan Collins is now just the
other side of the coin of trumpism she's
a woman she's slightly less crude in her
delivery but the message was exactly the
same all right well you know I I agree
and I think and I want to ask you this
and we got to take a break here in in a
moment but you know it occurs to me that
I think this calculation was was I mean
Susan Collins made a conscious decision
as to how she was going to brand herself
in this era and if there was any chance
within the Republican Party for there to
be anyone other than someone who is like
a sentence away from talking about pizza
gate it strikes me and I want to ask
pose this question to you will will have
you answer it when we return and also I
want to talk to you about that what you
think the implications of the non
vetting of Brett Kavanaugh will be in
future nominations but it seems to me
that with the death of John McCain
Lindsey Graham and Susan Collins made
the decision that there is no longer a
caucus within the Republican caucus
where they can brand themselves as
reasonable moderates and reach across
the aisle types of folks and they made
their decision to basically join the
herd I want to get your take on that and
more when we return
I'm Sam cedar this is a ring of fire
radio be right back with the other part
