[Music]
all right let's take a look at this
sheeted tulip and Hilmar ela Nomar are
are back in the news this is I mean this
is we're going to hear a lot from these
folks for the next year because to a
large extent this is part of the
electoral strategy in 2018 of the
Republican Party which is to demonize
women of color and make sure that
everyone understands that the Democratic
Party is the women of color party and so
let's just start yesterday there was a
press conference at the Minnesota State
House both Rasheeda a Talib and Johan
Omar spoke here is receded to live
talking about her experience in
Palestine as a young girl as a young
girl visiting Palestine to see my
grandparents and extended family I
watched as my mother had to go there do
humanizing checkpoints even though she
was a United States citizen and proud
American I was there when my city was to
a terrible car accident and my cousins
and I cried so she could have access to
the best hospitals which were in
Jerusalem I remember shaking with fear
when checkpoints appeared in the small
village of Bethel and for√ßa tanks and
guns everywhere I remember visiting East
Jerusalem with my then husband and him
escorting escorted off the bus although
he was a United States citizen just
social security forces could harass him
all I can do as my city's granddaughter
as the as the granddaughter of a woman
who lives in occupied territories to
elevate her voice by exposing the truth
the only
I know how as my detroit public schools
teachers taught me by humanizing the
pain of oppression and then Ilhan omar
came up and spoke more specifically
about what this country can do this
country being the United States to deal
with the injustice that is the Israeli
Apartheid fortunately we in the United
States have a constructive role to play
we give Israel more than three million
dollars in aid every year this is
predicated on their being an important
ally in the region and the only
democracy in the Middle East but denying
visit to duly elected members of
Congress is not consistent with being an
ally and denying millions of people
freedom of movement or expression or
self-determination is not consistent
with being a democracy we must be asking
as Israel's ally the Netanyahu
government stopped the expansion of
settlements on Palestinian land and
ensure full rights for Palestinians if
we are to give them aid now before some
of you send me an email telling me that
I'm a self-hating Jew and why is it that
to lib and Ilhan Omar and we on the show
why do we criticize Israel when Saudi
Arabia's so horrible why do we criticize
Israel when Iran is so horrible or
Assyria is so horrible
well let me tell you what emails I never
get why do you criticize the United
States when there are so many other
countries that are just as bad or worse
like what
because the point of criticize look I
don't know if South Africa was the most
oppressive regime and the in the in the
world at the time Saudi Arabia's still
pretty probably pretty bad back then too
but the point being because one I have
personally just far more invested in
Israel than I do in Saudi Arabia
emotionally - we give obviously three
billion dollars of an eighth of aid to
Israel they are far more interconnected
in our politics in many respects at
least publicly than the Saudis to the
extent that the Saudis are we criticize
them this is the the notion that Israel
is unique in getting criticism is is a
silly one in terms of of of the West are
from where we sit I mean I just we hold
them to higher standards because we
consider them the only democracy in the
Middle East yeah I mean let's I don't
even think we could do that one
ironically and as a joke anymore but I
mean all acknowledge I mean look I have
a lot more emotional investment in Saudi
Arabia so it's that's extremely
difficult for me to talk about the that
elegant monarchy there and how the
standards have fallen but I think that
you know one is all the reasons that you
outlined absolutely and even though we
could say on a relative scale there's no
doubt that being in Saudi Arabia would
in the aggregate be worse in many
respects although frankly I don't know
if you're Palestinian but certainly if
you're even an Arab as a second-class
citizen inside 67 borders but there is
something very specific and very unique
about apartheid conditions and about
having a system that specifically
administers two entirely sets different
sets of rules for people based on their
ethnic identity and I mean that and
some respects that is actually very
unique in the world apartheid South
Africa was unique the Jim Crow South was
unique right Israel is unique
Western Sahara is unique and I think now
clearly Kashmir is becoming increasingly
unique though having a set of conditions
like that that if you know literally
roads for different people right that is
so high religious justice system right
that is radically unique there you go
