[Music]
[Music]
CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous in their hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is special coverage of the 2020
debates June 27 2019 the majority report
that we screwed up we were doing a
special pre-debate show just so you know
we're doing this on youtube right now
and we are going to move this to twitch
because YouTube apparently is been
frankly there have never really anybody
has tested fair use and therefore you
know YouTube understands that we're
probably not going to go and sue them
for giving us a strike against the video
and that would prevent us from being
able to live stream for 90 days so we
are deferring to caution in this
instance but wanted to do a an extended
pre-debate show tonight for two reasons
one is wanted to thesis I just got a
text from Michael apparently cannot
anticipate how long it takes to get to
from his house anyways there's wanted to
do you know some of the post debate
follow-up mmm I think if you heard our
rap that we did last night I think it
holds up pretty well we didn't have any
chance to listen to the spin from
anywhere else but I think our
assessments were pretty consistent with
the way that people responded to this we
will get to some footage I think do we
have a clip of a bed oh and his
assessment of what
we should probably do that too just to
we will get to our debate wrap-up but
there were two important Supreme Court
rulings that came down we will talk
about these more tomorrow but these are
really important if you have been
watching the show for any period of time
you know that we have been following
both of these questions pretty intensely
and you will also know if you've been
listening to the show for an extended
period of time
that one of our projects here is to try
and make the left appreciate the
importance of the Supreme Court what has
happened today in terms of the Supreme
Court is that the Republican Party has
locked in more or less a dynamic we're
in a state like Wisconsin Democrats can
get 54% of the votes and Republicans win
65% of the seats just drink that in for
a moment understand how effed up that is
how many people do you need to mobilize
that don't vote to overcome a deficit in
the ratio between what you get in terms
of votes and what you get in terms of
representation someone out there can do
the math better than I can but that
means that every democratic vote is
worth about three-quarters or
seven-eighths of a Republican vote in
that state that's what it means and that
is assuming that if a Republicans
control a state they don't go further
than that we have that dynamic in
Wisconsin we have that dynamic in
Michigan in North Carolina we have it in
in Ohio
the the idea that and this is the the
ruling that the Supreme Court made today
the judiciary is not an avenue to fix
that period now in states like
Pennsylvania where the state Supreme
Court can rule in it can rule on this
because it's in the Constitution the
state constitution those instances seem
to be safe but you will recall in
Wisconsin several months ago
Democrats lost a state Supreme Court
seat that basically ensured that
Republicans will retain control of the
state Supreme Court in Wisconsin so Ohio
and Michigan in North Carolina and any
state that now wants to step up and do
this supposedly and this is what is
confusing about this ruling and and
we're gonna need time to parse it but in
the past we've reported that John
Roberts and other conservatives on the
court at one point voted to gut
Arizona's independent redistricting
commission that was established by the
Arizona Legislature to deal with
gerrymandering and I ostensibly do it in
a way that is not partisan the Supreme
Court argued that the state legislatures
cannot delegate that authority however
they use that as an example as to why
the judiciary doesn't need to intervene
in this instance that there are other
mechanisms in which to get fair
districts drawn so this is a crap show
and understand say what you want about
Merrick garland the fact of the matter
is had he bees had been sat
it would have been a 6-3 vote the
opposite direction had he not been sat
in Hillary Clinton would have won and
Merrick garland or his replacement
it would have been five four maybe six
three I guess maybe at this point had
have been Clinton too so the bottom line
is elections have consequences
Republicans know how to use their
victories to lock in their power and
this is what they're doing with this
gerrymandering just contemplate this in
terms of Congress Democrats votes and at
least a half a dozen states are worth
anywhere from 3/4 to 7/8 of a
Republicans vote that's what it means to
vote 54% for Democrats and get 65%
Republicans in the State House the
second case is a a win but it is a
tentative win and it's one that was such
a slam dunk that had the Supreme Court
decided the other way I think it would
have destroyed the legitimacy of the
court in even the most institutionalist
ways the second case was about the
census question asking about citizenship
status the Constitution calls for a
census every 10 years it says it will
measure every single person not every
citizen not every green card holder not
every legal not every every person for
the first time in the history of the
census
Commerce Department wanted to put an
immigration question on there a
citizenship question it's on the survey
that they do annually but that's just a
survey this is the thing that's supposed
to count every single literally count
every single person in the country
Commerce Department claimed that they
were doing so at the request of the
Department of Justice and the Department
of Justice had requested it because they
needed this information to fully
implement implement the Voting Rights
Act the Voting Rights Act
aside from it's laughable that the Trump
administration or the Republicans want
to enforce the Voting Rights Act the
Voting Rights Act has been in effect for
over 50 years and never has anyone
needed that information nevertheless the
Supreme Court looked like that they were
going to accept that explanation and
move forward about a month ago a man
died his name was Hufstedler I think it
was a Republican operative known as the
godfather of the gerrymander that took
place in 2010 statistician he was
estranged from his daughter who was
charged with being the executor of his
estate was going through his stuff
looked at two hard drives from his
computer saw extensive research done on
what would happen to a Texas
congressional district if this question
was included in the census its findings
were quote this question will empower
non-white Hispanics and Republicans he
then went on to intensely Lobby the
Trump transition team to include this
question he then had direct
communication with people at the
Commerce Department and wrote a memo
that was verbatim used parts of it in
the DOJ request to commerce he literally
wrote their alibi
he wrote an entire research paper that
showed basically this is a racist intent
we're going to diminish the power of
anybody but non-hispanic whites this
became too grand of a hill for at least
John Roberts to climb Sam Alito had no
problem with that
but that was struck down it is unclear
if Commerce Department has time to
pretend they have another reason for
this question
they literally lied about it in court
they brought up no other reason other
than the Voting Rights Act but you need
to a assume good faith on the part of
the Supreme Court and that be the
Republicans desire to get this on their
on the census question because this is
how districts are redrawn this is how
funds are distributed is pretty intense
so we will discuss both those things
at length tomorrow as well as a wrap of
tonight's debate but with 15 minutes
before we start the coverage of the
debate I want to just remind you that
tonight we're not going to be streaming
the debate on YouTube we're going to be
doing it on twitch TV you can go to
twitch dot TV slash the majority report
we have that chyron up on our screen we
will have it in the description of this
of this half an hour segment just want
you to know that maybe we'll leave open
the comments even or something like that
on YouTube and just have a maybe an
audio stream or something there can we
do that I don't know we can't do two
Wirecast at once so we'll do something
about that
but at the very least if you see anybody
over in YouTube or on Twitter tell them
to head over to twitch alright so let's
look at what took place last night there
was basically
there's three big stories I mean look at
the end of the night last night we said
Warren held their own cory booker made a
choice he was gonna run in the left lane
his iran questioned sort of tripped
things up for him there but short of
that and that to me just seemed to be a
way for him to say like I'm not like
everybody else I basically have the same
answer but I'm gonna tweak it a little
bit Julian Castro did well insofar as he
basically ruined
Beto O'Rourke's whole life plan it
appears and Bill DeBlasio saying that
Castro's plan was to ruin beta
O'Rourke's a vision board yeah he's just
like I'm gonna go out there tonight and
rain on Patos vision board but wait I
wouldn't come back to that you built why
here's Bill DeBlasio also stepped up and
Alex Breen had a great tweet about it
people forgot because he seems so
reluctant to be mayor how good he was at
running for mayor and he basically
appointed himself the attack dog for the
left and did quite a decent job at it
frankly so let's round up some of the
things that happened in the meantime one
as we said that all Rourke last night I
want to apologize I had a couple of too
many drinks maybe and I overused the
break metaphor I had a lot of people
asking me if we were being sponsored by
Midas or something to that effect
better O'Rourke was up there he seemed
nervous from the get-go mmm he forced
it's not even so much that he forced the
Spanish it's that he didn't answer the
question that was asked him and had he
responded to that question in Spanish
you know done one line of English one
line of Spanish I think people would
have been less sort of put off by that
she said siente percenter no me gusta
siente you know this is
ciento percent they but he didn't say
that
he answered a completely different
question it was quite obvious he was
trying to shoehorn his Spanish into into
a minoo and insistent on answering a
different question that wasn't asked he
then went on he really got hammered by
Julian Castro on this issue of a
provision instituted by the Trump
administration to criminalize just
crossing the border for the first time
which allows the US government
ostensibly to separate to kidnap
children from their parents and then
hold them in these horrible facilities
and Castro was like why won't you
support this why won't you support it
here it is here's that moment right here
with regional stakeholders so there's no
reason to make that 2,000 mile journey
to let's be very clear the reason that
they're separating these little children
from their families is that they're
using section 1325 of that act which
criminalizes coming across the border to
incarcerate the preparin and then
separate them some of us on this stage
have called to end that section to
terminate it some like congressman
O'Rourke have not and I want to
challenge all of the candidates to do
that I just think it's a mistake though
I think it's a mistake and I think that
that if you truly want to change the
system then we got to repeal that
section if not thank you then if America
respond to this very briefly in
factually as a member of Congress I
helped to introduce legislation that
would ensure that we don't criminalize
those who are seeking asylum and refuge
in this country if you're clean talk if
you're blaming the desperation then I
want to make sure everybody with respect
I'm still talking about everybody else
you're looking at just one small part of
this I'm talking about a comprehensive
rewrite of our immigration laws
not talking about our laws I'm thinking
about billions of folks a lot of folks
that are coming are not seeking asylum
and a lot of them are undocumented
immigrants right and you said recently
that the reason you didn't want to
repeal section 1325 was because you were
concerned about human trafficking and
and drug trafficking but let me tell you
what section 18 so I got title 18 of the
u.s. code title 21 and title 22 already
covered listen I think Beto has done his
homework on this issue and I think he
thinks it's a problem to come out with
that if he wants to maintain a career in
Texas now I'm not sure I don't know the
internal dynamics of Texas but for
whatever reason he was dodging that
question he changed the category of
people that this law applies to non
asylum seekers he then switched over to
the idea that these people were actually
had committed crimes there was a plenty
of provisions in this law that deal with
people who've committed crimes that
those were the narrow instances in which
the Obama administration separated
children from their parents when those
parents were clearly had violated some
other law not the civil infraction of
crossing the border which has now been
criminalized by the Trump administration
but I won't do anything about it we said
this last night and I think it's held up
bateau looked like he had the stomach
flu he looked like you know a basketball
team that ended up in the Final Four
just completely surprised that they were
there and they all contracted stomach
flu the night before and they're all
showed up after vomiting in the locker
room
and he got out there oh yeah but how
does Beto get on the stage and do this
well I think we have Exhibit A in terms
of evidence Beto
how did you do last night I'd give
myself an a Oh delicious there you go I
bet you would I thought that'd be
decided I'll explain everything
the guy is so deluded he wakes up in the
mirror and he says I'm ready for this
and I can do it sweetie chief you're not
ready you're not ready buddy it's not I
I thought what was interesting about
that though is that when he said you're
focusing on one small part of this you
could just as easily
flip it say write a small part of the
overall package which is harming an
incredible amount of people so let's fix
it if it's so small why don't you deal
with it
I thought it was also interesting when
Castro made his point and got into
specifics of it
did you notice Warren nodding along and
like tracking what he was saying like
almost like I thought that was an
interesting synergy the way like anybody
on the stage who knew what they were
talking about was a line just even like
physically and bade oh hold on one
second
you know in terms of my fetish for sad
bado I would have to say he gets an A
for looking so pale and sickly I'm
really into that but he still got a
little too much confidence for me
so mmm give me time give it time all
right we just have 9 minutes before 8
minutes before we we do this so let's
play this clip last night apparently
this happened and Donny Deutsch he made
his name as a marketer wealthy dude and
gets on his dad made the name first as a
marketer or the name as a marketer son
carried on the family tradition absorbed
the name and and has been on Morning Joe
for years and here he is making his
proclamation now I don't know if we
gonna have time to play this but
understand this is the guy who said that
Sarah Palin was going to be a force to
be reckoned with that she was the new
feminism that everybody was going to
love like literally 36 hours later it
all fell apart but here it is Donny
Deutsch his reaction to Elizabeth Warren
last night go my issue unfortunately and
do not shoot the messenger is the
messenger I do not believe Elizabeth
Warren on stage with Donald Trump beats
him and I think if we're honest with
ourselves and we look harder ourselves I
think a lot of people agree with me
it's and I also think when you can label
somebody a socialist 57% of this country
thinks that word is unamerican
I'm not saying it's fair when he can
blanket Elizabeth Warren as a socialist
and he's on stage with her the
Democrats lose I think she's delightful
I think she's wonderful
I I'm a big fan I just don't think she
has what it takes to beat this president
the same way at least an idealized
version of Joe Biden is I'm just don't
shoot the messenger
it's just facts we gotta get Trump out
positive that's facts he's delivering
facts you know how you can prove that
they're facts cuz he said them
drop out Johnny you're an ear in a safe
space here to keep telling us could be
Trump did you see anyone on that stage
tonight that could be Trump um I'm still
sticking with an idealized version of
know of joy the Joe Biden we want okay
if Joe Biden we want and then you pair
him with the right candidate yes stop
second let's be clear what he's saying
here he's saying that it's just a fact
that everybody knows Elizabeth Warren
can't beat Donald Trump and but his
candidate is a hypothetical version of
Joe Biden nice we got to go to war with
the Joe Biden's we have right indeed Oh
in my heart of hearts don't see anybody
on that stage tonight that would be
Trump let's just identify this for what
it is and then we have better pure
guesswork a year and a half away and so
it has zero value it's a wild guess Tom
it's not it's it's understanding human
behavior there's no science in it
there's nothing no science and no one
can that's a good point then you can put
any name you want in the wild guess that
you just made and it doesn't make it
true understanding what Donald Trump the
way he connects with this country and
the strength he exudes we need to exude
a stronger strength it's a stronger here
yes work section of the discussion this
is a guy who's done this for 30 years
and watched human behavior
I know human behavior let's go back to
Sarah Palin like pull the Sarah Palin
man's right we got this that was just
why what are you doing man and why does
he have it because he knows human
behavior Michael he's been doing this
for 30 years he's just a guy who knows
human behavior here just a guy whose dad
told me about human behavior he's a guy
who has no human behavior this guy has
been doing this for 30 years
he knows human behavior look here he is
your son just about this is back when
you've been doing it for 20 years the
video is not good but you can tell I can
tell you right now it's gonna go in the
Squawk Box now to be fair posit this is
when he had only been doing this for 20
years
so as an example of how to sell a woman
in power a real life Dave so to speak
this is a fantastic thing to see what
happened last night I want to equate
Palin to a product if you were gonna
sell a new concept a woman in power in
American people if it was a serial if it
was a product what ingredients would you
put in Hillary Clinton never figure it
out she figured out number one you'd
have Super Mom in there no question
about it
so mom not only she have the five kids
the special need kid she's even got the
gutsy son-in-law she's dressing him
right looks presentable on stage
interesting you know it's a Super Mom
second she's sexy then want a sexy woman
a woman wanna idealize about a sexy
woman she's the perfect age 44 she
certainly got experienced life gravitas
experience but she's a successful appeal
that's the perfect ingredient to sell a
woman in power she's all behavior this
is a let's just keep it you know Sam you
said stuff like this very
similar-looking select wouldn't wanna
lioness protecting their cubs
she's funny about the real she's rock
solid she's feisty she's smart
it's my I need to sell woman in power to
the American public that's what I'm
putting in my cereal Hillary Clinton
everything has two or three of those
ingredients so the huge lesson here is
before you can sell the candidate
whether it's a man or woman all right
pause I think we've established so we
inherited a company from his dad and
woman candidates are all reflexive
through what steps X dot we get it
what's their name in Mad Men is it Billy
yes Knight George is literally just
Billy Billy
let's play get two minutes left let's
just play this clip I know you mean
behavior you have to ask because I would
have sex with her two minutes left let's
just play this clip here of John Delaney
he was on with with Ali Velshi getting
schooled on Medicare for all this was
pretty funny seem to like that response
from Larry well I think he's saying the
truth I mean I travel around this
country and I go to rural America quite
a bit and we have a crisis in health
care in rural America and there's not
one rural hospital in this country that
would stay open if we had Medicare for
all based on the way it's described in
that bill just a doll clothes they're
all just on the edge and Medicare rates
as the gentleman just said are half of
the rates of private insurance and about
a third of their patients for private
insurance so if you cut the
reimbursement rates of a third of their
patients by half and they're running
barely breaking even they would close
this is something that no one talks
about so hospitals would close but what
about all the people out there who are
on private insurance and are okay with
it people in Park Ridge New Jersey we
didn't get to the area we don't have
time for this I'm sorry guys all right
we're gonna sign off we're going to go
to stream the debate on Twitch you can
go to twitch dot TV slash the majority
report and we will be there in two or
three minutes
to get to where I want but I know son
