[Music]
so and and I think you know this is
definitely another area I want to you
know get into into the debates um for a
couple of minutes I think you know
obviously you got to give Bernie Sanders
a lot of credit out of 2016 he pivoted
really hard onto foreign policy to the
point where he's been the only Democrat
member of the Democratic caucus in the
Senate 2017 to vote against Iran
sanctions which was a significant part
of ratcheting things up in this crisis
um and then of course all of his work on
Yemen which is huge and of course the
Trump administration is just grotesque
in that regard we're heading into the
debates you've got these two different
nights it's kind of awkward I think it's
pretty hilarious that marianne
williamson is there and the governor of
montana isn't and i I like that I'm
totally not mad at it because I don't
need to hear from him I mean what is
your kind of general like what are you
expecting from these debates what do you
think what would you like to see what
would you not like to see well I always
like to see specific questions and more
importantly specific answers in regard
to policy proposals and luckily you know
we do have a number of candidates who
have come out with policy proposals
ahead of time and I'm looking forward to
that what I'm hoping is that it becomes
abundantly clear to Americans that there
are some candidates who are all about
political expediency there are some
candidates who you know might talk to
talk but they don't walk the walk and
it's just substance I want to see
substance I want to see real detailed
solutions for the issues that we're
facing today and so I think this is my
prediction
I think Budaj is going to suffer a
little bit from these debates because
you know he's this guy who believes on
running based on values as opposed to
detailed policy positions which is
ridiculous and so I'm really curious to
see you know how he how he does up
against some of the candidates who have
come out with more detailed policy
proposals I'm
I hate the way that the debates are set
up in terms of like the number of hosts
that will be involved I feel like that's
just a giant like ego trip that people
are having and I'm hoping that it
doesn't distract from the actual
substance from the debate but honestly
like I don't want to predict too much I
just kind of want to be open-minded and
just open-minded to these candidates
with that said though it's getting
harder and harder for me to not just
outright endorse Bernie Sanders like I
want to be fair right I want to hear I
want to hear them out but even before
the debates there have been policies
rolled out there have been votes there
are records we can look at and there's
one person who's been consistent for
decades and that's Bernie Sanders yeah
so I'm still trying to be fair but at
the same time look the the mainstream
media is not helping because the more
they attack him the more I want to rally
you know it to his side and defend him
because the attacks are just so
ludicrous and while they attack him with
all these like ridiculous smears they
simultaneously make excuses for Biden
and his willingness to work with some of
the most disgusting people on the planet
well that's the dynamic and I do want to
do this specific debunk with you because
this one that's coming out today about
you know this comments about Elizabeth
Warren and then the Vanity Fair headline
is like the quintessential like there's
a lot of people in the Democratic Party
and obviously amongst the corporate and
Democratic elites it makes sense in a
material sense why they have a hatred
and a fixation of joe of Bernie Sanders
but then there's also just a lot of
people I mean you know who sort of
bought into this almost like you know
this giant apparatus basically still
running the 2016 campaign against him
and I think this weird dynamic and you
know look obviously I'm I do you know I
endorsed Sanders I'm a hundred percent
with him but I I think you know you you
have this interesting thing where Biden
they'll make excuses and spin for Biden
even as you know even today it drops in
the Washington Post it isn't just that
Biden keeps using this example of
Senator Eastland who was one of the most
despicable people
to serve in the Senate it's that the
reason they had a friendly relationship
in the 70s among other things is that
and I quote this is Joe Biden writing to
Senator Eastland in June 30th 1977 I
just read this a couple minutes before
we went on air I want you to know that I
very much appreciate your help during
this week's committee meeting in an
attempt to bring my anti busing
legislation to a vote so they built I
mean even setting aside what Biden is is
you know dismissing in terms of like
just being clear about who this arch
segregation as big it was and the fact
that he weirdly keeps using them as an
example of civility or whatever other
nonsense he's putting forward no they
did work together in the seventies and
they work together because Joe Biden was
playing on Northeast resentments and
racism against progress with race
legislation and you know some of the
same people are gonna minimize that are
gonna say you know that you know I don't
know Bernie Sanders phrased a an answer
incorrectly on something in 2014 so his
whole you know his record of civil
rights completely erased and then I
think in the middle regardless of what
you think of Warren and obviously Warren
of course is is you know a good
candidate in many ways I'm having more
critiques of her recently but like she's
getting a total pass so you have this
like weird thing where Biden is spun for
even though he's just completely
irredeemable Warren is getting a total
free ride and then with Bernie it's just
constant well let's let's keep it real I
mean and this is this is my speculation
but I think that there's evidence to
back this a little bit so I think that
the establishment is purposely propping
Elizabeth Warren up and also giving her
the passes that you just mentioned I
think that they are doing this to drive
a wedge between progresses mm-hmm and
you know if it ends up being against
Biden and Warren do you think that the
establishment is going to continue
giving war in a pass no they're trying
to divvy up the progressive vote they're
trying to do away with with Bernie and
they want to make this race between
mean Warren and Biden so they can
effectively you know destroy Warren's
chances later on that's the way that I
see this because the fact of the matter
is you have you know examples of op-eds
written by Third Way a corporate fact
so-called Democratic think tank right
that said things like Oh Elizabeth
Warren would be absolutely disastrous
with her populist policies that was just
in 2013 not too long ago and now seeing
them prop her up do you think that they
changed their minds do you think the
corporations and the bankers that fund
them and their stupid think tank
genuinely change their minds and now
think that Warren is going to be a great
candidate no they want to drive that
wedge and it's for me it's incredibly
transparent yeah no that's not to say
that's not to say that Warren is a
terrible candidate I think that she has
some policies that are fantastic my
favorite policy is what she wants to do
when it comes to student loan debt but
with that said you know if you compare
Bernie and Warren Bernie's has some
significant strengths that Warren lacks
I agree with that completely and I
everything you said including the fact
that of course they'll ship her you know
when given the opportunity but I do
think it's it's you know in the
beginning of the campaign you would read
profiles in the wall street people would
say anybody besides Sanders are Warren
now they're saying you know and the true
hatred is on Sanders and I think it's
because even though they of course they
don't like Warren and of course it's
disingenuous because she does have
genuine bona fides on Wall Street and
finance which are super important the
systemic nature of what Bernie is
offering they understand there is not a
place for them in it you know even down
to like people who are just like failed
Democratic consultants and so you will
see a complete war on him and just this
relentless disingenuous nough sand I
want to just we'll just do this one
quick debunk because this is just
incredible right like we're already at
the phase where you know Bernie says the
sky is blue and like that's proof that
he's a secret reactionary like it didn't
take that long for this level of BS
about him so Bernie said in a
conversation I don't
actually know the original source but
this is tweeted by Marie Marisa Barrera
on Twitter and Bernie said I think there
are a certain number of people who'd
like to see a woman president and a
woman elected and I understand that
which you know okay
empathetic objectively true then he
added Elizabeth's a friend of mine and I
think she's running a good campaign
right so this is like okay so first we
have him making an objectively correct
statement and then a courteous comment
about senator Warren Vanity Fair
headlines Sanders Warren is surging
because she's got ovaries I mean I mean
Vanity Fair Vanity Fair has been doing a
hatchet job on Bernie Sanders that's
that's one example one other example was
a story that I came across and I tweeted
it out with the question how is this
objective because in the piece the
writer I believe her name is Tina neuen
wrote something like you know Bernie
Sanders is like this old you know old
undesirable Socialist from Vermont like
a woman I'm paraphrasing what she said
but not by much I mean it was such a
giant insult and this was not an op-ed
piece this was supposed to be objective
journalism and that very piece was
comparing Warren and Bernie Sanders I
don't understand why that kind of stuff
just slides in in the field of work that
we're in if you're supposed to be
objective why are you including you know
your opinion about who Bernie Sanders is
or how undesirable he is it's just it's
gross yeah I know it's totally managed
there I actually like the reporting that
they did previously
and and this time around it's pretty bad
it's a hundred and I think like and I
think that that is also where you know
you're gonna need to start like I think
we like the warrant campaign does need
to be held accountable for some of this
relative to Sanders because Sanders
consistently and I know that people got
all triggered because there was one
tweet where Bernie Sanders put out a
tweet you know basically saying like
look this political piece is basically
sewing the Third Way is warming up to
Warren and so on which I agree with
Hughes totally dishonest but the
for purposes his campaign it's true that
like at the end of the day the main
enemy of all of these forces of
corporate and political malfeasance
they hate Bernie Sanders he's their
enemy number one because he offers the
most systemic challenge people freaked
out about it
tweeted at him and and complained about
it and it's like okay you know fair
enough
I don't agree I think it's a pretty
legitimate thing to point out but in
general Sanders goes out of his way and
and the campaign's been incredibly civil
I think that if we're gonna start being
so nitpicky about everything we have to
say like hey maybe the Warren campaign
should you know should put out a thanks
Vanity Fair we appreciate it but there's
no need for this sort of like weird
Aegeus borderline anti-semitic
editorializing to go along with praising
us you could just praise the senator for
her good work you know like if that's
the game we're gonna play then Warren's
campaign should be accountable as well
yeah you know what that's that's
actually a really great point so I think
progressives absolutely should apply
pressure you know not in a hostile angry
way because I don't think that you
accomplish anything that way but apply
some pressure to have her speak out
because you know these attacks against
him are beyond unfair and the tweet that
got everybody so upset
including Chrissy Teigen didn't even
name Elizabeth Warren I mean Elizabeth
Warren was not named in his tweet the
reason why he shared that story that
political story was because there were
quotes from the VP for Third Way
indicating that you know what anyone
anyone but but Bernie so he's
essentially saying cat-sized a bag
they're against me they're fighting
against me specifically and they're
trying to prop other people up which is
look these same mistakes were made the
first time around voters do not want an
establishment Democrat period so I mean
the way that this is all going makes it
clear to me that these goons would much
rather have Trump reelected than have a
real progressive in office hundred when
it comes to a group like Third Way which
is you know just like you know total
mediocrity corporate laundering nonsense
I mean 100 percent because as soon as
you know because what because their
scenario is you know yes but
case scenario you elect the Joe Biden or
some other candidate that will you know
push through legislation for all of the
banks and pharma and you know whoever
else funds these these awful places or
Trump gets elected and then we got to
say well the reason was is that
Democrats didn't propose compassionate
debtor prisons and that's our new
initiative and then you know here's like
our next campaign to make the party more
corporate more reactionary and worse for
people and you know and and that and
Sanders is fundamentally antithetical to
that and that's why you know you know
frankly it's you know and obviously this
is this is this is different because I
think like the Sanders campaign
understands you need to support an
independent media and and so on and he's
never gonna demonize media in the same
way as as but it's like you know you
just MSNBC Vanity Fair like these
they're not trustworthy sources for
covering Elizabeth were covering Bernie
Sanders at all they're not I mean you
know exactly and then you look if you're
looking for a fair shake for beta
O'Rourke then you probably shouldn't
watch like em are you know like fair
enough but let's just be like
transparent about this stuff the
mainstream media you know from the weird
Politico articles that somehow like
Bernie Sanders cleaning up his credit
score reveals like his secret jus eNOS
but also how could you be a socialist
who wants to have like indoor plumbing I
mean it is bizarre its relentless and
all of these outlets are not to be
trusted with coverage of Bernie Sanders
I mean that that to me is very clearly
yeah so I think I think the progressive
wing of the Democratic Party understands
that but I always try to be cognizant of
the fact that we're in our bubble right
and so the important thing is to try to
get this message through to the larger
Democratic party and I'm talking about
voters I'm not talking about you know
elected officials I just want them and
it's hard because there's been such a
successful campaign to blame Trump's
election on Bernie Sanders
so there are Democratic voters and I'm
just guessing like Chrissy Teigen is
probably one of them
well if it weren't for Bernie Sanders
Hillary Clinton would have been elected
and we wouldn't be in this mess in the
first place but that's just not true I
mean so many young voters were like no
I'm just not going to go to the polls I
have nothing to vote for and that's
really the heart of the issue here you
know we got to give people something to
vote for not something to vote against
which is Trump if that's not enough to
persuade people to go to the poll 100%
and you know what all the reporting that
we have available basically is that even
though Bernie Sanders has totally
different politics from Hillary Clinton
and there was no love lost between those
campaigns for obvious reasons that he
worked his ass off to get her elected
president he was flying across country
and giving good advice that was ignored
by their terrible campaign yeah and I
don't know if you saw it but just
yesterday he Bernie Sanders issued a
challenge to a third way because you
know there's always this pressure for
him to unite the party unite the party
unite the party do what you can to make
sure that you know we're not attacking
one another unite the party and so he's
saying all right so let me ask third way
if I get the nomination are they going
to back me are they going to defend me
are they going to fight for me and of
course I mean look we can suspect what
the answer is but I love that you
brought that up because he did fight to
get Hillary Clinton elected to the
detriment of you know his own fan base
like there were people who kind of
turned on him as a result of that but he
felt it was the right thing to do and it
sucks because he was in a lose-lose
situation you know you can't you know
you can't let someone like Trump get
elected but at the same time you know
the optics of backing Hillary Clinton
after you know that incredibly
tumultuous primary season was difficult
for a lot of his voters to stomach
