you're calling from a 301 area code who
are you where you calling from
hey what's up Michael
it's Victor Maryland hey Vick what's
going on what's on your mind uh a lot uh
so basically I don't know I just want to
talk about like the experience but a lot
of people around DC and the suburbs of
DC are having right now yeah
because there's just a ton of people
around here who work for the federal
government and you know both people in
the household do yeah
and so like my household my neighbors
like to my neighbors there's no income
coming in right and everyone's panicking
like it is kind of surreal like um you
know people are just talking about you
know what are we gonna this is a pretty
affluent neighborhood you know but
people are you know worrying about the
rent and car insurance and it's just it
just goes to show that even if you're
you know a white-collar worker you know
you're you make you know eight thousand
four thousand dollars a year people are
still living paycheck to paycheck at
that income level definitely it's uh so
I just wanna you know let it let them
know that I'm not trying to be like oh
it sucks for us you know up hearing up
up in the middle class too but I mean no
it sucks where everyone right now it
does it does I don't think look look we
need to expand I mean there is a
demonization and lack of focus on
poverty and the poor in this country
which is striking and people need to
have a much more clearer understanding
of poverty across the board there's no
doubt but on but then conversely I mean
look the ninety nine versus the 1%
formulation is very smart
it's both correct in a lot of ways and
you know savvy politics we need to have
some basic grand premises that there can
be massive across-the-board organizing
around you know things like Medicare for
all obviously things like free college
things like
you know student debt relief things like
in fact a green new deal free public
transportation I mean all of this stuff
actually when you really branch out the
implications of these things it has
massive implications positively for
almost everybody across the board who
aren't essentially oligarchs and you
know this dynamic this is a dynamic in a
different context you know Chris Hayes
put his finger on some of this and
Twilight it elites which is a good book
people should read that book and he
talks about how you know out of the
financial crisis there was also a lot of
people who had been you know what Bill
Clinton called people who work hard and
play by the rules and unfortunately
Elizabeth Warren echoes some of that
rhetoric which is something I don't like
that she's doing and you know this but
this idea that like you know maybe I'm
I'm upper-middle class I work hard I did
all the things that you're supposed to
quote unquote do and now like my kids
gonna not make ever make more money than
me things are just you know things have
just genuinely generally across the
board just down scaled and depreciate it
or maybe even like you know you talk to
people again look other people have it
worse no doubt but this isn't a
competition it's about solving and
creating a different dynamic for
everybody there's people who you know
say they made you know 160 thousand a
year
blah blah blah they had a family things
were good and now that same person you
know savings wiped out by Wall Street
mismanagement and wiped and won and and
and and you know criminality now maybe
they're in a position where they're
making fifty a year and debts piled up
on a variety of things and maybe they're
sandwiched in between on one hand you
know parents that they need to help
because of the insufficiency even though
of course Medicare and Social Security
are huge but still there's a lot of
senior poverty and problems and then uh
you know kids on the other end that can
barely be in the job market and are
suffocated with student debts so I mean
yeah it this way of doing the economy is
only good
or Wyatt Koch and Wyatt Koch like things
right like it does not work for most
people
appreciate the calm in thank you so much
and speaking of which though here is a
totally different perspective in the
interest of being fair about the
government shutdown because maybe Vic
was being a little bit melodramatic
there when he talked about how people in
the DC suburbs are starting to get
really anxious because they can't pay
bills they can't financially plan people
up and down the economic scale are
getting hit really hard by Mitch
McConnell's complete we already know
he's totally Craven and immoral his own
political survival will always come
first he doesn't want to be primary so
he'll keep this shutdown going and of
course the demented milk brain bigoted
trust fund baby president is having a
tantrum because I don't know Rush
Limbaugh or some other fascist toxic
influence on the culture basically got
word to him that he isn't Manning up on
the border wall so this is affecting
real people's lives but here is um Kevin
Hassett who's an economic adviser to
Donald Trump he's appearing on the
NewsHour on PBS and he's gonna give us
another perspective on this let's check
this out a couple of other topics uh is
the government shutdown gonna have a
negative impact on the economy
particularly if it drags on workers are
furloughed and right now it's about
twenty five percent of government
workers are furloughed which means that
they are not allowed to go to work but
then when the shutdown ends they go back
to work and they get their back pay huge
share of government workers we're going
to take communication days say between
Christmas and New Year's and then we
have a shutdown and so they can't go to
work and so then they have the vacation
but they don't have to use their
vacation days and then they come back
and then they get their back pay then
they're in some sense they're better off
so no long-term long-term economic
effect short-term we could definitely
see it in the numbers but in terms of
something that viewers should be nervous
about
no there's not going to be a
effect okay so yes that is I mean that's
a psychopath that's a purely
psychopathic response it reframes a lot
of things for me I remember uh after I
graduated college into the economic
crisis going through extended periods of
scrapping together freelance jobs and
being also just jobless and doing things
like couchsurfing and I had no idea that
I was really just on an extended
vacation I didn't have health care I
didn't always have enough food I was in
a constant state of stress but really
what I was doing was catching up on
reading that really framed I mean look
there's major macroeconomic long-term
implications of and are an economy
that's already pointing towards going
into recession just even on a cyclical
level right like we don't going eight
nine ten years without a recession is
highly unusual in capitalism capitalism
is unstable capitalism fluctuates
capitalism is fundamentally dangerous
plus none of this sort of big
macroeconomic wrongs like fundamental
reform of Wall Street like betting on
people's loans in a already compressed
economy where people can barely survive
and have to put things on credit cards
that's about that's more than half the
population from education to cars to
housing we're already going towards that
plus all of the other indicators that
people don't talk about when they mean
when they say quote unquote the economy
like mass inequality and gaps and all of
the other structural problems that have
been exasperated by the big 2017 tax
giveaway to the oligarchs of this
country but so a government shutdown and
that impact on spending and planning and
people's also natural desire to pull
back from that is going to have economic
in the long-term but that's also just
the complete disregard for the raw the
sociopathic psyche the psychopath is
right now people are not able to buy
food necessarily they're defaulting on
loans so some people are getting
automatic voided messages from the IRS
because the IRS of course IRS workers
you can't call and get service from the
IRS right now so pictures scenario where
you get an automated message from the
IRS saying that it's going to give you
an asset forfeiture if you don't pay but
then you can't call them to negotiate
something so that's the situation we're
in and Hackett is they're having a
vacation which of course runs parallel
to his stupid buffoon jackass
trust fund baby boss saying well you
know you work it out just like I would
have but getting loans from dad this is
standard Republican stuff - this is Jeb
Bush after one of the hillary-bernie
debates talking about wanting a
recession in DC leave office and he will
accumulate more debt than every other
president before him combined you were
the laundry list a new New Deal free
college education for everybody free
healthcare for children expanding Social
Security of Medicare in-state tuition
rates for for illegal immigrants
similarly Obama care subsidies for
illegal immigrants how the argument that
you're going to give people something
for free might be appealing to a lot of
people how do you make the argument that
bankrupting the country is not a good
idea to get there well I think you have
to we have the benefit now of all this
all this this philosophy of offering
free things to people not working people
the wrong track numbers in this country
are historically high and they stay high
because people see declining incomes
right they've lost control they don't
think the system works for them I think
the better message is let's disrupt
Washington let's create a little bit of
a recession in Washington DC so that we
can have economic prosperity outside of
Washington and I know how to do that
because I was governor of a state that
did I got to do that as governor and the
state led the nation in job growth seven
out of eight years
kind of attitude of cutting taxes
cutting government spending reforming
the things that are broken or what we
need and I think in this environment
okay right yes they're absolutely right
there's again nothing special about
Trump here this is all standard he's not
the new folks they don't mind that's
right or or he wouldn't be doing it
who wouldn't be allowed to hundred
percent we've seen I mean the the any
handful of things like that or like you
know Paul Ryan would come out and be
like you can't do this on tariffs and
they'd be like uh saying something you
know racist on Twitter I'll get into
that now look at Twitter
