[Music]
continuing our coverage here at Netroots
Netroots nation 2019 in philadelphia
pennsylvania
joining me is someone who I spoke to I
think that the very first wasn't called
Netroots nation at the time it was
called yearly COEs and that was in las
vegas that was up in a sky booth yes the
majority report was deal that it was was
the only radio row there was no other
radio there as far as I know saying you
are looking live we were looking and of
course a it was that it's in the evening
and it was well that was back in the day
David day and welcome back to the
program it's always a pleasure
there's a lot of stuff going on here I
want to get into the meta Netroots thing
in a bit but there's two things I want
to talk to you about and one that is an
article that is in the american prospect
of which you are the executive editor
now right prospect org and the other is
something that's going to be taking
place and I should just say we're
pre-taping this at almost 11 o'clock in
the morning because at noon there is a
protest and this is something that
Netroots has adopted in the past I think
like half a dozen years yeah they get
involved in the communities that they're
in there is an issue around the corner
from here yeah involving a hospital you
were telling me a little bit of it last
night when I was doing my pre research a
tireless worker at a bar always always
always hustling for you
it's it's the like the conversations at
the bars I should say you know
surrounding Netroots is probably some
like the highest level nerd than the
nerdiest conversations will ever hear at
a bar a great way to scare away other
people but yes okay so there's a
hospital this involves a hedge funder
and it's almost like well I want to say
it's a metaphor but it's actually not
even it's like it's just it
sort of what's happening all across
comes we have a piece it's in it's it's
our feature story today at prospect org
by Mike elk whose labor reporter about
this hospital it's called hahnemann
University Hospital it's it's just steps
from here in Philadelphia and it's a
hundred and seventy one years old and
two years ago it was bought by a private
equity firm a guy named Joel Friedman
and it's paladin Health Care's the sort
of holding company that he use to
purchase this thing two years ago this
is a hospital that serves a very
low-income community over half of the
patients are on Medicaid another chunk
are on Medicare two-thirds of the
patients are black or Latino it serves a
very low-income community and there is
no reason for a private equity firm
that's for-profit to buy a hospital that
serves such a low-income community there
are lower reimbursement rates it's not a
money-making Enterprise to be a
low-income serving hospital usually if a
private equity firm or a for-profit firm
is gonna buy a hospital they're gonna
partner it with suburban hospitals ones
that can you know outpatient clinics
something that can earn them a lot of
money to keep you know sort of sub
cross-subsidize the low-income house
will keep it going paladins entire
portfolio is urban low-income serving
hospitals that they have Howard
University Hospital in Washington DC
they have for low-income hospitals in
the Los Angeles and they have Hahnemann
in Philadelphia and these all these
low-income hospitals and here's the clue
right you are are again like these urban
centers in big cities big cities are
gentrifying that are improving the areas
surrounding the hospital so newsflash
here's what comes next so two years
after buying this hospital Howard and
put Hahnemann into bankruptcy but only
the hospital not the underlying real
estate which is this very Luke
real estate in what is called a gateway
community for gentrification and he is
selling the real estate to the highest
bidder it is very likely that what will
be built there are luxury condos or or
you know really lucrative housing and
real estate to develop that and get rid
of this hospital which has been there
for almost 200 years something like this
happened to st. Vincent's in in New York
City half a dozen years ago but wait a
second so let me just walk me through
how this works out he buys the hospital
it comes with the property obviously and
he puts no money into the hospital
invest in any resources for the hospital
he sets up another entity LLC or an S
corp whatever it is he sells the
property from the first entity which is
the hospitals in the process of doing
this but yes he splits you basically
split the company from the real estate
and we see this all the time in the
hospital pays a lease rent right it's
called a sale-leaseback and we saw it
with the marsh grocery chain we saw it
with Sears Sears did a sale-leaseback
deal where they put the real estate into
a separate entity and then had the
company we spoke about that basically
had a side business right she's like oh
I'm gonna be the real estate owner for
the Sears company right and I'm gonna
built the hell out of the company
because I don't have as much engine in
the company as I do in the real estate
and the Sears properties that he bought
split off we're in very lucrative areas
like the one in California in Los
Angeles is in downtown Santa Monica an
incredibly lucrative piece of real
estate and they're they they actually
closed the facility and it's it's you
know Edward Lambert's decision to close
a Sears right so he closes the facility
the the real estate then goes into the
hands of this Sarah dodge this extra
company and then they can develop it and
so they're developing that property by
in Santa Monica
but this is a similar play but it's the
kind of the first time I know st.
Vincent's is similar but this is the
first time they a private equity firm
the first time that our experts could
figure out that a private equity firm
has sold off the real estate of a
hospital and if it works this is gonna
be a model not just for this guy's stuff
in DC in LA but other firms will get the
message that oh I can buy an urban
hospital in a gentrifying area and then
sell it off after a few years for the
real estate and make billions of dollars
this is a really important story because
of what this signifies as a private
equity model to put profit over the
health of millions of Americans and then
I guess presumably they're going to be
looking for any other type of like major
institutional buildings that an
occasional facility or you know rules
and so that creates pressure to sort of
probably close some inner by the way the
2017 tax law that Trump passed is
actually you know the deductibility of
interest which is why private equity
uses this debt load model where they put
debt onto a company because because that
interest on the debt is deductible from
taxes it's a tax advantage so they in
the tax bill they limited the
deductibility of interest which which
cuts against private equities model
however there's an exception for real
estate in that and big surprise Trump
puts an exception for real estate in
this model of deducting interest so
there is an incentive for private equity
firms to do these real estate plays now
in the tax code embedded in the tax code
and so there's even more reason not just
that it's lucrative but it's also a
great tax break for them all right and
folks can read more about this and that
you can read more about this in the
prospect in it sort of as we spoke I
guess okay there is a rally going on
there
with members of meditation and the union
of nurses that is fighting this Bernie
Sanders campaign has latched on to this
as an example of putting greed and
profits over health care
I believe Nina Turner will be there at
this rally and I've heard rumblings that
Bernie might show up as well so yeah
there's there's there's sort of an
action that's going on today around this
I'm gonna go down there and cover it
yeah I think we may actually send
Brandon down to with a video camera
maybe you can get a little bit of what's
going on there but and this is and the
idea I mean you know sort of turning
towards Netroots the idea for these type
of things is to draw attention to when
we were in Detroit which was six seven
years ago maybe maybe five years ago it
was about the water it was about the
water and that helped I think bring a
lot of attention and I'm sure in Arizona
they did a tour of one of Joe Arpaio's
camps I believe and so this you know
having a mass of activists just show up
at an event in a city you know any size
city but you know particularly one
that's not like in New York or in LA or
Chicago that makes news and then things
start to loosen up a little this is
already been an extremely controversial
issue in Philadelphia yet but there's
there's you know some sense that it's
it's they're fighting a losing battle
but you know bringing national attention
to this I think can help in possibly at
least delaying or for stalling this
there are other hospitals in the area
there's almost kind of a cluster of
hospitals around here but they're all
oversubscribed they are there already
are full to the guild right and you got
hundreds of patients thousands of
patient visits over the course of a year
that now have nowhere really to go and
this is a very low-income community that
is served by this hospital and I and I
should say the other you know part of
that story
is that this is another example of
Sanders
campaign going in I don't know how it
works frankly how well it works and what
implications it's going to have for his
candidacy but I mean I don't think that
we've seen a candidacy that seems so
focused on leveraging the value they get
as a candidate and the the attention the
attention they get in leveraging that
for things like Walmart workers for
something like this I have a feeling
there's been a half a dozen other thing
there has they've been using their email
lists it's a great model it's really
interesting and it speaks to their whole
not me us kind of frame this year and
you know they have sent out warnings to
communities around ice raids using their
email using their email list I was told
last night that the Sanders campaign has
sent over 50 million texts already the
entire 2016 campaign they sent around 80
million Wow and we're a year out you
know the end of the campaign they are
you know using it as an organizing
opportunity maybe even to their
detriment because you know I mean
campaigns are supposed to be focused on
getting a guy elected but they are
building a different model right and if
it's you know I think they're defining
success differently you know they're
defining success as can we get
improvements for these communities while
we have this spotlight on us through the
presidential campaign the the analog to
me is sort of the social justice
unionism where you know we saw like
within the context of the Chicago
strikes and this happens a lot with
teachers unions where because they
already have such an intimate
relationship with a bigger part of the
community their students and they're in
the teachers I mean the parents they get
more involved in a wider range of issues
I mean frankly it would be great if all
of the campaign's were engaging in this
type of stuff using the media attention
they get
right and and and ugly I mean to the
extent that they do a normal campaign
would put out a press release saying I
support right you know these workers or
even show up at a picket line I mean we
saw Biden do that we saw Warren do that
at the stop and shop up in New England
yeah but this takes it a step further I
mean this is real organizing that's
going on and and and leveraging your
your your most dedicated volunteers and
supporters to come out and and and get
engaged in issues and policies well when
I had Bernie on the show a couple of
weeks ago I had asked like you know
specifically thinking about Obama for
America which was an organization that
wasn't that was organizing and
mobilizing wasn't doing necessarily this
type of work but everybody presumed it
would right and and he just shut it down
and I asked Bernie specifically like is
this stuff gonna is this campaign
contingent right and it was an emphatic
no but so yeah this is an interesting
sort of twist and it's going to be
interesting to see how that you know
what the implications are of that
absolutely what I'd also like to see and
I'll probably have this conversation
with other people because I want to get
to some other things with you is these
candidates use that their attention to
implicate what's going on in Congress
because there's some real problems I
think that we're having right now with
Pelosi and Schumer but that may be for
another time yeah because I want to talk
to you also about
