Oh should we do the yeah let's do Warren
on the she talks about this is on what
this is on the filibuster yeah this is a
question this is I gotta say pod save
America is doing a good job with this
and unfortunately we can see the clips
of the good things they do so you don't
actually have to go watch the whole show
but we do I want to say like we listen
to them so you don't have to but that's
not even true mmm
we skim their social media it's we skim
their social media feeds so that you
don't have to listen that is our service
that we're providing yep my location has
a high very high tolerance for hate
consumption of media he consumes more
media and a hateful way than anyone I
know he tried to listen to pod save
America to make fun of it and he could
not get through an episode alright fair
enough
but credit where credit's due they asked
a good question of I think was
Gillibrand they asked this question of
her and they asked this question of
Warren and this is an important question
and we you know we had a John from San
Antonio said the Bernie seems to be sort
of like not as leaning into and the the
question has implications for different
people different implication of
different people because some people
there's a narrative of like they're you
know they're institutionalist they want
to make sure that they don't have the
power to impact you know major or
radical change some people actually
don't want that ability because then
they don't have to be the one who
rejects that radical change case in
point I give you Andrew Cuomo as to why
he wanted a runaway Democratic sub
caucus that would vote with the
Republicans
so that he didn't have to sign
legislation that was too progressive in
his mind and so some people want the
filibusters so that there cannot be
change that isn't more dramatic other
people we know they want dramatic change
they're criticized for how dramatic of
change that they want and so they may
answer that question differently that's
why I'm curious as to you know how
Elizabeth Warren answers this question
because all Christian Gillibrand
probably does not want to move as fast
as she might want to project and Bernie
Sanders might want to project that he
wants to move a little bit more
deliberately then he may want to
actually move Elizabeth Warren let's see
somebody who believed very very strongly
in filibuster reform I'm on the record
on this I fought for it for a long time
because the Republicans completely
blocked us right they weren't letting us
put anybody in the courts but it was
worse than that not worse equally bad
they also weren't letting us but anybody
in the consumer agency said the agency
couldn't get its legal full legal
authority NLRB they were about to shut
down the NLRB and the answer to that and
I think it was the right answer was just
to say we're done
I'm the filibuster and I voted for it I
strongly supported it harry blew it up
harry blew it up and I think Harry was
right to blow it up I strongly supported
him when he did that now the Republicans
turn around and they took the filibuster
and blew it up even more so they said
even on a Supreme Court nominee and we
didn't even done anything right right so
first they steal a Supreme Court seat
then they turn around and change the
rules on filibuster on a Supreme Court
seat and so when it swings back around
to us what are we going to do and my
answer on that is all the options are on
the table that that's how we got to do
this if the Republicans are going to try
to block us on key pieces that we're
trying to move forward then you better
believe we got to keep all the options
on the table
and I think that's the way we should be
describing it right now on everything
that the Republicans are doing that
nobody's going to forget what happened
here and all of the options
or on the table so I mean folks can
assess that answer as they may but I do
think that's probably the best way to do
it right do you there is no value
strategically to saying we're definitely
gonna do it but the the point is are you
open to it considering a lot of things
yeah I mean that is I think the answer
to give and that is a you know that's
distinct from Gillibrand who has shut
the door to getting rid of the
filibuster and be clear here this is
getting rid of the filibuster when it
comes to the legislation and this scares
a lot of people scares a lot of people
and to be fair for both reasons one is
what if the Republicans control the
Senate
if Elizabeth Warren and if every member
let's say of the the Democrats running
particularly the Senators say we're
going to get rid of the filibuster Mitch
McConnell is gonna stand up and say like
we're gonna get rid of the filibuster
and if they lose they don't win the
Senate and it's no guarantee you're
going to win the son anybody win the
presidency in 2020 you don't necessarily
want to give the Republicans that quiver
I mean that arrow and their quiver even
though the Republicans probably would do
that anyway
maybe I mean I think if that they had
had the Congress right now they would do
it but if they don't have the Congress
they won't do it and if the Democrats
were wielding it effectively the
filibuster well like how many times
President Lee filibustered anything uh I
mean there's been times but not not too
often it's many civil rights Democrats
but the you know the I think that's the
best answer that you can get right now
there's really two answers and that is
one no I won't do it to definitely open
to it
