oh you know ken Langone is a longtime
piece of garbage and but he's very
wealthy and he got it in his head a
couple years ago that he wanted charter
schools and so went up had to sit down
with Andrew Cuomo and Cuomo then came
out with the charter school initiative
he's used to buying whatever he wants
and here he is on with Maria Bartiromo
in fact it was in the morning mornings
with Maria and here's Ken Langone a
little bit concerned about what happened
if Bernie Sanders became president
Sanders the other day said the US should
not have billionaires no more
billionaires initially now there are
billionaires in China so what we want do
we want all the money to go to China and
the billionaires and you said two cents
let me just say what this is you know
one thing that strikes me about this
because every billionaire you're not
every billionaire but every bill you
know that we've heard publicly comment
on it they think of very personally we
can do just shoot me now I'll tell you
something I'm not a billionaire I'm not
a millionaire but I don't I don't refer
to myself as like a hundred thousand air
or ten thousand air
who does that this is the way that they
define themselves this is the way that
they wear this like it's their royal
title to take that money away is
equivalent to shooting him that's right
yeah that's what it is
it's that you're gonna tax me more than
I am getting taxed now that's like
physically trying to murder me so we
want do we want all the money to go to
China and the billionaires and you said
two cents let me just say what this is
because elizabeth warren is making a
point of that she says it's a modest tax
it
two cents on every dollar over fifty
million dollars in net worth she says it
goes up to three cents on anybody who
has a billion dollars people are calling
that confiscation
it's on wealth it's not income let's go
back to Bernie Sanders for a minute what
the hell has he done for the little
people what jobs III he has Bernie
Sanders press release Sanders plan would
increase taxes on greedy companies
that's the press release he says greenie
conference go ahead look Bernie Arthur
and I and Pat bear started home depot
forty-one years ago we have over it
almost 500,000 people gainfully employed
in that company today all providing for
their families of all building the
state's we have 3,000 kids that started
with us and the parking lot that's the
entry level they're still with us and
they multi million yesterday Wow so many
people's lives and they changed all over
yes it was it was a symbiotic thing
Bernie
stop being a blowhard show us give us
examples you go for a job and you're
gonna do for a job tell me your
qualifications tell me we'll show me
your experience in life well you've done
this or that or the other thing at least
I'll be able to say he's been there he's
done that he can help let me tell you
how many jobs would be affected at Home
Depot if Ken Langone had to pay three
cents on every dollar over fifty million
dollars just I mean just don't pay and
it's a random that's a combination of
the plants basically zero zero jobs
would be affected at Home Depot if Ken
Langone was just a hundred million air
instead of a billionaire zero jobs zero
jobs in fact if you taxed me an extra
three percent on my first dollar do you
know how many jobs it would affect in
this office zero jobs I'm sorry
zero jobs this
I mean these aren't these aren't
corporate expenses this is just on
accumulated wealth the amount of jobs
that will be affected by any increase in
attacks on someone's net worth that is
over fifty million dollars is zero zero
maybe maybe if there was a multi like a
hundred millionaire who insisted on
keeping all of their money in a vault at
their home maybe you would lose a job or
two of people in building those safes
but that's about it and and I don't
think that anybody's regularly employed
in doing that right now that's how many
people will lose their jobs
so everything ken Langone said there is
completely irrelevant here's Tim Poole
weighing in a OC and her supporters
think billionaires have billions of
dollars in liquid assets they don't
selling assets is complicated value is
complicated net worth is complicated and
actually sometimes a bit nebulous so for
the most part no one has a billion
dollars well I think that the people who
came up with this we're not assuming
that everyone had like literally a
billion one dollar bill on their bed
sitting in their safe the idea is that
they have assets and control that amount
of money and yes it will be complicated
as to how you measure it but in fact
it's really just a political choice and
yes there will be intricate schemes that
billionaires engage in to avoid taxes so
what so what still going to end up with
net more money
brought in on this wealth tax was the
last time you heard somebody argue like
people speed so why do we have a 55 mile
per hour as a speed limit right people
speed a lot people break that speed
limit all the time I don't think there's
a single driver who hasn't broken the
speed limit at one time or another but
you don't hear about not having a speed
limit it's just absurd it's an absurd
argument and the idea that anybody
thinks that they have figured out
something like I'm so smart that I
figured out that that what what the
people who came up with the plan to tax
wealth haven't figured out yet which is
that assets are complicated and
sometimes they're illiquid so what I
mean if you have to liquidate some of
your assets when you're a billionaire
guess how much I give a crap the exact
same amount of jobs that are gonna be
lost because of it zero I'm sorry I
would imagine it would create jobs
exactly exactly
it will create jobs somebody's gonna
have to figure all that out all that
complicated nuance be fun to walk around
billionaire's houses what's your job I'm
I'm a nebulous decipher for billionaires
that's what my job is
