[Music]
from a 4-1 9 area code who's this where
he come from
yeah it is you who's this oh great
Emmett from Cleveland how are you doing
I meant what's on your mind I'm calling
about the proposed changes to the Clean
Water Act out if you guys covered this
but in the last few days there's been a
lot of movement from the federal
government about changing what's known
as the waters of the United States cool
yeah let me go let me just go over let
me just go over this with people it is a
2015 rule that the Obama administration
promulgated the EPA was deemed to have
authority to do so they do have the
authority I don't even think that the
the the Trump White House is arguing
that and what it was is basically saying
and in the Trump administration to my
understanding is keeping part of it
which is you cannot use dangerous
pesticides and insecticides in areas
where they could run off into streams
and tributaries that go into drinking
supplies I mean because we want to keep
about but want to keep it art that's not
technically what well wait a second
we want to keep about 2/3 of our
drinking supply safe what the Trump
administration is proposing to do and
will do is say that on streams that are
like seasonal or aren't don't directly
go into one of these tributaries that
they're basically saying you get a pass
because I don't know I guess
insecticides when they're sitting in a
stream bed they magically disappear and
then when the water comes they don't
wash into somewhere I mean I guess
that's the thinking but that's not know
that's exactly correct I mean what
they've what they've done is they
stripped away protections from ephemeral
streams and wetlands which is most of
the waters in the United States and I
mean one of the things that it's going
to do is it's going to increase the
amount of flooding in this country
going to increase the amount of like
subsurface runoff and they're really
just it's basically class politics
because I mean you know these laws and
also the thing that really angers me is
that every person has been covering this
calling it the 2015 Obama air clean
water rules but these rules were
expanded upon by every single president
since Nixon they're taking it back to
the Nixon era I mean this is it's it's
really a failure
I mean we're recording in the way that
this is being cut yeah I didn't I didn't
know that III didn't realize they were
rolling it back that far this will be
back to the original 1973 you know water
edition of the Clean Water rule
literally only covering navigable waters
their tributaries that flow in and out
of the waters and physically adjacent
wetlands now over some some estimates
are sixty to ninety percent of the water
resources in the United States do not
fall into that category
and just a few numbers for you when the
program came out in 1972 it is estimated
that of the two hundred million acres of
weapons in the United States we had been
down below half of that less than one
hundred million acres and now since the
program and the no net loss tenant
instituted by George HW we've reclaimed
fifty million acres of that wetland and
I mean this this this change is going to
see that going in the other direction
yeah I mean where what's the best
resource you have for this because the
reporting I bread has not characterized
it in that way well I work in the field
I'm the general manager of a company
which does wetland consulting so I I
mean I'm you know I might be speaking
from a place of personal personal import
as well but well I mean the facts are
the facts right I mean you know and I
just watched the EPA to a press
conference on this thing I mean
basically there's nothing official for
the next 24 hours the intercept had a
really good piece on it where they
quoted the the head of the Cuyahoga
River
project right now we should say you know
the Cuyahoga River actually came up in
the context of that debate that I did
with stefan molyneux but the Clean Water
Act came out of the essentially the
Cuyahoga River catching on fire
literally hits her are you catching on
fire
and the joke was was that the Kyoto
River used to be whatever color Sherwin
Williams was making that day right and
now of course the libertarian philosophy
is well people take care of it because
they if they own it
unless it's more valuable just as a
dumping ground for them and then they
will take care of it insofar as it still
becomes something for them to dump in
and and that's what the the point of
this is right that those wetlands those
riverbeds that you know are seasonal
the value is to be able to dump off
their crap essentially it's to
externalize the cost I mean this is
nearly that because well all of it is I
mean all of it is to the extent that
like what we have is companies
corporations who are looking to
externalize the costs of their profit on
to the rest of society and so we have to
pay for it we pay for it in the form of
cancer we pay for it in the form of
cleaning water we pay for it in the the
form of all sorts of diseases and
allergies that people get in the
treatments that are involved in that
we're paying we're subsidizing the
profit making of all of these
corporations and you can find these
questions of externalities when it comes
into the matter of fossil fuels but it
comes in in anything that you know we're
particularly in the environmental realm
because it's so hard to track with the
naked eye essentially
you know it's a machine offs and the
cost that are basically shifted to other
people but this is a classic case of
privatized the Prophet socialize the
cost and a walk away and pretend it's
not happening well I would just like to
I would just like to beseech everybody
to contact their representatives and let
them know that this is this is a
terrible move for the government to make
and also that this really is not a
partisan issue in 19 or Ronald Reagan
said that the purpose of the clean water
act is to have all streams in America
swimmable and fishable by 1985 and then
George HW expand upon that saying that
the program should account for zero net
loss of water resources within the
United States so I mean if those two
people are in this paragon of
conservatism then they they you know
this should not be considered a partisan
issue this should not be a left versus
right thing yeah well I appreciate the
comment what's your name again and it
Emmit I appreciate the column
