[Music]
alright let's go to the phones call from
a 2:07 area code who's this where you
calling from the life of the Boston area
Eli what's on your mind I want to talk
about the Second Amendment is that
alright with you guys if it's really
quick
sure just really quick your thoughts do
you believe in militia is necessary to
the security of a free State what do i
what I mean do you believe a militia is
necessary to the security of a free
State probably not okay so should we
abolish the Second Amendment is that I
would love to above that sounds all
right sure thank you all right that
simple that was easy
you want him finally cracked the nut it
was easier than we thought yeah I mean I
feel like not even sure what a free
state is exactly what the hell is that
even mean historically speaking like
what is it I don't know what that means
but do we live in a free state now I
would argue New York State was it a free
state when that amendment was being
drafted mmm so strange I said I don't
know I don't know if that person heard
is this segment we just did while he was
waiting online but like I'm sorry I
guess that got I got overly emotional
listening that I don't understand how
people could still focus on their stupid
little pet nonsense when you hear
stories what's a weird thing to be like
I'm gonna I'm gonna call it cuz I want
to get this resolved about this Free
State thing in the militia thing right
now like I don't know call for me
