so John give us a sense of what's going
on you know there's a lot of activity a
lot of stuff a lot in the news about the
arrest and the cooperation of a covert I
think they're calling a covert foreign
agent named boo Tina she is a
30-something a woman who had basically
been using the NRA to provide an entree
into the conservative movement funding
the NRA
that those funds then obviously went to
Republicans and conservatives around the
country she was building a network
through the NRA a web of influence on
behalf as far as we can tell of the
Russian government and so this of course
has I imagine had some impact on the NRA
well a in terms of their budget right I
mean let's just go back for a moment the
NRA contributed an enormous amount of
money to the 2016 presidential election
as opposed to years past is that right
that's correct and so it just tease this
out for us like what you know what what
indications we had that the the NRA sort
of had this glut of money and now
apparently does not yeah there's all
there's a lot going on with the NRA
right now and financially what we know
is that gun sales have really slowed
down since Obama left office they really
used him as the boogeyman consistently
the eight years he was in office to sell
guns and that was a bubble and in 2016
that bubble ended and there's been a
serious slow down since then and as that
hits the gun industry that goes to their
front people which is people at the NRA
and so we've seen recently there's been
reports of massive cutbacks in the NRA
and massive and they're cutting budgets
across the
bored and apparently at nra headquarters
or even given cutting out giving out
free coffee anymore and yeah and so what
we've seen in terms of nra TV is we've
seen some people acknowledge that
they've been there their party ways
NR 8 TV hasn't really been upfront about
it there's a report in The Daily Beast
that Dan Bach that this is a wide dan
bond Gino's show was was cancelled
Bungie no and the NRA John John let me
stop you for one moment yes I don't know
if a lot of people know that the NRA has
its own TV network are they carried on
any capable things or is this just
something that happens online and just
tell us more about it
sure it is streaming online it's you
know if you have an app basically it's
where those are and there's a lot of
pressure on Apple and Roku and and what
have you - not not carry NRA TV
especially there's been some really good
activist work I've done about that but
if you haven't watched and I certainly
don't recommend it
it is a really slick presentation that
is essentially the far far far pro-trump
right it's the exact same thing if
you're familiar with Gateway pundit and
Jim Hoffs a lot of stuff that bubbles up
in in that type of realm of the internet
bubbles up on NRA TV the who I was just
talking about Dan bungee know he has
going on Infowars it's it's very similar
to that far right but you know also goes
on hannity show and it's sort of it's a
nexus a lot of these far-right people
and it has been a lot of recent years of
white nationalism of very very thinly
veiled racist statements and and that
kind of thing is what you've seen on the
network so if you've seen some of you
know Dana lashes insane remarks the past
two years aside from some promos that
when she went to that you know forum
with the parkland survivors of most of
our remarks have been made on NRA TV and
it's sort of their it's their front it's
the internet' is the front group for the
gun industry the NRA TV is the front
group for the NRA so it is really
there's sort of the tip of the sphere
where there's the most lies the most
trying to change the subjects the worst
of the NRA is is on NRA TV and we've
seen in recent years is it's not even
succeeding they're trying to cut back
given the budgetary restrictions I mean
so basically what we're talking about is
something that's been heavily subsidized
there's just simply not the audience for
it that they would have hoped or you
know this is a way and so so tell us
about Dan bungee know who who is this
guy sure he is a former Secret Service
agent and he ran for office I believe
three times twice in Maryland if I
recall correctly I don't recall the
third is third was there too and he lost
all of those times as a Republican
obviously and he invent reinvented
himself in the Trump era as a pro Trump
pundit and you see have a couple of
times a week on Fox and Friends he's a
regular on Sean Hannity show and he's
been introduced up until the past month
as an NRA TV host and contributor
because that's what his where his main
job was and his main topic that he
decided to make himself an expert on for
reason and reasons that are being beyond
any of us isn't the expert on the Russia
investigation and so he's clay he's
written a book I'm sure it's coming out
soon I'm sure you'll see Trump tweet
about it it's going to be all of a
sudden this guy will be everywhere we'll
be doing the right way media rounds and
he it's he'll say Trump has been framed
and the exact same talking points that
you would see if you reach Trump's
Twitter feed on databases that all
baseless all lies so that that's kind of
who he is and it's it he rarely if ever
even you know you never see him make
news talking about gun so it's not even
like it's it's very similar to the new
NRA where it's they try to make their
waves and
on a cultural cachet
and defending on Trump and not
necessarily talking about what the
organization is even ostensibly supposed
to be doing and so what they learned
this week is that his show is being
canceled
there's credible reporting out there
that it was cancelled for budget it in
the wave of the budgetary cutbacks that
we've seen Bonjean oh and the NRI TV are
saying that it was otherwise that he
chose to leave even though he doesn't
have it hasn't announced a new show
anywhere so at the same time he's not
trustworthy neither is the NRA so it's
it's a very self-serving story whatever
you want whatever the truth may be well
I mean the bottom line is what it
appears to be is I mean that a two
things are seemed to be indisputable one
Dan bond Geno was not bringing in as
much money as they were expending on him
right they don't you don't let somebody
go and to the NRA is suffering for lack
of funds and can no longer subsidize
this guy and his show and their attempt
to mutate in I mean they they had done
this but I guess their attempt to even
you know sort of like increased their
reach of their being sort of a
culturally conservative mouthpiece has
at the very least been inhibited by all
of the financial and I would imagine
potential legal trouble that they're in
regarding the relationship with this boo
Tina character all right well listen
let's take a break when we come back I
want to talk about some other goings on
in conservative media it seems that the
blaze TV and a the Mark Levin outfit
have have joined forces but a couple of
their big pieces of talent have been
left out of the mix we're going to take
a quick break we'll be right back with
more on Sam cedar this is ring of fire
radio
