[Music]
come from a 301 area code who's this
where he come from with me yes it is you
hello this is a Conner I'm calling from
a formula gang gang occupied territory
Conner from former a yang gang territory
what what happened to what happened to
that territory um well honestly you guys
but if you give me a second I can kind
of tell you how I got over there sure um
well I got introduced to Andrew yang
just through like a video and then I
kind of got hooked in and started
watching a lot of videos and then when I
ran out I had to like watch interviews
that he had so I what I wore somebody
just commenting on him
and eventually I got to you guys I was
like wow you're a bunch of dicks but
then I wore my math hat long enough and
I thought harder as the statement said
and then finally saw the light well I'm
sorry that it was math but anyway you
can get there is good I mean I mean look
I think there's um that's like his
catchphrase like make America think
harder oh I didn't I didn't think what
specifically tipped you um well it's
because I liked you guys so much and I
just thought oh you guys were wrong
about yang but you're right about
everything else and then I just after I
got hooked on the show when I kept
watching tape watching I've been
watching so like maybe two or three
months now and then just all the points
started adding up and I'll say okay
maybe these guys got the right one of
you oh yeah I mean I think it's he's
been I think it's been not a bad thing
to have him in the the primary frankly
I'm the guy I was helping see raises I
just don't like his solutions but he
raises important things yes yeah I think
what initially kind of got me in was
like he's like oh he's like he's getting
the issue right but then by the time he
got to the solution and you got into the
weeds a little more you're like oh maybe
this
the best way to go yeah it's interesting
because you know I was just thinking
when Kowalski called about Iowa I'm
always reminded of Barack Obama in the
months leading up to Iowa basically as a
way of trying to I think drive and the
older vote started talking about Social
Security in crisis and was unclear at
the time exactly what his solution was
but and frankly Social Security was not
in crisis but identifying an issue that
whether it exists or not or whether the
characterization of the problem or not
is accurate for people who are older
Social Security is hugely important and
so if someone says like there's a
problem with Social Security no doubt
you're immediately communicating to them
that like I'm thinking about things that
could be problematic for you even if
it's not hot a problem Social Security
it just means that like oh this person's
watching out for me and and so I think
you know that is one of the things I
think I think the yang does articulate
at least some of the problems that exist
in in society and and I just his
solution I'm not sure is the right one
but good for those people who made the
who won the lottery and threw things but
lotteries are not necessarily a a
structural solution appreciate the call
no thanks yeah but I'll be listening
every day thanks Bree what do you guys
do I really love the show Thanks
