this is this is pretty cute you remember
Scott Walker well Scott Walker warned
the Republican Party about I guess about
about nine ten months ago said there's
gonna be a big blue wave coming and here
he is wearing his Green Bay Packer that
that's socialist jacket awful yeah and
you have little list frame bastard that
team is owned by the Wisconsin Heights
so we call Wisconsin Heights and here he
is he's doing a video on his campaign
bus and let's see how long he can go
without telling a huge huge lie I just
want to say that it is true his name is
Scott Walker as far as we know and this
is we're hearing a lot of this now where
Republicans are going there basically
trading off their the illness that their
children have or their their families
have as a way of saying I am going to
pretend like I'm empathetic with other
people and by doing that I'm going to
say that because I have someone who's
sick in my family I wouldn't do horrible
things I have family members that's
right my wife to there's a type one
diabetic my mother is a survivor of
breast cancer
my brother as a heart condition
see covering pre-existing conditions as
first one to me
plus it's just the right thing to do
as long as I've governor I
all right that's great
you might cover it but your state
apparently won't because your state
attorney general is part of a lawsuit
against the federal government and
Obamacare to get rid of are you ready
for this
preexisting pre-existing conditions we
have Republicans in about twelve states
let's see I don't have that list in
front of me where is it here it is that
are part of this suit there are 20
states excuse me Alabama Arizona
Arkansas Florida Georgia Indiana Kansas
Louisiana Maine Mississippi Missouri
Nebraska North Dakota South Carolina
South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah West
Virginia and Wisconsin if you want a
list of the states on that list that are
run by Republicans it would go something
like this Alabama Arizona Arkansas
Florida Georgia Indiana Kansas Louisiana
Maine Mississippi Missouri Nebraska
North Dakota South Carolina South Dakota
Tennessee Texas Utah West Virginia and
Wisconsin isn't that convenient so he's
lying Plus will you go back to that tape
for a second I think we can also see the
script he's working off in the
reflection of though the window yeah you
can see that right there right above his
arm I think you can see the script yeah
see yeah see there's there right there
there's the person holding the script
about how is his wife and his kids are
sick they just draw they put the the
arrow up there can you put your menu
yeah right there you can see it right
there and you can see there's somebody's
arm as soon as you go yeah he's looking
right over there mm-hmm
always got to be worried about
reflections folks when you're shooting
so don't want this IIIi don't begrudge
anybody
you know you need a script for that type
of thing but I wonder how many takes it
to actually pretend like you cared about
family you don't want to accidentally
forget one of your family members that
has pre-existing conditions exactly
