[Music]
here is ben shapiro this is a this is a
beautiful genre this is clip number 13
this is a beautiful genre of of
right-wing talking you know this is
where ben shapiro reminds me of rush
limbaugh there was a i used to listen to
limbaugh quite a bit back in the day
when i would do a seven to ten or a six
to nine radio show and i distinctly
remember an episode and this must have
been somewhere around the mid arts where
i'm listening to him and he is talking
about tinfoil essentially tinfoil being
placed on a glacier I think it was in
Switzerland and because it was was
melting and he was reading and I do the
same thing I I have stories that I've
picked out and I I I highlight them in
yellow and I think he probably had a
production crew that at that point would
highlight the the stories in yellow he
never read through them he'd see the
headline and he was basically making the
argument that environmentalist tree
huggers had gone crazy they they they
are so convinced of this hoax about
global warming that they have put
tinfoil on a glacier that's how insane
these environmentalists have gone and he
reads on environmentalists were upset
about the tinfoil that was placed on the
glacier by the owners of the ski resort
who were trying to maintain the ice in
warming conditions obscure nut above
we gotta take a break we'll be right
back the whole thing crazy he hadn't
read the things clearly and didn't
realize that the story actually proved
the exact opposite of what he was
talking about I can rule it was which
was that in fact global warming was
impacting the capitalists who owned the
ski resort and environmentalists were
like hey this is going to be damaging to
the environment they know that you're
trying to prevent the the water flows
and you're contaminating some of this
runoff water and you just misread it
I imagine on some level that's what ben
shapiro did here in some way but of
course he doesn't have the full story
he's just sort of winging it he's just
doing the classic right wing play which
is anything that is in any way new or
different than what you've experienced
is by definition completely wacko
you've been living your life where every
day you know your coffees on your left
and your water is on your right and
somewhat someday you show up at work and
it's mixed up and that means that of
course they're coming to get you by them
I mean the Muslims or the gays or the
transgenders or the UM whoever it is and
Ben knows who is audiences they're old
people who just don't have the or
they're they're closed minded people who
just don't have the the ability to even
be aware that people are identifying
themselves in a pronoun that may seem in
some way alien to them but instead he
needs to make it about science because
he doesn't seem to understand that like
what languages a polarization of the
American public continues apace with
wokes colds doing their best to ruin
every aspect of American life I'm very
excited that merriam-webster dictionary
has now added the non-binary pronoun Vey
to the dictionary because when I look at
a book four definitions of words what I
want is a made-up definition of a word
that has never been used this way in all
of human history a plural noun used as a
singular noun to house it
well put aside the pettiness of like the
idea that there could be a new word
which incidentally wokes Gold's I do not
believe you would find in the dictionary
which I find very polarizing that all
the sudden he's using a word I've never
heard before but wait a sec keep that up
because oh yeah alright I'll go right
here too he's complaining about the
merriam-webster dictionary
well the Oxford English Dictionary at
its blog writes that it traces the
singular they back to 1375 yes where it
appears in the medieval romance William
and the werewolf on top of which they
argue that if it's in writing in 1375 it
was likely in oral use way before then
the werewolf is a non-binary species yes
it's likely that the singular day was
common even before the late 14th century
that makes in an old form even older in
the 18th century grammarians began
warning that singular day was an era
because a plural pronoun can't take a
singular antecedent they clearly forgot
that singular u was in fact a plural
pronoun that it becomes singular as
well.you functioned as a polite singular
for centuries but in the 17th century
singular you replaced thou thee and thy
except for some dialect use and then it
just goes on to talk about how a
different times people have had
different perspectives on this but let's
let been continued with his completely
unfounded assertion that this is the
first time a plural term has been used
in the form of the singular since the
dawn of man of a word that has never
been used this way in all of human
history
a plural noun used as a singular noun to
refer to a singular gender wouldn't use
a plural noun and merriam-webster is
gonna go along with this which just
demonstrates once and for all that logic
has gone out the window
people are Taylor in science to meet
politically correct demands people
object I would say also this is not
science
to me this is language language to me
can we come up with other ways in which
we call for language to reflect a
political perspective yes we can because
it happens every day on all sides of
politics in fact wake scold is a word
that fits his political ideology and is
I would add made up yeah yeah there's
some logic is what is not a made up word
wait there's a couple all these words
like the idea that we could just have a
printing press and create words and
language to me politically correct
demands merriam-webster according to the
Washington Post has added a new
definition of the word they to its
dictionary declaring the pronoun may be
used to refer to a single person whose
gender identity is non-binary they
according to the Washington Post is a
liberating pronoun for many non-binary
individuals what the hell is a
liberating pronoun how does it pronoun
liberate you were you in shackles and
then someone said they and now you're
out of the shackles well here is where
Ben doesn't seem to understand the
concept of metaphor obviously you are
not in physical shackles but to the
extent that language can restrict you
and in fact that's what it is right
language is a definition by definition a
word defines you and if you feel that
the pronoun in some way defines you in a
way that is not accurate as to your
definition of self then they would be
liberate was been being shackled when
the Economist called him all right I
guess he was actually we had to
unshackle himself from that that limited
definition how does it pronoun liberate
you were you in shackles and then
someone said they and now you're out of
the shackles and what kind of nonsense
is this
for many Americans the use of a as a
singular pronoun can be ungrammatical
and confusing that would not be for many
Americans that would be for all
Americans unless you're talking about
the small group of sjw's who decide we
have to redefine all of language in
order to meet politically correct
demands it's it is insanity and then you
wonder why people like the same people
who demand truth truth absolute truth
we're the media and we want the truth
also they is a singular pronoun not what
no all right I look a lot of people I
know at this point expect me to comment
on his inability to deliver like a
decent comedic double take a lot of
people think it's easier than that you
know he obviously can't he does like a
triple take another look yeah let's try
it let's just look at that only because
I made quite a bit of money doing a
double take on many sitcoms been
incapable of doing it I don't get caught
up on this but it is worth looking at
again so they is a singular pronoun not
what no I mean there's see one thing I
trouble selling those scripts what
that's one way of doing it there's a lot
of different ways I got special glasses
version on the double take but can you
imagine how disturbing it would be to
see in print the idea of they being used
to communicate the notion of a singular
person like the idea that they could
really could could refer to one not any
one person referring to themselves as a
would be extremely disturbing to see it
in print for instance let's look at this
Ben Shapiro tweet click on this here it
is if anyone on the right suggested that
Fredo is the n-word for Italians or that
fake news is the n-word for journalists
they'd be correctly run out of town on a
rail of insensitivity I'm sorry if
anyone meaning an individual does not
compute vade that's so strange
all travelers confuse
it's the first time in history that's
ever happened that is the first time in
history except for that was back in 2019
and then back in 2016 as Emmons Adi said
telling a Trump fan they're being conned
is like telling your friend not to marry
a stripper now your friend is singular
as a Trump fan is singular then why are
we referring to them as they Boosh
exactly oh I know why because their
gender is maybe non-binary in the
context of that that Trump fan could be
male or female mmm interesting and I
loved lost he wrote back in 2010 but
dude period can anybody get a happy
ending while they are alive can any body
not anybody's can folks get a happy in
and no it is when an individual
fascinating
I literally okay I actually thought Ben
was I thought Ben was trying to make it
joke oh yeah no let me try my hand at
comedy is it really a happy I think
there's a lot what about the cleanup
process so whole thing is bullcrap it's
almost like he doesn't really care about
the grammar here's one more time lol
David Limbaugh if anyone not imagine
doing that that is funny that's funny
that's funny if anyone thinks this
President believes in the Second
Amendment they'r nuts I need to rest
after that it is so taxing to see they
refer back to a singular person
fascinating a singular person
it's just Donald Trump is the only
conservative understands comedy and
language that's true it's remarkable
that it's incredible I actually
understands it better than most liberals
in fact and then besides that it's just
completely I mean to be fair Ben Shapiro
is a philosopher and not a linguist
that's true he is the cooler the
precision yes he is the precision of his
logic not his language
folks at you're of course not connected
