[Music]
folks are some weird stuff going on fox
news right now and who better to uncover
this this is the one America Network the
one America network of course who better
to network your nation your news own
I think it's oay and owned owned and
this is a known exclusive I must have
been pretty tough
they got Bill O'Reilly to talk from his
living room they managed to get him in
like once a week at least it seems yeah
well it seemed exclusive they have an
exclusive ability to do that so Bill
O'Reilly brought on own to try and
figure out what the heck is going on
there what why why do we have this
situation Maria Bartiromo asked some
tough questions of the president why why
are we seeing like some measure of
dissent from fox on what's going on bill
you haven't been there in two years can
you tell us in your mind what's going on
at Fox right now are they they have
a boycott situation you know I don't
think there's an organized cabal and Fox
News and management that says well let's
go left I'm not there I'm in there for
two years
but what I do know is that the boycotts
from the far left Media Matters move on
all of these horrible organizations that
are in business to hurt people with whom
they disagree
I've been effective in boycotting God's
and I just just want to plant the flag
here Bill O'Reilly used to send out his
reporters to harass people who had no
idea what was going on
Bill O'Reilly demonized an abortion
provider until the day he was shot dead
just to remind you of of this
Bill O'Reilly used that platform to hurt
person after person after person his
entire show was modeled on some type of
sadistic you know cosplay that actually
wasn't cosplay was horribly sadistic if
anybody was in any way responsible for
creating this type of dynamic Bill
O'Reilly is probably up in the pantheon
they're in business to hurt people with
whom they disagree
I've been effective in boycotting the
Fox News Channel and they've lost a lot
of money right so what I believe is
happening and I again I don't have
access to people Patrick but I know the
organization I worked there one 20 years
is that in order to make the sponsors
more comfortable that Fox is trying to
get out any kind of real strong heart
rate hard right presentation they want
to de-emphasize the hard right
presentation to make the sponsors feel
that oh we're not in any place where we
can get boycotted it's all about the
boycott it's all about the boycott now I
have a theory that now that they have
sold off a lot of the assets of Fox to
Disney made something like I don't know
eight nine billion dollars selling off
of all a lot of Fox assets not Fox News
I think it's conceivable they want to
get out of that business a little bit so
the Fox News business and one of the
ways you do that is you no one's going
to buy it I mean no one unless you find
another lunatic who wants to be
associated with that despite the fact
that it's pretty cash it's it's it's
quite a cash cow now that the the money
is getting a little bit dried up they
need to move and change their stripes a
little bit if they want to sell or or
continue to make that kind of cash
that's basically what's going on there
but how long has took her contract
Tucker Carlson's contract for I have
no idea cuz I feel like if that if they
really want to do that pivot he's gotta
go yeah well yeah and I think you know
obviously like a Laura Ingraham would
have to go and whatnot but they can all
fit is yeah but that's the thing is that
they these are these they are all
capable they can all make their shifts
I'm saying something different if the
cash is there there's no doubt in my
mind they're all capable of doing that
and that's you know look look at look at
the pirouettes that Glenn Beck has done
I mean literally don't don't be his
ideological journey his his I mean I
just the idea we did this this this
video I guess last week or something the
idea that two years ago almost to the
day there's a half a dozen pieces you
know thoughtful pieces in The New Yorker
magazine or New York magazine in New
York Times
I don't detect it I don't get credit we
need to come together to defeat Donald
Trump and then two years later he's on
Hannity shengshou saying we need to come
together to re-elect Trump I mean the
similarity from out the being Club
Becca's Sam what's that Devils
