[Music]
alright let's just talk about one more
thing before we go Donald Trump is
tweeting out about Baltimore he is
basically looking for any black person
black constituency that he can demonize
this is the strategy they announced it
in Politico a year ago he's looking for
his Colin Kaepernick and by that means
he's looking for a black person that he
can attack looking for his next color
exactly always I thought I lost Ron
cannon got binders for the Kaepernick
badges but I wanted to see if it could
be more inflammatory so I kept looking
here is Victor Blackwell he's a CNN I
get musiah weekend guy weekend host and
apparently from Baltimore here's his
response this morning the president
attacked another member of Congress on
Twitter
this time it's House Oversight Committee
Chairman Elijah Cummings
he wrote this Cummings district is a
disgusting rat and rodent infested mess
if he spent more time in Baltimore maybe
he could help clean up this very
dangerous and filthy place no human
being would want to live there
infested it's usually reserved for
references to rodents and insects but
we've seen the president invoke
infestation to criticize lawmakers
before you see a pattern here
just two weeks ago President Trump
attacked for minority congresswoman why
don't they go back to the totally broken
and crime-infested places from which
they came reminder three of them were
born here all of them are American
infested he says a week before his
inauguration January 2017 Congressman
John Lewis should spend more time on
fixing and helping his district which is
in horrible shape and falling apart not
to mention crime-infested Donald Trump
has tweeted more than 40
three thousand times he's insulted
thousands of people many different types
of people but when he tweets about
infestation it's about black and brown
people September 2014 at the height of
an urgent health emergency why are we
sending thousands of ill trained
soldiers into in bola bola infested
areas of Africa bring the plague to the
US Obama is so stupid infested he says
there's a revolution going on in
California so many sanctuary areas one
out of this ridiculous crime-infested
and breeding concept infested he says
the president says about congressman
Cummings district
that no human would want to live there
you know who did mr. president I did
from the day I was brought home from the
hospital to the day I left for college
and a lot of people I care about still
do there a challenge is no doubt but
people are proud of their community I
don't want to sound self-righteous but
people get up and go to work there they
care for their families there they love
their children who pledge allegiance to
the flag just like people who live in
districts of congressmen who support you
sir they are Americans too
we'll be right back I mean I incredibly
obviously heartfelt well spoken much
better than the response a few which I
would have probably given would have
been shorter not probably as as well
said the the point about infested I
think is important because there's no
such thing as crime infestation right
it is infested it has to be like
individual things is usually obviously
insects or animals or something like
that but crime really doesn't infest
well the implication is that the
criminals are the vermin right in that
scenario that everyone living there are
criminals right no human sleight of hand
and but I mean that's happening it's
obvious that it's happening I imagine to
a certain extent the media will take
note of it and then sort of forget it
again until the next thing that Trump
says I mean think about the past week
and a half two weeks
starting with with pence overseeing the
cage full of brown men through to
Trump's attacks on the four lawmakers
through this I mean let's be honest
where there is a there is a like a a
completely indisputable thread line here
yeah I'm call it a dog whistle but it's
really not that quiet this point exactly
it's a very old trope too comparable
that you want to otherwise it's just the
two things an animal time and time again
putting on video I mean it's all of it
it's really it's disgusting it's
disgusting all right one more clip on
this point we saw Fox & Friends all week
they've had to do this remember when
things got raucous with Trump what was
it what were they saying I can't even
remember now Trump was being comedic
when he was saying what was the first
tweet that he had in it's it's
unbelievable like we've forgotten about
this but on Monday after the weekend two
weeks ago
Trump had tweeted out stuff oh yeah go
back to go back tweet Fox and Friends
said he was being comedic and then when
they they had the rally in Cincinnati I
think it was right or Ohio North
Carolina sorry where they were cheering
send her back that's when things got
raucous so here's Fox and Friends coming
to the racists and chiefs rescue and
what do they do they go out we got to
find somebody who's going to legitimize
what Donald Trump said but it can't be
white surely we can find a black person
who will repeat this what we found
he has never done anything for not even
one person Daniel I never heard anybody
say anything about him and this is this
is this is a woman we don't know who she
is criticizing Elijah Cummings I talk
about Donald Trump Donald Trump just
Donald Trump dead why is this man over
here take care of people at the border
we hungry we need a place to stay and
it's just saying he worries about more
about them to his own people it breaks
my heart to see this you see we covered
it this morning and she went on this
weekend she went on to talk about how
all the focus on the border all the
focus on illegal immigration and what
are we doing for those folks what about
the Forgotten men and women sure in
these areas of West Baltimore who've
been left behind by liberal policies
what about us that's that's that that
breaks my heart she said it breaks my
heart imagine growing up in an area
where it's so dangerous and there's so
much violence and there drugs being sold
on the street I mean those are little
kids that grow up in an area like that
why are we spending so much money to
take care of people who are not citizens
giving them sanctuary in California
paying for their insurance when we need
to use that money to go clean up the
cities that are that are violent here
there's Ainsley Earhardt having a
complete lack of understanding of how
federalism and how are our states
related to each other but Ainsley your
tax cuts your tax cuts are why we're not
paying for that stuff it's obviously
completely disingenuous what they're
saying there but also if liberals want
working-class people to believe that
they're doing stuff for them they should
do it absolutely I also want to just say
I mean two quick things though that are
important right which is like I was I
was actually I was talking about this
with Chad vigourous which sounds funny
before I make his point but he's saying
like actually you know frankly when we
talk about the other dynamics of the
fact that in extreme inequality and
income issues do affect social attitudes
across the board
actually african-american attitudes
towards immigration have slightly
changed in the rightward direction
recently as well that is a broader
phenomenon but so you know you can't as
always it's all of the above you
can't disconnect these things but I do
just want to say and I you know there's
plenty of people who always get
reelected to Congress obviously who
should be challenged and undermined but
more objective than two people on the
street who we don't know who they are
what they're saying is the fact that he
regularly gets reelected with like a 69%
of the vote and hasn't faced the serious
challenger since 2005 and maybe look
maybe there's machine politics maybe you
know I wish Ritchie Neal would not get
returned with 69% of the vote but he is
a nationally recognized leader who
clearly has a lot of respect from a lot
of people and you know it's just
important I don't want to over objectify
it but it's like that's that is somebody
that maybe they thought he was rude they
were he was rude to them at a restaurant
once we literally have no idea people
are and they're building a whole segment
to suggest that he's a failure when all
we know objectively of his political
career is that he's the chairman of a
committee
he's always re-elected he is a
relatively progressive voting record he
actually stands out in a lot of stories
that sort of like exposed problems in
the Democratic Party as being pretty
solid sure but also like this is why the
left needs a systemic and structural
critique of the connections between
borders and low wages and all the
different ways in which the global
ruling class conspires to keep us down
because if even one working class person
believes that the border security is
somehow something that they need to help
them in their lives like that's bad well
it was you better III would say that the
the the need they they need before that
just to go back is just more material
benefits for those people actually help
them so that there is not so that
they're not focused on what's being done
for other people but they're getting it
done for themselves exactly with that
said folks I'm gonna read three I am
