[Music]
Bernie Sanders was on pod save America
talking to John Favreau
apparently this dude's from
Massachusetts this is gonna be good and
sat down and Bernie Sanders explains his
diplomatic stance towards Israel
interesting that I don't know
did the Fabro talk about Egypt as well
in Saudi Arabia
oh he did no he didn't that's weird
because Jake Tapper led me to believe
that whenever you talk about Israel you
got to talk about these other countries
well they're on different pages
you've been very critical of Bibi
Netanyahu in the Israeli government we
spend a few billion dollars on aid to
Israel would you ever consider using
that aid as leverage to get the Israeli
government to act differently absolutely
absolutely
yeah I mean we are giving large sums of
money look I mean let me back it up
before the tweets start rolling in I
lived in Israel actually I worked in a
kibbutz for a number of months my family
in Israel I am Jewish I am NOT
anti-israel okay I believe that the
people of Israel have absolutely the
right to live in peace independence and
security and the discussion that is what
I fervently believe but I think what has
happened is in recent years under
Netanyahu you have an extreme right-wing
government with many racist tendencies
the role of the United States and this
is not easy you know I believe me
Clinton tried it Obama tried it Jimmy
Carter tried it this is not easy stuff
is to try to finally bring peace to the
Middle East and to treat the Palestinian
people with a kind of respect and
dignity they deserve our policy cannot
just be pro-israel pro-israel pro-israel
it has got to be Pro region working with
all of the people all of the countries
in that area let me just say I have two
reactions to this one anti-semite clear
anti-semite to let's
Jared Kushner have a whack at this shall
we
I mean I know it's hard we just say
first of all that being a Jew is a state
of mind and I have worked my entire life
to get that State of Mind out of my body
to not be a diseased ruthless
cosmopolitan and it takes a lot of work
part ultimately if you're gonna have a
commitment to any cause that isn't a
dollar or silver nickel you're gonna
need to get it out honestly I don't if
again portion of the commentary over
read the watery ruled no but the the
actual point that I just spoiled at the
clip because of that bit but if I
remember talking and I know you used to
have him on a lot too but Daniel Levy
yep and Daniel Levy who is uh I would
say a British voice of like an actual
center-left in Israel which does not
exist today and he was part of his
negotiator you're the negotiator but
what was significant was that he was
part of a small part of people who was
honest about why those talks failed and
did not just do this blame the
Palestinians narrative which they've
been dining off of since 2000 but I mean
he said he was like look I mean
obviously people like me are further to
the left in terms of like wanting just a
wanting full cultural and individual
rights and autonomy for everybody but
not necessarily a state that has defined
an ethnocentric parameters as a
distinction but that'd be like Toni jut
argued for it but that being said I mean
he Monroe saying like look Democrats
align generally with like the Labor
Party in the UK right doesn't mean that
they don't have relations with the
United Kingdom and the Tories are in
power but there is supposedly
theoretically some international
reciprocity and also that more broadly
that if you don't do exactly the type of
thing Sanders is talking about there's
zero hope for any type of center left in
Israel now I I mean that was I would
already say that that ship has sailed
but it's just interesting that what
Bernie saying is true and necessary and
appropriate and everything but it's also
like it's stunning that that's
considered groundbreaking and brave all
oh it is that's like the paradigm well
lookey common sensical obvious and
moderate few years ago free Bush 20
years ago that was basically what he
went on there to say was basically
uncontroversial well part I mean at the
same time George W Bush was the first
president to actually formally endorse a
palestinian state so it's a wild history
they what they what they did in wrapping
up and pushing for the Iraq war and the
in pushing for the unilateral exit from
Gaza and in basically pushing Israel to
be more belligerent in the region was a
total reversal in terms of the role that
the United States played it used to be
the US was a bulwark against Israel's
worst inclinations and was used as you
know I can't come out tonight because my
mom says I can't or I can't come out
because you know my husband says I will
only build ten new settlements not
twelve I mean right you know let's but
which is true but I think but also I
mean and also the disengagement you know
wasn't with I'm not I'm not I'm not
holding up the United States yes they
they they were a restraining force how
much they restrained okay fair fair
enough to argue in in different
instances not enough but the US was a
restraining force prior to 2002 and then
it became a prodding force for the worst
elements in Israel that's why I think
you've seen such rapid decline I mean it
was I'm not saying that there wasn't a
problem before but there was the decline
in the in the Israeli left has happened
most dramatically in the past fifteen to
twenty years and there was a legit
peace movement you had an assassination
you had a mass exodus of a lot of people
who were less religious it's changed the
dynamic you didn't have as many russian
émigré who are far more hard lined there
are a lot of things have changed it's
both in terms of the actual like
demographics of the public in Israel I I
don't I don't necessarily agree with
some of that but I just the only thing I
do want to emphasize that is in line of
what you're saying but is a different
point of emphasis is the the way those
negotiations collapsed in 2000 and the
fact that Bill Clinton and Dennis Ross
and all the negotiating team bought the
Barak narrative and lied about why those
negotiations collapsed is a big part of
what nolle discredited the so-called
peace process but also instilled the
narrative that there is so-called no
partner and there's actually a great
clip where Jeb Brzezinski of all people
humiliates Joe Scarborough when he
repeats that cliche our national
television and and and and know the
reason why they did that the reason why
Bill Clinton did that going out he
wanted that very badly as his signature
foreign policy accomplishment and in
many respects a lot of people feel that
he rushed it and was was was pushing
Arafat faster than our fact could go
because Clinton wanted that in his
pocket as he exited and it blew things
I'm sorry clarify that could not take
that deal I just have to say well here's
the thing not people forget you the the
story you hear in retrospect is that
they were offered 98 percent of
everything they wanted in the West Bank
and here's my here's the easy analogy to
explain that you and I are getting
divorce
Matt sorry and the mansion we've been
living in I'm gonna give you 98 percent
of it all I'm going to keep are the
bathrooms and a half of the kitchen
where the stove and the refrigerator and
the sink is and there you go you got
ninety eight percent of what you want a
man I was gonna release that sink yeah
sorry that
and that's that's exactly and that's
basically what happened with that in
Clinton pushed too hard because he
wanted this accomplishment
remember the presumption was that Al
Gore would be President and and then
also Ariel Sharon the disgusting human
being who I hope he's sitting in a
docket in the you know and the the
Hague's version of the heaven of heaven
he marched on the Temple Mount and right
at a key time and just inflame you know
things that was kindling all around and
just lit the match and boom it's all
gone ironically I mean the the Olmert
offer if you're a believer in two states
was significantly more realistic from a
Palestinian perspective than the one
Barack did but that was you know that
was in a context where it was like
wasn't gonna happen too late it was too
late and and now of course a hood Barak
is trying to make a comeback and you
know his prime impediment is corruption
well they're all got corruption stuff
but his prime impediment is a direct
investment from Jeffrey Epstein on one
of his business ventures oops
Netanyahu gets to make a lot of hay out
of that in Yahoo's walking around his
real thing like a loser I didn't partner
with him well that's there's who knew
Epstein was good for the Jews Jeffrey
Epstein with another service to the
Jewish people
