[Music]
Megan McCain's getting spicier by the
day she's straight disrespecting joy
let's think about this for a second on
the view you have Whoopi Goldberg who's
an iconic actress and comedian who's
been working since the 1980s then what
what is her name sunny sunny Hostin who
I believe is an attorney in addition to
being a talk-show host then we have Joy
Behar who's and I've been doing talk
shows for I mean at least well over a
decade and I think she was also a
stand-up comic I don't know all of Joy's
biography but the point is some very
accomplished people who have gotten
there through their merit then there's
two daughters of prominent Republican
politicians the least Abbie Huntsman
sort of has the sense somebody pointed
this out on Twitter like Abbey Huntsman
at least is kind of like hey you know
what let me at least like pretend to be
pleasant Megan McCain is maybe the most
bratty person then I have like
encountered in any form real or virtual
who is like above 5 years old it's kind
of mind-blowing and joy was I yeah what
is joys I love joy I want to know more
about joy was born to a church of her
father and a seamstress mother she got
her start in show business as a
receptionist at Good Morning America and
has been building her career for decades
since then so if Megan McCain bets
awards Jeannette kirova Chuck driver and
a seamstress she would be like I don't
know like being like unhelpful at
t-mobile or something which by the way
there's no problem with at all but it
just megan mccain does not conceive of
herself that way so sure her vision of
herself and reality are shockingly out
of step and this was just i was shocked
that joy didn't smack her and i think
it's incredible if you think of all the
other like class and racial dynamics of
the situation that whippy has to step in
to calm everybody down awkward order
states many friends of mine this is the
number one and only issue and if we sit
here and act like there isn't a crisis
basically megan mccain is defending
people who are totally freaked out
have paranoid delusional views about
what's going on on the border even
though I believe now for like the third
year running there's net negative
migration go ahead order states many
friends of mine this is the number one
and only issue and if we sit here and
act like there isn't a crisis that it's
just it's crazy people living in border
states and think that there's a crisis
this guy who's coming in wants to help
those countries that's the way to solve
the problem keep them they're happy or
whatever solvent give them a house give
them food help them help their children
give them rights well we've had talking
about gatherings you know hold on ends
in aid let me just finish
yeah but part of your job is to listen
to me we're not gonna do this everybody
gets a conversation piece everybody gets
to say we don't like what we're here and
just let folk stop
who is I had no idea that Michael Ian
Black was so worried about immigration
[Laughter]
yeah I mean border states aren't all
like like there's Democrats in the
touristy doing better in say in Texas or
New Mexico like in certain parts Arizona
I don't think Meghan McCain quite has
the pulse of border states as well as
people in border states who cross the
border every day to go to school or my
father didn't do that he didn't cross
people is he actually from even Arizona
now he's I don't remember from but I how
would you feel if I busted that one out
next time you interrupt me Michael it's
your job to listen to me
it actually would be pretty funny wonder
if I can isolate that as a drunk I think
that could I think that drop could be
used to make fun of every single person
in this staff except for Brendan it
could certainly work for any of the rest
of us even you at times Matt which is
shocking listen to me that's mostly yeah
part of your job is to listen to me
that's mostly Sam that's Sam yeah job is
to listen to me and it's actually true
what what's so interesting like the only
like thing about this besides her just
being a terrible person is that all of
her defense like joy is actually just
articulating the super moderate obvious
position which is like you will have
less migration period if you have better
conditions in other places which is just
like a truism but like you know sound
like all of her Meghan McCain's like
upset is always about like the emotional
expression of a small group of elite
people that she knows like well I know
people in border states who feel this
way or scared they're really scarred and
this is really scary I mean sometimes
it's literally just her own emotions
when like she's freaking out about you
know one of part of her trust fund
getting taxed or something but like when
somebody pointed out there was a they
were talking about the racism in the
Republican Party and her and she's like
oh you really think we're all racist
like it's it's all like she is the elite
version of that aggrievement politics
that Sam's always talking about like in
a nutshell and and perfectly positioned
to because instead of waking up and
being like wow look I have totally
middling talent and capacity and I sit
on the view every day and make millions
of dollars and I sit next to people who
have to work their asses off and I just
got grandfathered into Columbia and or
it was gonna be fathered into Columbia
and fathered into show business and like
maybe I should just I think that is a
difference maybe it's just because Abby
Huntsman is a Mormon and their moral
kind of friendly but there does seem to
be like and I'm and and I've seen Abby
Huntsman call for like cutting Social
Security like she's terrible but there
does seem to be like the
tiny glimmer of recognition that like
you know I've had a pretty nice deal so
let me be like slightly less unpleasant
yeah she probably thanks God every
morning whereas Meghan McCain I don't
know ask Santa Claus for more things
from banging McCain just like I'm so why
didn't Michael Ian Black text me back
what the hell
