[Music]
now Nancy Pelosi has been in the house
for an extended period of time
which might be much more savvy about how
you can wrangle votes and pass
legislation I guess we'll see when we're
in the majority and we'll you know time
will tell the ability of the squad to to
pass legislation but now I want to do
this I want to go to a Jana Presley
she spoke first I think if I'm not
mistaken in this press conference with
the squad and she replaced I can't even
remember his name now Capano is a Mike
Capuano cop we uh know in Massachusetts
who was a pretty progressive congressman
himself and I gotta admit that I was a
little bit like when I heard about this
race I was wondering as to you know is
this a good use of resources the upgrade
here has been enormous and a Jana
Presley may end up being the toughest
fighter of these four because I want you
to listen very very carefully to what
she says here she is speaking to Donald
Trump but she has one other person that
she's speaking to one other person is
simply a disruption and a distraction
from the callous chaotic and corrupt
culture of this administration all the
way down we want to get back to the
business of the American people and
while we were sent here reducing the
cost of prescription drugs addressing
the public health crisis an epidemic
that is gun violence addressing the
racial wealth gap and yes making sure
that families stay together I also would
like to just underscore the fact that
despite the occupant of the White House
attempts to marginalize us and to
silence us please know that we are more
than four people we ran on a mandate to
advocate for and to represent those
ignored left out and left behind our
squad is big
our squad includes any person committed
to building a more equitable in just the
world and that is the work that we want
to get back to and given the size of
this squad and this great nation we
cannot we will not be silenced
okay so and I like the fact that she
doesn't call him the president she calls
him the occupant of the White House nice
touch but ostensibly she's speaking to
Donald Trump and saying our squad is big
we are more than four and here's who
she's speaking to she's speaking to
Nancy Pelosi who just a week ago started
off this route by saying there's only
four of them they're not very big they
got their Twitter and whatever he Anna
Presley
slid that in there as a reminder to
Nancy Pelosi that we're not done with
this and we're gonna show you how it's
done we're gonna we're gonna take to all
trump and we're gonna use Donald Trump
to hammer you and we're going to use
your comments to hammer him here it is
Pelosi feels that the four of them made
themselves irrelevant by voting against
our bill issue but all these people have
their public whatever and their Twitter
will but they didn't have any following
therefore people and that's how many
votes they got well to Nancy Pelosi it's
all an inside game the only thing that
matters is how many votes sit in that
institution and the myopia she's
expressing here is that she doesn't
realize at one point
what happens outside of Congress often
comes into Congress and Ayana Presley
was reminding her of that and and this
is where now these guys are going to be
able to take they now have the advantage
because they have pulled Donald Trump
stepped into it and they've pulled him
deeper into it because now it's Nancy
Pelosi has a choice whose side do you
want to be on the squad side our side
with our bills or do you want to be on
his side and that's what's going on and
I'm not surprised frankly that there
were reports last night
that Nancy Pelosi basically told Steve
minuchin hey that that idea you have
about getting a clean debt ceiling bill
for a couple of months in the event that
we can't come to any budget resolution
yeah not gonna happen she can't afford
to now she can't afford to do that
whatsoever and I just found that
fascinating
she Anna Presley was talking to Nancy
Pelosi
and it was pretty impressive stuff
