is always safer in the hands of the
people then
conference rooms of any ELISA they are
unanimous in that hate call me
patron we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is Thursday
October 24 2000 nineteen my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA and the Raphael conference
room at the Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas
Nevada I'm here for the 2019 mass torts
conference on the program today Trump's
alibis fall apart
Ukrainians knew the funds were withheld
and records show that trumps actually
been looking to cut anti corporate
funding meanwhile after denial comes the
anger Brooks Brothers riot heart duh
heart dumb sorry Rudy Giuliani lawyers
up and speaking of the stages of grief
Zuckerberg is gonna have to let go of
crypto dreams he's had he was destroyed
and congressional hearings yesterday
Supreme Court let's the Michigan GOP
gerrymander stand reverses the Sixth
Circuit ice coverup u.s. immigration
officers jiraiya
destroyed key surveillance footage of a
transgender woman who died in ice
custody and the chief operating officer
of the office of federal student loans
quits and discussed and says forgive
almost all of it
meanwhile Trump lifts six-day-old
sanctions on Turkey
as ethnic cleansing begins and a 3%
tighten clover char qualifies for the
November 20 debate
lastly Elijah Cummings to lie in state
in the US Capitol today all this and
more on today's program folks I'm in Las
Vegas Nevada talking to trial lawyers I
have one with me now
just got to organize one thing Scott
just give me ten minutes okay
so joining me now is Christine C he is a
are you of of counsel of Levin
Papantonio oh I'm sorry go ahead and try
again no I am of counsel thank you very
much for having me
and you have been working on the Johnson
and Johnson talcum powder case or I mean
tell me just give me the update what
what's happening with that well just on
Friday Sam they the FDA announced that
there was that there independent
laboratory had found the evidence of
asbestos in samples of talcum powder
products at Johnson & Johnson and had
marketed they pulled they pulled the
sample that they tested off the shelves
so it's the kind of the kind of bottle
that you or somebody else might might
purchase at the store and as a result
J&J has withdrawn a lot of specific
light of talcum powder products I really
have to say that this comes on the heels
of 40 years of denying that there is any
potential problem with their flagship
product now so wait a second so my
understanding is that the the the the
issue with the talcum powder in the past
has not has not been necessarily
asbestos but it has it functions like
asbestos on some level or is it that
it's carcinogen well I think you have to
back up a little bit Sam and talk a
little
about that this is a product that people
pull from the ground I mean you go into
a mind when you talk you when you when
you say you're talking you're mining for
talc you're really pulling out of the
ground talc and everything that comes
with it right so it is typically the
case that there's asbestos close by
there's nickel there's chromium and you
know there are certain tests that they
instituted to try and minimize the
amount of of these known carcinogens in
talcum powder in the 1970s but they
really never updated their their testing
protocol and so there's always been a
concern that the talc you buy is not
pure talc against that backdrop for 40
years you've had researcher after
researcher after researcher from Harvard
from different countries who have found
that there's an increased risk for women
using talc and ovarian cancer Wow and
and and now my understanding is that
that case been resolved I mean or or
where what's the status
I mean of this ongoing that sort of out
gets claimed and where where are we in
terms of well where we are right now is
there have been some trials in various
state courts around the country Missouri
California Georgia most of the cases for
legal jurisdictional reasons are pending
in the United States District Court for
the District of New Jersey and the judge
right now is considering issues relating
to whether or not the case can can
proceed to trial in federal court so
we're kind of at the point where I think
a lot of the scientific questions are
going to be addressed by the court and
those scientific questions are to what
extent to what extent are the
carcinogens in the powder to what extent
has did Johnson and Johnson have the
ability to know that the testing they
did in 1970s is not
to par for today's ability to test and
at what point I guess you know over the
course of this past 40 years should they
have retested with new technology and
new ability to assess what elements in
there might be carcinogenic you know
that's really one of the questions the
bigger question is whether or not the
use of these powders by women for
hygiene are capable of causing ovarian
cancer there are a lot of aspects to
that and you know what I think is really
important is that regulators are
starting to catch up with what
scientists have known for many years
there were recently hearings in the
House of Representatives on the question
of whether or not this product is is
really safe the canadian fda has
concluded that there is that it can
cause ovarian cancer in some women the
FDA now seems to be starting to step
into into the into the breach what what
is important is that the judge will will
consider all of this and let us know
whether or not we can proceed to trial
on the question of whether talc causes
ovarian cancer the presence of asbestos
is part of it I liken it to a cigarette
you know you
we all say cigarettes cause cause
ovarian can cause lung cancer we don't
worry about whether a cigarette contains
500 carcinogens right talcum powder
contains asbestos contains fibrous talc
which acts like asbestos nickel-chromium
all kinds of things that are potential
mechanisms plausible mechanisms for
causing ovarian cancer for you to get a
for the plaintiffs to win in this case
what do they have to prove about what
Johnson and Johnson did or did not know
well okay so now your your we're going
to the question of what they knew and
when they knew it
how do I say this in a way that I think
we have to step back and look at the
product we're dealing with here this is
a product candidly when I first took
started the case I scratched my head and
said this is baby powder if you can't
trust baby powder right can you trust I
mean you when you if you have a child
you'll leave the hospital with with you
know your child a blanket and baby
powder that's what you leave the
hospital with so I think there's a
general reluctance of people to
understand that even something like baby
powder can be a problem for the first
human study on the question was in 1982
there have been close to 40 studies
conducted since 1982
all of which showing that women who use
talcum powder products Johnson Johnson's
baby powder shower - our our have a 30
to 60 percent increased risk of ovarian
cancer for baby powder
okay and they've known it they've known
it for they've known about these studies
for 40 years it's remarkable to me that
a product that you can go into Kmart
pull off the shelves
and use on your on your children on has
the ability to cause cancer and there's
not even a statement on the label that
says do not use it for personal hygiene
Wow
and so we're waiting on those cases that
that have been that are in that that
federal court now and we're waiting
candidly what we're waiting for is for
Johnson and Johnson to acknowledge that
there is a problem and there there has
been a problem for forty years and
instead what they're doing is they are
using their platform to suggest now
maybe there was something wrong with the
test maybe there was something maybe
there was cross contamination in the lab
the kinds of things you typically see
what I'm waiting for them to do is to
step up and and and tell women what the
Canadian FDA has suggested do not use it
for personal hygiene you know there's no
reason why even though this should be a
potential a question about the safety of
something as as ubiquitous as right baby
powder Chris TC thanks so much for your
time today I really appreciate it I
really appreciate it thank you so much I
should say that Chris and I have spent a
considerable amount of time debating
politics over the past couple of nights
Chris thanks again I appreciate folks
we're gonna get to some some more
interviews in just a moment but for
folks who own a dog it's very often the
most beloved member of your family I
think it's some instances people like
their dogs better than they like the
other people in their family but do you
have one that's rescued you wonder about
what breed it is sometimes it's fun to
have a dog you don't know anything about
but at other times you can learn a lot
about your dog not just for fun but also
for the dog's health the embarque dog
DNA test is the best in class dog DNA
test Kelly used it for Edie and this is
what she she told me she said I received
a tease roll a results from embark
there's so much information about
tested clear for all 171 genetic health
conditions they screamed for she's not a
carrier or at risk for any of the
genetic diseases they test for there's
also a full clinical trait report so
much great news but importantly more
importantly I can provide the report to
her vet which will provide so much
information to help Eadie's health as
she grows up if you've listened in the
past you may have heard me mention the
story of Gregor who apparently is a dog
of a listener and the the dog has been a
huge help
therapeutic Li for a member of the
family who had trouble with
socialization and when they were able to
find out about the you know using bark
to find the DNA of their dog Gregor then
their vet changed their the dog's diet
and also was able to tell them what what
possible diseases to look out for and
barks test is worth it because it's the
most comprehensive kit on the market
it's developed by doctors and
veterinarians it tests for over 250
breeds and over a hundred and seventy
genetic health conditions apparently
competitors go down to only twelve
percent of a breeds mix detection
embarks DNA test kit is accurate to a
five percent breed component in a mixed
breed dogs
ancestry this test will catch the briefs
nuances that makes your dog so special
and embark has an exclusive offer for
our listeners go to embark vet dot-com
use the promo code majority to save
fifteen percent off your dog DNA test
kit that's embark vet dot-com the promo
code majority all right uh joining me
now from Levin Papantonio Matt Schultz
is with me and Matt when I heard about
what you're working on I excuse me I was
I was particularly interested because I
have fourteen-year-old daughter right
and so who I will get to the specifics
but she she had a little run-in with
vaping at one point with Jules and it's
an that and but I have to say the one
upshot of the enormous amount of social
media that she is involved with is that
she is very very aware that there are
problems with with vaping that range
guess across the spectrum so so just
tell us I mean where does Joule fit in
because I've heard of like people dying
that's not directly a function of the
Joule like where tell me the landscape
of the whole vapor yeah well let me
start at the beginning I have two
daughters myself one of whom I'm about
to pick up the airport take up to Zion
to do some hiking with she's 22 her
sisters 20 so we step back five years
2014-2015 pre Jul world they're in high
school none of their friends smoke they
don't smoke they have one kid in their
class who smoked cigarettes they
complain about how he stinks all the
time because he smokes cigarettes
teen smoking rates have plummeted they
were at the lowest probably since the
1920s and a lot of success and a lot of
that due to litigation against the
tobacco industry which made them come
clean the documents came out there was
no more denial no more confusion over
the issue and and so we had a generation
or two of kids who grew up with that
knowledge and they were down to about 9%
and let me just also say you're
obviously aware of this but
Levin Papantonio firm and Levin was
absolutely instrumental in forging the
AG settlement in Florida which became a
sort of a nationwide model yeah right
for for the AG settlement master
settlement agreement and so I've been
doing cigarette litigation in Florida
since my kids were small so they got a
dad growing up sue in the tobacco
industry trying cases against cigarette
companies they don't smoke their friends
don't smoke you can stand in 2014 and
look forward and think you know when my
daughters have daughters cigarettes are
done in America nicotine is done because
of course that's all a cigarette is is a
way to get nicotine and and that's where
we were and then jewel came on the scene
and jewel took page from big tobacco's
playbook the youth marketing piece jewel
is because I mean I wouldn't have a clue
I don't think if I didn't have right
electronic vaping device essentially you
have a a liquid solution propylene
glycol that's infused with nicotine they
put it on a heating element it vaporizes
it turns it into an aerosol looks like
smoke it's not smoke but it's laden with
nicotine jewel was different ecigs have
been around since about 2007 right we're
not very prevalent among youth or adults
for that matter in a lot of the public
health community liked the idea of
e-cigarettes because they figured they
had to be safer than smoking cigarettes
right but Joel was different and Jill
was different because most nicotine in
its free state is its alkaline and it's
a freebase and so most ecigs were free
basing the way the the cigarette
industry free based nicotine way back in
the 70s that was the the secret soul of
Marlboros I think Laura Laura called it
jewel did it differently what they did
was add benzoic acid to the mix that
reduces the pH it makes it in acidic
aerosol no no real throat hit very
smooth you unlike a pack of cigarettes
you can't over smoke it in other words
you can just hit this thing constantly
they mislead people about the amount of
nicotine in it a jewel pod
and this is not lawyers talking these
are people who have done the the science
on it contains roughly 36 38 maybe 40
cigarettes worth of nicotine so imagine
now you have a pack of cigarettes which
Philip Morris scientist one time called
a you know a nicotine delivery device it
is a package of nicotine a
fourteen-year-old kid a twelve-year-old
kid for that matter cannot smoke two
packs of Marlboro
in a day right because it's just like
physically precisely it will physically
exhaust you in some way right I mean
that's at one point you know I guess the
analogy would be if you could drink
three bottles worth vodka with you know
for most people by the time you get to
the second bottle you're you're
unconscious right but in this instance
it's the the all of the physical effects
that that come with smoking are not
involved in Joule but you get the amount
of nicotine that you would right and you
can get even more which i think is why
we see a lot of these seizure and stroke
and and i don't know of any of those
necessarily being related to Joule but
of course with Jools meteoric success
there have been a lot of copycats and so
there's a lot of acidic low acid benzoic
based nicotine salt based cigarettes out
there that kids can hit time after time
after time which they couldn't have done
with cigarettes forty years ago or fifty
years ago so so nicotine toxicity is a
very real concern the bigger concern of
course is as I mentioned before we were
about to have a generation free of
nicotine instead we have now in the
words of the CDC undone all the work of
the last 30 years on that and we now
have the highest nicotine use rates that
we've probably ever seen among kids Wow
and so what our I mean our do you have a
sense of what the health implications
are of this I mean my understanding my
my understanding always was the real
problem with smoking is not necessarily
the nicotine you get indica teen patch
and you know people want to get off it
at one point but theoretically there was
no health implications to it are there
are there are there known
health implications for
or ingesting that much nicotine I mean
aside for being obviously highly
addictive are there what are the health
impact what are like the direct health
impacts they sure well with nicotine per
se there's some modest cardiovascular
risk I think it would be such that any
doctor in good faith could tell someone
look if you're smoking cigarettes and
there are no long-term health
implications aside from addiction which
you already have to nicotine you
definitely should switch to e-cigarettes
because the modest cardiovascular risk
would would outweighed all the right
risks of cancer emphysema etc with
cigarettes there is some notion that
nicotine can it's kind of complex
science but essentially can promote
cancer within the body but but again a
very modest risk compared to the risks
of combustion cigarettes overall what we
are seeing lately however is some
literature and animals kind of like we
saw with cigarettes in the early 1950s
that there may in fact be some cancer
risks with cigarettes themselves in they
and they seem to be different risks than
those that are posed by combustion
cigarettes I think it's gonna be a long
time before we know it's going to take a
generation of people getting sick just
like it did with cigarettes you know
it's funny one of our experts that we
put on at trial often a historian on the
marketing and in science of tobacco
tells the story of Aashna or dr. Rosher
back in the 1920s calling all of his
medical students out of bed at night
because they had a lung cancer case and
he said you'll probably never see
another one of these in your lifetime I
was such a rare occurrence that it was
that notable and of course cigarettes
then came on the scene and we had an
epidemic and have an epidemic of lung
cancer and many other cancers are we
going to see that with these cigarettes
we know there are acute risks we've seen
the news over that yeah it's going to
take a long time to tell ok tell us
about the acute wrecks risks and put
them in context with with
what you know what we know about jewel
yeah well it's difficult because we
don't know no one has done a proper
study of well how many of these folks
who've been having seizures or strokes
or lung collapse or or these pneumonia
type diseases the deaths are these
people who are vaping jewel and only
jewel are they vaping you know black
market stuff are they vaping brain I
can't like I I feel like there has been
a lot of confusion I don't know how to
deliberate frankly about what hat what
what was the but for in whatever they
were vaping was it this was a tainted
you know nicotine packs or THC packs you
know the black-market ones or was it
other instant people is there a is there
a consensus at this way because there
have been quite a few deaths right right
how many do you know how many deaths
I think 19 maybe at this point and about
3,000 illnesses documented and part of
this phenomenon probably has to do with
the awareness around it so this may have
been happening for a long time but if
you don't have to look for it right then
you're not going to see it right so okay
so so we really don't know at this point
what has in all those cases what has
made people ill what it's made people
die and is there when you I mean I I
guess the point is we didn't one would
think that we would learn the lesson of
cigarettes which is if you have a
product that people are ingesting you
should you should make sure that it's
safe first right right I mean is that
basically I mean right and there's been
a lot of criticism over FDA on on the e
cig issue of course they've been
overwhelmed with the Tobacco Control Act
coming in since 2009 with just new
applications for cigarette products and
one of the unfortunate benefits of this
crisis is FDA is now you know in hyper
motion on this and we're going to see
regulation coming I
maybe a little late for a lot of kids
because the the big picture to this Sam
excuse me is despite the acute illnesses
what we now have is a generation of kids
addicted to nicotine and it's funny when
we when I do tobacco trials we have to
call in a hundred and ninety jurors to
get six because in the box at the end of
the day because people's opinions are so
strong around personal responsibility
because tobacco has touched everybody's
life in some way mostly negative of
course but but then on the other side a
lot of people who feel like you know
it's free country if you want to smoke
yourself to death then don't go around
suing people when you die okay right but
then we go through two and three-week
trials and we've won far more cases than
we've lost and over a billion dollars of
verdicts across Florida in the last
seven years on this I think we're going
to see this when we get to the bottom of
what happened with jewel because it's no
secret they took their marketing page
from Big Tobacco and what they did and I
think this is undeniable at this point
of course they will deny it and that's
why we have lawsuits is a preconceived
plan to a dick kids to something that
will ultimately make many of them sick
and possibly kill them and and leave
them and with all the the problems that
all addictions bring later in life and
perhaps leading even to the use of
combustion cigarettes down the road if e
cigarettes become heavily regulated so
we've got a nightmare of addiction among
our kids and in parents had no idea and
that you know was not an accident that
the design of jewell it looks like a
like a thumb drive it is a stealth
device it was designed so that it could
be playing secret right oh of course
it's all flavored yeah so they want to
say now this is for you know the veteran
maribor a camel smoker so they can have
a safer way to get their nicotine we're
helping well then then why creme brulee
why advertising through Instagram with
with young models clearly there's no
strawberry flavored that's right
camels and for that matter while they
tried that
of course because they make no mistake
the the cigarette industry would of
course Altria who owns Philip Morris has
thirty some-odd percent of Jule's so
they're behind this as well
cigarette industry but still love to get
kids smoking it's just not feasible in
this day and age with Joule it has
become not only feasible but realized
but yes the the thirty-year Marlboro
smoker who who knows he or she is going
to be sick one day and wants to quit but
compulsively smokes because nicotine is
so powerfully addicted does not need
creme brulee nor do they go to Instagram
to get their advertising for their next
nicotine hit these these guys went after
kids and they got them and so so there's
there's no cases at this point right I
mean like what do you as a law as an
attorney it's a trial lawyer who is you
know sort of obviously having gone
through the work you've done in terms of
tobacco you're obviously incredibly
sensitive to these issues and the
implications of them because you've
worked with how many plaintiffs who you
know get hopelessly addicted cigarettes
right they killed themselves with it
mostly widows of people who are
hopelessly addicted right and so I'm so
so just let me give me a sense of like
you're seeing this going on there you
start to do research on it and then what
are you doing just waiting for the the
test or I mean like what do you and what
capacity you know what capacity as a
lawyer do you work on this well that's
it's interesting all three because there
there is a set of cases there have been
several cases filed class actions mostly
in I co-chair the class department at
Levin Papantonio so that was our
interest given our history in tobacco
the the current litigation I do we
represent the province of Alberta Canada
and their health care recovery
litigation when we saw that jewel was
essentially recreating this model we got
interested other firms got interested
class actions got filed mainly around
deceptive marketing over
amount of nicotine that Jewell delivers
and the fact that they very blatantly
targeted kids in this campaign and we
should say the only reason why you do
that is because you want to really
really addicting they put in 40 40
cigarettes worth of nicotine in these
small devices is you own it's not like
making them
it doesn't say right it doesn't enhance
the taste it's just literally like we're
selling you more of this highly highly
addictive drug and you don't even know
it I mean on some level it has a
obviously I mean hopefully with not
nearly the potential for for the horror
that it's been but that's like almost
like the oxycontin
like the the oxycontin story right like
this is non addictive and but it turns
out to be horribly addictive on some
level even if you were aware like I know
there's nicotine in here and it's
addictive you just don't know how much
nicotine relative to would be if you sat
down to smoke a couple cigarettes
yeah recent study showed 63% of kids
didn't even know jewel had nicotine in
it you know they their look when you
look at Jule's marketing hashtag
vaporized this is hip it's cool it's the
nude cigarette it's the rebellion it's
the way to you know separate identify
yourself as distinct from authority from
your parents just like it was with kids
and is to some extent today but these
guys Devine a design a device that is
delivers supremely high amounts of
nicotine in a way that can be used over
and over and over in a way that can be
used stealthily and and then target
their advertising to you through hashtag
marketing through use of you know these
Club parties and whatnot through use of
you know Katy Perry for that matter it's
it is it is sinister and it is the worst
of what we see in industry so these
lawsuits came about and where we're at
right now is we essentially have three
types of suits we
got injury suits lung injuries the
seizures strokes that sort of thing
we have lawsuits for injury for
addiction itself which is of course a
lifelong injury it's not a broken leg
that heals in a year we've got a set of
opioid style cases school districts now
bringing claims because they're having
to hire security guards but in
surveillance hire people to help kids
and tutor them because of their nicotine
addiction and these are taxpayer
expenses that we are bearing because of
this sinister campaign that Georgia
theoretically you can't sell a jewel to
anyone under the age of 18 can you or in
theory sure in theory you can't sell
cigarette to anyone under 18 we all know
how that goes and there's a third track
of class actions which is kind of where
this began for the deceptive marketing
over the amount of nicotine the
targeting of kids etc in addicting them
in all of those cases in federal court
have been consolidated in what's called
multi district litigation so in mass
torts generally if you have you know a
drug that harms thousands of people in
thousands of lawsuits are filed the
federal courts will consolidate them all
in front of one judge and we have done
that I think there are 39 cases right
now in front of Judge William auric in
San Francisco which is where jewel is
based and he is just beginning to to get
a handle on the case he'll be appointing
leadership over this multi district
litigation following a hearing November
8th and then the the books get opened
and we get in and see everything on the
inside that they did to make this happen
and bring this about and and then in the
meantime hopefully there are studies
that are being done but I mean who would
pay the that's part of the problem isn't
there is it sort of like who's gonna pay
for the studies like who's who's
incentivized to find out whether the
ingredients that Jewel puts into their
their vaporizer to make it smoother or
whatever other chemicals I imagine are
in that
that mix or just the idea of like what
are the impact of that much nicotine on
you know I imagine there's some
neurological you know I mean it's not
just a question of addiction I would
imagine at one point like it's going to
have neurological implications you know
because you're talking about kids in
particular who there's nobody like it is
there anybody incentivized to actually
do that study and does anybody just you
know maybe maybe at a university
fortunately you know the federal
government gives lots of grants for that
just like they do for say breast cancer
research there is a lot of federal money
out there for people to study things
like this and we already have a very
robust public health network a community
of people many of whom you know give
their time serving in litigation to
testify about what they've learned over
the years that was dedicated to smoking
a nicotine addiction specifically and
and those same folks are studying a
cigarette now because it is the epidemic
that smoking was a hundred years ago and
we should say I mean that is just
another example of these companies
privatizing their profits exercising
externalizing socializing the cost
precisely and you know that you wouldn't
have to do with a lot of other products
like you know we can tell like I know
this pen is not you know we don't need
any studies they can sell these pens and
society does not have to go out and pick
up the cost of making sure that it's not
going to you know kill me in 20 years or
horribly you know a dict me or would
dick me get me addicted or whatever it
is
so yeah that's well and it's you know
we're fortunate that we have you would
have think after the tobacco right like
that you there would be a
a statue that just simply says like
we're gonna have a different class of we
have a different class the class of
substances and we're going to require
proof that this is healthy or is not or
not as bad as alternative right and I
predict we will see FDA taking action
perhaps by this time next year one would
hope and I predict we will see something
like you can't have five percent
nicotine which jewel has and except by
prescription you can't sell creme brulée
if this really is a device that helps
people quit smoking perhaps it does have
a role to play but you can't go after
kids right and and and I've noticed I
think in in New York I don't know if
it's the city or the state top my head
but I've heard ads there is a push to
basically outlaw flavored by several
states Michigan has had a ban
Massachusetts San Francisco and and I
think we'll see more of that it's one
reason the federal government needs to
get a handle on it because this has no
this has split the public health
community in a sense I mean they're
experts I've put on at trial who don't
want to serve as experts against Jule
because even though they recognize how
inappropriate the marketing was they do
believe there is a role for e-cigarettes
and helping people get off of combustion
cigarettes it may be 20 years before we
know whether they are worse in some ways
than cigarettes but logically when you
look at what's in a the smoke aerosol
from a combustion cigarette versus an
e-cigarette but it would seem that they
must be safer right so a lot of the
public health community feels they have
a role they don't want to see outright
bans what happens when a generation of
kids who are now hopelessly nicotine
addicted are told you don't get
e-cigarettes where do they go then
right right so it's it's a complex
question but at the end of the day what
we want
aside from compensation for people
who've been harmed financially and
physically is a sort of prospective
relief it kind of like the opioid case
you guys broke this you need to instead
of externalizing the cost all the people
named to this to you and to me take some
of the profit that you've reaped from
this and do some good and try and help
these kids get off the nicotine
lastly Matt let me ask you this like
because this is this question that comes
up on most certainly every time I'm here
do you ever have you ever like had the
opportunity to explore what the people
working at this company who know that
they're putting out this product that
has this enormous amount of nicotine
their flight their flavoring it as creme
blue brulee or you know strawberry patch
or whatever it is they know they're
marketing it to kids right I mean you'd
have to be a complete idiot to not know
that and there has to be somebody in
that company who's not a complete idiot
like what do they just don't care like I
just understand like how someone goes to
work every day with this knowledge and
then they just head home or is it just a
function of like well quality of the car
that they're driving it's an interesting
question i I've seen two types in the
cigarette industry both through
reviewing tens of thousands of documents
and through taking tons of depositions
of vice presidents at Philip Morris and
RJ Reynolds and Lorillard in Liggett and
and crossing them at trial type number
one and and I suspect we will see and
will prove the founders of jewelr at
this type which are I want you know my
Maserati I want my castle on the hill
and it's somebody has to get hurt then
so be it
and those are the worst of the barons
that we've seen throughout you know our
history and then I think there are a lot
of people who can't live in a constant
state of cognitive dissonance so they
rationalize what they do well look these
things really are safer than cigarettes
ensure some kids may have gotten
addicted and that's unfortunate but look
at all the good we're doing at the end
of the day the the ledger is really
falls on my side I'm a good guy I'm a
good woman
people can't the average person can't
live a life of just acknowledging they
are pure evil I've met some people who
really have no problem with that and
it's frightening
well Matt Schulze 11 Papantonio thanks
so much for your time thanks I
appreciate wowza that story not
specifically the the jewel story but
that story of the sociopaths in these
organizations that I I still it's just I
just have trouble wrapping my head
around that West yeah we got one more
guest and you stick around we're going
to be talking about obviously the latest
in terms of the impeachment and and
whatnot
in a moment I'm John I am joined now by
Wes Bowden Wes you're an attorney at
eleven Papantonio right yes that's right
and you're working on on a case that
came out of the c8 case is that right
yeah it's kind of the genesis of it was
c8 as some of your viewers may know was
a contaminant that was found throughout
the Mid Ohio Valley and it was a
chemical that was used in making Teflon
it was kind of it was just screed it
into the water through the smokestacks
and it really poisoned about 70,000
people we started looking at litigation
we realized that and we should say that
this was this was DuPont right yeah any
pot and the the chemical c8 was made by
3m for a while and then three I realized
like this is just so toxic we don't know
when he be in this business
yeah because you got to burn this stuff
off and it has no half-life well I mean
I maybe but it's an extremely long
half-life and so dupont said well we'll
just manufacture our own and
instead of burning it they just dumped
it into River because you know easier I
guess and who's gonna notice until I
guess about 25 years ago a farmer whose
cows were dying and that started the
whole thing bully rolling that's right
so over the course of that litigation
which at least you know I guess it ended
in a massive and they did they end up
settling after the first couple of cases
so we tried three of them during the
fourth case they settled and they ended
up paying that community that poison so
about 3,500 cases settled for a very
large song right okay and and so out of
that case you you came across this new
chemical what what right so in the
course of discovery and looking at the
information in that case we realized
there is a kind of a sister chemical if
you will called P fos very structurally
similar still an 8 carbon chain and
what's unique about these chemicals is
they have fluorine bonds instead of
hydrogen and that's important chemistry
wise because those bonds are really hard
to break and as you were saying they
sever break down naturally in the
environment so when we saw that we
realized that these chemicals were
showing up everywhere in the country and
they're showing up at specific sites
predominantly around Department offense
you know Navy Air Force bases where
they're using firefighting films so now
how did you find we should say that all
of us in this room probably have some CA
in our in our system that we do right I
mean which is nuts it is and that's
because it travels
it just keeps traveling because it never
breaks down right never sort of absorbed
in a way it just it just it just lingers
everywhere so we all have it in our
systems at this point it's just a
question of like you know what levels it
becomes toxic so how do you find out
when you so you see this other chemical
that exists that has a similar structure
so you know that at the very least it's
one that lingers around
and that's not good for human beings how
do you know that it was located in these
different areas that's a great question
so it's fascinating the story of this
only a couple years ago did our
government started looking into this and
so what happened was in 2016 the EPA
came out with a guideline not a standard
but just a guideline saying that this
chemical and amounts in excess of 70
parts per trillion which is about a drop
an Olympic sized swimming pool that's
that small amount of chemical can cause
health effects adverse health effects so
the EPA said we're going to come up with
a guideline right now and they're
working on coming up with a standard
which hopefully would be much lower but
if you exceed this guideline it's time
to start taking actions so when the
Department of Defense realized this they
said oh my gosh we've got we've been
using this chemical at every Air Force
Base at every Navy base every
firefighting training facility and they
started doing tests and so what they did
was they made a list literally made a
list saying where do we think we're
going to find this started going through
the list and they found it everywhere
not at 70 parts per trillion but at 9000
parts per trillion 10,000 parts per
trillion so sort of testing people's
water around these military sites and
what they've done to their credit
although it's been delayed and it's been
slow in getting there they've sort of
given these communities their own
bottled water as we're talking today
there are communities throughout our
country where the US Navy is delivering
on a weekly basis bottled water because
they don't believe their water is safe
to drink and those are only the places
that they've tested so we've tested I
say we as a country we've only tested
three percent of the water supply just
three percent and out of that three
percent we estimate that more than six
million people are exposed to this
chemical and so it's it's a big problem
it's just the tip of the iceberg so who
who made this chemical historically 3m8
it's they developed it back in the 1950s
and they started promoting it in
products in the 1960 1970s in a round
1999-2000 3m started getting pressure
largely because of the tenant lawsuit
they realized that this was going to be
you know the veil was being pulled back
and they were going to be exposed
largely because of the c8 case yes they
started getting wind at like oh boy
right so they pull down and DuPont said
we don't care full steam ahead for
so then DuPont started making some of
these chemicals and there's a large
group of chemicals that have these
properties what's wrong with the people
at DuPont like they just see like oh
this stuff is too dangerous for you to
make you know I mean that's our business
plan I think that's that hits the nail
on head right there that's that was
being institutions it's it's someone in
that company set down and looked at what
is it gonna cost us to resolve our
litigation versus what is it gonna cost
us to change our behavior this has
already come out try using one of my
trucks they realized in the mid-1980s
that they could incinerate this chemical
and so just dump it into the river and
so it was a dump into the smokestack you
know what their number was they mean
they did an accounting 15 cents per
pound a million dollars a year on a
company that was grossing just in this
one department alone a hundred million
dollars in net profit it was over a
billion dollar gross revenue so for 15
cents they're willing to poison people
and they just assumed like either will
get away with it right or if we have to
pay damages it'll be less than 15 cents
per pound essentially or I'm CEO right
now and I probably won't be here in 15
years that's a large part of it too
so when we look at these litigations
that occur over and over again we think
to ourselves having these companies
continue on this course of conduct ask
yourself how many of these executives
are going to jail you just never see
those headlines wrong Street doesn't
care the stock might dip briefly but it
always rebounds these executives they
say oh that was in the past we've
changed our conduct because there's a
delay they're just very good at the
cover-up it took us 40 years to figure
out what was wrong in this community and
now you know they've paid a settlement
the settlement was 670 million dollars
during that time period they made
billions and profit billions for their
shareholders so you know I told there's
a way that we can actually hold people
and executive positions accountable and
you know actually change legislatively
and hold them criminally accountable
even the company I don't know that we're
gonna be able to really change the
course of conduct that he's kind
okay I didn't mean to sidetrack the
story but yeah I mean that's you know
yeah I mean this this you know the the I
mean I feel like the work that the
attorneys do here change specific
conduct and in some instances has a more
lasting impact but it's almost like a
little bit of a whack-a-mole type of
situation absolutely all right so this
this chemical DuPont sees that oh three
M's too afraid of this that's where we
make our money because our business
model is that we do you know the stuff
that non sociopaths won't do because
there's a market in it and so so so what
so that they start making the chemical
and then they must know at that point
right because I mean 3m is obviously
it's profitable for 3m at least to some
extent right right right
and so they must know that there's a
problem like almost inherently is that
almost a prima facie evidence that they
we had a document written in 1982 from
their in-house counsel saying we had
been liable for the past 32 years of
operation this is their attorney saying
what you're doing is wrong internally
their head of medical at the head
medical director said this is a known a
known animal carcinogen and we believe
that is a probable human carcinogen so
this isn't science waiting to develop
today versus the company saying we know
this but we're not gonna tell regulators
and we'll deal with it when someone
filed suit there's literally a document
that we use in one of our trials where
they're headed II me ologists a person
who's in charge of looking at health
effects and large populations said we
have a cancer problem a human cancer
problem at our work site do we want to
do the study and the note at the bottom
of the memo is I quote this way to do
the study until we're suit that's the
mentality this company takes when it
comes to people so now my understanding
is DuPont was is out of business or as a
shell game right
okay so yeah tell me that shell game so
what happened was in the I guess the
2010s DuPont spun off its floor Palmer's
apartment into chemours and they they
loaded up chemours with debt they make
amorous pay them a bunch of money as a
dividend and they were basically just
trying to set this company up in my
opinion to fail and they had an
agreement in place to make it work
remorse it's gonna pay all of these
claims a way to further limits their
liability so they they create an arm's
length entity right that is basically
just kicking money back to them but owns
all the liability exact for the product
and so it's like well it's not us it's
this chemours guys over here and and so
oh they don't have money assets oh
you're in trouble is there just a p.o
box right so they loaded them up with
probably four hundred million dollars in
assets and an equal amount of debt and
what's really interesting right now once
I spin it off chemours is now its own
legal entity under the law well what
does Kimura so they turn around and sued
DuPont saying this was a fraudulent
transfer that case is now pending in
Delaware and it's it's it's not a so the
executives that Kimora's oh like what do
we do with this and they what dupont
they're saying what dupont did was wrong
and it shouldn't be our responsibility
to fix their mistake and so that's
playing out in the course right now
interesting and so do you have cases or
these cases waiting for the resolution
of the relationship between these two
companies no we have cases that are
ongoing we have personal injury cases
from the community that was affected
directly by DuPont Teflon manufacturing
plant and we also have now cases that
are being brought on behalf of states
governments and cities that have their
own natural resource damages claim
saying this chemical shouldn't be here
and we're talking about the PFA Triple A
litigation yeah so there's a PFA s
generally there's a lot of different
terms easy to use but all the same class
of chemicals same two companies that
play the same two major manufacturers
being DuPont and 3m so they're facing a
lot of liability it needs and and it
sounds like we don't know even the half
of it in terms of where this chemical is
and what other communities are in
acted by it that's right I mean we not
even half I mean we know 3% so far I
mean that's all the testing that's been
done there are additional government
funds being set aside to do testing the
EPA actually encourages it's got an
unwritten Taman it still unregulated
despite all we know now it's still in
regular because EPA hasn't set a
standard but now many water supplies are
starting to look for this chemical and
there's coming out on a weekly basis
California just two weeks ago lower
their level that's allowed and their
water and found an additional 300
communities to use and there these are
the states that are taking action now
Michigan has a little bit ahead of the
curve because they started doing testing
in California as well but you're gonna
find it all throughout the country so
far they've identified about 600 sites
and they're looking for more and is this
chemical just used exclusively in the in
in the in terms of like fire fighting
fire or know it's not it's you know in
fact you and I have it in our blood
right now through just regular consumer
items you know stain resistant carpets
if you've ever eaten a fast food chain
and the hamburger wrappers the soda cups
are lined with these chemicals to help
keep water from clinging to them and so
the odd thing and the really scary thing
is that you and I as we sit here on this
conversation we have about 2,000 parts
per trillion in our blood so if our
blood was water it would not be safe for
us to drink it that's how bad this
chemical is it's just it's an every
living organism in our country and
there's no way to expel it is there no
you have to just wait the half-life of
these chemicals is just 2,000 today I'm
talking like there's no way of expelling
it in a mortal human that's what I'm
saying no you have to just wait it out
so our bodies will get rid of it in
about five years half of it will be out
of our body so five years from now if
we're having the same conversation we'll
have a thousand of us but that's
presuming we're not going out being a
hammer or wherever I mean is there a is
there a website where I can go and see
like the the the different products that
have this like I mean I I don't have a
stain resistant carpet and part of it is
because I was like I'm not sure I know
how they do that and I don't know
Yeah right like so there are so the the
EPA website for PETA's chemicals PFA s
they list a lot of consumer products
that historically had at PFA s right so
that's the kind of the global family of
chemicals but as of 2016 our country has
phased them out from from manufacturing
processes but that's very recent so you
think about the persistence of these
chemicals and how we're exposed to them
we're still going to be exposed to them
for the foreseeable future
okay so and maybe we'll put a link to
that EPA site back in in Brooklyn
they'll put that on the it's PA FAS and
all right well I guess you know next
time I'm here you'll probably have an
update on the progress of these cases
West thanks so much your time today
really Wow nice it's great thing
[Music]
I think we're gonna probably do a
freebie Friday a freebie Friday what do
you guys think
same buy their freezers day sorry
freebie Thursday I can't hear you guys
a freebie what's that a freebie Thursday
oh wait yeah today's Thursday
Oh screw that I didn't know I forgot
all right well then let's head to the to
the fun half we got a lot of stuff to
cover today in terms of impeachment the
it is it's I mean yes the past couple of
days have been stunning frankly in terms
of what we're gonna see on impeachment I
just want to say I'm I don't know maybe
I should reach out to Tim pool and have
it have another debate and see if he's
changed his mind about this but hey but
he agreed with you I wanted to test
something I know well he said he wasn't
he thought like he couldn't be extortion
some people call it bribery
I think it's extortion frankly
regardless ribery extortion more or less
similar dynamic bribery incidentally if
you look in the Constitution that's
almost explicit explicitly impeachable
but one of the things that he had said
was the Ukrainians didn't know that
Trump was leveraging this money and my
argument was it that doesn't matter any
more than it would matter if I knew that
you were attempting to kill me you can't
that's not a defense I was trying to
poison my husband but he didn't know I
was doing it so it's not oh you've not
attempted murder that was happening no I
I became aware of it I was it took a
while I want to test you gotta be
careful sweet stuff because that's
coolant but the other thing let me just
finish the playa sorry so that story has
fallen apart
the Ukrainians apparently did know that
the funds were being withheld but
like I say that's largely irrelevant
it's just a talking point that they can
no longer address and the idea that
Donald Trump was genuinely concerned
with the corruption of Ukraine I think
it's on its face but there are people
who don't have that reaction and I want
to respect I want I wish I'll show my
respect for people have a different idea
of things than I do so fine you don't
find it laughable on its face that
Donald Trump would be against corruption
specifically in Ukraine but it also
turns out that the Trump administration
has been looking to cut anti corruption
funds for Ukraine and around the world
until they get rid of the corruption
from day one of this administration that
story came out yesterday and so now what
we're witnessing is the is Plan B by the
Republicans and we will talk about Plan
B and I I and I've had this argument
with the first guest what we had on
today and a number of other lawyers I am
of the mind that there's a plan C and I
will I will present my my theory about
that in the fun half before we do wait
uh just for Tim Poole are we going in
the obvious direction which would be
like you know I don't want to be a dick
but you're like Thanos or you know
that's a utilitarian perspective and
that's usually the bad guy movie Sam
yeah that's Bill I think it's bill right
yeah bill would be a total temple with
the bring it up you're sounding like
that well Jim Poole is in a strong case
against impeachment how it's actually
gonna hurt the Democrat you know tea
that's actually gonna reverberate about
on Democrats but it's unless you listen
what Tulsi saying about
but that's where he starts out but by
the end of it really depending on what
what the clicks you know what his what
his monetization rate is it could easily
go into Mandela territory right now
let's just put it down as of now it
should be like I thought he had good
points I thought I had good points we
both said things ball 70 she's right
about something right about some things
both maybe he fact-check me baby I
reminded him of the Avengers
incidentally I have had the opportunity
to be in contact with people who and you
know you always have the are they
ignorant or is it a grift type of debate
with people I am it's it's on the grift
side yeah also there's something
beautiful about it that I've come to
understand what we'll talk more about it
in the fun half but they be off money
huh maybe off mic yeah well or maybe not
oh folks knowing your dog's breed makes
can help you provide a better quality of
life like I said Kellis doing it with
Edie and listeners are doing it with
Gregor and the embark dog DNA test is
the best in class dog DNA test developed
by doctors and veterinarians and bark
tests for over 250 breeds and 170
genetic health conditions so that you
can make sure that you're feeding your
dog what's going to keep them healthy
you're watching out for specific
diseases they might be predisposed to
it's the only research grade dog DNA
test kit on the market save 15% on a dog
DNA test go to embark vet comm EMB AR k
ve t embark vet dot-com use a promo code
majority just a reminder this show
relies on your support you can become a
member by going to join the majority
report calm when you do you get the fun
half
you get the first half commercial-free
and you just get the ability to go and
walk around and just say like I'm a
member of the majority report and if you
say that long enough in as many places
as you can you will run into another
member or listener the show for some
reason I've been out here I've gotten
recognized by a ton of people and that
doesn't generally happen to me I don't
know what that is how to import
conferences and Bernie rallies well when
I got here yesterday you know how I was
having problem with the Internet and the
drop wasn't here the ethernet drop was
not here and and I'm trying to maintain
I think everybody there knows that
sometimes I guess what a self astute
self aware use of language right here I
like that thank you no I mean I'm sure
it's no it's no secret that I get you
know in circumstances where there have
been failures of others that will
implicate the Equality or the ability to
do the show that I get a little hot
under the collar about it a little bit
and so we're waiting for the
representative of the guy of the place
to come down and he comes down and you
know he's he's he looks like a
deer-in-the-headlight and i and i
actually like i had like a sense of calm
over me because of it in some way I
couldn't tell what it was and and I'm
just like yeah okay you know we need the
Internet and so he comes back later he
goes listen I'm really sorry about this
we're gonna get it done I promise you
I'm actually the reason why I was a
little bit off put one you can't is I'm
a big fan of the show and I was planning
to watch this later today and I was like
don't worry about it
it was very nice guy and true to form by
by 11:59 East Coast time it
at 11:59 East Coast time we had that
internet drop and so we were able to do
the show so become a member time in the
majority report calm also don't forget
get the majority app and you can now
listen to AM quickie on there you can go
to am quickie calm to to sign up if you
want to subscribe to you know get it
it's free totally free this is a free
service 5 minutes a day every morning
give you the headline news Lucy's been
holding down the fort this week because
I can't do it at 4:30 in the morning
here but so check that out and also
don't forget if there's stuff that you
don't understand that we talked about in
the show that that are clearly supposed
to be funny or it's like an inside joke
not saying they're necessarily funny but
their inside joke send us an email and
majority reporters at gmail.com with the
subject line memes you don't don't email
us to ask we got a bunch I must have
missed phrase this the other day because
we got a bunch of emails saying like oh
ya know send me the document with all
this stuff on it we don't we're building
a document that we're gonna put on the
website but we need your input as to
what you don't get because we don't know
what you don't get Michael what happened
last Tuesday in the office well let me
just say I talked about we covered Chile
Lebanon had on Artesia and John Ida
Rolla I want to just also say David
Feldman called in and he just the frame
of the interview is that he's an elder
statesman of the Bernie bro movement and
he just ambushed me with his his sort of
liberal wanker II even though he kept
telling me he was a left an old lefty
from way back that was a very funny
exchange
if people like Feldman's humor which I
do a lot
he thought Bernie was too much of a
junior son yeah in junior senator he
said he said I'm just not sure the
country is ready for an obnoxious
loudmouth junior senator from Vermont
then he and I'll also just say I mean uh
next Tuesday Shama Sawant's gonna be on
among several other guests and I just
kind of want to plug that if people can
help her her elections in a couple weeks
and Amazon's putting about a million
dollars into city council races to try
to reverse the tide in Seattle and for
patrons there's two brand new interviews
one with Adolph read which is available
now we'll run it later and another one
will put up for patrons first as well
with G Jack both of which I well we're
really fun and I think especially really
important jaimé jaimé is not here today
but check out the anti Fattah and yeah
literary hangover I'm going to be doing
me and Alex Alex turns for Salem witch
trials we're going to get deep into the
politics of that so
all right folks quick break fun half
folks six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
does this alpha males are back and the
alpha males are back back just
the males are back back back back back
back and the alpha males are back back
back just want to degrade the white man
alpha males are back back
males are back back back
almost has one
and the alpha males like I am a total
John can we bring back the eg banner
yeah or a couple of you put them in
rotation these you dance well the
problem with those is they're like 45
seconds long so I don't know if they're
enough of a break Markinson
I'm the alpha male psyche
Oh almost says what what watch watch
watch watch watch
[Music]
back
back
on the back
the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
because
blocked back
alpha males all back
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan
birthday happy birthday to meet you boy
expand tinfoil and the alpha males
all right we're back it's the fun half
of ladies and gentlemen I am I am
attempting to set up ability for me to
take calls here and it involves my old
iPhone and a third Skype account to use
with the cables that I have a stat you
know it's like okay and then of course
like Skype now is just like it's it's as
if I am trying to break into Fort Knox
yeah in terms of the like various levels
of 14 factor authentication so that I
can use my one of the Skype accounts
it's absurd it's it's absurd what's
happening here in this country it's
crazy this is MIT Romney let's see here
hearing these drops these are incredible
no of course I heard it I heard Mitt
Romney I heard that now is the first one
Breger all right now I'm gonna try and
see if I can do this here good morning
Patriots good morning Patriots good
morning
rebels okay let's see if this works
getting some feedback on that not trying
to be a dick or anything but you know
you sell out the bad guys I'm just not
taking calls yet please leave a message
for Sam all right god I'm gonna be able
to do I'm gonna be able to do this oh
that's pretty good
nice did you set that up MacGyver that's
that's what risking a new imagination
for
you just build burden the phone systems
man yeah I did endeavor to take fun now
now I can't log it now my fans think
it's not coming up
oh you manage the just just Michael get
on the phone thing and turn off the
voicemail
okay that's gonna take all right
definitely make sure oh my gosh I don't
know I do in all this my god I forgot it
had a log on to the whole computer yeah
we got a monitor situation oh you get
what what that monitors swivel to face
us so we can see you oh I see well
Brendan can just do it on his computers
you go into fans and go into the phones
and I've got it okay in the meantime
while we do that we should definitely
work to get phone calls for sure well
let's well let's give it a try
so let's voicemail you did okay thank
you for calling into the majority all
right so if you could put me into the
pole position there and you're gonna
have to pay basically just call out the
calls that guy really does sound like
Mitt Romney do I get to choose the calls
yeah you do like a real a real call
screener who doesn't do any screening
just sort of like whatever I like to
look at area code
I don't know anybody's numbers are like
you
it's like announcing bingo but before we
get there let's let's start with what
took place yesterday with and did you
find that Mitch McConnell stuff there
wasn't anything on Fox but we did find
him at the press conference on Tuesday
making similar comments okay so here's
the deal in terms of him excuse me in
terms of impeachment there's no way the
house is not going to impeach Donald
Trump at this point it would it is
impossible to imagine and the
Republicans know it they know that
Donald Trump has been caught dead to
rights the only questions at this point
the only material questions are how many
articles of impeachment
will he be will be will he be charged
with from what's going on with the
Ukraine situation in and of itself
there's probably a couple of articles of
impeachment they're abuse of power
arguably emoluments arguably you know
election law and bribery and then you
could also throw in obstruction in so
far as you've had multiple members of
the executive branch not come in and
testify refused to attempts to prevent
other witnesses from testifying and then
the question also becomes do they start
looking into emoluments there's plenty
of examples where he has broken the
emoluments clause or contravened it then
do you also look in obstruction that has
taken place over the course of not just
Muller investigation but in other
oversight functions of the house and
then the only other question that
remains after that is like when are they
going to do this right now they're
talking about going public with the
witnesses in November but we shall see
the only response we have seen from
Republicans is not to refute Bill Taylor
not to refute the Pentagon
witness yesterday as to the implications
of withholding that aid and and and how
it was done it is to complain about the
process in an incredibly disingenuous
way in a way that is perfect for Fox
News here is a mob of well suited
Republican congressman thirteen of whom
have the absolute right to go into that
room without doing these theatrics
thirteen of them are on committees that
allow them to be in the skiff this is
the the room in Congress where they have
hearings if they want it to be
completely secure and they do it in
these rooms you're not supposed to bring
recording devices in of course these
Republicans did you're not supposed to
go in there darrell Issa was actually
frog not frog marched but he was
escorted out of that room during the
Benghazi hearings because he wasn't part
of them he wanted to be but he wasn't
and I'm telling you it was a Republican
trey Gowdy had him taken out because he
wasn't a member of the committee
Celsus for nothing exactly nothing
nothing that the Democrats have done at
this point to this point is in any way
out of the norm for the way you would
handle any investigation Benghazi was
handled this way others this is the way
you do it but they need to try and deal
legitimate this whole process now
because they know on the facts Trump is
toast here's the here's that clip
[Music]
I want to get involved in that so there
you have it
and here's Matt Gaetz who is the
ringleader of this you know he went on
and made these complaints like a week or
two ago and he got enough press
attention that he figured oh this is
working now but understand what the
strategy is here this is for consumption
by Fox News and by right-wing media so
that and remember we live in a world now
where it used to be where the right-wing
media would try and get their narrative
into the mainstream into the mainstream
into the mainstream bloodstream of the
of the news now they don't do that they
don't have to because we have two
parallel narratives and they just need
something to talk about and this is what
they're talking about I didn't watch any
Fox News last night
I can guarantee you you barely heard the
words Bill Taylor but you heard all
about Matt Gaetz I'm gathered here with
dozens of my congressional colleagues
underground in the basement of the
Capitol
because if behind those doors they
intend to overturn the results of an
American presidential election we want
to know what's going on now as you can
tell he's in a cave in a dark dungeon it
just happens to be the lower-left floor
of the there's probably one or two
floors lower than that but he's talking
about it as being a coup as opposed to
an impeachment impeachment show up in
the Constitution and I think to a
certain extent what they're trying to do
you see that major league baseball
umpire who had - who deleted his tweet
if you're gonna if you're I'm buying an
ar-15 if you're going to try and get rid
of my president yep Mogga
whatever it is civil war
um did you see that Matt Gaetz broke
laws by giving out faulty passes down to
this lower level for HBO cameramen for
show he's filming yes expired
expired passes yeah of course he of
course let's make sure that uh that Mike
Allen can get down here with us guys
we're fighting for democracy this is a
big so embarrassing
all right so here's the here's where
this is going I think at this point the
Democrats are you just going to figure
out the details of how they're going to
impeach Donald Trump the timing how many
different articles there's going to be I
mean they're planning on taking a vote
before the Christmas holidays I wouldn't
count on because they're gonna they're
gonna roll out public testimony in
November and I think they're gonna begin
to realize that the America it is
educating the American public we've now
hit 55 percent on the latest poll on
impeachment and it's going to get larger
and understand what the name of the game
here is pressure on five senators
Republican senators Susan Collins Cory
Gardner McAdams in Arizona
is that her name I say McMahon it's
obvious out Sally McAdams joining us and
and I think to a certain extent Thom
Tillis although he supposedly said the
other day like impeachment completely
out of the question I have to say and
the question on the one in Arizona
you're gonna have to strategize very
closely with them oh my god I'm entirely
forgetting her name who who's the other
senator Manar is a christian cinema
because i would say if there's any
democrats that could flip in the other
direction she'd be right up there with
mansion that's like yeah i got state
wrinkle right there
it's possible I think it's just highly
doubtful at this point but mansion is it
certainly one to watch imagine he will
not vote for it I would I would be very
confident of that
but cinema I don't know watch I don't
know but they are those two are far less
reluctant to because they're not up for
reelection
those two are far less reluctant to vote
for impeachment or to make that boat
than those other five and so the
question is is it automatic should we
assume that if impeachment passes in the
house if the articles of impeachment are
sent to the Senate should we assume that
it's automatic that they're going to be
taken up by Mitch McConnell and there's
actually going to be a vote here's Mitch
McConnell from a press conference I
haven't seen this clip but I heard him
on Fox saying something that I think is
similar but let's listen to what he says
here
there have been a number of Republicans
who have said that if an impeachment
trial happens in the Senate you could
quickly bring up a vote to dismiss any
kind of impeachment charges would you
think about doing that or will you let
the trial go all the way through into a
to a vote on conviction well it won't be
won't be up to me hmm
unlike other procedures in the Senate
the majority leader does not really have
ball control here when it comes over
from the house we have to take it up as
I think you've learned without consent
we're on it six days a week the rule
even says when we turn to it and the
Chief Justice is in the chair and Ruth
on all the motions they can be
overturned by vote but I don't see
anybody in all of this myself or others
who would be able to control the process
at some point it ends with the Clinton
impeachment it went on for two months I
have no idea how long this will go on
what I can tell you for sure is if the
house and peaches we will be honest it
will displace everything else and we'll
be on it until we finish dismissal yeah
there are all kinds of potentials and we
don't have it yet when we do we'll have
to come to grips with how long we're
going to stay on it in the in the
Clinton impeachment proceeding senator
Lott and Senator Daschle did agree to a
process that kind of laid out I would be
handled if this were to come over from
the house I'm Senator Schumer and I
would sit down and discuss come
to an agreement on a process that was
voted on and in the Clinton impeachment
who has passed a hundred to nothing so
there was broad agreement on how to
handle it
Sam yeah there's a lot of wiggle room in
there I'm not in control of it
there was negotiations last time it's
all and now he's saying the other night
on Fox News he's saying Senate rules now
no we're in what he said there
no we're in what he said on Fox News was
the Constitution right I mean this is a
constitutionally mandated it's the
easiest answer Constitution says we
Senate takes it up we'll take it up how
it goes I don't know but he's not
bringing that up which leads me to
believe that he is trying to at least
build a predicate that this is out of
his hands it's a function of Senate
rules the only thing is is that Senate
rules can be voted on and changed and
he's got five members of his caucus that
he does not want to take that vote now
he's also covering his ass on the other
side by saying like I'm not you know I
can't there's nothing I can do because
they are in an incredibly difficult
situation because you have 35% of the
country that will never ever ever there
is no amount of evidence and we've been
saying that since day one will will
justify impeachment of Donald Trump in
their eyes
short of him the video of him running
naked across the lawn chasing that the
lawn mower kid haven't you seen that
that meme but Donald Trump the kids on
the White House with the lawn mower
I'm sure I'm you know if that happened
maybe it'll go from 35 to 25 it might
and I think there's gonna be always 30
percent who are on this okay I was being
generous yeah 30 percent sure I mean
what was the lowest that george w bush
went right that was 30 30 32 percent
yeah and that's like a rock Katrina I
mean you get to a point where it's like
alright George W Bush could personally
go to people's homes so punch them in
the face I'm going to we're having a
little bit of problem finding out what
my number is when we're calling into
into Skype let's just bear with me folks
I mean into the gosh good bread I don't
know what you yeah he did I just don't
know what the the number is
it is a picture all right it's not gonna
work we're not going to just do that
we've folks we can't take calls I'm
sorry one call yeah but the thing is you
don't know what my number is
maybe you're already in I don't know no
I just I just hung up I'll call him
right now calling right now it should
work when these pictures take place a
lot more pictures yeah I completely
alright I'm calling in right now Brendan
so I just connected so I'm probably
gonna show up in a sec
here's Donald Trump in Pittsburgh
Pennsylvania he is back on the rough up
the protesters but wink wink don't rough
up the protesters kick and we're gonna
see a lot more of this I mean this is
people should prepare themselves here he
is
you don't hurt him don't hurt him please
they don't know they're dealing with
very tough people in this room
they don't know who they're dealing with
they don't know who they're dealing with
they just don't understand all right
go home to mom explain to mom that you
tried to take on very powerful people
and many of them physically as well as
mentally that's not a good thing to do
not in this room be careful make sure
you don't hurt them please thank you
that's incredible because it there's the
incitement aspect but then it's also
just you know I hope people will get the
reference but please watch the Tonya
Harding movie and there's the guy who
sets the whole scheme to attack Nancy
Kerrigan in motion in the Tonya Harding
movie and that's like the Trump base so
the fact that he keeps flattering them
as being powerful it's also like this
perfect psychic symbiosis it's it's
amazing well and and then we have
footage right Brendan if I'm not
mistaken this is footage of the
protesters that were being thrown out is
that right yes who is he's suggesting
you know you're gonna be intimidated you
you're dealing with powerful people
these are a Jews who were responding to
the tree of life shooting that took
place in Pittsburgh at a Jewish
synagogue and happened a year ago and
here they are so these are the people
that Trump was was basically saying
careful you're gonna get beat up here
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
there you have it yep
be careful go home to mama
it's amazing the impulse of the people
that are there for Trump to hold like
jobs and energy growth you know closer
over those people's faces to try to
block their protest like we tapped and
why you jus know you dealing with and
maybe you don't know exactly you know
exactly with watch I Tania watch that
guy in the basement talking about being
a secret CIA agent so Mark Zuckerberg
was up in front of the House Financial
Services Committee yesterday and you
know it's it's amazing there are some
one of the things that has to be
resolved about impeachment is how are
they going to let what members of these
committees are going to be able to ask
questions right there's a hundred
members of committees that are literally
working on different impeachment
questions the idea of them all getting
five minutes is useless the Democrats
should smarten up certain individuals
should swallow their egos and allow
those members of Congress who know how
to do this do it and then also have
counsel have lawyers their lawyer staff
lawyers do it there are a couple of
amazing examples of people questioning
Mark Zuckerberg and some of them were
trained as prosecutors others who are
just very smart apparently relative to
their their colleagues and they should
just suck it up and appreciate that
all right we're fortunate enough to have
someone who can really do this here is a
OC questioning Zuckerberg Zuckerberg has
already made it clear that the policy is
going to be that we're not going to
fact-check
politicians ads but this is just a
stunning policy and here is how a OC
basically
explains that to Mark Zuckerberg and
he's left basically a blubbering mess
the official policy of Facebook now
allows politicians to pay to spread
disinformation I'm in 2020 elections and
in the future so I just want to know how
far I can push this I'm in the next year
under your policy you know using census
data as well could I pay to target
predominantly black a zip codes and
advertise them the incorrect election
date no congresswoman you couldn't we we
have even for these policies around the
newsworthiness
of content that politicians say and the
general principle that i believe that
but you said you're not going to
fact-check my hat we have if if anyone
including a politician is saying things
that can cause that is calling for
violence or could risk imminent physical
harm or voter or census suppression when
we roll out the census depression policy
positive for once anyway he made that up
right like he made that up there's no
census and voting policy he just made
that up in that moment because they
hadn't even contemplated a lie like that
that's how ridiculous this multi-billion
dollar company is when they roll out
these policies the amount of thought
that actually goes into it or the
intellectual midgets who are are making
these policies he made that up they
didn't have a census election policy
that's why he led that's why he led with
we don't allow politicians to do
anything that's gonna harm people
physically because he died they he
didn't have the answer we have an
election and census policy he just
realized like what I just said didn't
address her question so I'm gonna make
something up but Contini also an
election and census policy is an anti
Republican policy of course of course
but they hadn't contemplated anything
like that
action policy we will take that content
so so you will there is some threshold
where you will fact check political
advertisements is that where you're
telling me well congresswoman yes and
for specific things like that where
there's imminent risk of harm could I
run ads targeting Republicans in
primaries saying that they voted for the
green new deal would I be able to run
advertisements on Facebook targeting
Republicans in primaries saying that
they voted for the green new deal I mean
if you're not fact-checking political
advertisements I'm trying to understand
the bounds here what's I don't know the
answer to that off the top my head I
think so you don't know if I'll be able
to do that do you see a potential
problem here with a complete lack of
fact-checking on political
advertisements well congresswoman I
think lying is bad and I think if you
were to run an ad that had a lie that
would be bad that's different from it
being from from in our position the
right thing to do to prevent your
constituents or people in an election
from seeing that you had lied so we can
so you won't take down lies or you will
take down lies so I think it's just a
pretty simple yes or no
congresswoman I'm not talking out spin
I'm talking about actual yes it's no use
in a democracy I believe that people
should be able to see for themselves
what politicians that they may or may
not vote for you won't take character
for themselves so you won't - you may
flag that it's wrong but you won't take
it down congresswoman it's a it depends
on the context that it shows up organic
post one question one more question in
your ongoing dinner parties with
far-right figure some of who advanced
the conspiracy theory that white
supremacy is a hoax did you discuss
so-called social media bias against
conservatives and do you believe there
is a bias congresswoman remember
everything that was in this end in the
course all right I'll move on can you
explain why you've named the Daily
Caller a publication white well
documented with ties to white
supremacists as an official fact checker
for facebook congresswoman sure we
actually don't appoint the independent
fact check
they go through an independent
organization called the independent
fact-checking network that has a
rigorous standard for who they allow to
just serve as a fact checker so you
would say that white supremacists tied
publications meet a rigorous standard
for a fact checking Thank You
congresswoman I would say that we're not
the one assessing that that standard the
International fact-checking
network is the one who is setting that
standard mmm when I wait a second hold
on did he just get the name of that
thing wrong the international
fact-checking organization didn't he
just call it the independent
fact-checking network don't you wait go
back I think he actually got this guy's
so this is unbelievable
this is just unbelievable testimony this
is just how is there no one at Facebook
who says like you know what mark
honestly this is not for you buddy go
back and I think you got the name wrong
you so flustered right congresswoman I
don't remember everything that was in
this end in this sorry I'll move on can
you explain why you've named the Daily
Caller
a publication white well documented with
ties to white supremacist as an official
fact checker for Facebook congresswoman
sure we actually don't appoint the
independent fact checkers they go
through an independent organization
called the independent fact-checking
network that has okay stop okay so it's
either the International or the
independent fact checking network so
they don't have any responsibility for
because they outsource this and if the
independent or international
fact-checking network hires the Daily
Caller to do their fact-checking they're
not responsible because they only
subscribe to the independent or
international fact-checking network i
whichever one it is i want to name our
business that
like what how does that how does that
how does that how is that in any way
relieve Facebook of responsibility for
what goes up on their site well we we
subscribe to the independent
fact-checking network I mean it sounds
like it's just I I can't
that company should be broken into a
million pieces a million pieces first of
all the policy that they have worked on
he knows he's going up there they
announced the policy about politicians
are gonna be able to do are not going to
be fact checked and he got stumped in
about 30 seconds
not even in just literally three seconds
it took her to give him to two instances
that apparently they had never even
contemplated could ever happen and the
idea that I don't even know that they're
gonna flag those things but how are you
supposed to know that the politician is
lying if you get your news from Facebook
and use the fact couldn't source you
who's gonna put out the who's gonna pay
now theoretically right these ads
they're paid at their paid content so
they're going to they're going to be on
top of every other content they're gonna
be prioritised
because that's the way facebook makes
their money so how are you gonna get
this information that that she's lying
that these freshman Republicans House
members voted for the green New Deal or
that she's lying to the targeted
african-americans saying that the voting
the voting is the next day how are you
how are you going to get this how how we
as consumers of politicians rhetoric
supposed to know that these politicians
are lying because he wants to do a big
service I want the citizenry to be able
to know what kind of character their
politicians have this guy's so full crap
it's unbelievable this is about people
power
Sammy's still got like six or seven more
clips yeah I know I'm just so tired
I'm trying honestly like I feel like
they should have been and mr. Zuckerberg
behind you is a capital police squad
they're going to put you into a car now
and take you to prison here is the fact
squad a Jana Presley now one of the
amazing things about this and this came
up and I don't think we have the clip of
this but he went he was there trying to
sell the idea of their cryptocurrency
which is a you know like a a method of
payment and unlike let's say like PayPal
like he wanted to he wanted to have it
like he wanted to be stored to you could
store it you could save this crypto
payment and the the the guy said the one
of the congressman said what so you you
want to do you want to do it like a bank
without any banking regulation he goes
well no I I would we don't want to be a
bank we don't we don't want to be
categorized as base because we don't
want to be a massive property right we
like to define very tightly what we want
to be on Facebook and then we would like
you to accept those it's sort of like a
vision board well let's go to Katey
Porter just a she
she talks about the idea that the
there's a real problem with the way that
they're dealing with their content
moderator workers play this I just want
to say I know a friend of Mines wife I
mean I'm not sure she still does this
but she used to do exactly what Katie
Porter's talking about for YouTube and I
think better treated than at Facebook
but this is a horrifying job that also
shows frankly though that all these
companies saying they don't have time to
actually like have humans monitoring
content for quality and journalistic
purposes is
these books note is a great place to
work free food ping pong tables great
employee benefits but Facebook doesn't
use its employees for the hardest jobs
in the company you've got about 15,000
contractors watching murders stabbings
suicides other gruesome disgusting
videos for content moderation correct
congressman yes I believe that that's
correct
you pay many of those workers under
$30,000 a year and you've cut them off
from mental health care when they leave
the company even if they have PTSD
because of their work for your company
is that correct
congresswoman my understanding is we pay
everyone including the contractors
associated with the company at least a
$15 minimum wage and in markets and
cities where there's a high cost of
living it's a $20 minimum wage we go out
of our way claiming my time according to
one report I have and this is straight
out of an episode of Black Mirror these
workers get nine nine minutes of
supervised wellness time per day that
means nine minutes to cry in this
stairwell while somebody watches them
would you be willing to commit to
spending one hour a day for the next
year watching these videos and acting as
a Content monitor and only accessing
accessing the same benefits available to
your workers congresswoman we we work
hard to make sure that we give good
benefits to all the folks who are doing
mr. Zuckerberg I was defending my time I
would appreciate it yes or no would you
be willing to act as a kind
monitor have that life experience I'm
not sure that it would best serve our
community for me to spend mr. Zuckerberg
are you saying you're not qualified to
be a Content monitor no congressman
that's not what I'm saying okay then
you're saying you're not willing to do
damn
Wow that is incredible
and he is a monster of world-class
proportions hey you know first off the I
mean this guy he's a horror show he's a
horror show
and the idea that they would allow that
there wouldn't be a regulation on this
guy for this type of stuff you know this
ship has sailed
he's done the the script I was done and
if he better you better hope that either
Donald Trump gets reelected or Joe Biden
comes in there because judge to a
chauffeur no one's hotter than him then
boot for him booted yet but but the
other thing is is that folks like Katie
Porter Democrats need to suck it up and
understand who's good at this and who's
not and Katey Porter should have more
than five minutes she's their shot there
should be half a dozen Congress people
on that committee who say guess what I
cede my time to Katey Porter oh my god
could you imagine Zuckerberg face I was
I was actually hoping for an exchange
with each of you individually
I wanted an exchange of ideas with all
of you I'm stealing a bit of Matt Matt's
usual thunder here but just the
rhetorical flourishes she was showing in
there that she went from you know
pitting him down to think he wouldn't do
this job two also playing in his ego
that he's too smart for it right is like
Oh maze irresistible the part where he's
I couldn't help himself that was the
part where I said I'm a billionaire I
went to Harvard excuse me
Ayana Presley another one no it is she
she a prosecutor was she a prosecutor uh
I don't know her about I actually don't
think I can temerity I think but just on
the side of she's just good at it right
yeah
here she is first questioning Zuckerberg
it's no the other day he came out and
said the reason why we did Facebook is
because we wanted a situation where
people could respond to things like as
opposed to like a rack
we were so you know we wanted a people
to exchange ideas about Iraq as it was
such a horrible thing that happened and
here is IANA Presley basically saying
the girls were raving the post the
Aurora war yeah here he or she calls BS
so mr. Zuckerberg yes or no in your
adult life have you ever been under
banked yes or no I'm gonna go through no
oh wait wait this is number one cleanup
number three don't worry we got it look
number three we have both this one was
also pretty great she had yeah I
wouldn't play that one next we'll go to
that one yeah okay we got it
your recent speech at Georgetown touched
upon how you were affected by the start
of the Iraq war when you were in college
and how quote if more people had a voice
to share their experiences maybe things
would have gone differently earlier this
year you announced that Jennifer Newsted
would join Facebook as general counsel
miss Newsted was the chief deputy in the
office of legal policy at the Department
of Justice and in the fall of 2001 it
was the day-to-day manager of the
Patriot Act in Congress according to
John you author of the torture memos
Miss Newsted helps sell Congress on mass
surveillance once already and now she is
advising you how to do it again so yes
or no is the Patriot Act reflective of
your views on privacy and free speech
Congress woman ten seconds left it's an
easy straightforward questions the
Patriot Act reflective of your views on
privacy and free speech congressman
there's a lot in there and no I do not
agree with all of it which is that exact
America that is not what you're hiring
choices indicate and Maya Angelou told
us a long time ago when people were bill
to you who they are believe that
I the yield maya angelou was a sick now
on the you now again this is another
situation where if she has eight minutes
she can say oh not all of it which parts
of it right which parts of it do you
which parts of it do you subscribe to
because I Got News for you he's lying
again
he doesn't know what's in the Patriot
Act he doesn't give a crap not he
doesn't he probably wants that attorney
there to know just like I want somebody
who's going to be able to navigate
through and find out what we can do in
this instance I mean it's just this guy
here is Jana Presley now speaking
directly to the issue of the Mark
Zuckerberg Libre which is his
cryptocurrency that he wants to he wants
to initiate launch yes or no in your
adult life have you ever been under
banked yes or no no when I asked the
head of calibra about why people laughed
bank accounts he said he believed that
quote quote unquote identity is a big
problem in quote yes or no do you agree
that authentication is the major hurdle
to accessing the financial system a
congresswoman I'm not sure I think it's
probably different in different places
around the world the same whoa Bank
reports cited in your Libre white paper
finds that almost two-thirds of 1.7
billion people who don't have bank
accounts say it's because they lack
enough money to open one so this is not
about authentication this is not about
banking costs this is about a tsunami of
hurt the millions are experiencing
because of a 1.6 trillion dollar student
debt crisis because of rising health
care costs and people having to use
GoFundMe pages to pay medical bills this
is because of
the racial and gender wealth gap so
again you represent the power but I
don't think you understand the pain
there's under banking because people are
broke and so let me just ask you this
question yes or no is it free to use the
calibra wallet congresswoman the Calibra
wallet isn't a service that is available
today assuming we were able to launch it
it will be free so there is no fee
congresswoman that's the the goal is to
make it so that all right so there is no
fee I'm assuming the goal is to me I'm
moving on so big awesome idea to buy
Libre and cost money to use the calibra
wallet I fail to see how this helps
people with virtually no money you are
tempting to use technology to solve what
is inherently an issue of wealth at the
end of the day you are a business so
what is in the business interests for
you here and do you believe in what you
are building do you believe in what
you're building
congresswoman yes so yes or no would you
leave behind your children's inheritance
in Libra hmm congresswoman do you
believe in what you're building yes I do
and and would you leave behind your
children's inheritance and leave where I
think it's a fair question because I
think it's you've proven that we cannot
trust you with our emails with our phone
numbers so why should we trust you with
our hard earned money poor zaki canina
as i would have absolutely congresswoman
yeah exactly
I'm going to leave all of it in all of
it yes I think 2-step identification
might actually generate a possibility of
income that had it been anticipated
before any pre information economy
if there was a way to short if if you go
on trade sports and vote and bet on
whether Libra is gonna exist that's
basically I would take the no on that I
think Maxine Waters and her opening
remarks didn't even mention Libra
she just got right into you know
election securities like you suck
welcome here to talk about your new
fantasy business anyways we hate you all
right magic coupon but yeah you got a
new coupon business yeah whatever anyway
here's here's one more here's one more
moment from that Joyce Beatty Democrat
from Ohio questions
Zuckerberg on the more diversity and
Zuckerberg is ever built in his life
diversity initiative at Facebook now
have you read the report that Laura
Murphy sent to you you've talked a lot
about diversity and you introduced her
name about this great study in her work
have you read it do you know what the
recommendations were do you know when
she issued the report yes or no I've
seen the report okay tell me what the
top three seen the report I have it
right here what were the top three
things that our report yeah somebody
talked about lying in this committee I'm
only I'm only saying well one of them
was around housing and husband truth
talked about the other was around
setting up a civil rights task force and
who's on the civil rights task force
Sheryl Sandberg is the person who issues
what's the whole right okay we know
Cheryl's not really civil right so I'm
trying to help you here she's our CEO oh
and I don't think there's anything and I
know sure well about civil rights and
her background so come better than that
for me if we're gonna talk civil rights
it's an internal task force you know who
that do you know who the firm that you
employ for civil rights is congressman
ioq I don't how could you not know when
you have employed the most historical
the largest civil rights come firm
to deal with issues that are major this
is what's so frustrating to me it's
almost like you think this is a joke
when you have ruined the lives of many
people discriminated against them do you
know what percentage of
african-americans are on Facebook in
comparison to majority folks do you know
what the percentages are people using
the Facebook yes do you know what the
percentages are for african-americans I
don't because we don't collect the
racism whether that was sent to you so
maybe you just don't read a lot of
things that deal with civil rights or
African Americans I have a lot of
questions I'm going to send to you that
I'm not gonna be able to get through and
I would like an answer because this is
appalling and disgusting to me
and I yield back like I've discovered
Zuckerberg goes home goes down takes the
elevator down to his subterranean lair
and just starts to plot on how he could
take over Congress yeah I think though I
don't even think you need to wait till
he gets inside the aquatic mansion I
think that's can't thank you can't we
just buy them there was a there's a beat
there's a clip from Silicon Valley which
is a really good show where the like the
I guess he's more of a jobs or the guy
from I think Cisco Systems but he's
sitting with his lawyers after getting
protested and somebody like throws of
water balloon at him or something and
he's drying off and he goes you know
there was a time when a man like me
could have people like that killed and
he's like times have changed of course
for the better and that he pauses he
goes unless each each loop goes back to
like be really sure that I can't guilt
protesters it's amazing how much Mark
Zuckerberg looks like a student who is
lying about having done their reading
this reminds me it's like his gen ed
requirement for so should Harvard it's
like I I saw it I think congressman
you're not the first african-american
authority figure that I've had to lie to
about carrying
this subject sorry won't be the
last
alright let's try and take a phone call
let's start here 509 509 can you hear me
hold on lady wait a second let me see
are you on the line yeah
can you hear me yeah it's my right great
it's working all right great who's this
Ronald Reagan
welcome to the show Ronald Reagan thanks
for having me I wanted to say I
appreciate the show that you do you're
willing to push your listeners in ways
that might make them uncomfortable and
there's a recent examples of that
first of all I've been learning a lot
from The Epoch Times commercial for ads
that run before your videos I'm learning
a lot about a gate and what gold bars
been doing in Italy and how you know
just basically the truth about the news
that that you don't hear another outlet
I appreciate that
well thank you you know Ron alig and I
do my best to make sure that everybody
gets both sides of the story and so the
epic Times advertises on our show I
guess that's right and really opened my
eyes to a lot of things first of all I
want to say as somebody who's mixed
myself I'm part Irish and part Norwegian
I find it sort of dismissal of his
concerns to be really disturbing because
as you know the Irish were also slaves
at times supporting the epic news
he did it and it's just offensive the
way that you were you're so dismissive
of Tim's concerns but all are you
breaking up a little yeah of getting
your ethics in your vows can you hear me
still yeah yeah go ahead well just the
idea that you know we should reverse
engineer our ethic from the villains of
popular movies I think it's a really
interesting idea and one that I've been
trying to implement if I heard it I I am
familiar with the Star Wars franchise
yes indeed
so Anakin Skywalker fell to the dark
side because he was he was having
visions that his lover
I guess his wife was going to become ill
and died and he he was really concerned
about that and it here of losing her him
to the dark side and I just feel like
you know liberals are often talking a
lot about health care and Medicare for
all sounds a lot like Darth Vader well
think about it so he's saying that
because liberals worry about people's
health and that's what drove Anakin
Skywalker
to the dark side that that's indicative
of the fact that I mean that's why
liberals are actually like evil villains
in in okay I see where he going with
that yeah yeah it was kind of a dickish
point but it's pretty doesn't really
love the Squa I thought it would be
harder for you to understand and you
know he didn't seem very receptive to
this idea the other day well I have to
be honest with you I'm just not familiar
with fan OSes work but I am very
familiar with what happened with Star
Wars and so
yeah it makes you think though right no
it definitely does make me think you
know now we were you at you you weren't
at Occupy Wall Street right because
you're on the other side of the country
did you find that you had nowhere to go
because you were part Norwegian in part
Irish well if you look at the groups
that are most discriminated right now
it's white men and then right below that
is mixed white men of mixed white
backgrounds and you maybe are being like
a regular ass white guy right and I
think you should try and spend some time
in in pool shoes all right fair enough
Ronald Reagan thank you for this really
oh yeah and definitely an occupy I mean
I would go around because they were
there were local yet occupied I know
protests and I would show up and they
would just be like why are you even here
that's the thing that definitely
happened in real life right of course
occupy was very hostile people maybe
it's also possible you thought you were
a cop Ronald Reagan thank you so much
for the call Wow
yeah it's possible event he me it may be
an administrator I'm not trying to I'm
not trying to sound like a dick here
it's kind of a dickish point but you
know you sound like that us right now hi
that was a Fox News poll I do my entire
I may do my entire apartment up in like
wallpaper from all the different
depictions of me as vanos that I had
seen I'm not trying to ambush you here
but you sound like the corrupted senator
an x-men three during the hearings it's
a difference in utilitarianism and
deontology he had an ontological
perspective which he brought to bear
against failure we got cholera
come from a 478 call line who's this
Leslie it
good afternoon this is the
[Laughter]
buh-buh-buh-buh fellow can you hear me
yes Jeff from Georgia otherwise known as
Boba Fett yes JJ made a really great
caller drive this for me it's my offer a
little crack some vast people know
you're approaching the protest
organization as you know maybe a regular
ass black guy craps you know show them
some photographs vandalize things police
freeze I've always family that's strong
ice break me fair enough
all the more serious note sanity what
kind of time some things together and I
got buried a little bit last weekend
excellent in Naomi client leaves yep I'm
the effects climate change in the
environment and you've also had some
some top of some attorneys about you
know some of the chemicals that you know
come about when we manufacturing things
I actually I should call the police
codes talk about you know fishing in the
Gulf Coast which is basically not a
thing the beach brawl closed last year
too much algae bloom and and what all
these things have in common to me is
that you know like climate change is a
big accelerant a lot of this some reason
primary driver but there's also like a
lot of other things just related to the
way to be distribute and produce goods
in this country it is a bluff to miss
ticket right now and you go gambling you
go yourself to a casino you order some
oysters the oysters that you get fifty
years ago would have been plentiful in
the Gulf Coast but now they come all the
way from Ronald Reagan's neck of the
blue in the kit mean or they have to go
into a train but I have to go into a
truck and they got across the country
right burning fossil fuels this same
dynamic gets played out over and over
and over again with our way we took
consumer goods back and forth which I
containership they've run on some of the
dirtiest fossil fuel magical on the
planet and they criss cross the ocean
conscious that that's the new efficient
quote-unquote world that we live on it's
not and I really do believe that the
only candidate with any kind of fishery
that might just mail some of that is
Bernie Sanders sorry with the corn but
that is the way it is that's all one
today from you
Jeff from Georgia bobafet appreciate the
call
let's take come from a seven one six
area code who's this where you come from
hello yeah isn't me yeah who are you
well okay so this is Jason from buffle
Jason from Bob I'll give you like a
short back Jason from Buffalo I give you
a short background so I'm from South
Korea originally which is like literally
100 times more conservative than like
over time like my view has changed I
really support Bernie Sanders overall
yeah think about this though the most
conservative Club like all the most
conservative countries in the world has
the universal health care system an
exponent on this to other Asians or
unpossible like that like going person
for supporting this is Bernie Sanders
but they are so blinded by Andrew Young
Saab
they're so polarized you know what I
mean like all the Asians are always
going for a gang gang and I point out
taste like a like how Andrew yang will
eventually throw off people off their
Social Security like the marginalized
you know those marginalized people
people with disabilities throw them off
their health care and all that stuff you
don't care they're always playing for
the thousands of $1,000 options do you
know like any other way I could convince
them well what that thousand dollars is
going to end up having to go pay for is
health insurance because he's not he's
not pushing for a medicare-for-all plan
and
I mean I think you know I I he they can
be enamored with the the ubi I think
like you know there's if it was
something that he was going to implement
in with other things it would might be a
decent idea but I think ultimately
they're not going to have the
opportunity to vote for Andrew yang in
the in the general election and I think
in terms of pushing them towards Bernie
I think it's a question of dealing with
the structural issues that exist he may
give a thousand dollars but if he's
pouring this money into a system that is
still structured as is the system's just
going to absorb that cash in one form or
another and if he begins to if he if he
uses that as an excuse to chip away at
the rest of the social safety net then
ultimately five ten years down the road
twenty years down the road as the system
basically absorbs that money healthcare
costs continue to go you know old-age
homes nursing homes get expensive
that money will all be eaten up and
there won't be a social safety net that
exists so I think you know short term it
might be an interesting idea but long
term based upon what he has expressed
you know in in terms of what it will
replace I think it's a problem I mean
you know an easily said finite thing I
know like I definitely have explained
this kind of things to those people like
I'm gonna get have to get props to Kyle
Cohen escape from secular talk about
this like he laid out in details how
much like you know Andrew yang he he set
this on the record like he hopes that
this UDI replaces everything and I like
I just do not get any sense into these
people like even if I describe every
like over like overall
this structural changes are way more
important than your thousand plus per
month allowance well I mean I would just
ask him how much you paying in health
insurance right now I have one more
thing to say then yeah on your case of
impeachment I would like to add also
pastor Kyle from secular talk on his
wiser to tie on the monuments case to
illegal genocide not even the war in
Yemen where they're literally providing
weapons to Saudi Arabia through a Mullen
Mullenix cloth and then Trump let's down
to the sanctions the the legislations
that you know that says we should stop
providing letters to Saudi Arabia I
don't know why I mean I know why
Democrats are not going for that because
most of them are also up to impact back
our back when smoke of smoke-filled
rooms deal with them so I guess that's
why but yeah well I I just don't know
that you can impeach a president based
upon his veto of legislation but I mean
it was legislation that the Democrats
were I mean in this instance I you know
the Democrats did a pretty good job of
passing that legislation but appreciate
the call I'll maybe I'll check out what
that argument is the argument is that I
just want to be a touch specific cuz I
do think some Democrats undermined
particularly what roe Connor wrote in
the house and you know obviously the
Senate version that Sanders wrote is
strong but um I think what Kyle saying
is that you might be able to directly
tie as an example just arms deals
generally with Saudi Arabia to basically
like royal family members staying in
Trump hotels so I think you don't yet oh
you mean that it's a quid pro quo yeah I
think that's what he's saying
if I I mean I think correctly I think
that may be the case yeah and I I think
they should continue to investigate I
don't know that they have any evidence
to show that quid pro quo but the
emoluments are there right I don't need
the other part you know in terms of an
article of impeachment it may be the
case that his entire foreign policy is a
function of payoffs
I mean it's conceivable of it it's
completely what's happening within
Turkey right now as a function of that
oh I wasn't Syria I no doubt in my life
maybe the Kurds can I go to trump
properties yeah maybe of it maybe if you
put a Trump casino and your little
anarchist feminist experiment oh so that
dude I talked about the other night
yesterday which one who I walked away
fell yeah the health care guy well yeah
he's sort of stalking me right now as we
speak I'm on this show could be go to
ambush him do you want me to do that
Jesse Watters him head bring your yeah
microphone Jesse water and on the street
why and he said hi
but I also let's see after you I'm gonna
sit down period should we do this we see
here you guys you have a mission Sam
he's walking around he's getting schwag
that's what a lot of people do to they
get the
swag from all the vendors alright here
he is hold on slow down hey excuse me so
I'm doing my show ji tell you I did do a
show do you wanna I want to come on good
because I was talking in general that I
was and make sure the mimosas in the
show having a have a seat seat here
you're on you're on camera just let you
know now now we were you know I been
referencing that I've been having
political conversations with people here
yes and you and I had a conversation way
the night quite a good conversation
actually the other night yeah now so
let's we were talking about health care
yes right and you were making the
argument that Medicare for all not good
I was saying it was it was a not good
overall solution I think unfortunately
you need to keep the private entities in
the game as well why is that
unfortunately well simply Medicare for
all if it would work and provide still
the best level of service would be a
great thing unfortunately the government
when you leave it to a single entity
almost never does anything as well as
the private sector in my part in my
opinion so if you have a number of
competing companies you have a level of
service a level of care and you reduce
the amount of cost involved in the
insurance companies yes now why is that
not actually happened why is insurance
gone up every single year that it has
been in existence well I mean if you
look at the look the highest most recent
increases was actually because of the
demand placed on it by the Affordable
Care Act how so well you were when
you're requiring a minimum level of care
that is significantly higher than what
was provided their lowest level entry
product before of course if you have to
pay for you know to wellness visit to
your which by the way is not a bad thing
I mean it's I'm not saying that
providers
when you force it on them of course the
cost is gonna go up okay and and how do
you explain the cost going up at such a
rapid rate even a greater rate then
since the Affordable Care Act was
imposed even before that yeah before the
public again if you look at like 2000 to
2014 the rate of increase in the cost of
health insurance is greater than it's
been since the advent of Obamacare
that's not true it's it's gone this
notice it's absolutely the two steepest
increases we're directly after Obamacare
that being said it has been going up
significantly you're right okay so how
do you reconcile that if it's if it's
because of Obamacare
you cannot say it's because of Obamacare
I said it was contributing factor over
the past couple okay he said I'm not
saying this is the way I'm just I'm just
asking you because you said that the the
more insurance companies you have as
opposed to a single-payer system the
price goes down but there's no example
that you can cite in the history of us
having multiple insurance companies in
this field that that there's that prices
have gone down this is actually a
relatively decent except it's not true
at all the level of coverage and the
cost literally was going down year over
year over year now the complaint was
that it was going up which is a complete
and utter fallacy you're telling me that
insurance prices okay give me give me
anytime anytime over an eight year
period where it didn't go up
except outside of the last ten years
part of that any five to eight year
period where it didn't go up more than
20 percent over the entire period I'm
not sure I know what you're talking
about okay give me but when were the
last significant increases over ten
percent per year in health care and mark
them out and if you go out you will not
find you will find nearly no example of
that prior to the end of
the 90s okay let's see if I can cost of
health insurance and see if I can do
this in get some historical health
insurance price history from 2005 to
2010 dove the 90s prior to that so prior
to this whole turn around the market and
you when you had the market crash just
effective rates of old why if you look
at the overall generation of costs as it
relates to health care prior to this
becoming a big deal
prior to this becoming the we had great
prices it was covered by comma and
everybody was doing well then all of a
sudden it try it became an issue and all
of a sudden prices went up because
everybody when you put that level of
distrust in the industry and you start
to attack the industry I mean you wind
up with you know so you're saying that
costs went up health insurance costs
went up because people didn't trust
health insurance no it's because health
insurance didn't trust the government I
mean it's the same thing look at all
Obama ruin the economy it's very simple
Obama ruined the economy absolutely I
mean come on ask any economist ever what
okay alright how did he not how ruined
it let's let's let's get let's figure
this out who ruined the economy well you
know that the economy crashed before he
was president yes but you know that he
had he oversaw the worst recovery ever
in this country's history and it was
purposely done he purposefully made a
bad were covered so he didn't ruin the
economy
he just didn't recover it is what
everything he could to make sure that it
did not recover quickly but why why did
he do that have you read
have you read the Cloward Pittman Jesus
but excuse me have you read Cloward
heaven I have not read cloud okay well
then you're not a journalist because I
mean that is the Democratic strategy
it is the underlying document and if you
actually read it or anybody that leans
left actually father do some research
you you know so Obama came in and was
executing the Cloward Priven and if you
read it I mean it's literally it
outlines and all the people around him
all these bankers from a Citibank and in
this they they they subscribe to the
same Cloward Priven see here's thick you
keep looking at it you're trying to
blame everybody else but you want it you
want to completely just give him this
god complex where he could do nothing
wrong but he said the government is the
biggest impact or the economy which is
garbage but if you if you subscribe to
that theory then you can't not blame
Obama for the stale recovery you can't
sit there and say he had nothing to do
with it and then also say that I didn't
say that he had nothing to do with it if
the stimulus should have been bigger why
does the statement what's ever worked
every time it's been implemented short
term never long term it's never had any
long-term benefit whatsoever what the
economy has recovered it was the slowest
recovery in this country's history well
it was the second largest why is it that
US corporations had the largest cash
reserves in US history throughout the
beginning the Obama presidency okay
didn't invest because they were
concerned about the direction of the
company of the country and because there
was very limited actual knowledge given
as to what the changes in taxes were
going to be therefore they could not
invest this was every top economist came
out and said this in and bag we owed to
top economists I mean literally from
Bloomberg who came out freaking saying
it who you would not expect to litter I
mean every top CEO was saying listen we
want to invest we want to grow as policy
helos yes
oh no not economist yes
economists as well the CEOs of the
company there their head CFOs we're
coming out saying listen we want to
invest the natural officers yes who
we're talking about the amount you dive
you've done any research as a question
okay so you you have absolutely no
knowledge of the subject but you have no
knowledge in the subject okay so so why
are you arguing the subject I'm actually
being facetious I mean I have not read
the Cloward Priven things I've got it
I've got to do more research but what
about all the spending and stimulus that
we had during the Great Depression okay
there was a need for it and I would have
no problem putting money into you know
redoing bridges things like that these
are valid things bombers my shovel-ready
jobs and then a year and a half later
says oh yeah there is no such thing as a
shovel-ready job and eight hundred
billion dollars somehow it disappeared
well how much of that eight hundred
billion dollars were tax cuts not that
much I mean to spending know he's been
eight hundred billion dollars that you
could not find I mean it was money spent
we're not talking tax cuts this is money
spent okay so the stimulus you say was
eight hundred hold on for one second
because as you say it's very important
to do research right right and we're
gonna talk about the the stimulus and
we're gonna we're going to look it up
together here how much was the stimulus
of 2009 yes well no we're talking about
the this I asked you hold on for one
second okay
I asked you how much of the stimulus was
tax cuts you say it's 800 billion dollar
stimulus I think it's closer to 770 but
let's not be picky and the question is
how much of that was stimple was was tax
cuts and how much of it was
actual spending from the New York Post
as you know not a liberal newspaper
terribly right more than half of the
package was tax cuts was tax was in tax
cuts okay what is half of eight hundred
billion four hundred billion so four
hundred billion of that was tax cuts now
I'm surprised you didn't know that
because that's not what we were talking
about spending we move past that it's
not touch it did nothing
what stimulus do where did it get us
well it kept us from going over to a
deeper recession we didn't do anything
good but we stopped this catastrophic
thing that we can never ever actually
quantify that's why is it from the left
it's always millions on the left you
have never actually done anything it's
always just if you hadn't done what you
did it would have been worse I've never
actually heard a Democrat go we actually
did something good and we had a positive
benefit we always did some would have
worse if we didn't do expanded Medicaid
under the ACA and there's it is
increased was the health really show me
any marginal increase yes I can actually
just there was new studies that just
came out impact of Medicaid expansion so
just look at that on health and Google
that and it was just a reports and
where's you from and what is it say I
mean let's let's see my piece we
increase like I said the wellness things
in a couple but again that's not the
Medicaid expansion that's that's the
forcing of insurance companies to
provide so it's no and we get two
different variants of no you're looking
at two different variants I didn't bring
that up that was what you just said I
didn't but is it just a Medicaid
expansion if you are narrowing it down
just to the Medicaid expansion yes yeah
I'm going to I've just find it right
here this is the University of Michigan
health
I don't do consider that like a left
wing okay right
anyways it says benefits from mind body
and work ability seen in Medicaid
expansion new findings about low-income
adults with behavioral health conditions
mental health and substance abuse
disorders suggest importance of
continuous coverage expanding Medicaid
to more low-income adults help them feel
healthier do a better job at work or job
search in just one year after they got
their new health coverage a Michigan
University of Michigan study finds I can
find more stuff that was well yeah I
mean I guess we could look through the
actual study I mean but I'm telling you
there's a paper it says in a new paper
in the journal psychiatric services okay
offering addiction services to people
100% behind that right okay
Medicaid we were just saying okay I
don't think it has had a drastic
increase and honestly are these people
that would not have had health care
before probably not not a large not
large Medicaid is only available to
people who can't afford health care
that's a load of crap
but that's a load of crap what do you
mean who's eligible for Medicaid in the
expansion well they just said low-income
people now if you know let me ask you
because you have done a lot of research
on this and so I'm asking you who's
eligible for Medicaid do you know what
level of poverty for the expansion of
Medicaid 133 percent of poverty a
hundred and thirty three percent percent
of poverty not that far off I guess well
look I think this has been interesting
but I'm actually we're gonna wrap up the
show all right take it easy yeah don't
forget you drink you go oh I didn't
realize there was nothing left okay
Wow yep so Raygun was talking about with
all those new perspectives you're
bringing in I'm sorry folks but that one
stuck out for me of the various with the
Piven Cloward strategies Jesus I didn't
was he talking about Francis yes that
was Glenn's been sold yeah I know I was
relieved he wasn't into the whole left
versus right thing though that was cool
though you didn't really subscribe to
that yeah who's made it more interesting
yeah that guy was pretty cool I hope the
left can learn from that level of likes
I like out like liberals or hey you know
if I have made x-ray I gotta be careful
okay
come on size eligible for Medicaid doc I
had a brother we already went past
stimulus yeah we went past that we're so
fast that bad it's the cloud I'm
dredging alright I got time for one more
[Laughter]
one more call come see fire on that
bread the news no god no what was it
Sam's new friend met at the blackjack
table from a five seven zero area code
who's this where you come from
are you there five seven zero
I hear you moving hey there
all right you're gone one more it's
coming from a 702 area code who's this
where you come from
hello ah can you hear me yes I can who
is this and where he come from
oh hi I'm Kristen from Brooklyn
I can't will the dream again rushed up
from Brooklyn Kristen from Brooklyn okay
let's get what's on your mind I just
wanted to say like I'm a comic book
movie fan so I just want to say that
impose argument was really stupid
because TANF is not a utilitarian
actually and Iron Man who's the main
hero of the Avengers is actually a
utilitarian so well I I appreciate that
I'm gonna look into that for our next
extreme video it's called The Avengers
between the Wyatts
it kind of analyzes all the like
ideologies of different countries so
it's Avengers between the lines is that
what it is
yeah from Kyle Kyle Greg don't get your
toe between the lines Martin Scorsese
and Francis Ford Coppola said some
interesting things about Avengers movies
reasons all right well I appreciate the
call thank you
on that note thank you bye bye all right
gonna yeah just folks we don't have time
for any more calls we got to get going
Michael will be doing the show tomorrow
I'll be traveling
privately hanging out with that guy yeah
we're gonna go I just let it rip tonight
together for like 15 minutes
yeah whatever universe okay look I mean
look I don't I don't get in I literally
in the time that I saw him almost walked
over here I saw him drink to a Bloody
Mary and a mimosa
[Laughter]
yeah it is but not in this country
actually yeah
well folks thanks for for for tuning in
Michael will be doing the show tomorrow
I'll be back in studio on Monday total
silence argue until then I've got to go
out and do some research on my Marvel
Comics philosophy that's definitely the
next one
jános was not a utilitarian apparently
you were run Tim you're even wrong on
his stupid movies that you rot your
brain with built-in folks see you
tomorrow
oh sweet I got to get to where I want
but I know son
