the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any of these have
they are unanimous in that hate for me
- we must guard against the acquisition
of unwarranted influence whether sought
or unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
it is Tuesday September 17 2019 my name
is Sam cedar there's the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
editor the Jacobin magazine bhaskar
Sankara
on the socialist manifesto meanwhile day
two of a massive UAW strike against GM
and 80,000 kaiser permanente workers
plan to strike in October meanwhile
Trump's National Labor Relations boards
second attempt at rolling back worker
protections from franchisees thwarted
again North Carolina Democrats sell out
everybody except for them exact selves
Trump calls its Saudi 911 and the
Pentagon says whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa a
Jana Presley to introduce Cavanaugh
impeachment resolution in the House
today the Manhattan da subpoenas Trump's
tack word tax returns in the hush money
payoff scandal Elizabeth Warren draws
20,000 in New York and a dubious WFP
[Music]
endorsement and the acting head of the
Director of National Intelligence has
until today to turn over that compelling
whistleblower report as mandated by law
or it's gonna have to testify in front
of Congress on Thursday all this and
more
on today's program yes ladies and
gentlemen it is Tuesday welcome
everybody's here you will notice that we
have a Chiron on our show today
reminding all of you that October 11th
right is that the date October 11th I
believe so let me double check that and
also bake the chyron oh okay I guess
that fell through the cracks that the
registration deadline for New York State
is imminent
October 11th October 11th and so if you
want to vote in the Democratic primary
you need to register if you're not
already registered as a Democrat always
also a good idea just to call your local
board of electors and say hey am I
registered and just confirm you made
your polling place develo also New York
is super weird and very funky in terms
of things so basically it's registered
by the 11th if you're voting for Sanders
if you're voting for anyone else it's
the 15th I don't know why that just just
so everybody classic there is actually a
believe a bill and yeah almost it was
well I was going for voter fraud not a
cheap punch line but uh Andrew Cuomo is
holding up a bill that I think would
expend that would give another several
months if I'm not mistaken I wouldn't
doubt it he was talking about trying to
at one point he was contemplating
rolling up the primary and making it
happen in February as opposed to I think
where it's April now now it may seem
ridiculous to you why would you need to
register by October 11th if the election
I believe is around April 11th and you
would say to yourself don't they have
the technology like how slow are these
computers that have the voter rolls does
it really take six months for it to a
catch up no it doesn't I mean that's the
the New York for a long long time has
been somewhat corrupt in that way
and we see this also I mean frankly this
is something that is just intrinsic and
many respects to politicians you know we
were talking about Nancy Pelosi's
refusal to sort of unleash impeachment
and in many respects the you know the
that sort of iron law of Institute you
know people will want to protect their
power in an institution even more than
the institutions power and in North
Carolina the state Senate and House have
both voted on new lines for districts as
you recall a Superior Court in North
Carolina found that the districts were
unconstitutionally State Constitution
gerrymandered unconstitutionally
gerrymandered and I think the
Republicans decide not to fight it
because they also probably had wind of
the fact that there there boy Hofstetter
or HOF letter or whatever that guy's
name was who was the grandfather of
gerrymandering and died news ha ha
feller and his daughter found all his
records on his computer they voted on
new lines they have to reconcile them
between the two houses but as far as I
can tell from following some local North
Carolina reporters one is Steven wolf
and the other is a guy named will Duran
who's half of North Carolina Senate Dems
largely voted for the Republicans new
modestly less gerrymandered map likely
in part because some Dems got favorable
seats to protect and put more explicit
bye-bye Duran the real message coming
from North Carolina's Democratic State
Senate leader is that they'd prefer
their own seats remain safe even if it
means the entire map still has
gerrymandering to favor Republicans
putting themselves before their party
and their voters trash yeah I mean it's
uh this is a problem with human beings
frankly in my opinion how do you think
not all human beings not all human
beings are bad people let's put it that
way but I'm wrong with the Democratic
Party well I mean that's not I mean
they're not doing a favor for the
Democratic Party I mean no no you're
misunderstanding me there's too many
people inside the Democratic Party that
Center their own immediate interest over
any type of broader strategy yes I
suspect that that is uh it's not unique
to it but not unique it's not your
Democratic Party it's but it but I do
think there's less of a culture of that
right now in the Republican Party as an
example oh I think that's absolutely so
it's it's yeah they are weak but it is a
problem too
they have uh you know I think that tends
to be when there's more money frankly
involved people tend to go along much
more there's a lot less independence in
some respect and by independence I mean
both in a good and bad way in the sense
that like I'm going to protect myself if
there's not the same amount of resources
that I can get by going along so it is
indeed a problem though bad very not
good all right but some good news well
not I don't know if it's good oh well
we'll get to the UAW strike in a bit I
mean this is we're in day two
my understanding is well let me just
read this and then we'll do the UAW
strike video because this is apropos of
the
the interview we did with rekt over
vacation which if you did not listen to
it about this book about the demise of
the US car industry and it their demise
as a function of their attempting to
diminish worker power just I want to
read from this Reuters report it's
talking about some 50,000 almost 50,000
u.s. hourly workers at GM represented by
the UAW went on strike not last night
but the night before and there were
reports that GM knew this was coming so
they were stashing essentially there are
high margin vehicles all around the
country they had a lot of inventory
preparing for this and in that that book
wrecked they talked about how the the
entire supply chain for GM and and Ford
and Chrysler at the time was changed so
that it would not rely or did not
empower workers to go on strike very
easily and if you stockpile inventory
you stockpile parts you stock buy etc
etc you are less subjected to the power
of the labor and much of this is about
GM hiring temporary workers I believe
they're called scabs
well no no this gabs would be people who
are crossing a picket line but I'm
talking about in the course of their
doing business there are workers who are
full-time workers working across the
conveyor belt or whatever it is the who
are doing the exact same thing they're
doing except for they are there as
temporary workers so that GM can pay
them less provide them less benefits
diminish the power of labor right
because if you have somebody there who's
temporary in terms of status
they they're the the cost of them
involved in any type of labor action is
less and this Reuters says US automaker
automakers use temporary employees who
are paid less and receive fewer benefits
to be more cost competitive versus their
Asian and European counterparts with
non-unionized plants in the u.s. South
and the fact is I just don't believe
this
and just based upon that that book that
I think part of it is they want to also
diminish the power of the full-time
workers the non temporary workers and
their ability also to increase their
wages so this isn't just a question of
we save money on the temporary workers
it is we use the temporary workers to
undercut the power of all our workers
yeah that's interesting because another
thing that they're mad about is a
two-tier contract so workers who are not
temporary are still paid less than the
senior workers who might even do the
exact same job and this is a kind of
contract that is obviously terrible for
a worker solidarity and it's one that
the Union accepted indeed now one of the
other issues for these workers is that
back in 2009 the unions really took a
hit in helping salvage this company
particularly GM but others they allowed
for lapse payments in retirement funds
and in health care funds etc etc so here
is a clip of some workers speaking out
on CNN is it that you always hey great
to see what what do you want can you
encapsulate it in a couple of sentences
of why you're striking
yeahjust improvements on wages
healthcare benefits
and profit sharing across the board a
lot of things that we sacrifice back
during the recession in 2007-2008 we
want to be compensated for and now as
the company is making a record-breaking
profits and so Rea you also as I
understand are a single dad and so what
time did you show up what time did you
have to show up today to strive 6:00
a.m. okay and so tell me the effect that
this is having on your home in your life
um well being a father the health care
benefits are tremendously important in
trying to survive off of a reduced
income is very difficult so going back
to work and what a fair wage is very
important for all of us no company-wide
as we understand it this is just this
morning there are still dozens of
sticking points how does that make you
both feel for me personally I understand
the difficulty of the negotiations and
the importance of them so this being a
lengthy strike I'm fine with that being
the case as long as everything is ironed
out and it's fair for everyone because I
understand the position of the company
as well trying to go forward and being
profitable and being on the cutting edge
of new technology and being the leader
across the board with the auto industry
but also on the backside of that the
workers who sacrifice for the company to
get ahead today and be profitable as it
is today
we want to be compensated as well
because we take a major sacrifice over
the years I mean they have they've taken
a massive companies well-being indeed
even as the company screws them over in
every way yes yeah well they still need
the company for jobs yes of course but
it's a mentality difference that's why
it's striking like car I mean you know
I've because of my my in-laws former
in-laws and their families I knew quite
a few of those folks who had worked for
Ford and GM and this and that and the
pride that they take in their work is
pretty intense in that it's not I think
folks work with well you know in in
construct
things like that that tends to be a very
high-level pride that you don't see
necessarily and when you go into like I
work for an accounting firm or something
like that yeah they're making things
it's productive
it's literally productive labor and they
should a hard pick it by the way like
you saw some people walking around in
the background or that video just doing
what you might normally think of as a
picket line but they also did a hard
picket where they physically blocked
people from getting into the building
which is how picket lines started and I
think that's pretty cool we haven't seen
that in a while I have a feeling we're
gonna see more of it as we go in the
meantime if you're busy if you're
walking a picket line for that matter
why not walk a picket line if you're a
by all means go out walk a picket line
with uh you will be more than welcome
and what better thing to do while you
walk in a picket line is also then you
could literally like read a nonfiction
book how blankets a nap that compiles
the key takeaways from thousands of
non-fiction books everything you need to
know is condensed down to 15 minutes you
can either read it or you can listen to
it both on the app blinka sizz is super
unique it works on your phone it works
on your tablet works on your computer of
course you'll find everything from like
health health books how-to books some
history books
Elizabeth Colbert's is the sixth
extinctions on there and now that I'm
done with my Civil War podcast I'm all
over that tried to get her on for that
on the show for that we couldn't get her
on for whatever reason a long time ago
but the six extinction of course I
talked about that Tim Ferriss 4-hour
workweek which I listened to but I also
solved the 80/20 principle which Tim
Ferriss first introduced me to there's a
whole book on it I'm striking and
listening to Tim Ferriss and it's 16
minutes
it'll take for you to to listen to it
also and I may go back I haven't it was
probably I don't know how many years ago
was that I read a brief history of time
wellyou've 21 minutes you get to delve
it's the key takeaways on it they have
all the time all the time would be yours
with plinkus you get unlimited access to
read or listen to a massive library of
condensed nonfiction books all the books
you want all for one low price and right
now blinka says a special offer for
majority report listeners go to blink
accom slash majority try it for free for
70 days and save 25% off your new
subscription that's blink as bli NK is
t.com slash majority start your 7-day
free trial look at this look at some
more of they have getting things done
the power of habits fact fulness 10
reasons why we wrong about the world
yeah and why things are better than you
think
fire and fury all that check it out
blink cast comm slash majority alright
gonna take quick break when we come back
Bosch Garson Cara on his book the
socialist manifesto the case for radical
politics in an era of extreme inequality
be right back
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program the editor of a Jacobin
magazine author of the socialist
manifesto the case for radical politics
in an era of extreme inequality bash
Garson Cara welcome to the back to the
program yeah it's been a while thank you
for having me on and then I hope
everything's going well on your end
things are going fairly well here all
things considered and appreciate it
sorry we couldn't get you into studio oh
yeah I have a feeling you're probably
calling from around the corner but yeah
no I mean I'm actually in DC today so it
makes sense but I'm normally I'm
normally either in my apartment or my
office in New York which is the only two
places where people can find me all
right well I understand that dynamic
very much actually but so next time but
all right let's get into this this is it
it's it's it's it's a good time to get
into it because right now we're looking
at what appears to be a three-way race
in the Democratic Party one of those
candidates I would contend is leaking
oil as they say and you know that is
always a problem but there are two other
candidates in there that I think in may
in some to some extent well I guess let
me let me put it this way who represent
two options for the left but there is a
distinction and we will get to that but
let's start with this the difference
between a Democratic Socialist and a
Social Democrat well what are the
difference between those two things so
okay well I think I'm going to preempt a
question somewhat by I think by saying
that I don't think that Elizabeth Warren
though she is a progressive is
necessarily either but in my definition
a social democrat or least what social
moxie has become is about trying to
implement doses of socialism within
capitalism that's about creating certain
bedrock social safety net programs for
people it's about in other words making
life
captive to the tyranny of the market so
you have universal health care you have
child care you of all these other
demands
I think Democratic socialists believe in
all those things will you want to go a
little bit further we also want our
question be inequity and power that we
think them from the workplace and from
the fact that capitalists run workplace
like dictatorships and this power and
this as well so they accumulate in these
workplaces bleeds over into our social
and political spheres as well so if I
was to do a very forced very awkward
sports analogy since its beginning of
football season I know it's good
progressives you know we we don't really
like the the NFL but you know social
democracy is getting the ball to within
field goal range
you know democratic socialism is scoring
a touchdown it's figuring out how can we
actually create a society in which we're
not dependent on capitalists to create
the goods and services that we then will
tax to profit so we then with tax to
fund our welfare state so the if I
understand you the the the problem with
allowing capitalists broadly speaking to
remain intact is that there is a
tendency that they will there they will
turn that capital we will go from a
Pluto plutonomy into a plutocracy in
some respects yeah essentially what it
means is that even if they'll greet our
demands today if we have a large
movement we have a mass strike waiver
all these other things going on what
happens twenty years thirty years down
the road as smoothly opportunity spreads
capitals are going to find ways to roll
back key parts of the welfare state we
saw this in Sweden you know we've seen
this time and time again that we when we
try to administer these reforms but we
don't challenge this control and this
power the capital has they'll find ways
to roll back the the welfare state so I
think for now we should all be united
those of us let's go Center in fighting
for the really important demands that
will help people day to day
medicare-for-all decent jobs for all
childcare making sure our children have
excess nutrition housing all these
things are things we can we can agree on
but I think fundamentally the way we go
about fighting for these things is
either going to be in a way that's
confrontational that recognizes that
even though in the short term we're
going to have to make compromises we
ultimately are going up against an enemy
that doesn't want to compromise with us
and as soon as they got the upper hand
though though undermine us or what we'll
do it in a kind of technocratic
piecemeal mode that doesn't really
recognize that that we're in a battle to
the death as far as our enemies are
concerned so it's Bernie sometimes likes
to put it you know there has been class
war for the last 3040 years in this
country and a really vicious vicious way
the only thing it's been a one-sided
class war what we're proposing is that
working people have distinct interests
from the interests of our bosses and we
need to figure out a way to organize and
fight for things together I mean to
assert it does I mean you you you cite
Sweden in the book as an example of sort
of these reversals and and go through
the history of different I guess you
call socialist projects would you say
that that turn that that did take place
and then maybe let's call it just peg it
to the 70s in this country after you
know what people call the great
compression was in part a good
illustration of of what happens when you
don't fundamentally undermine capitalism
or capitalist within society in terms of
like maintaining the you know to the
extent that it was not necessarily
shared broadly because huge sectors of
our society we're denied this but to the
extent that it existed that the the sort
of the worker benefits in middle class
what they enjoyed was was then basically
slowly taken away yeah I think a lot of
what we got in the 40s 50s 60s this is
just the result of an environment in
which there is
kind of a growth liberalism so the
economy is growing so fast but capital
didn't want any disruptions so they
could break off pieces of the pie to
labor but as soon as they entered any
sort of economic difficulties like they
did in the 70s and early 80s then they
basically were like well this
arrangement that was working when our
profit rates were where this high is no
longer working for us anymore so
sometimes when we think about
neoliberalism let's say we think of it
in two ideological terms like the
neoliberalism is just this idea that was
conjured up in some room by Milton
Friedman a bunch of other odious guys in
the Chicago school but in fact what
neoliberalism is what the era that we've
been living in for the last twenty
thirty years
it's just capitalism getting its groove
back it's just you know the the
reassertion of capital saying we need to
be flexible enough to restructure and
deregulate and not have to deal with
Union interference but this so-called
interference is the only thing that was
making sure that some of this growth and
some of this tremendous wealth in our
society was in fact trickling down to to
working people so in the short term a
lot of what we need to do is not just
support one presidential candidate or
not to support one issue demand like
Medicare for all in isolation but to
connect these things with a broader
struggle to reap alit asides or civil
society to get to the point where you
could talk to your your friends your
neighbors or family about politics get
to the point where we have the Union
drives in this country get to the point
where we have civic assemblies you know
things like occupy but more permanent
where we could really think of ourselves
as not just passive consumers but
producers and political agents and
citizens and I think in a small part
this is some of the promise of the
Sanders campaign you know not all that
is realized but at least to get people
to thinking about politics and thinking
that you know all these things happening
in my life that I think of as individual
failings that I think of as just kind of
calamities and I'm suffering from an
isolation on factor related to social
problems and these social problems have
collective solutions beyond just
individual grit and kind of
pulling yourself up by your boot trap I
want to I want to just stay a for a
moment in terms of like you know where
we're social-democrats I sort of like
where Democratic socialists and in
Social Democrats where they sort of I
guess it's not so much that they part
ways on a on a highway if you used that
metaphor but one goes further when do
you cross that threshold like it like to
what extent look at what point D you
know and I know this is pretty
theoretical stuff that we're talking
about but at what point does is capital
undermined enough so that they don't
have the ability to reverse gains that
have been made
so let's look historically I think it's
a really really good question but let's
look historically it at our kind of
archetype for social democracy the
country where was most successful in
Sweden the Social Democrats emerged as a
force in the early 1900's and initially
in the early decades they're fighting
for political democracy because Sweden
was quite vicious oligarchical
anti-democratic country and once they
win political suffrage and rights for
this mass of working people that they're
representing then they begin the
construction of social democracy and
they rule virtually uninterrupted from
the 1930s until the mid to late 1970s of
1976 and you see that in the first 40s
in the 1940s in the 1950s this is kinds
of consolidation of you know Swedish
capital growing but a lot of this wealth
coming down to workers you see the
beginnings of the construction of a
welfare state to the point that least
their core necessities of life you were
no longer dependent on the market even
though it was fundamentally driven by a
capitalist market economy and these
social goods were depend on taxation
from capital and what people in the far
left what Leninist thought looking at
social democracy was that a
well obviously they can see some of the
good in it they can see that people's
lives are getting better but one of
their main criticisms was well
essentially you're buying off workers
you are taking workers you're making
them you know live a cushy or life but
you're tying them real close to the
success of their firms and also to the
state and they thought this would be
conservatism but in fact what we
discovered in the history of social
democracy or at least in the Swedish
case was it winning more demands didn't
make people more complacent it caused
them to demand more and you know a
simple illustration this is just the
fact let's say both me and us Emma are
unemployed and I'm unemployed in an area
with 20% local unemployment you're
unemployed an area with virtually full
employment
you know 2 3 % unemployment who's going
to be sorry sir let's say you're
employed in that environment who's going
to be more apt to go to their boss and
to demand a raise or to potentially get
together with your colleagues and risk
going on strike obviously it's going to
be the person in the environment with a
lower unemployment in the same way in
Sweden workers have gotten so much
rights they've gotten so much security
from this welfare state that by the late
60s by 1967 1968 you seem a strike waves
across Sweden but strikes that are
demanding not just that a rages and
conditions but strikes are demanded
industrial democracy they start in other
words to question the right of
management to manage and this is really
kind of a fundamental step in the
direction of democratic socialism in
questioning not just redistributed
outcomes for questioning the very game
itself and throughout the 1970s at
Swedish capital descends into crisis
because a variety of reasons this
worldwide slump that happened on a lot
of Western countries Swedish capital
before in the 1950s and 60s could say
well listen I'm getting less money I'm
highly taxed more and regulated more I
have to deal with powerful unions
compared to my my fellow capitalist and
say France or Britain but unlike them I
have industrial peace
you know the workers are happy enough
that they're not going on strikes at
least whatever returns I'm getting is
predictable returns now we're saying
well I have to deal with a restless
workforce and my profitability is down
and I have to deal with all these
international stuff going on like the
globalization of the economy like the
OPEC shock and so on then they say well
this arrangement is working for us is no
longer working and they have this
ability to withhold investment so
sometimes when we think about the power
of capital we think it really dramatic
terms we think about the coup of Ind in
Chile in 1973 we think about even
capital flight you know cat capital is
just leaving hole locations but the way
the capital is more often than not exert
their power on even center-left
government even their good progress
government is by saying we are no longer
going to invest unless you make the
so-called business environment more
favorable which means in other words and
let less you do let us do what we want
to do and fundamentally there was a few
different responses to this on the
right-wing of social democracy the third
way Social Democrats as later became
call called
people like Schroeder and Gordon Brown
and you know he was always worse than
the rest of them but Tony Blair he gets
on this this you know group of people to
their gambit was we're going to let
capital do it at once we're going to let
capital deregulate we're going to weaken
the unions weaken our very social base
it gets to selected but in return in
this environment of renewed growth we're
going to task this renewed growth and
we're going to use this taxation money
to fund key parts of our welfare state
we're going to keep the NHS we're going
to keep you know all these other kind of
key parts of the welfare state
provisioning that was a gamble of a
third way social democracy we're going
to retreat you know down you know maybe
50 steps but we're going to make sure
that we don't treat retreat all the way
to the bottom and that's the only way
we'll preserve some some games we have
made in the past on the lessening of
social democracy though we said well
maybe there's a way instead of
retreating down those 50 steps where we
can charge up to the to the
for the system and the charge was was
done
you know proposed in its most ambitious
for him by something called a minor plan
which would have slowly over time
transferred ownership of Swedish
companies to the people who work there
to the workers because workers don't
flee there's no capital flight from
their own community if your job and your
ownership is tied with your Community
Work worker controlled or in this case a
workplace controlled by by these
collectives funds wouldn't just refuse
to to invest you know they would have a
very different set of incentives well
they're they're literally my already
invested in that community I mean by by
virtue that they they don't have the
ability they don't have access to the
means of which you know to find another
one essentially yeah exactly and the by
the way and this kind of firm your
mentality would also completely change
too because your goal is not to maximize
your total profits but you're rather
maximize your profit for worker so some
of the imperatives of capitalism the
imperative of of having to you know
constantly expand its scale in the same
way just to accumulate this vast amount
of profits it's not reinvested into
communities rather hoarded by a few
people
you know these dynamics change I mean in
my vision of a socialist society there's
still a market economy in a certain
sphere and firms still compete and you
know inefficient firms go away but
there's also a difference between you
know have being an inefficient firm
that's out competing and landing on a
cushy welfare state and getting
retrained and going to another sector
than what happens today which is you
know you get laid off of your job and
you have unemployment benefits for a few
weeks and then make you feel degraded
they make you feel terrible when you're
taking it and you know then your
unemployment benefits in your koper is
up and your you know how to look right
so in other words so with social
democracy there were alternatives the
right-wing kind of so
solution to the Chrysler social
democracy was perceived was pursued but
in my view there was always a left-wing
alternative and you saw it being
attempted in fits and starts but our
premises is we go to what we know works
we know that social democracy works from
there we have an inkling about some of
the pressures some of the contradictions
with social democracy they've all run
into other than from that we needed go
beyond social democracy but day to day
this is kind of in the future but day to
day the main deficit in a social
democrat and democratic socialist is to
some degree how do you want to fight for
these these things we both agree that we
need in our society do we fight for
universal health care by sitting down at
the table and making a compromise with
key business leaders and the health
insurance companies and we're not do we
fight through class struggle through a
march on Washington to all these other
kind of methods and to me even though
someone like Bernie Sanders and Jeremy
Corbyn didn't even say has a program a
set of demands fundamentally social
democratic they're going about fighting
for these demands through class struggle
and that's a key distinction for me you
know I don't care what you call yourself
you call yourself progressive call each
other democratic socialist or social
democrat or whatever if you're willing
to struggle with working people and take
on the powerful interests that are
keeping us down then then you know I'm
with you
that's the most important thing and and
so okay and so as we the the the idea is
that that mode of operation is going to
set you up to diminish capital's power
so that they don't have the ability in
leaner times to essentially take it out
of to externalize those costs on to
workers essentially and to rest the
society that we have and well so I mean
so do you have a sense I mean as you go
forward in you know if that other path
had been taken let's say and and
presumably that that other path was not
pursued because of the political power
of capital that that they may have as a
function of of having the capital and so
do you have a sense and in May again I
guess it was still like at what point
how much gets you to a point of
equilibrium because I guess when I
contemplate I mean I I guess I am of
just sort of philosophically speaking
sort of convinced that that that a
certain amount of tension is always
necessary right to just maintain some
measure of of tension and is there a a
concern that like you I mean is there an
idea even a theoretical concept of like
if forty percent of of businesses or
certain industries are essentially
worker owned then you know you've it
you've achieved a you've crossed a
threshold where capital simply doesn't
yeah what you're saying is they're kind
of a tipping point here yes where we are
in a different sort of society well I
would say that the kind of changes that
we need to implement would be gradual
but sectoral so in other words all right
let's talk about at the beginning it'll
be d commodifying key parts of the
economy so we could imagine indeed you
know we both have kind of fighting for
in the next five years d commodifying
the healthcare sector so in this case
it's a gradual reform in the context of
the whole economy though within the
sector of the health insurance
businesses it's quite not drastic of
course they'll be a just transition for
the working people that are in this
sector trying to support their
themselves and their families but but
it'll be kind of a big change in that
second we can imagine that applying to
other these key sectors that we don't
think should be depending on the ability
to pay that we don't think the market
has a big role
have a Rowland there's a certain you
know things that that are in any even a
you know a capitalist economist would
admit you know these are natural
monopolies there's there's no need for
for competition and it's not the state
should just as well you know take it
over so you know I think that's that's a
key what are the sector that would like
a but if you were to like check them off
I mean I imagine that you have your your
secret list of sectors that you're going
to going to take over one at a time what
what I think that things like having our
our transport sector like when it comes
to our national rail lines and things
like that being actually run by the
government you know right now you have a
little bit of government ownership and
some of the northeast of us via kind of
like in a complicated relationship with
it with Amtrak is a very confusing
organization but you have some level
state direction and control and
investment in execution and you know
other other parts of country you
absolutely do not if anyone's ever been
on the west coast sitting and waiting
behind a fracking truck who can sit in
an Amtrak which which has to sit for
like two hours while I like you know
cargo passes by you know you would you
would know what I mean other sectors
like obviously health care is one that I
mentioned telecommunications you know
there's certain sectors like that that I
think the state can probably do a better
job at then even worker owned firms when
it comes to other worker owned firms the
way this legislation I think should be
implemented would be saying and there's
proposals in this direction they're not
as ambitious in the UK right now that
firms over a certain size to begin with
let's say firms employing 50 or more
people must give kind of buybacks of
equity every single year to collect a
fund owned by that firms employees and
over time for instance and 10 20 30
years a majority of a controlling
interest and therefore majority of these
boards would be run by by workers so you
know some capitals will go along with it
to say well I'm still making plain
is essential I'm being bought out by my
employees there's others at all you know
resist like like hell but but that's
that's what I imagine the the situation
being I don't think that we could just
keep the existing structure of society
without legislation and just create
coops and kind of seas of capitalism I
think we'd needs to be pushed by by
legislation and by a strong labor
movement and in some ways out you know
but let's consider what we were talking
about a horizon and a vision of a
society without class without this
distinction between management and
employee and an ownership that I think
as a socialist I believe I'm normally
norma typically opposed to you know i
believe that if we have an alternative
to these extreme forms of hierarchy that
we should pursue these alternatives and
pursuing this alternative has the added
benefit of securing the welfare state
that I believe already in a majority of
Americans think is you know they're
right as human beings the right to a
decent job the right to health care the
right to roof over their their head so
but as we're fighting for these things I
think we need to make clear that we're
not just trying to convince people of a
good vision or good argument we are
running up against people who have a
vested interest in the status quo
there's a lot of people getting rich due
to the fact that there's no rent
controls and there's no we're not
building public housing stock to to
decrease the house of the you know
prices a private housing stock there's a
lot of people getting rich off real
estate speculation there's a hell of a
lot of people getting rich off the way
that our health insurance system is is
run and for the longest time in the
Democratic Party as best candidates have
been talking and technocratic terms
about how to help you know middle-class
and families is as they put it but they
haven't been talking about the vested
interest and the power structure
against us and it's not something that
we could just wish away so so I think
that's a real utility in being
democratic socialist today it
not necessarily advocating a different
set of return reforms in the short term
it's advocating a different means of
going about achieving these things right
so first order are these material
benefits but the second order is making
sure that they're sustainable and that
requires a a structural change yeah
they're connected yeah
if you can't just get a medicare-for-all
then you're not gonna be able to get
you're not gonna have the power to
demand something like more employee
control of their workplaces you know
they're they're they're very much
connected winning begets winning many
people i think FF theorized that's
basically what happened in the late 60s
and 70s at one point like there was at
least within the context of you know
white society people felt confident
enough in their economic futures that
they started to you know I guess demand
more political power and that became
somewhat problematic for the powers that
be and right so and let me just a to to
channel
Jamie here Jamie I suspect would would
have issue with the idea of of markets
continuing in that you know workers
competing in in their firms against each
other could lead to their their own
exploitation and sort of like more you
know we've got them we've got to hit
these numbers everybody were you know
and the the workers council has voted
that we're all gonna be here and we're
gonna be doing ten hours a day because
we got to hit these numbers I mean what
what what's your response I think it
would the way you you solve that problem
is through you know fair and just state
regulations towards setting maximum
workdays towards setting certain
standards and certain that that
workplaces must operate within to create
a competitive and fair environment I
think that's that's incredibly you know
necessary but you know fundamental
cannot
imagine if we agree that we're still in
a condition of relative scarcity which
might change in the future you know I
can't imagine a society producing
efficiently without having some degree
of firm failure without pushing
ourselves to innovate and to be a little
bit different in fact if you have a
centrally planned system if you have a
system that's less efficient what you
might end up with is workers producing
less efficiently in more labor-intensive
ways why wouldn't we want a firm that is
so inefficient they're not making the
right technological investments that
they're forced to work 1213 hours in
order to stay competitive with the firms
that are that are doing things the
different ways why would we want that
latter firm to stick around if the
penalties were losing and the penalties
for the people at the firm is once again
bouncing off this cushy kind of safety
net of a welfare state so it's cute to
me is that socialism must represent both
voice and exit for working people so
voice within your workplace but also the
ability to leave work and so enough
society has to be outside the market but
you know in order to actually keep that
D commodified sector of the society well
funded it humming I do think you need
some sort of productive sphere but but
for me markets have existed before
capitalism and they'll probably exist
from a long time after after capitalism
my problem is not necessarily the
markets themselves my problem is how the
firm's that are competing with in the
market are structured which is in as
tyrannous tyrannical kind of firms under
capitalism and also what the penalties
for failure is was right now it's
destitution and and that's not a
reasonable penalty but for consumer
goods you know I see no reason why there
should be a state monopoly off oh you
know on the production of you know forks
and knives I think that'll bring back a
lot of bad memories for people the
inefficiency and failures of plant
economies in the 20th century I'm
satisfied with that you can go on to the
anti fada and maybe we continue the but
so let me I would love to have you so
okay but let me so alright
so let's pivot a little bit to the sort
of the the the the the current day
political pitch on some level and like
what do you do in terms of is is the
project right now from your perspective
to raise cotton I should say that you
know I I you know I'm I'm I'm very
comfortable going down this road and I'm
quite convinced that I'm not I'm gonna
be leaving this planet before it gets
anywhere where I don't feel comfortable
where it is so I'm happy to travel down
that road as far as as far as I still
have the capacity to walk so but but in
the context of your project like what is
the challenge now in terms of of raising
awareness and so like to what extent I
mean because theoretically right I mean
on some level Bernie Sanders should be
polling higher on some level if this is
if or why isn't he let's put it that way
well I think there's a variety of
reasons one of which is that most
Democrats like all the Democratic
nominees know people like me and you
have very strong favorites I know we we
you know feel very strongly about the 10
that's a lot of people are just well
they really hate Trump and a lot of the
candidates are broadly saying the right
things about about social goods and you
know loyal Democrats just want Trump out
of there I think you know that explains
why it's kind of a dead heat for these
top three candidates and Biden's the
most familiar the most connected with
the very popular Obama so you know he's
he's a little bit ahead but but I think
we get explained that pretty easily I
think the broader problem the broader
question of what's happening on the Left
what's happening with with the
democratic socialism is that were
resuscitating right now but we're coming
alive as largely a media phenomenon
don't get me wrong there's tens of
thousands of working people that our
Democratic Socialist now they're doing
great work organizing their communities
but we don't yet have the mass base
millions we need to change this country
and that's they challenge how do we get
more implanted and more rooted in
working communities a lot of people are
Democratic socialists today are you know
college educated people a lot of them
are d-class professionals that were from
parents were accountants and lawyers and
now we're working working class jobs for
sure but we were definitely drawn for a
particular milieu and and in order to
become a broader or more diverse more
more rooted movement we really need to
win over layers of working people and
the way to do that is obviously just
patient and slow organizing the great
work being done right now in Brooklyn by
DSA connected to Crown Heights
attendants Union connected with these
flights in New York around rent controls
there's great work being done around the
country these congressional races which
is a reason to for people just to knock
on doors and talk about your ideas and
talk about politics so there's a lot of
really exciting things going on and we
just need to keep double down on these
efforts I think we do need to be
connected to Bernie 2020 and to just
some of them looping around Bernie
Sanders and the fight for Medicare for
all and so on and all these campaigns
are way just to deepen our base but we
can't be content with just being a high
profile you know group because our
strength needs to come from being really
deeply rooted in the communities that
can really disrupt and threaten capital
and can force the reforms that we
desperately need in this country III
tend to think that like you know it's
very possible to get to sort of two
clever about the sort of strategizing
certain things but but as you lay out
your your vision right like there are
basically getting some type of
universality and D commodifying
Healthcare begins to give you the power
to decommodification
you know it sort of snowballs and then
you're able to sort of move into
democratizing some of these other
sectors and-and-and firms as you say so
there is like a sequencing is are you
concerned at all
the sequence is not quite there yet
to support a political victory by
someone who will attempt to do a lot of
these things in other words like is
there a you know in you know when I wake
up at 3 in the morning and which happens
far too often and can't get back to
sleep
like the idea of like okay Bernie wins
the economy goes south because it's been
juiced and there is a massive push back
because Democrats obviously Republicans
but even a significant number of
Democrats don't want to see these type
of reforms they did there's still too
much entrench power and it it it begins
to cut away at the progress that's just
made in terms of society because Bernie
ends up being you know sort of like
stranded on some level because there's
not quite the the support for amongst
the population that needs to be there to
actually enact these type of reforms
yeah I mean I think that what we need to
do right away is if we have a presidency
of someone like Bernie Sanders and we
use the bully pulpit of the presidency
we use executive orders to show people
that were fighting for them then
certainly there'll be other parts of a
legislative agenda that we want to push
through and we're unable to because of
Congress and because the markets are
getting riled up or whatever else we
needed place the blame word where it
should be blamed you know we need to say
that you know we're in a fight against
his interest in these interests of
trying to undermine our program you know
if you in a weird way I think that you
know those lessons from the Trump
administration Trump has not delivered
to his supporters most of what his
supporters wanted and thank God for that
but he has been able to do certain
things to use a bully pulpit of the
presidency to support this really nasty
right-wing populist movement that's
getting up and and I think we need to
use the bully pulpit of executive office
to support the real activism on the
streets they'll give us more space and
or leverage to demand certain things and
probably the best historical example I
could give is the example of the 1930s
in France so we own bloom the first
president Beckham Prime Minister back
tonight prime ministers of France who is
a socialist who was also a Jew and he
was beaten up about one two months
before he took office and dragged from a
car beaten up by an anti-semitic gang he
knew how dangerous the threat of fascism
was but when he took power he didn't
think he could actually administer do
much to advance the vision of socialism
what he thought he was doing was in his
words occupying power and the act of
occupying power for him was just I'm
going to sit in the seat to the right
cannot sit in the seat the right sits in
the seat they're gonna make it harder to
advance our agenda and get the things I
want two three you know for you know
years or decades down the road but
instead what we ended up with was a
situation where workers themselves
started going on strike started doing
all this disruption to the point of
capital is forced to compromise and Leon
Blum was able to get things enacted that
some are like there started summer
holidays and all these other demands I
think that's example we have to look for
it's not just what the power of capitals
how can we summon a countervailing force
on the street to what extent I mean
where does race fit into all this
because you know one of the things that
mode and my catchphrases around here now
is it's been for a while that you know
to a certain extent there is a zero-sum
there is a there is a zero-sum reality
in terms of of white people white males
losing some of their status within
society not just economic although
that's certainly part of it but when we
look at like you know your your your
average Trump voter they're not
particularly I mean they're not
particularly suffering economically you
know obviously the vote to folks who
voted against Trump
you know on average making less money
struggling just as much but there is a
real sense of loss by white males that
they are no longer centered in our
society how do you how does that fit in
with your perspective so I actually do
have to go out about five minutes I'm
just gonna say no I completely have no
idea GC geography and a program I'm way
further from Union Station that I
thought but I think the key thing is to
stress the people that that we are in
fact demanding a program that will help
everyone but will particularly help
those who are most oppressed will
particularly help women will
particularly help help people color will
particularly help in this country black
Americans who suffer the most from not
having a decent welfare state from being
apprised opportunities and jobs and and
so on but that this game doesn't come at
your expense so we need to stress the
idea that any privilege that a
working-class person has say a white
male working-class person has over other
working people it's a relative and not
an absolute privilege and that's that's
really key to stress and we need to
create an environment where we're not
just telling people to compare and wear
their privileges were saying listen we
all need to go together and we need to
fight together and we didn't make
advances together I hope that works
I also hope you make it train to a Bosh
Carson car we will we will do this again
thanks so much I appreciate time all
right all right folks we'll put
obviously a link to the book I think
we've done that in the past and wash
Karen cuz I think we still had a lot of
stuff left on the table but interesting
interesting in light of what we're
looking at in terms of like the the
what's happening in the Democratic
primary at this point one thing people
might also not know about the book is
it's called a manifesto but there's a
lot of history in there too lot of
history recounts all the near misses for
the for
socialist revolution we didn't even get
to the part of Bosch cars conception of
what a revolution looks like yeah a lot
less a lot less violent then I think the
the people sometimes associated yeah
that's what I was going to ask him about
we I had it down there we just didn't
well we'll have them back on TV
continues to be continued and we should
say also you know the Elizabeth Warren
well we'll talk about the WFP in in the
the fun half of the program I mean I
think there's the WFP endorsed Elizabeth
Warren
she had a big rally in New York City
yesterday 20,000 people decent showing
and we will get to that as well we'll
also have a couple of clips from Ben
Shapiro and the fun half oh it's gonna
be so fun
folks just a reminder this program
relies on your support you can become a
member by going to join the majority
report calm and when you do you not only
gave the show a commercial free but you
also get extra content virtually every
single day I think let's just call it
every day I mean obviously not on the
weekends and maybe there's one or two
days where it doesn't happen for the
most part new content extra content
every day don't forget also the a.m.
quickie it is available in the majority
report audio feed soon to live on its
own on its own feed and just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
and a reminder this episode brought to
you by blinking
the blinka sap takes the key takeaways
from thousands of best-selling
non-fiction books and condenses them
down into just 15 minutes that you can
either read or listen to 10 million
people are using blinkin right now but
the beauty is 12 million could be used
and you're still gonna enjoy the exact
same way it's the infinite resource as
massive and growing library from
self-help to business to health and
history books right now you can get 25
percent off your first year at bling
cast comm slash majority check it out
today is Tuesday Michael yes sir
something's gonna happen in the studio
to the 7 o'clock actually first I should
say six o'clock pre stream with a really
good Canadian youtuber Chris a biosis on
Canada's elections and the possibility
of a North American hemispheric left but
on the main show we're gonna be doing a
deep dive into the Israeli elections
what's really driving possible conflict
between Iran Saudi the Houthis and what
the US role actually isn't that house
Trump is sort of an outsized
continuation of what already exists even
as he sells Patriot missiles to Bahrain
Emma biglan is coming through and we are
going to dunk on and and turn Joe Biden
to a wounded antelope as well as talking
about UK elections and the WFP
patreon.com slash T MBS Michael Brooks
show on YouTube and grab your tickets to
see us in Philly Jamie so this week on
the anti Fattah we were going to run our
interview with Aaron Bustani about his
book fully automated luxury communism
but that has been preempted and moved to
next week because of the UAW strike Sean
and Andy dropped an emergency episode
last night surprised surprise up just
like Beyonce and it's really good I just
listened to it Sean knows so much about
labor history so if you really want to
understand what's going on
with the UAW strike right now in its
proper historical context check it out
it's free for everyone
patreon.com slash the anti Fattah Matt
uh yeah literary hangover james fenimore
cooper's the pioneers it's a really
interesting book about how the the
biggest
most land was settled from Native
Americans after the Revolution than
before it so people might be surprised
to learn that I was alright quick break
fun half Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's up
there buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you you nervous a little bit
upset yeah maybe you should rethink your
defensive that we're just going to get
rid of you all right yes I'm happy dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the scroll fine
we could double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
here just come here not they accuse me
 you you alright gonna take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber lastik I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to register what's
such a death to America
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
that thing Academy Award
I mean I've probably watched that thing
now probably at least a hundred times
right and uh every tire still I see
things that I hadn't seen before uh okay
can we like arrange some type of
interview would I mean just from my own
personal edification with the guy who
made that because I'm just curious it's
like what what came first I'm gonna say
it's an image in his head or her I'm
sorry her my bed and then the song and
then the video to flesh out these
beautiful images for everyone i I'm
really curious about that she had the
story first like I already know I don't
understand how they I'm gonna say yes
that story is gonna live in her
mindscape now as you know we reported
the other day that the man who Donald
Trump referred to as my African American
has decided to leave the Republican
Party because he came to the conclusion
that Donald Trump may actually not be a
friend of of people who are black or
guys to the TVs
apparently it was when he told the
members of the squad to go back where
they came from that he suddenly realized
like hey wait a second I do love these
departure ports there's always the even
like those CNN faux
scripts they'll always be like well I
thought Donald Trump was the greatest
political leader in American history at
all wait a second it's like he's a
racist like he said you can't say that
on Twitter right very strange but but
good news coming from the Trump camp for
every African American he loses he's
convinced that he's got a Hispanic and
another great friend of mine somebody
that was on CNN and they didn't like him
because he was too positive on Trump can
you believe it he happens to be Hispanic
he happens to be Hispanic but I've never
quite figured it out because he looks
more like a wasp than I do so I haven't
figured that one out but I'll tell you
what there is nobody that loves this
country more or Hispanic more than Steve
Cortese Steve nobody loves Hispanic boy
Hispanics more who do you like more the
country or the Hispanics
he says the country I don't know why I
may have to go for the Hispanics to be
other well yeah I mean first off I think
we know why Steve Cortez and he get
along so well because he doesn't look
Hispanic so I'm not reminded by it I'm
learning so much about the construction
of what this folks
it's literally like he left the White
House to go on to the Santa Ana star
center in Rio Rancho New Mexico to give
a talk and they said listen we just got
this polling back not doing well with
Hispanics don't worry I'll take care of
it I take care of it
I like it's banning I was talking to one
the other day hey everybody hey check
this out ready for the polls to shift
here's a Hispanic who doesn't look
Hispanic
that I like that I like you and look at
just wait for the new numbers watch this
do you like America better or Hispanic
oh you like America well I think I might
like Hispanic I think I'm an automatic
but I don't know it's so hard communauté
am I gonna get a comedy I will tell you
though that I am in touch with members
of the Sanders campaign to propose that
in a brilliant act of triangulation that
while we follow all of our obligations
under international law on refugees and
decriminalize the border that we ban
Hispanic and Latin American people who
have over a half a million dollars in
liquid assets from coming into the
country completely yeah because they're
bringing they're bringing a lot of
problems you know what they are very
autocratic ideas they are used to owning
futile Said's many of them or involved
the drug traffic some of them I'm sure
it could be some of them I just happened
to be passive recipients of wealth and a
good people their daughters are doing
bad cholera the daughters are doing
embarrassing comedy in the new york
times add the dot disclosing obvious
conflicts of interest there's a lot of
problems here
and we need to figure out what the
hell's go I burned said is quote a
complete and total bad odd light-skinned
Hispanic sperm entering the United
States can we figure out what the hell
is going on destabilize many great
experiments the Bulevar revolution is
still pitching about Castro he beat them
decades ago these are very bad people
they're bringing drugs they're bringing
money they're bringing unregulated
capitalism we need to do something about
it I mean Ted Cruz need i say more
yeah Ted Cruz just look at Ted Cruz
would you see Ted Cruz's face thing with
unrestricted white Hispanic immigration
[Laughter]
house men standing behind Trump in that
video oh my god can we zoom back in on
that Jesus let's go to the phone's come
from a to10 area code who's this where
you come from
good afternoon Sam this is the ghost of
Corn Pops from Wilmington
[Applause]
this John from San Antonio yeah calling
it to this program for years I don't
think you've ever identified yourself as
anything other than John from San
Antonio that's fantastic I thought we
were talking to corn pop Wow
well ghost of corn pops what he got was
fired I was inspired
so yeah the last Emerson released
college poll released today and
delegate-rich at California has Bernie
and Biden tied at 20 26 % with Lauren at
20 is also a capital weekly poll from
California so that you get an average
you got Warren at 27 Bernie and Biden at
22 which is the vast improvement for
Bernie and pretty bad for Biden so in
last Thursday night's debate
Warren addressed the issues of family
playing left and cold total costs as
opposed to the journalists who framed
the question like Republicans and talked
about raising taxes
so I'm gonna every time I read a Biden
quote I'm going to read it exactly as he
says it he says it doesn't cost 30
trillion three point four trillion it
turns out it it turns out is twice what
the entire federal budget is so that's
completely wrong the last budget
projection that ends it you know at the
end of the month revenue is projected to
be three point four trillion and the
budget is a trillion dollars higher so
here's another quote from Biden well let
me just add this before you go let me
just make one thing clear to that half
of that money that he's talking about is
already expended by the federal
government like when we look at that
number of 32 trillion dollars over the
course of ten years what is what is left
unsaid is that we're already we're
already spending one-and-a-half trillion
dollars per year excuse me over the
course of that that ten years on on
health
so the the its it cost three point two
trillion dollars but not an extra three
point two trillion dollars go ahead
right that's right right so so that's
before exists now without interest on
the debt how you gonna pay for it I want
to hear tonight how that happened later
in the conversation Biden says the tax
of two percent that the senator is
talking about that raises three billion
guess what that leaves you twenty eight
billion short
I really don't really know if Biden's
talking about warns well tax which is a
two percent tax which is projected to
raise 2.75 trillion over ten years and
that money is not directed to go to the
Medicare trust fund but in the general
fund so are if he could have confused
billions with trillions Warren's
you know doesn't list any changes to our
funding mechanism for Bernie's and
Medicare for all playing which she
supports on our website so Biden goes on
you're going to to the middle-class
person someone making sixty grand with
three kids they're going to they're
going to pay it in five thousand more
this is also incorrect so that person
making sixty grand is currently paying
one point four five percent of their
salary or eight hundred and seventy
dollars a year but received no benefits
you know did they put in for Medicare
until they retired or become disabled
under Bernie's plan each worker will pay
four percent unless they are in poverty
in which they won't pay anything
so that's a fine litterbugs well yeah I
mean it's an increase of two point five
five percent or an increase of one
thousand five hundred and twenty-five
dollars a year not even close to the
five thousand the Biden says they'll
have to pay so now under Biden's plan if
they opted into the system they all have
to pay eight point five percent of their
salary for that person earning sixty
thousand a year which will be about
t1 $5,100 a year plus deductibles plus
co-pays plus they won't receive vision
dental or audiology Medicare for America
coverage is nine point six nine of each
employees salary the reason Bernie's
plan works is because it establishes
nine taxes on the ultra-wealthy
Wall Street and corporations now this
has been there's been some skepticism
whether that 4% will cover everything to
keep the Medicare trust fund solvent it
may have to be raised to five percent or
even six percent but this is far
superior to any other planet I guess
five percent five percent would be about
thirty five hundred bucks
third maybe thirty two hundred bucks and
for that for sixty thousand and right
yeah that's for all of those health care
benefits it's a great deal right yes
exactly three thousand but yeah but yeah
so I mean so yeah it's it's it's
obviously the best best deal and y'all
had some very good commentary during the
debate on Thursday
so recently Bernie has been criticized
by many fact checkers by saying
Americans are paying twice as much as
under other industrialized nations while
this this is true for most for many
countries in Europe you know the Swiss
also pay high rates they pay 8% of their
salaries to an insurance company though
about 37 percent receive those subsidies
they pay on average 7317 in total health
care cost which is twelve point two
percent of the gross domestic product
the only country that pays more is the
United States which pays sixteen point
nine percent of gross domestic health
costs or about ten thousand five hundred
and eighty six per person in health care
yet Bernie doesn't want to talk about
how his plan will save in total cost
compared to the Biden plan or Medicare
for America plans which is over a
hundred percent savings as it is now at
four percent why do you think Bernie
doesn't want to talk of about how much
better his plan is concerning cost and I
got a couple other questions do you
that the more you go into details the
more it helps the proponents of
medicare-for-all
and how do you how do you see the state
of Medicare for all now that the medical
industry has spent tens of millions of
dollars trying to stop it and which has
former proponents of Medicare for all
like Harrison Booker moving away from
Bernie's bill I mean I think I think
people are afraid of the you know you
lose your private health insurance thing
and I think it's it's been it's it's a
hard people just hear that and they they
don't frankly have the the there's just
not enough information out there what
that really means like you know nobody
wants to lose anything and the in some
respects like I remember that that
polling of people were saying like there
was a poll taking where they talked
about what Republicans had done I can't
remember what else rolled back something
and the people in the focus group were
like we don't believe that and I think
to a certain extent I think it's hard
for some people to sort of like
conceptualize of like wait a second is
that actually possible you could get
that kind of coverage you could get that
kind of access for that kind of cost I
think it's hard for people to believe it
on some level and so the I think that
it's I think you know threatening that
something's going to be taken away is is
more effective now with that said I
think when we get down and hopefully
this will happen sooner rather than
later but I don't know that it will when
we get down to like four or five people
in a debate I think there's gonna be
more room for that type of stuff but
hopefully we get there soon John I
appreciate the call
all right thank you and the way you
started that call I appreciate that -
that was a very great column from a360
area code three six zero okay this is
Bretton Washington read from Washington
what's on your mind
I
I feel a little overshadowed by the GM
workers right now but I was wonder if I
could get a horn of support for the
workers of Highland Court memory care
they're trying to unionize right now
where are they in the process well last
week we marched on our boss with 70% of
our workforce and she had no idea it was
coming
Wow yeah char listeners out there if you
ever got the opportunity to do that you
should because was a pretty magical
moment I bet Dame by videotape it yeah
yeah we did get a videotape well I
wouldn't you know I think yeah you wanna
do that yeah that's that I mean probably
I would imagine for potential evidence
in the event that there is an attempt to
punish those people who are involved in
the unionization well good luck with it
and keep us updated yeah well thank you
all right thanks for the call let's go
here's a Donald Trump being asked about
the UAW strike GM strike and What did he
say how many jobs do you think he was
going to return or like I hit a lot of
promises all of them I believe I think
every single one they're gonna be so
great here he is being asked if he
stands with the auto workers in this
strike against GM now I'll be really
surprised if we don't see some
Democratic candidates again getting to
Detroit who is Tim Ryan is already it's
he is he still in the race host don't
throw your back out bro all right there
you go
well good I mean well the best thing Tim
Ryan could do in his life is give them
some tuna fish sandwiches and I mean in
his life make yourself useful
we'll have great relationship with the
auto workers I got tremendous numbers of
votes from the
workers I don't want General Motors to
be building plants outside of this
country as you know they've built many
plants in China and Mexico and I don't
like that at all my relationship has
been very powerful with the Auto Workers
not necessarily the top person or two
but the people that work doing
automobiles nobody's ever brought more
companies into the United States you
know I have Japan and Germany and many
countries have been bringing car
companies in an opening plants and
expanding plants and big things are
happening on Ohio including with
Lordstown a very positive things are
happening
we have many plants that are either
being renovated or expanded or built new
right now in the United States many more
that we've had for decades and decades
so nobody's been better to the Auto
Workers than me he just yeah it's
unbelievable a is out better be somebody
that can run credibly against him god I
would love to see him face off against
Bernie on labor issues holy crap oh
really
he sounds like a whole lot of nothing
this is a piece what happened to all the
jobs that Donald Trump promised so he
promised about eight point nine million
mmm if you go down oh and this gives
it's a nice graphic shows how few of
those jobs he actually it doesn't seem
to be working well with the browser here
though but basically very you know 797
are three like me they like me 797
directly attributable to Trump so out of
eight point nine million so hmm it's a
little thin little thin so mentioned
earlier Elizabeth Warren big rally in
New York this came this rally coincided
with and probably by design the working
family Party of New York endorsed or not
excuse me nationwide endorsed Elizabeth
Warren I don't know how many actual
members they have now
why it's you know it in certain states
it's actually like a party that actually
feels a ticket in New York it's a fusion
party and which is in jeopardy because
Andrew Cuomo may be signing legislation
to eliminate fusion parties in this this
state objective and I think that that is
probably part of the reason why
Elizabeth Warren got this endorsement
now here's the thing that's a little bit
a little bit sticky in terms of in 2015
the Working Families Party based its
presidential endorsement entirely on a
membership vote and released the vote
results there was 87 percent for burning
this time what it did is it did
something different which was we're
gonna allow the membership to vote and
then we're going to allow the leadership
to vote I don't know how many people
constitute the leadership I think it's
somewhere a couple dozen may up to 50
people the membership could be up to
close to 40 thousand people and they
waited those two groups equally and now
in 2015 obviously we saw the full data
in in 2018 or 19 we're not going to
they're not gonna release it so so we
don't know certainly it's within the
purview obviously of a group to endorse
whoever they want it's just it's just a
question how much they're going to be
listening to their leadership there was
some controversy about this during
particularly some of the unions back in
2015 to a certain extent there's a a
greater value for groups like this to
endorse early my understanding too is
that the Working Families Party is going
to want to get involved in outside
expenditures independent expenditures
from the campaign
which involves fundraising and gives
them an opportunity in the event that
New York they're shut out to sort of
redesign what kind of entity they are
Bernie Sanders does not take independent
expenditures and it does not want those
so there wasn't the same opportunity for
Sanders so there's a lot of
administrative reasons why one might do
this
it is the TSA is doing an independent
expenditure campaign for birdie though
III don't that may be the case but I
don't know to what extent that that
they're gonna be happy with that but ya
know they didn't ask for it but we're
having it and but what's a little bit
problematic with this endorsement is
it's not clear if they I don't know the
the head of the Maurice Mitchell was on
with Chris Cuomo Maurice Mitchell is the
I think the executive director of the
Working Families Party and he was on
with Chris Cuomo and it did not go great
and I think if you listen it might be
clear why we have Maurice Mitchell he's
the National Director for the Working
Families Party joining me now pleasure
to see you pleasure Chris thanks for
having me so why Warren and not Sanders
so let me just first say that it's 2019
and we have to structural change big
bold progressive candidates that have
built huge grassroots followings in the
democratic process but you picked one
why right and so our grassroots members
and our volunteers and our state
committee we engaged in a very long
process and we came out and I'm so proud
of the process and so proud that we
chose Elizabeth Warren let me tell you
why so I mean if you look at her you
know they joke about she has a plan for
it right but if you look at it and and
you take a step back so the green New
Deal so we could save the planet
allows it for one second right go on
well wait a second Elizabeth Warren does
have a client plan but Bernie Sanders
has specifically signed on to something
called the green New Deal
badges say in this case the distinction
matters rewrote the green new deal in
its most ambitious and comprehensive
iteration yet you know just sign on to
run I mean you know they're they're
they're they're distinct plants and one
it's called the green new deal and when
it's not but good a historically big
picture housing policy you know the
Medicare for all to take the insurance
companies between you and your doctor
right so health care could be a right
and not a commodity that's best traded
all right he does the same thing I said
he wrote the damn bill that's that's
absolutely right and and we have so much
respect for Bernie and his followers and
in 2016 we endorsed Bernie in 2020 you
have a field of dozens of candidates and
so we wanted to engage in a process that
was deeply Democratic where we could
decide early what to do even as the
field was still shaking out and the
reason we did it is because that time is
one resource that when you lose it you
never could Rico fine so what was the
difference between the two with so much
sameness so what I could talk about
positively is why we endorsed Warren and
again like I've nothing but positive
things to say about Bernie his followers
and his movement and I think it's a plus
for working people the people that we
represent that we have two candidates
that are advancing this and I think you
know you saw the debate stage where they
flanked each other right and so we want
to encourage that with you know with
fellow travelers who agree with the
policy change in both camps to to flank
these ideas and to and to organize and
we encourage other organization with you
but here's why I'm put all in please
let's go here's why yeah because you
could argue they're splitting a vote
okay and I'm asking you why her and not
him when it was in the last time and
when you say why you picked her I'm not
arguing with you reasons yeah you're
allowed to your process but they checked
the same boxes well listen we did a
ranked Choice vote so we didn't Joe this
was a board of members this was a vote
of members and our National Committee
which are grassroots grassroots
activists that are part of people's
organism or
for her the visions absolutely so that's
what it was and and and now we're moving
forward with our candidate and we're
gonna be more proud so I mean it's like
me impossible well I mean look I think
there there was a way in the event that
it is the case that literally more
people in their organization voted for
warned that you start out with that you
started I mean like you know Cuomo is
like I had to what basically walk in all
the way there
you start out look people voted that way
why did they vote that way I'm not a
hundred percent sure because I can't
talk to each one of them but I can tell
you that we're talking about two
candidates with the blah blah blah I
mean I I'm just it is now there is I've
also seen this reporting people familiar
with the WFP endorsement process say
they expected a closer vote but that
Warren and her team had impressed
members with organizing muscle that put
a premium on engaging members asking for
feedback and building relationships I
mean I have heard reporting to the fact
that they did a very good job of of
courting WFP members that that Warren
had come out in support of a candidate I
can't remember where it was maybe it was
in Pennsylvania and it's quite possible
but they should just release the numbers
exactly because they had done it in the
past and that makes it I mean at that
point it's like how do you argue with it
people was if that's who they want to
endorse that's who they endorse but it
reeks of it being not the democratic
process that they're selling in in and I
think that's the only thing that's
problematic about it if this is true I
mean even warrants I'd say release the
vote that showed that I impressed
members with my organizing muscle it's
very simple I would just like to add
though to I mean regardless of how this
shakes out with the vote and obviously
there would be a lot there would be less
to say in terms of their endure I mean I
think you can have a substantive a
debate on anything
the substantive debate I would have is I
mean Warren just released her health
care plan which Ben Burgess pointed out
in addition to some real remaining
ambiguity about the Medicare for all
aspect the language on mental health is
distinct from general health and what
she put in her own sight which is worth
considering Sanders plan is
comprehensive and you know WFP have said
from the beginning as far as I
understand that single-payer is one of
their core missions they also taught he
mentioned housing there's only one
candidate with a homes guarantee so you
know even if it is a coherent vote and
that remains to be seen
there's gonna be a lot of challenge on
the merits because he'd I mean precisely
because of what he just did I don't mean
no literally I just listed the reasons
to support one candidate we were the
policies of the other corners it's
bizarre well he could get away with that
if the vote simply said members voted
that way substantive debate would still
- well no that's I mean substantive
debate actually matters of course but
then the debate is like at WFP if the
memos Warren then that makes our
conversation about the WFP different
which is that like they're right like
right but if the members are still
difference between a substantive debate
and a scandal I mean it's a scale in the
first that's a scandal if they actually
overrode their voters and it is odd
they're being so not transparent about
it then that's a much deeper problem
right either way it is a problem is my
point I mean look I think it's uh you
know you could argue on the basis of
merits that maybe their argument is like
well she if they all voted that way
there was a reason why they voted and I
imagined they would articulate it maybe
it is like she did a better good job of
like wooing different constituencies
within the WFP
and you know he can go out Maurice it
can go out and try and assess why fifty
thousand people voted a certain way but
that's all he's doing is he's just he's
just making some type of broad
assessment but it's hard to get away
with that you know like this is
a clip I would have played if it was you
know they released it in 55 percent of
the people in the WFP total voted for a
warrant I sure would have done I would
have played it and then I would have
done an intro to a concept called false
consciousness what do you like in other
contexts so maybe you should apply it to
this would have been well I mean III
think you're all about blaming the
electorate you're not it but we don't
know how much to blame them well that's
the lawyer enough but but we also don't
know that this one guy can fully
articulate why 50,000 people voted they
don't believe one person can articulate
false consciousness that's a hard thing
but I think we all know why they're
being all illiterate
we don't would have released the numbers
if the numbers said that everyone voted
overwhelmingly for Warren one-ball even
if it they were even if it was 51% and
if it was close I mean why couldn't you
come out and say I'm the leader of this
organization and they voted 51% for for
Warren I feel great about Bernie I feel
great about Warren this is our
membership is spoken we're gonna work
our butts off if Bernie Sanders wins
we're also gonna work our butts off I
mean I mean what it comes down to is the
Working Families Party is much more
comfortable in the world of liberal NGOs
and in the progressive wing of the
Democratic Party which is you know a
part of the establishment then they are
being the sort of rightward flank of
something more less than that like their
board is like if Bernie wins we won't
get cocked by Cuomo as easily like do
you think works in coalition with them
on a lot of things but this is one area
where we're not frankly I would I would
probably imagine it's less about that
type of ideological assessment and
probably in the event that it was the
board that overrode their membership I
would argue it's probably more
consistent with what we're seeing in
North Carolina with those with those
state senators who are willing to vote
for a gerrymandered district right
that's that one maintain the power of
Republicans to save their own seats
think that situation
purely ideological it also goes back to
who's giving them money well no no I
think like I said the reporting I had
seen is that in supporting Warren they
can change their operations in a way
that give their organization long term
viability and that opportunity wasn't
there with Sanders and so that is
different from an ideological debate and
it's also different in terms of like who
is funding him it's just simply a you
know an operational sustainability
argument and that is well it's both
right because it produces an ideological
outcome even if that's not the root
cause behind it right it might but like
I say like that may not be your seek war
and over Sanders is an ideological
outcome yes it is an ideological outcome
but but that doesn't necessarily they
may not see that we can endorse the
candidate less concerned about the
ideological outcome them and more about
the Democratic outcome in this case
right now I'm concerned about all of it
yeah we should be concerned about all of
it but like I didn't have that much
faith in the working families party to
begin with because I know they're more
comfortable in the world of liberal NGOs
and Democratic Party establishment I
guess that's why I'm saying I'm more
concerned I just think that that framing
of they're more comfortable is naive and
silly and does not look at power it's
not a question of comfortability it's a
question and I'm not I'm not being an
apologist for them I'm just saying that
that analysis I think is silly it's not
a question of like I like these people
no I know but you're misunderstanding
what she's saying she's saying that if I
understand you correctly they have
carved a market niche for themselves
which it goes precisely to what you're
just right that's the case yeah you
don't like and each one hold on I know I
may complete a thought before you react
so then you can know what you're
reacting to at the point
I'm reacting to carved a niche I'm
suggesting to you they're not coming and
you literally just said it's analogous
to the North Carolina example right it's
not a question of them carving a nice
that's not a tree or nation no not a
place in the market question of
survivability which is not necessary
giving you an ability to carve that the
they are at the mercy of the the unions
the unions basically undercut them in
their fight with Cuomo and because Cuomo
had the ability to offer that the unions
money and transactional benefit this
does not go down it anything that we've
said that you fail you're contradicting
so what's the disagreement it's not a
question of carving a niche it's a it's
a question of them a niche that is like
their branding it is simply literally
holing literally where how they exist
right carving a nice for that's what I'm
talkin tin you - how do they exist how
do they get funded where do they exist
in a marketplace maybe the niche that
they have created in terms of funding
and let's not get tricky and you know
penta let's not be petr s about specific
words maybe where they have it created
in existence for themselves in a
political ecosystem might in fact as an
example get uprooted by exactly what
you're saying a Sanders campaign that
says we're less interested in your
third-party expenditure were less
interested in the role as brokers that
you might be playing I mean come on man
yo but you're looking at it in the
opposite you're looking at it backwards
at the point is they are just looking
for it's like they're looking for
daylight and they only see daylight in
one area and they're not in control of
that like they don't have the Opera to
have the ability to create the
opportunity for you they're only a
seeing woody I know okay I don't see how
you think you're contradicting what I'm
or Jamie are saying though I mean though
the question of their comfortability
they could be very uncomfortable in this
okay their uncut it's the only place I
let go of that word we're big exists
okay we were talking about where's like
a semantics yeah I mean it's super
semantics this is where they exist in
the marketplace is affecting how they're
endorsing is not that complicated you're
literally saying the same thing play it
come on this will all be clearer if they
release the votos and we could
understand how membership voted distinct
from the board right but you know what
Bernie doesn't need the Working Families
Party all right I mean it would it
wouldn't I mean obviously it it would
help
not after I'm done with their brand it
doesn't I mean I don't think it's gonna
hurt him that much in the end I think
it's going to reflect poorly on them and
probably hurt them more yeah I think it
definitely the same way endorsing
crowley over AOC did the next step
absolutely they're trash brands I don't
know
I appreciate the the work they did with
Cynthia Nixon because I think New York
is very different place because of it I
think the IDC
I mean I think there's value in an
organization like that I think we can
see the limits of it though
you know I mean I think it just you know
it's like it it is I think a it does not
it is not a analysis of power and an
assessment of like what their value is
in the limits on it like just sort of
you know I
that's that's that's all I'm talking
about it's um that's a city as to where
they're their limits on their value is
but they're still value I mean that's a
separate question know is wait wait I'm
sorry
I can I don't want to be like you here
you don't think that there is I don't
want to be a pet arrest either you don't
think there's a distinction between
saying where they have value the limits
of that run how that runs up against
broader structural forces versus
acknowledging that they might have a
limited utility those are the same thing
they are not the same thing they're
absolutely not the same thing just
limits of their utility are not the same
as the limits of their utility is
everything I said two separate things
you said the definition of they're the
limits of their power versus the limits
of their utility no I said that in one
environment as an example Bill DeBlasio
in 2012/2013 is a net positive in
national politics in today's context
national politics has completely moved
ahead of him so his value has diminished
the context in which he operates and is
significantly diminished and he can move
with that and change or not those are
definitely different things this is what
I like to keep it to just make the votes
public right
exactly meanwhile utility meanwhile
yesterday we spoke about Chris Coons
getting out in front of his skis in
terms of like heading on Fox and Friends
to talk about how Iran was a real
problem somebody got to Chris Coons now
it's quite possible he's watching the
majority report and took some of this
criticism to heart I find that unlikely
but it's not yeah it's totally
inconceivable but nevertheless somebody
got to Chris Coons because that beeping
sound of you're hearing that is Chris
Coons backing up if the intelligence
suggested it Ron was behind it that you
thought that military action could be
warranted do you still feel that way now
well notice the two conditions in that
statement you know first we and Congress
need to be briefed on the intelligence
well it is important what's reported on
the news
we need a detailed briefing on the
audience and I've now this guy goes on
Fox and Friends yesterday at the
slightest whiff and then all of a sudden
someone said to him hey dude it's the
Trump administration it wasn't even the
Trump it was Brian Kilmeade well I'm no
but my point being that like he's going
off of the story that he had heard he
was so desperate to carry this forward
and apparently someone said you might
want to take a second look at this we
need a detailed briefing on the
intelligence and I've asked for that and
I'm hoping to get that what you've just
reported would certainly strengthen the
evidence if confirmed by intelligence to
members of Congress that this was a
direct attack by Iran on Saudi Arabia
second we need to have a conversation as
a country and as a Congress about
whether or not this is an attack so
directly relevant to America's interest
as to justify military action diplomatic
action is what's called for first and
our president should come to Congress
and make that case if he is determined
that this is what calls for military
action my concern here Allison is that
Iran is an aggressive
power is a regionally destabilizing
power that is clearly willing to use
additional resources if that's what this
intelligence bears out to carry out more
direct attacks that are more
destabilizing against its regional
opponents Saudi Arabia Iran has
projected force into Syria into Lebanon
into Iraq into Yemen and this latest
incident could well be the next step in
the escalation of challenges
I appreciate that president Trump's most
recent statement on this was that he is
not seeking war with Iran yeah and it's
my hope that after an intelligence
briefing those of us here in the Senate
who serve on Foreign Relations
intelligence and Armed Services will
have the opportunity for a meaningful
debate about what is the best course of
action going well I you know the imeem
this is this is a pretty severe reversal
by Chris Coons
I mean he's backing off this big time I
imagine III don't know
maybe it's some notion of like you
really don't want to be on this side of
a war that Donald Trump was gonna wage
right now I mean he's still doing the
Iran fear-mongering and I voted margin
arrow it's much more generic I mean well
yeah but he must have told him something
because yeah I I haven't seen a reversal
like that in other I guess actually
calmly Harris I didn't hear that you'll
love to see it
me love to see it you love to see the
reversals dave rubin has locked me but
ben shapiro still is alive and so here
he is
bench bureau well he's got two gems
let's start with the just the I don't
know which one is more egregious but to
be honest with you but this is ben
shapiro reacting to the latest
revelations about Brett Kavanaugh that
Brett Kavanaugh had said during his
hearings had he done something - like
that - that
the schoolmate Ramirez back in Yale it
would have been all over Yale and it
turns out the reporting bears out that
in fact it was all over Yale and this of
course is the accusation that Brett
Kavanaugh drunken at a drunken party
whipped out his penis and smacked
Ramirez in the face with it and bench
bureau has an interesting take on this
which well let's just here we've had a
bevy of public figures in recent years
who have had their genitalia described
on national television by people who
allege sexual assault right store
McDaniels famously described president
Trump's genitalia Bill Clinton's
genitalia details of such closet for one
second I want to make something clear
stormy Daniels had consensual sex and
affair with multiple encounters with
Donald Trump that is not sexual assault
what's that no I think was twice and I
know one time shame on you twice shame
on me
Bill Clinton also his relationships I
think the in terms of when the genitalia
was described I believe was consensual
good work let's see maybe he has another
example from genitalia Bill Clinton's
genitalia details of such word talked
about nobody has yet described
Cavanaugh's Janet now that's not
dispositive maybe they were generic who
knows but the bottom line is we've had
no who rom writing details on any of
these stories all of them apparently
happen in public places with other
witnesses available and not one witness
has been there who corroborates any of
these stories it's unbelievable and yet
the Democrats are still saying that
Cavanaugh should be kicked off the
Supreme Court based on and what a new
report from a guy who says that he was
at a party and saw a mail grab
Cavanaugh's penis which by the way would
be sexual assault and then thrust it
into the hand of a female who says
she doesn't remember the incident it
seems like you might remember that
incident just gonna put that out there
but if you're a female innocently
sitting at a party and suddenly some
dude comes and takes someone else's junk
and thrust it into your hand it feels
like that might be memorable I'm gonna
go to the woman in the room Jess does
that seem like a memorable incident to
you it seems like a memorable incident
suggests I will take just as generic
woman here because I think that that is
a fairly memorable incident I think any
model know what's amazing about this so
he's talking about this new revelation
this new accusation from a guy who
incidentally clerked for Clarence Thomas
but on one hand
Shapira I was saying well if the the
alleged victim doesn't remember it or
claims that she doesn't remember it I
think you would remember that yet he's
also when he talks about the lack of a
description of the penis he is not
accepting the remembrance of this woman
Ramirez who is the initial victim right
like he's discounting the third
accusation to come up we should do this
hero remake of the Dave Chappelle sketch
where he mocked the curious I get so
exactly what is 20 25 years ago and
probably more recently in terms of like
I've been in like wise and like you know
athletic centers I have been in showers
I have seen other men's genitalia I will
tell you this I cannot describe it I
wouldn't even know how to describe sure
if you're having what believes you I
could do it generically but let's watch
just like I mean this is just absurd but
let's let's let's just go back and watch
this without sound because it is just as
revealing I think to watch bench people
get very very animated when he is
talking that he believes that if you
have been assaulted by someone's penis
that you should be able to describe it I
mean can you imagine just for a moment
though that if Ramirez actually did say
this like what what's the next step it's
been in Shapiro gonna call
for an examination a Brett Kavanaugh
penis to find out if it's accurate then
accurate description whip it out like
exactly great walk magic amy klobuchar I
was like there's really only common
common sense Minnesota answer to this
that Bret needs to take it out right
here
tumblin we can see Shapiro just to know
what the hawk looks Larry is we've all
been there I think that is a fairly
memorable incident I think any normal
person would probably remember that and
have called by the New York Times normal
person were you at a party where someone
grab somebody's junk and thrust it in
here seems like it might be memorable
there you go oh my god don't worry Ben
I'm sure you'll get a really graphic
description image of the of the dick
soon
now that is feiyu yeah there you go now
bench bureau is it's quite clear from
this clip is aspiring to be his
generations Bill O'Reilly now that Bill
O'Reilly is out to pasture Shapiro needs
to fill the void with exactly the same
tank that Bill O'Reilly had 15 years ago
100% and can I just say just like Bill
O'Reilly and I'm not talking about you
know whatever but there's no nothing
about bench bureaus personal life I'm
talking but the this is the
quintessential one block hey whatever
this Republican politician did we don't
even understand whatever and the next
block is black people's music is ruining
everything right exactly
like I mean the idea you know like the
idea that this would even be a topic in
this like I can understand it like back
when O'Reilly you know back in like oh
oh you know oh you know oh one or oh -
he's like this newfangled rap music
which of course at that point was
probably twenty years old but like this
newfangled rap music it sounds like
noise but it's just sort of like are you
serious in this era of music like where
it's just sort of there's just so many
shot there's so much more music now than
there was 30 years ago because of the
digital
well you know availability and I mean
make a playlist been so nineties this is
it honestly it is it's shocking and how
the only thing I could say is that it
takes I don't think they had the
technology back in the arts or in the
90s to place the mentality of a 68 year
old man into a body this young and
that's maybe why they had to wait until
now here's Ben Shapiro basically showing
off this new medical technology that has
inserted the ideas of a 68 year old man
who lived 20 years ago into the body of
a I don't know 30 40 Mon five year old
man baby my case against wrap is I have
the musical case against rappin then
I'll get to the cultural case the
musical case against rap is that in in
my view and the view of my music
theorist father who who went to music
school the there are three elements
music there is harmony there's there is
melody and there's rhythm and rap only
fulfills one of these the rhythm section
that there's not a lot of melody and
there's not a lot of harmony and thus it
is basically effectively spoken rhythm
and so it's not actually a form of music
it's a form of rhythmic speaking and
thus I and so beyond the subjectivity of
nature's not enjoying rap all that much
it's what I've said before is this not
me oh my god oh god who is the black guy
who's getting paid to laugh like he said
something hilarious
it's a zoobi I believe he's a UK rapper
who famously decided he was going to
start declaring this identifying as
female to break powerlifting records do
we do I mean I'm curious about bench
Piero's father since he's brought his
father into this
who's been Shapiro's father also like
believe like it was was he raised
Orthodox I wonder if his dad what his
dad's beliefs are on other things that
we should also be inserting into the
culture like maybe women shouldn't be
wearing skirts above the knees or
something like that
sort of fascinating my dad is the
foremost authority on music and he says
it's not music I don't know if it ended
up being true enough but there was
somebody who had a theory that he was
sorry bench bureau's dad was sock puppet
boost II and Ben Shapiro social media
posts I believe that theory i 100%
believe that theory meanwhile since
we're in this in this neighborhood
steven crowder
has been pushing yeah let's just go
through the whole thing you know the nra
and one of the revelations of the nra
that there were two years of state
investigations and numerous lawsuits the
Nira stopped offering its carry guard
self defense insurance products the the
nra rolled out the carry guard in 2017
it's a multi-tiered insurance program
offered with policies up to one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars in criminal
defense reimbursement and a million
dollars in civil liability protection it
it basically it was defense coverage for
criminal actions essentially right like
if you accidentally shoot somebody or
criminally shoot somebody they would now
in this didn't stick in in in New York
because the NRA was based in New York so
they were subject to New York
regulations it's quite possible that
firearms legal.com firearm legal
protection is an insurance company
somewhere else
and so they are able to get away with
this but here's steven crowder with not
only selling a some type of junk
insurance program but also doing one of
the world's worst ads
it's unclear if they produce this ad or
not or just reproduce it but this is a
scene which is going to in some way I
guess capture when you would need this
insurance what did you expect
you can simply face ridiculous civil
liability with the defensive use of your
firearm that's why you need firearms
legal protection with our 24/7 emergency
hotline now we're here for a second
first off I I'm that voice on the other
side of the door sounded a lot like
steven crowder tamina maybe it wasn't
and then of course they get this you
know brooklyn hits his love this guy
just like they were just like hey you
tired of making soy lattes you ought to
be a judge and sentence gun overs to
jail for civil cases but here's yes it's
supposedly i'm going to sue you and
apparently the lawsuit was for putting
him we're gonna do i'm gonna I want put
handcuffs on you as my compensation
which of course does not happen in the
context of lawsuits what also doesn't
happen is that the court officer when
they come to cuff you they don't reach
for your hands that are behind your back
and then somehow magically put the cuffs
on in front of you this this is I mean I
hate to be a critique of the filmmaking
here but watch this watch watch the the
cut where they go for the hands behind
the back you can see a face ridiculous
civil liability with the defensive use
of your firearm
that's why you need firearms legally to
come behind him firearms owner firearms
legal protection is the best legal
protection you can have for self-defense
there you go so they will and it's
unclear what they'll provide somehow
they will make sure that you don't go to
jail if you get less sued just say if
you do have a gun for self-defense maybe
don't shoot blindly through doors my
friend's door I'm just picturing some
monster from like Fraggle Rock or
something that just like eats bullets
and spits them back out again and goes
ow hey Fred you shot another babysitter
that we still have our murder insurance
to pay all right
holy colic please the row of the body
hubs look Rose let's go to the phones
come from a 308
area code who's this where you come from
hey ma'am can you hear me yes I can
who's this this is Kowalski from
Nebraska Kowalski from Nebraska what's
on your mind well I was just curious I'm
on a limited budget but I've got my
patriotic count out should I go with P
MBS or the majority report whoa Kowalski
getting problematically Jamie or Matt
would give me an answer that's not the
answer just giving them opportunity
ourselves slash the ante photo well I'll
tell you what let's do it this way I'm
thinking a number between one and ten I
want you to tell me what the number is
fine
you got it majority report nailed it
actually one of the things I did want to
call in and
basically stays during the debate I
really don't think either candidates
made a case for Iowa well in in in what
sense well both all the candidates kind
of did touch on agriculture a little bit
but I really feel like they could really
really be making some headway against
Trump if they just called out the trade
war a little bit more like one thing
that needs to be pointed out is like the
damage this is caused out like
agricultural America is by and large
permanent now like suicide rates are at
a 35-year high foreclosures and the
amount of money that these that now in
places like Latin America by US
companies and other companies that are
it you know subsidies they're making
infrastructure so like there will always
be a glut of Latin American grain on the
international market like the damaged
Trump is done is permanent and the only
way forward is a new vision so I mean
like that's not that I really think
Sanders needs to capitalize on and like
you know really explain we're like the
coal miners now it's a good old days are
gone and we have to evolve
well what about also talking about the I
mean like I know Sanders has an
incredibly aggressive anti-monopoly plan
and it seems to me that if they talk
about that because you know as Brendan
pointed out they are debating in Texas
but you could talk about AG monopolies
and corporations you know squeezing out
small businesspeople and workers in a
way that I think would synchronize the
broader case about the rest of the
economy so I think that would might be
the way to go there and I'll see you on
page two the one extra content a large
Democratic well I mean maybe they make
that pivot in the general I would be
surprised if I would be surprised if
they don't make that pivot in the
general I think just in the in the in
the
may not have the same resonance in the
context of Iowa but appreciate the call
and I will say this Michael makes the
case to 2 1 X content on t MBS I think
we can all do rudimentary math here 45
50 minutes of the free show on the
majority report it's almost an hour and
a half afterwards all do the same
support you guys all of your subscribers
gave just a dollar a month you're
looking at millions so I mean oh no he's
no he that is true if every single
person who watched this for free on
YouTube gave each of us a dollar a month
he's actually right British man he's a
Republican leader with common-sense
solutions I'll see on patreon buddy
thank you come from a 301 area code
who's this where he come from me yes it
is you hello this is a Conor I'm calling
from a formula gang gang occupied
territory Connor from former a yang gang
territory what what happened to what
happened to that territory
um well honestly you guys but if you
give me a second I can kind of tell you
how I got over there sure um well I got
introduced to Andrew yang just through
like a video and then I kind of got
hooked in and started watching a lot of
videos and then when I ran out I had to
like watch interviews that he had so I
what I wore somebody just commenting on
him and eventually I got to you guys and
I was like wow everyone said dicks but
then I wore my math hat long enough and
I thought harder as the statement said
and then finally it's called the light
well I'm sorry that it was math but
anyway you can get there is good I mean
I mean look I think there's um that's
like his catchphrase like make America
think harder oh I didn't I I didn't
think what specifically tipped you um
well it's because I liked you guys so
much
just thought oh you guys were wrong
about yang but you're right about
everything else and then that just after
I got hooked on the show when I kept
watching tape watching I've been
watching for like maybe two or three
months now and then just all the points
started adding up and I'll say okay
maybe these guys got the right one of
you oh yeah I mean I think it's he's
been I think it's been not a bad thing
to have him in the the primary frankly
I'm telling see raises I just don't like
his solutions but he raises important
things yes what initially kind of got me
in was like he's like oh he's like he's
getting the issue right but then by the
time he got to the solution and he got
into the weeds a little more you're like
oh maybe this isn't the best way to go
yeah it's interesting because you know I
was just thinking when Kowalski called
about Iowa I'm always reminded of Barack
Obama in the months leading up to Iowa
basically as a way of trying to I think
Drive and the older vote started talking
about social security in crisis and was
unclear at the time exactly what his
solution was but and frankly Social
Security was not in crisis but
identifying an issue that whether it
exists or not or whether the
characterization of the problem or not
is accurate for people who are older
Social Security is hugely important and
so if someone says like there's a
problem with Social Security no doubt
you're immediately communicating to them
that like I'm thinking about things that
could be problematic for you even if
it's not a problem Social Security it
just means that like oh this person's
watching out for me
and and so I think you know that is one
of the things I think I think the yang
does articulate at least some of the
problems that exist in in society and
and I just his solution I'm not sure is
the right one but good for those people
who may
the who won the lottery and three things
but lotteries are not necessarily a a
structural solution appreciate the call
no thanks yeah but I'll be listening
every day thanks great what do you guys
do I really love the show
Thanks appreciate your support gone from
a four one three area code who's this
where you come from
hi I'm Dave from the Bursar's here
it's my speaker all right yup you sound
great
okay I want to comment on the Cavanaugh
discussion and wrote down my point so I
apologize if my delivery is a bit
robotic all right no problem the first
thing was I think you were spot-on and
everything used all the points you made
yesterday you know please ask the
momma's calves
Cavanaugh is an example for their sons
to emulate ask a moms if they are
comfortable sending their daughters out
in the world populated by creeps like
Cavanaugh and he's probably the one
thing they infuriates me the most about
this turd sandwich we are fourth
force-fed daily because as you pointed
out he lied to the entire thing and
everyone paying attention knew he was
lying and made it and I made absolutely
no difference
and then pivoting to the call from
flamingo who is one my favorite callers
into the show he closed out going down a
path that you seemed reluctant reluctant
to follow is am I correct in that
assessment wait I'm sorry say that again
well he closed out the conversation kind
of intimating some stuff about Biden and
you weren't really it didn't seem like
you were comfortable where he was going
is that is that the way is that correct
Reid what about what about what what all
right what do you think he was intimated
bingo well I thought flamingo was
intimating the Biden and Cavanaugh were
somewhat equal in their guilt in
- the women issue no I think my my sense
was to the extent that I remember is
that there's a quality of like a certain
arrogance not necessarily that they what
they did was equivalent but their
reaction to the idea that they commit
any type of offense is similar you know
Joe Biden look at me
has I don't think that Joe Biden's
perspective based upon what I understand
I don't I don't think what they did is
equivalent I think their ability to
accept any measure of culpability
regardless of what it is is similar I
also thought he was saying they exist on
a continuum of just crappy misogynistic
patriarchal culture I think that's the
case but but what else what what what
else did you have well I just think that
Biden is vulnerable on issues in regards
to women I am totally agree I think it's
actually his vulnerability is even far
greater I mean in some ways maybe that
theme peaked too early but you know
Anita Hill yeah um and you know is
people were mad at him for Nita Hill for
a long time and in some ways I think
that sort of peaked a little bit early
it'd be interesting to see if well they
need a hill thing though that's thought
that's real I mean that's the one to
really focus on and for what it's worth
I will just say and I feel weird to
quote this person but you know Orrin
Hatch just dropped saying that you know
Biden told him personally he didn't
believe in Nita Hill now Orrin Hatch's
just literally just now
now Orrin Hatch's trash and Orrin Hatch
is not someone to trust but that is some
that's what I would focus on that's a
really the way he handled those hearings
is a real thing not to mention his
incredible weakness on abortion rates
that's also a real thing yeah yeah well
listen I appreciate oh you got one more
well okay well I just wanted to just
finish this off by saying that I just
imagined Trump going against the Biden
in the debate and nobody pleased I am
rubber you're glue game better than
Trump and I did have a dr. wolf thing I
just wanted to mention I'm a former
student of his and his class was one one
that made an impression throughout my
life
he gave this lecture on market
fetishization that's just amazing so if
you get them on again just ask them to
briefly describe it because the guy's an
amazing teacher thanks for everything
you guys do and you definitely make this
turd sandwich a little tastier well
that's that is our that is our that is
our one of our marketing programs this
turds gonna taste just a little bit
sweeter
we'll use a blurb next to the daily
Stormers hi do we have this Candice own
things now where was this from Brendan
this is okay this is at the revolt
summit I don't know what the I don't
know what that even means really but
it's and he's on and she and Candice
Owens they're on stage with the
reference he uh the rapper Ti and
apparently you know she's getting
questioned about her statements
regarding slavery and yeah this is fun
to watch what happens when when when a
conservative is out of her element okay
safe space exactly but it's also gives
us an opportunity to debunk something
since I've been so heavily invested in
the civil war for the past couple of
weeks but listening to this this podcast
to debunk Candace Owens one of our
favorite claims and this all one of the
favorite claims are the right but here
let's take it from the beginning here is
the rapper ti with Candace Owens was
America great that we're trying to
replicate rich posit now we should just
be clear here that he's asking as a
black person in America which era is
Donald Trump trying to replicate from
the perspective of a black person that
we want to replicate as opposed to I
guess move forward and go into a better
era
[Applause]
whatever with what whichever was so
great you hear something that you guys
are forgetting America was actually one
of the front slavery was all over the
world all over the world America I'm not
saying it's okay so why are you saying
Oh Washington you're just gonna boo and
I say emmaus Lavery was all over the
world which is the fact why are you
booing affect people that look like us
you can't make light of their bet ain't
nothing he brings oh finish the sentence
how am i making with some I
think that is accurate but had he and I
don't know what happens after that clip
but she was going on to make an argument
that somehow America was uniquely
progressive in getting rid of slavery
and just ii-i've heard conservatives say
this now first of all I do not think
there was I imagine perhaps maybe when
we talk about we talk about like sort of
Late Antiquity and maybe some other eras
that you can find societies that were so
driven economically by slavery but IIIi
think America was fairly unrivaled yes
in world history in terms of building
economic might I'm not talking just
about domestic I'm talking about like
like internationally via slavery as a
and it was not even just a a feature of
society like society in for a large part
of this country was built around slavery
now aside from that being fairly unique
American phenomena I'm sure in history
like there may have been
like you know when we talk about the
Roman Empire hundreds of years eras
where slavery existed existed in this
country for over 200 years
slavery did and it was a new kind of
slavery - I mean it was unique probably
in terms of you know world history not
buy your freedom the same way you could
as a Roman slave as an example very big
functional difference but let's just
address the specific claim that America
is one of the first countries to get rid
of slavery 1792 Denmark bans the import
of slaves to its West India colonies now
this this is the what this is the
pattern for a lot of like these so you
know the abolition movements it will
start first with you can't trade you can
continue to own your property I'm using
quotations because we're talking about
human beings here and and certainly in
the context of our country you know the
first thing
well it's good let's not get to our
country yet 1807 Britain passes the
abolition of saved receive Trade Act
outlying the British Atlantic slave
trade United States passes the
legislation banning the slave trade
starting at 1808 but you still have an
enormous number of slaves in this
country Spain in 1811 abolish slavery
including its colonies 1813 Sweden bans
slave trading 1814 Netherlands bans
slave trading 1817 fan of France banned
slave trading Britain passes the
abolition of slavery Act in 1833
portering a gradual abolition of slavery
in all British colonies Portugal abolish
is the slave trade in 1819 1846 Danish
governor proclaims emancipation of
slaves in the Danish West End's is the
abolishing slavery 1848 France abolishes
slavery 1851 Brazil abolish his slave
trading 1858 Portugal abolishing slavery
in his colonies
1861 Netherland abolishing slavery in
Dutch Caribbean colonies in the United
States slavery was abolished in 1865 via
the 13th of member the US Constitution
between the time that the Netherlands
abolish slavery and the time that we
passed the Thirteenth Amendment 700,000
Americans died this was not a casual
process in which the slave slaves were
emancipated in fact it wasn't until
halfway through the war that it was
about the war was about emancipating all
slaves prior to that it was too limiting
the slave trade prior to that was to say
the western frontier was going to be
slave free prior to that it was just
about we're gonna contain in this area
and yes President Lincoln tried to buy
the slaves freedom from the south they
had no interest and so the idea that
somehow you America was uniquely good in
the context of slavery is just
completely a historical between and
diluted between 1836 and 1844 it was
against the house rules to discuss
slavery at all you couldn't even bring
it up
you couldn't even bring it up through
speech and then I will say this to that
very quickly in the context of
reconstruction you had what amounted to
slavery with basically tenant farmers
they were not you as a freed man you had
no access to capital you couldn't go
there was no there was an attempt by
there was an attempt to uh to start a
bank that would loan to freedmen but
well that's in that small period of time
where the Norwegian soldiers right and
reconstruction where actually that it's
important underlying and my killer Mike
does later in that clip that black
people actually accumulated a lot of
ikan
making political power in a very short
period of time in that period it was
taken away and it was all taken away it
was looking away by political and and
there's a new Sidney Blumenthal book
actually where he talks about I mean not
only could you not have an idea
conversation in the 1850s Charles Sumner
was obtaining on the floor of the Senate
for talking about slavery yes
physically physically beaten well even
if we ignore all of that history and say
mmm the u.s. was no worse than any other
country in terms of slavery that doesn't
answer his question right right it was a
complete deflection of like where you're
going it was good for black people well
all the other countries were bad for
black people too there was there was
like there was a brief moment and
reconstruction it was very it was very
short
there also was and we did an interview
on the Northwest Territories which at
that time were Minnesota Ohio Michigan I
think in the 1840s where there were
where there were free black folk who had
very profitable farms all that was taken
away by these states they started to
legislate I mean against property
ownership for black people etc etc I
didn't know early elicit history was it
Matt was Wilmington North Carolina yeah
and it was a it was listen some ways a
positive example it was a multiracial
coalition there was building between you
know blacks and reconstruction and poor
whites to sort of generate so you know
some version of kind of development for
the whole city and a white terrorists
Klan group but was funded by oligarchs
because they didn't like the labor
protections so it actually fits all of
the modules that we talk about all the
time there's a Marxist angle there's a
white supremacy angle there's a
astroturf angle and everybody knew this
at the time like I have this thing I
discussed in the first episode of litter
essay by Sydney Smith a Scottish guy
called who reads an American book
basically saying like Americans are big
on themselves now but they have a really
Prius anything and it ends with this
statement finally under which of the old
tyrannical governments of Europe is
every sixth man a slave whom his fellow
creatures may buy and sell and torture
and when these questions are favorably
answer you can have a lot of Tory
epithets but like everybody knew this
all literature at the time is like
justifying even if it was apologetic it
at least had to deal with the fact that
they say they're an empire of Liberty
while having enslaved people more even
more than the rest of Europe was at the
time well the the the argument was that
the South needs to have freedom to have
its slaves and economically like that
the northern states relied on that
economy of like the sugar and later
cotton plantations as much as the
southern ones that they were just a
further down on the leg of the trade
which is also how even in Europe it
worked like I ever and of course you
Leopold's ghost because it's a brilliant
piece about how like the campaign that
you needed to have against the
atrocities that they committed in the
Belgian Congo was also some version of
like some people in Britain being like
well there's these new pamphleteers for
human rights in Africa Belgium's messed
up should focus on that
exactly where do you think the cotton
came from and all of those new garment
factories there England no they're good
another good parallel to today actually
that's an amazing book I just have to
say King Leopold's ghost people always
ask for book recommendations that's one
of the best books I've ever read
alright folks we've run out of time
colors I'm sorry I apologize we will do
some news oh and tomorrow on the program
Billy Bragg will be king
I'll be coming on that's a good get yeah
that's huge did he get blocked by Dave
from you got blocked my Dave Rubin and
so he wanted to come on the show all
right we will see you tomorrow
to get to where I want
no son
[Music]
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
you
where the choice is made so the option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
Jeter takes you
[Music]
[Music]
