[Applause]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Thursday August 22nd 2019
I'm Michael Brooks since the five-time
award-winning the jargon for
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program a
brand-new interview that Sam Sita just
did with Dale Barron it came from
something awful how a toxic troll army
accidentally memed Donald Trump the
chosen one into office the chosen one
was my joke not the full title of the
book that interview was recorded just
recently bernie sanders unveils a 16
trillion dollar green New Deal plan to
combat the climate crisis achieve full
employment on the heels of a radical
labor and criminal justice plans I guess
more folks have plans now and a movement
ABC News reporting on the fires blazing
through the Amazon fires set into play
by the fascistic Brazilian government in
spite of Lies from the bolsa narrow
regime that they were sent might set by
NGOs this in conjunction with already a
rights crisis facing it
people in Brazil ecocide and ethnic
cleansing on the heels of 500 days of
the political imprisonment of Lula de
Silva
however Hank Johnson Congressman Hank
Johnson along with bro Khanna Ilan omar
Susan Wilde Veronica Escobar and several
others have called on the DOJ to provide
answers for its close coordination with
the lava jato investigation which put
Lula in jail and set the stage for the
destruction of the Amazon Trump says
he's seriously looking at ending
birthright citizenship on the heels of
wanting to detain children indefinitely
in camps time to be serious
in fact it already was well time to be
serious
seventy mayors sign a letter opposing
the Trump administration's proposal to
restrict access to food stamps at least
eight jail officials knew that Jeffrey
Epstein was not to be left alone in his
cell but yet somehow it still happened
is this who we are we're really a giant
CIA operation jay Inslee is ending his
climate change driven campaign for
president the only one besides I guess
Bill DeBlasio fresh off the heels of
calling for the freeing of Leonard
Peltier who should not drop out
Congress pushes pumps breaks on an
interior push to wreak locate the Bureau
of Land Management to make it easier for
land exploitation and Trump says he's
got a great Medal of Honor winner in
minds can you guess who that Medal of
Honor winner might be any guesses who
would Donald Trump like to award the
Medal of Honor one word yes give me one
name who would I mean come on guys John
King that is a great guess if it's not
true but I love the thinking myself I
would like very much to award
myself Philip Honor thank you
a Medal of Honor winning it's kind so
stupid so stupid called the medal of the
king of Jerusalem you know there's a lot
of analysis about the the new
anti-semitism coming from the Trump
Trump gang yesterday and I think we we
covered a lot of it but I don't remember
if we put this take forward yesterday
but I forget who I think it was Arisa on
Twitter and I'm apologize this isn't in
the prep I just remembered this but the
point of the tweet was this is also just
being super pissed because in Trump's
head he doesn't look he doesn't have any
historical or analytic awareness of
anything so he's given and indulged the
far-right regime of an Israel of their
every single wish and he still can see a
poll that Jewish voters aren't flipping
to him so he's he's livid and I think
that's 100% true don't tell me we're not
backsliding on race when they're
bringing back old forms of bigotry that
we haven't even seen in a while I mean
so many different things are happening
on race right now including I don't even
know backsliding reinvention of
apartheid for the 21st century but no
doubt and that's why I always say
there's only one place where fascism is
safe for Jews I mean I'm being a little
flippant but that's also like a serious
point you know I I wouldn't get too
comfortable in any type of authoritarian
far-right leanin regime if you're Jewish
even if there's a marriage of
convenience with the far-right
authoritarians in Israel but let's get
to Brazil we know and it has been
repeated that the Amazon is a core
fulcrum in the Earth's planetary system
we already know that we're in an
ecological crisis
this is b-roll of the fires in the
Amazon now it's very important to note
and I just want to say here I mean look
and also how the fires are affecting
cities in Brazil
it's very important to be real here that
this is a political project this is
inseparable from the balsan ro
government this is inseparable from the
u.s. backing of things like lava jato
the wall street endorsement of jr.
bolson ro the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation on the day that Boston ro1
put out a tweet saying you know he's
controversial but great business
opportunities so it's extremely
important that we frame and understand
what this is which is that jr. bolson ro
along with the Republican Party is the
greatest threat to human survival on
planet earth right now that this is a
political decision this is an eco side
and a global ecological threat and it's
also absolutely a form of ethnic
cleansing of the Brazilian indigenous
communities and that there is a long
policy set which implicates the Obama
administration that DOJ Wall Street
mining and agnus --is that lead to this
moment were in which is literally life
and death for the entire planet this is
a report from Brian Mayer he's a
reporter of course for Telesur and also
co-editor of Brazil wire which is the
indispensable brazil resource everybody
needs to read reporting from Sao Paolo
yesterday on the fires I'm standing on
the north side of Sao Paulo where the
entire city is engulfed in smog as it
has been since Monday in a weather
phenomenon that's related to smoke
coming up from the Amazon rainforest
where thousands of fires are currently
raging now every year in the dry season
in the Amazon region small farmers and
ranchers slept practice slash and burn
agriculture techniques they burn the the
scrub on their land and it creates
nutrients in the soil it's not good for
the environment but it's hard to
convince them to stop doing it but
what's happening this year is different
President jarba Naru is giving out
signals to the big loggers and
agribusiness companies that they can
invade natural parks and indigenous
reservations and chop down trees and
burn whatever they want
so there's huge fires out of control
animals are dying and the risk is that
if he continues acting this way there
could be a phenomenon called die back in
which the entire force could burn down
uncontrollably if it reaches a certain
point of deforestation and some
biologists are predicting this could
happen by 2030 now if bolson arrow stays
and power acting this way the odds are
that this is really going to happen and
since the Amazon provides the world with
20% of its oxygen it would be a
catastrophe
jay-ar bolson ro is the greatest threat
to human survival on planet earth right
now um and but you know by extension
obviously the United States government
the corporations that have backed him
and this needs to be understood
politically and needs to be understood
economically and will certainly get back
to you know the latest about the in
political imprisonment of Lula but
everybody who first of all backed and
orchestrated this process and then
uncritically covered it has a direct
stake an implication in something that
literally threatens the future of the
entire planet and is a crisis a profound
crisis in Brazil right now several weeks
ago an indigenous leader was murdered
this also correlates with regular
shootings of activists and organizers in
Brazil ongoing threats legal and
extrajudicial against Glenn Greenwald
and just two weeks ago or a week ago
Mariela Franco's wife her widow went to
go visit Lula in prison Mariela of
course was assassinated by a cartel that
a lot of reports can link to the bolson
ro family so that's what's happening and
it is a matter of utmost urgency we have
I guess an ad to get to and then we will
come right back with Sam's interview but
Sam gave you this pitch
thanks Michael before we get to author
Dale Barron on his book it came from
something awful how a toxic troll army
accidentally memed Donald Trump into
office
let me just remind you folks now that
the weather is a little still a little
bit warmer might be time to switch up
your sheets and duvets to something a
little breezier from Brooklyn uns newest
linen collection these beautiful Airy
linen pieces that give your bedroom a
certain chic you hear that Matt oh yeah
yeah gives you a relaxed feel my
bedrooms look yes I can imagine
they don't have a gamer's version of
this but these things they honestly they
have a relaxed feel they give you the
ultimate comfort and they look a little
bit stylish not to mention available 12
different colors and patterns my
Brooklyn and sheets you know it's very
hard for me to desegregate a lot of
changes over my life for the past year
and a half you know marital status
changing that means sleeping
arrangements changing that means I get
to choose which sheets I wear use all
the time my Brooklyn and sheets it's
hard for me to disaggregate the
different emotions I'm feeling but I'm
feeling great and part of it I know it's
my book linen sheets I don't want to get
too I don't want to go too deep into
that but they honestly they look great
they feel great they get better as you
as you sleep on them I have just now
it's just like they're my favorite
t-shirt except for I get to sleep in it
every night and it's in your name it's
in their name so you know that
Brooklyn's newest linen collection is
amazing like I say I can't recommend
their products more graduates newlyweds
friends family treating yourself to a
bedroom upgrade you deserve and now
Brooklyn and calm is giving my listeners
an exclusive offer get 10% off and free
shipping when you use the promo code
majority at Brooklyn and calm Brooklyn
is so confident that you're gonna love
their sheets or their comforters towels
pillows they all come from with with a
lifetime warranty the only way to get
10% off and free shipping use promo code
majority at Brooklyn in.com that's
Brooklyn and calm promo code majority
Brooklyn and these are the best sheets
ever now we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back
I'll be talking to Dale Barron best
sheets ever do you see all right guys we
have an interview now with Sam cedar and
Dale Barron author of it came from
something awful how a toxic really
accidently meme Donald Trump into office
we'll be right back we are back Sam
cedar on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program
freelance a journalist former cartoonist
and author of it came from something
awful how a toxic troll army
accidentally memed Donald Trump into
office Dale Barron welcome to the
program so um let's let's just start
with or I guess you well let's start
with something awful what and it will it
will sort of walk us through your
journey how you got there and then we'll
talk about how society sort of set up
the table for this particular brand of I
guess this this I guess societal
perspective which which which brought us
this toxic troll army but bigger but
tell us about something awful like what
was your involvement in that what was
that
it was a website in the 90s it still
exists it was a sort of toxic forum
where there was sort of like the depth
of kind of dark humor and 90s nihilism
was expressed there so it's about kind
of self-hating gamers who would kind of
make fun of dropping out and playing
games and hating sort of this like
commodified lifestyle where you're just
sort of like hanging out right you've
dropped out of life and and you're very
nice dick and that evolved that spawned
another site called 4chan which was even
more nihilistic and sort of even more
about dropping out and playing video
games all day and that slowly evolved
sort of into a political movement first
on the left and then it's bombed the far
right so that
sort of in a nutshell that's what the
book is about tracing that history of
the alright which came out of this anime
website or the sort of set of websites
about playing video games and and uh
dropping out of life all right so let's
let's track that how nihilism turns into
a maybe hesitate to say a political
movement but certainly a almost a
strange political ideology of sorts you
just I guess
tell folks like what and I think most
people by now know what 4chan and
ei-chan are but right what what is 4chan
and HN they are online message boards
Anonymous for the most part so you don't
have to say who you are when you post
and they're sort of known first as sort
of an amazing message boards but also
known for really dark cynical content
and they spawned a variety of
sociological sociologically important
things like means they more or less
invented the idea of memes and then they
invented then anonymous the sort of
far-left activist collective came out of
4chan around 2008 and then they largely
spawned the all right around 2014-2015
so very large internet message boards
that sort of to me i argue a sort of the
center of a sort of type of youth
counterculture that that then sort of
evolved in the political movement now
the people as you talked about these
sort of different eras of 4chan right
anonymous and and then you know
gamergate i guess and maybe the
alt-right and whatnot these are not
necessarily the same people right
they're they're they're different
generations of people who are like
adopting parts of the the generation
that was prior to them and by generation
I'm using the term I guess maybe a
little loosely or you know a little
specifically not necessarily although
maybe maybe we
speeding up in that way but I mean is
that right right so yeah we in some
sense it's I sort of used these sites to
kind of make a sociological argument
about the friends and sort of to
understand the the phenomenon of like
why suddenly in 2015 there's this huge
fascist movement on this very popular
message for it but actually going out
and speaking to people from the site
people are using the sites and going out
and finding sources for the book some of
them are the same right some of them
kind of have gone through the whole
thing for the most part the far left and
on and the attack to this group are
different the part of wise of though the
right far right movement spawned was
there was a quote-unquote moral vacuum
where all those people laughed those a
lot of people grew up last the site but
a lot of folks sort of the argue the
idea is that you sort of had this vast
disenfranchised group of people who sort
of ever more marginalized right like
after the 2008 crash there were just
sort of men that just dropped out they
never came back and they ended up well
in in that case you you're on the
internet you're hanging out and the
people who were there in 2005 or like
haha I'm dropping on the life I'm a gen
Xer I'm like a life sucks you know then
20 years passes right and like the idea
is that how long can you be an eyelift
how can you do that and the answer is
not long right so at first they try to
let it like alright well we're gonna
break out of our mom's basement and
we're going to have this hacktivists
political movement that it's going to
destroy the you know a big government or
the industrial complex or big
corporations but that that gets crushed
by the FBI around 2012 and there's still
a lot of people left and there's new
kids rights to the phenomenon of like
the idea that like oh you're 19 you're
20 and you still life sucks you get to
be shuffled into a cubicle or you get to
work at Taco Bell well the idea of that
like video games and the internet all
that stuff expanding those worlds are
more in throwing than ever
so like that idea that portend invented
that like in 2005 you'll drop out the
kids in 2015 there like yeah more than
ever I'm gonna do that so then that
culture gets inherit it right there was
sort of like a
rolling ball that just keeps going we're
like the phenomenon the underlying
phenomenon that created is still there
so fortunate culture just keeps
ballooning and then creating new bird
new politics that that float up to the
political sphere do we have an an Alaia
me because it's it feels like there is
something structural about the internet
and and and and more narrowly you know
like a an existing message board that we
don't necessarily have an analog for
past generations so if and and you start
the book out talking a little bit about
the the counterculture in the 60s and
how in many respects it became absorbed
by the culture and then commodified and
sold back to us and rightly is like the
gap for instance right san francisco but
the it was very hard to maintain
whatever feelings or attitudes there
were from the late 60s because there was
no third place if you will where where
the dynamic was static so and maybe i'm
not articulating that that that clearly
enough but that an unmoderated self
maintained almost you know online VFW
hall right where people could go and
there's obviously like some
institutional memory of the attitudes
that drove people there in the first
place you know got a lot of misfits you
got a lot of people are alienated and
this is a place for me to go where i can
also sort of redesign who i am in some
way it's almost as if you know woodstock
existed never shut down right there was
constantly rolling from there some years
obviously you know that the ethos from
the original Woodstock would live on
longer and it sort of feels like that's
happened with 4chan but the the core
basis of that ethos which is like we
live outside of things was the only that
chain
and sort of what filled it changed a
little bit but that that core ethos of
like hey we're in a nun moderated forum
where we're outside of things we're
almost outlaws on some level right I
mean that that seems to be the only
thing yet that maintained through that
period in some sense yeah I mean I think
that's an interesting point and I agree
all those elements are they are right
the outside or the rebel the people
people that don't want to be part of
society or sort of want to make their
own rules right they'd always have that
sort of independent streak I mean I
guess to sort of put these things touch
on these things in a way that I ordered
them in the book the idea is that well
as you sort of describe the the internet
was created by these out of this sort of
sixties counterculture ver and they're
like oh the rebellion will be there like
Woodstock the new Woodstock will be
there and then instead what occurred was
by the time the 80's and 90's roll
around this sort of this idea that
capitalism will last forever in the
American style that that's sort of the
end of history
Fukuyama idea that like that was it and
and then counterculture from the 90s
which was my generation we said oh well
there's nowhere to go right there's only
despair only through dropping out at
nihilism and that became the sort of
dropping out in the computer world and
so by the early 2000 you sort of get
that nihilistic youth counterculture
they're like well where are we going
we're just going in we're just going to
drop out we're gonna live in the screen
and the real world kind of sucks does it
definitely offer as much and sort of
like what happened that was 4chan and so
what then happens was by the time you
get the 2008 they're like they're ready
to rebel they're sort of ready to sort
of take action and become hackers sort
of like in that revolutionary sense that
was vision by the sixties and they do it
really does happen unfortunate but when
that movements broken then sort of like
what happens is you get another
generation coming in and they're like
well now where do we go we still have
that sort of nihilistic idea like more
than ever they're sort of like well now
there's even less hope for us and that
ends up sort of devolve into the alright
and but that obvious oppose from the
other point that you talked about where
is new right the new part is that sort
of this echo chamber effect
where it turns out sort of unique to the
internet that if you get a bunch of
people together they're going to
encourage really bad behavior among
themselves so whether that sort of thing
SPO inspiring to be seen or sort of in
sales and sort of where you're like oh
we all get together and like we all
going to decide that we're doomed or
never we're never going to go outside
we're never going to have romantic
partners right so there's so that that
was the new effect but the other part
very old right so like the idea that in
2015 2016 and 2017 you summit you get
like young people becoming communists
and young people becoming fascists and
they're battling on the streets because
capitalism once again it's become so
unequal and sort of so dysfunctional
right that's that's old it's just
expressing itself again through the
internet through these weird forms that
brought it out about anime does does
does the idea I mean because we should
talk about gamergate I mean all this
fascinates me for multiple reasons I
mean I was told when when we first went
on Madonn air america we had a a website
for the majority report which was just
an old movable-type with just you know
comments but we wouldn't blog very much
it really just functioned as a a
completely unmoderated you know chat
forum and we would have anywhere from 20
to 30 thousand people a day mostly
thought of those three hours and
thousands of comments per hour because
people we you know we were pushing
people there from the radio site and i
dreadful who told me that some elements
of anonymous were you know would gather
there because it was completely
unmoderated and it was it moved quite
rapidly and whatnot and then you know of
five or six years later I'm doing this
version of the show and one of my
producers at the time who was hosting
you know wanted to talk about gamergate
which did I had no idea what it was and
I won why would you well I mean I I
don't know like at the time it with pure
garbage right it it's it's like videos
like Dennis Rodman visiting North Korea
right you're like you just want to
forget it's your garbage but also right
years later you're like oh that's the
increase that's like Donald Trump is it
means the same thing right but you need
besides vertically important exactly and
so but but I mean there's two things
that occur to me about gamergate and
let's and I want you to tell people what
gamergate was for photos don't remember
and also the concept of in cells because
it one of the things that really seems
clear to me is that during this period
of time we have sort of this this this
you know to borrow your phrase a toxic
brew of of won a financial collapse
right so you have people are going
through economic hardship on top of
which we're having fairly significant
strides in social emancipation if you
will we have the election of the first
african-american president we have a
we're hurtling towards marriage equality
I have the election came down to a woman
in an african-american man though
everyone anticipated that the next
president would be a woman so we're
getting further you know sort of social
emancipation and it doesn't surprise me
that on some level to be counterculture
at this moment in time is to essentially
be a conservative reactionary and this
certainly there were those people who
are trying to sort of build this
ideology during the aughts but it wasn't
quite there because things were pretty
things it was not clear where the
culture was going in terms of this stuff
right and but by 2008 it there was a
sense of like it's going in not the
direction the conservatives of the
George Bush movement had so tell us what
gamergate came out of because to me as
I've told people about it it's like I'm
basically telling you a story that you
probably encountered in junior high but
it grew into something massive right so
yeah it was sort of this piece of
cultural garbage in 2014 or sort of a
harassment campaign that started on
4chan so
where Chen was was part of this really
the center of troll culture where they
would gang up and harass people and that
moot that turned before into the fact of
this movement were they harassed
Scientology or a government but in 2014
the people left their harassed a game
developer and the idea was they were
insulted that it was she was bringing
feminism two games essentially that was
their complaint there was a bunch of
other hyper detail that sort of not
really relevant is relevant insofar as
yeah it was a guy who broke up with a
girl or a girl who broke up with a guy
and the guy right exactly yeah basically
it's not I do yeah right he was sort of
a jilted ex or something and he posted
this long angry screed to kind of
inspire the the angry young men on 4chan
he knew already that already this woman
zoe quinn the game developer was already
being targeted already i sort of the
Intel community at that point so he was
sort of like wanted to rally them so he
created this long angry post and he's
like these are all the horrible things
she did and it just became this huge
harassment campaign like bigger almost
than any personal harassment campaign
for tenet ever done and so the idea is
like well where did all that passion
come from why did they mobilize around
that and the idea it was then full of
young men who had really just dropped
out in a way that was more than any
other in the past sort of more otaku
more Kiko more ease through the Japanese
term for where you're just withdrawing
living life by the computer and
convincing themselves that they would
never go out they would never have a
romantic partner they would never
succeed in life that they were on the
bottom and so this idea that like oh I
can't go into a video game and then
seduce a women woman in the video game I
sort of have these misogynistic
fantasies in my beginning well that's my
only retreat that's the only place I can
go they got really mad and this was
their way a really immature kind of
deranged way of expressing it but that
coalesced into a political movement
after that movement unfortunate all
these young men on 4chan and each hand
they realized oh we have this sort of
thing in common we are similar we don't
like feminism and at the time what
happened was
the Coalition was forming there were
sort of the hucksters on YouTube that
would be like oh well I'll be your
mouthpiece I'll speak for you I'll be
kind of like your your stand in bad for
the guy for the young men living like
raising themselves the Internet and that
was mildly innopolis that was my sternum
itch that was sargon of akkad wherever
all these like sort of now it's a
cottage industry of conservative YouTube
dads YouTube dads kind of like raising
these kids online but like back then
that was sort of the first wait
they were gamergaters and i just evolved
that was 2014 so 2015 gamergate petered
out hold on one second let me just say
something about about 2014 so people
understand how this grows I mean because
it is an astonishing story that we're
really talking about a guy who breaks up
with a girl and then basically harnesses
the misogyny that is existing and they
use to basically talk about this it was
literally and and I just remembered this
that people were complaining about the
lack of ethics in gaming journalism
totally fabricated nonsense right it
turns out it was a typo and the guys who
thought the way that he wrote it he's
like oh maybe she sort of knew this guy
that wrote a review of her game but it
turned out not to be true right ended up
being this whole notion of but it's I
think it's important to because it's
relevant that it's an attack on the
media now I don't take gaming media
seriously I mean I apologize gaming
reviews I know it's important obviously
to people who read games but this is
setting up a structure of attacking an
institution which is the gaming media to
the extent that there was one I think
there was one and like you say there was
a couple of youtube hucksters who
realized if I cover this stuff and I
become their champion I'm gonna make a
lot of money and achieve a certain
amount of celebrity and that's exactly
what happened right right and you know
the game game media at the time they
knew for the most part they're like look
big these companies have trained these
young men to be consumers right they
just they gamergate described yourself
as it can
humor revolt and the idea was like we
want this out of our product we want
this out of our game and like the idea
was that that's all they had right their
whole life was sort of defined by
dropping out kind of consuming stuff
mostly just online products at their
computer right so it's like you can see
how that lifestyle is nihilistic and
sort of desperate and longing in that
void for something for someone to come
in and then be like well let me give you
12 rules to live your life or whatever
right right right that's like Peterson
who replaced the innopolis right like
let me tell you how to pull yourself up
by your boot let me tell them to give
you an off-the-rack value because you
have nothing because you're sort of
living in this sort of like hyper
nihilistic unhappy life indeed and so we
have that in 2014 and then it begins to
it feels like it begins to collapse
under its own weight right like the idea
of ethics in gaming journalism only has
so much durability and now we're in 2015
right yeah so I mean what happens is
that yeah it can't play out for long so
2015 the same men or on YouTube who work
sort of purporting to be leaders of the
movement they need a new cause and and
Trump is just starting this campaign it
turns out for the Trump is uncannily
sort of replicates their issues right
they are young men who feel like they're
on the bottom of society and Trump's
message is oh I'm gonna I'm gonna have
you win so much you're gonna get sick of
winning well who is that message to but
losers right people are like man one day
I'm really gonna win yeah so it was
people who are sort of disenfranchised
and before it hadn't been a political
coalition they were the margins of other
political coalition's but now it's sort
of like oh these young men under 40 who
dropped out of life well we're gonna
sort of form our own coalition and we're
gonna rally around this guy who looks
like a loser outsider but at the same
time he's sort of like projecting what
they imagine his success in life which
is sort of like an alpha male right
that's they invented all this
terminology where they imagine that like
life was like a cruel competitive hire
and they're in the bottom but the idea
is like oh I win
I get to the top and that's of course
the same sort of like ideology that the
Trump holds right that he's like the
high quota philosopher Ahana Aaron who
talks about the idea that like oh well
it's someone who would be flattered at
calling being called a bloodthirsty
animal right the idea that like you're a
hyper-competitive businessman and all my
friends or rivals right so it's weird
that the men not the bottom felt this
but in fact it was that same ideology
that sort of drifted down to them but
they saw the union with those people
like Danone and Trump at the top well
now that that union with someone like
Bannon was not necessarily a mistake
right because Bannon and we should say
Bannon at this point is running
Breitbart essentially he's getting
funding as far as I can tell from the
Mercer's that money may have been
secured before Breitbart died and
because Breitbart I specifically
remember got about an 11 million dollar
infusion into the the Breitbart site
about a year before he died somewhere
around there from some private firm at a
time where there was virtually no
traffic on that Breitbart site Breitbart
who believed that politics is down
culture a downstream I should say from
culture that infused the ideology of
that site so how did Milo end up at
Breitbart did Brannon most likely see
this building and say I'm going to this
is an energy that we can use I mean it's
a crazy story and you're right right so
it seemed a grassroots movement at first
but whatever part was grassroots Steve
Benin at the head of Breitbart at the
moment in 2015 took it and spend all
that Mercer money to promote it through
Yi innopolis right so Yi innopolis had
been a Breitbart a little bit earlier so
he was already writing for Breitbart
when gamergate hit and then he sort of
switched the gamergate so they had
already met he'd already been hired and
the idea is that Brannon and Ian Ovilus
learned about fortune and a chain and
these groups through gamergate and by
2015
Benin shares a lot in common with them
and I argue in my book he likes the same
fascist
ASSA furs that for Chanin hn were
becoming enamored of right like he is
into sword & Sworcery like his his
companies come littering feel right he
wrote these sort of hyper-masculine sort
of video game style screenplays so he
loves this population and he says what
he's the quotes I have in the book or
something like he's like these young
disenfranchised white males have monster
power and they come in through gamergate
or whatever and now they're gonna vote
for trump so he takes he gives my
leonatus
a million dollars they meet at the
Cannes Film Festival mercer Bannon and
yeah innopolis need they give you know
plus a million dollars and they say go
on tour and gianopolous goes on a tour
that he calls the dangerous tour
and this just ends up in the bloody
riots and the sort of clashes with anti
saw that we see in 2016 at the end or at
the end of 2016 and then continuing sort
of snowballing and spiraling in 2017
till it ends in charlottesville which is
sort of the last most awful one though
they still go on a little bit but not
not as much and and and and this is and
it just it's so stunning to me how I
mean how this came out of essentially a
the spark was essentially this guy
getting jilted by a woman and this the
strength of of this misogyny and we
should say too like the you know and
I've said this odd nauseam on this
program but there were there were
there's a multitude of reasons why
Hillary Clinton lost but misogyny is
certainly one of them and and to have
this so much of what is going on at
least online a a function of the
misogyny and my question to you is like
you know and I know that the book is
that the this troll army memed Donald
Trump into office but it really is more
that this is indicative of perhaps a
certain mentality that was existing
that that that Donald Trump took
advantage of both in real life and
online on some level but to what extent
do you think that this was used by
Bannen to create I mean how do you think
this was leveraged by him I it was
fairly well he was sort of ahead of the
curve at that point and realized that
there was sort of this new coalition of
young men that would vote for Trump
which is sort of unusual right the idea
that in 2016 2017 youth counterculture
sort of breaks a piece breaks off and it
kind of goes to the far right it's
pretty wild but it's not the many modes
right I mean they didn't get that many
votes right so the idea is that the
question of how many people voted is
sort of or how much it matters sort of
culturally is sort of a different issue
right so you know it's it's not like
this is the entire Trump coalition right
there's sort of there's still sort of
all of these you know one percenters who
love the Trump's in office and all of
these cool white working-class voters in
the middle of the country right and then
there's these people right so it's one
coalition that Bandhan realizes will
also vote for him and also sort of be
the sort of cutting edge of mean
creation so like when Donald Trump quote
tweets himself as Pepe the Frog right
that's a 4chan symbol of loserdom and
when Donald Trump does it he tags
Breitbart in it right okay so the idea
is that they're sort of generating this
sort of like cultural campaign that is
going to look that make Donald Trump mix
Donald Trump look sort of cutting-edge
and Hillary looked like behind the curve
because she always is a little behind
the curve already right so like it kind
of entry emphasizes that I mean they if
since sort of become disenfranchised or
a little disenchanted with Trump writers
of the Trump's and competence has
fragmented this coalition a little bit
but it still exists
they don't really they're not too
enamored of Trump anymore so where does
this this phenomena that you write about
does it weird where is replace it for us
all right because I'm looking at like
you know
we have let's say the IDW right where
someone like Shapiro comes out of the
Breitbart or a world or keep some
distance I think from that now but it's
not right too far of distance you you
know Peterson and on some level Sam
Harris these are folks who and and Joe
Rogan to a certain extent even you know
maybe perhaps a little bit more distant
but they all offer like a direction for
young men as to like this is how you can
better yourself and empower yourself
there's a how to quality to that and we
also you know we still have sort of the
the the hard alt right although they
seem to have lost some traction Bannon
seems to be adrift like where are these
people does this phenomena is this
phenomena over and it's just mutated
into different things what I mean it's
certainly mutating right it's on the
internet so it mutates back and we've
seen it mutate a lot but the it's not
over so Charlottesville I would say it
sort of has two or three sections right
there was the gamergate era then there's
sort of the Trump era where they're
emboldened they go outside then and has
mobilized them and then there's a third
sort of post charlottesville era where
the the underlying phenomenon right
these men still are disenfranchised they
still have very few prospects instead of
hope in their life and they still sort
of live very dark nihilistic lifestyles
right like life hasn't really gotten
better for young people they're still
mired in debt and sort of on the bottom
of the economic ladder so those main
causes are still there so it's still
there the question of what form it takes
well we now know there's been a lot of
good reporting and I'm still writing on
it and so the idea that they're back on
the internet they're afraid to go
outside when I when I when they do have
rallies like go to the rallies and
they're sort of now embarrassed of being
humiliated sort of in this in this
culture they they're most
I'm they used to sort of be bold now
they're sort of afraid to talk to me a
lot of the time but they're now on the
internet and they're hanging out in
discord groups they're hanging out on
4chan and H Hannon and really when they
do go out is when they're so despairing
and nihilistic that they want to murder
a bunch of people that was the New
Zealand shooting and then the copycat
shooting in Poway California those were
both 8chan shooters so it's sort of like
links into this mass shooter phenomenon
where a lot of those guys were alright
so it's still there and we hear an adult
and we don't know what form it's going
to take but as you say like what happens
is these sort of like hucksters at the
top the YouTube dads that are that are
selling a lifestyle and sort of a way to
pick yourself out out of that lifestyle
like they constantly in the state of
shuffling and replacing one another
right like so yeah innopolis is out and
then Peterson gets in or whatever and
and that's okay right there's still a
whole set of them and they're it's like
how else do you explain them because
they're idiots other than the idea that
they're sort of this forced bubbling up
pushing them from the bottom which is
this is math like how do they have those
big numbers it's because there's a ton
of kids like at Taco Bell who are
educating themselves and raising
themselves online they don't know like
that's that's the closest I get to
philosophy who are those YouTube dads
now I mean you name them right like
there's there's Peterson
Gavin McGinnis Stephen Ball you knew or
whatever like oh yeah like this there's
I mean there's so many of them and of
course like it doesn't it's this is also
Keys into a larger sociological
phenomenon where if you're just that age
no matter what your political standing
you're on YouTube you're hanging out on
discord you're call me not reading much
like I work as a college professor and
it's hard to get my students to read
books but they're on YouTube constantly
right so they're just getting all their
information from YouTube so like this
subset of them who are sort of like
really despairing and happened to be
young men they're drawn to like hang out
in a sensitive virtually with with these
sort of like you
too bad they're sort of YouTube gurus
who are like oh I'll help you out I like
I'll figure out life for you let me well
so let me ask you this
about like how many how many people do
you think we're talking about like what
are we talking about you know people are
I mean are and you say you go out and
see them in public I mean because I
think certainly my own personal
experience on let's say Twitter I think
I get an outside snow ssin of how many
people are actually on Twitter because
it really is it feels like everybody's
on Twitter but that's just because I
know a narrow set of people and they're
all sort of like-minded and it just so
happens to be that is the key demo for
you know that's the the people I follow
on Twitter but Twitter you know is not
necessarily representative except for
you know a specific group how many
people are we talking about here because
on some of them I still think we're
living in an era where we have yet to
fully socialized societies not caught up
with social media like we don't you know
we had a period where it's like this
guy's got a hundred thousand Twitter
followers we should get him a book deal
and then you find out well it doesn't
really work that way but you know
nobody's gonna buy that book necessarily
but well how many people are we talking
about I mean that's a really good
question I know that you know fortune is
still one of the most popular message
boards on the internet whether thousands
and thousands of posts an hour or
something
so these fights that use numbers I am
NOT like a pollster like I'm not a
numbers guy so I don't know like
estimating the sort of the size of the
population I probably get the figure
very wrong I mean I guess like I sort of
approach from the other end where I'm
like looking at someone like Jordan
Peterson and you're like why right like
how does he have a million people
listening to Mike who are those people
right so they're sort of like these
people who are too mean not saying very
smart things but they have these huge
followings or gamergate right it's like
well why did millions of people do this
though yeah like compared to sort of the
size of the United States I'm not sure I
mean to me just sort of like teaching
college right all my students know about
this is sort of the culture they're in
right it so I think if you're a young
person this I've tried to sort of fairly
describe young people's culture in
general right so this is sort of a large
aspect of it this is sort of how they
regard their politics and their reality
but it's going through YouTube are going
through certain message boards I guess
that sort of a dance around the idea
that I don't know the thing is it may
not be important right like it's not
like I think I mean if we had the
ability to say like we're going to we're
going to determine that you need to
constitute this amount size of the
population to legitimately have this
type of authority in our society and we
you and I had the ability to do that it
would become more relevant but what's
more fascinating is that it could be
very few people and it's creating that
it's in charge of our culture which is
also frankly the the reality with things
like cable news right I mean we have a
very small group of people in cable news
who are determining what we did what we
decide is our news I mean it's sort of a
fascinating fascinating dynamic we're
doing
lastly where do you think it goes from
here I think it will remain online and
we'll probably see another manifestation
in the physical world eventually it's
going to I seem to persist as a
political coalition of some sort that
it's not going away and nor are the
unfortunately the the mass shootings are
going away either that there's still
gone on every month or so so I think if
the underlying causes are addressed if
in some way this sort of code the less
sort of a the less of better answers
college-wide actual real ways out of
poverty sort of actual real
opportunities if I think the
does well and the next election cycle
and reaches out to them then the
coalition could be broken up right like
for example weirdly like on a chant and
HN and 14 like two or three months ago
half the coalition was like oh no we
don't like Trump anymore we like
inter-gang because we want $1,000 a
month right so it's sort of like this
pseudo libertarian socialism or whatever
sort of brand of socialism that is like
or something like that they're like
that's that's what we want we're not
fascist anymore right cuz it's all
teenagers and it's or older men who act
like teenagers but that still means
they're material and very variable and
they're in a constant state of identity
crisis so it can be broken up does it
look like it's gonna be broken up
anytime soon right now maybe not I guess
we will have to wait and see the book is
you came from something awful how a
toxic troll army accidentally memed
Donald Trump into office Dale Barron we
will put a link to your book at majority
dot F M thank you so much for your time
today really appreciate it yeah thanks
for having me on
hey folks and now we've got a bit of a
post roll another ad to tell you about
throwback to Sam for that one as well
Sam loves cutting the ads folks let me
remind you you have the chance to know
your dog better than fur deep but the
most accurate dog DNA test that is on
the market probably ever that has ever
been developed in the history of the
world I mean it's a relatively recent
phenomenon with dog DNA testing right
I'm talking about the embark dog DNA
test kit it looks over 250 different
breeds it does a hundred and 70
different genetic health conditions to
help you care for your dog look the
bottom line is it's not just about
knowing like oh my dog is part Terrier
part golden retriever part German
Shepherd what the heck was going on here
it's also and vets will recommend this
quite often apparently you get a sense
of what how you should be feeding your
dog
people love their animals I don't need
to tell you this if you're a dog owner
or a cat owner for that matter but for
dogs in particular and the idea that you
can feed your dog better or provide them
or you know be on the watch out for any
type of potential diseases and help them
is huge then right now for our listeners
embark has an exclusive summer offer you
can't get anywhere else
go to embark vet dot-com use a promo
code majority save 15% off your dog DNA
test kit you can discover your dog more
than fur deep visit embark EMBA RK vet
dot-com use the promo code majority to
save quick break in a minute Michael
tell us about Tuesday hahahaha nice I
was a good throw well there's actually
we're off next week on TM vs but this
past Tuesday we talked with Shaheed
Butare who's running for Congress
against Nancy Pelosi who frankly like is
a pretty unexpected data point in how
good candidate interviews go because he
was exiting oh yeah that was a Nate Lee
good interview that was that was yes
like you bias bar for Canada interviews
you didn't have to worry about like
getting to the end of his fluency on any
sort of topic he had like his own sort
of like rich like wells to draw and it
was amazing conversations I met him at
the DSA Convention he was pretty cool
and he even did a really good rap at the
street fight trail Billy show Wow
did you know that he could rap I did not
I knew it was DJ
apparently but it's got many talents
that would be that might docket that is
like one of the big I mean the only
other upgrade that I could imagine in
terms of just the extreme improvement
would just straight up these Sanders
over Trump the idea of having him in
Congress instead of Nancy Pelosi is
definitely like nude a Garden of Eden
kind of stuff i ana kasparian and i
talked about extremism on the right
incitement and building a little bit of
a better left culture
also israel-palestine a bunch of other
things were covered patreon.com slash t
MBS next week it will not be video but
on the podcast feed it will be unlocked
available for everybody
Liz forensic who is the co-host of true
and on will join me for a deep dive into
Jeffrey Epstein and just the raht
disgusting grotesque rot of intelligence
agencies and american oligarchy and
actually can Epstein be a launching
point for some form of sort of class
consciousness patreon.com slash T mb/s
Michael Brooks show on YouTube thanks to
our over seventy one thousand
subscribers there our now well over
twenty six hundred patrons see you there
Thank You Jamie
let me try again Jamie this week on the
anti Fatah we have on Molly crabapple
friend of the show to talk about her
arrest at the Amazon ice protest last
week as well as the massive wave of
protests in Puerto Rico and what's next
for the Puerto Rican people awesome we
also have a bonus coming out tomorrow
we're in Mali goes through and
translates some of the lyrics of the
official song of the protest I'm talking
about a feelin de los ríos by bad bunny
la and resident a and gives us a whole
new appreciation for the song so that is
out tomorrow for our patrons patreon.com
slash the anti Fattah Matt Matt yeah
George we have been doing my patron only
George Orwell series but so check that
out we got two new episodes on George
Orwell on his time in Burma and we get
into some of the more problematic
elements of Orwell so you've been
waiting for that and we're gonna release
one of the earlier episodes of that for
everybody else as I go on vacation I
mean kind of vacation to Chicago yeah
we're going to Chicago we're gonna be
live in Chicago Saturday folks also
found out something extremely annoying
and I don't know how many people this is
affected but
she was tweeting at us on Twitter
yesterday basically saying the link at
the Lincoln tavern was broken and so
somebody was trying to buy a couple of
tickets to the tea MBS live show in
Chicago and couldn't do it because there
was a problem on the website I don't
know whether that problem has been
solved or not we love the people at
Lincoln Hall maybe a bit less we've
we've communicated with them less than
folks at other venues unfortunately but
um if for whatever reason you're having
a problem just show up at the door and
come on in we'll see you August 24th
Lincoln Hall Chicago Chuck merits we'll
be right back folks Jamie and I may have
a disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube he's off
their buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defense of that you're idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude
you want to smoke this joint yes do you
feel like you are a dinosaur
exactly I'm happy now so win-win it's a
win-win-win hell yeah now listen to me
two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9
billion
Wow third don't you see why you left one
bomb everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance
[Music]
and Paul I had my first post-coital seat
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars come here not
bad use me you you all right
take quick break oh I take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber laughing I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses
[Music]
out a little bit look it's a free speech
issue if you don't like me thank you for
calling into the majority report them
will be with you shortly
really welcome to the fun half Michael
Brooks here along with Matt lek
Jane Peck we're gonna fit so I don't
spend a huge amount of time talking
about Tulsi Gabbard I would say I'm sure
some people think we do I would say in a
different political environment there's
some things that are good about Tulsi
Gabbard I absolutely find it mystifying
why people would orient around her
campaign when Bernie's in the race but
look I'll be honest I find it mystifying
why people would orient around any
candidate besides Bernie but the problem
is so there's a variety of problems as
an example with Senator Warren relative
to Bernie and a lot of folks who support
Warren over Bernie essentially are just
over at least saying that they don't
care about the US footprint in the world
they don't care about military spending
they don't care about foreign policy
that's really complicated all right it's
you know what they don't care about
class struggle well they certainly don't
care about I'll bring it up after this
but he said if there's gonna be a if
there's gonna be a class war it's about
time to work in class one I've got the
RT for me absolutely the distinction
with Tulsi Gabbard is a Tulsi gabbard's
whole selling point is that she is a
warrior well right but that she's a
warrior against US militarism and
foreign intervention and you know look
if this was 2008 or 2012 and you had a
Democrat who said that they opposed
foreign invasions and we're talking
about the global environment and the
military-industrial
which I actually misspoke on TMDs I said
that she does not talk about the
military-industrial complex in the same
way Bernie does but that was actually
that's something I'm glad to correct she
does use that phraseology and she does
speak on on that so absolutely credit
where credit is due but there's also
been this extraordinary tension which
now with as Bernie Sanders gets more and
more clear and has a voting record on
cutting defense spending he's voted
against every single Trump military
budget increase Warren's voted for all
of them I believe tolls he's voted for
one of them as and and going back really
to his record in the 80s as a mayor
calling out the u.s. dirty wars in
Central America
his Bernie's records perfect absolutely
not
is anybody's record perfect certainly
not but you don't have this other
parallel Lane of at times aggressive
support for drone programs ambiguities
about torture tulsi several weeks ago
put out a tweet that she was alarmed
that John Lynde was gonna get released
from prison and on to probation I mean
this is like if you're worried about
John Walker Lindh I'm sure 99% of you
have no idea who he is in today's
environment I've been that guy in a
while to say the least right let me say
you probably didn't remember who that
guy was the American Taliban so you know
that that's the type of obsession that
you know find someone that loves you as
much as Tulsi loves the war on terror in
that region and she's sending a message
when she says stuff like that -
absolutely and she is and and and
there's parts of it again that I agree
with but she is trying to create what I
would call as a left isolationist Lane
and we're gonna get to this clip in a
second because it's very revealing
actually what we'll do the clip first
but then I'm gonna sort of I'm gonna say
a few more things about this this moji
modi BJP stuff because it actually
really matters because this should be a
door and two people having a much better
grasp of in the
politics and the ideological currents
that are running through it right now
but first and I think that Jamie was
right to say what's her main selling
point she's a troop but a lot of people
who obsess over her gonna tell me that's
because she's an anti-imperialist now
again if somebody says hey she was right
about calling out regime change in
Venezuela yep
that's a totally valid point there's a
number of more narrow valid cases you
can make for her again they don't still
stand against Sanders but I hear a lot
of talk about her radicalism which is
not backed by policy and now quite
radically not backed by rhetoric thanks
to our buddy Virgil Texas from Chapo
Trap House what a bizarre world we live
in
asking Tulsi this question at a campaign
event in Iowa do you consider yourself
an anti-imperialist I consider myself a
pro-american everything that I'm saying
everything that I'm doing comes from a
place of love for our country and love
for our people recognizing how important
it is that we have unifying leadership
in this country to bring people together
so that we can bring about the kinds of
changes we need to see and as far as
their foreign policy
our wasteful failed policies of regime
change so that we can focus on serving
the interests of the American people
using the limited resources we have to
do so so that's to me again let's first
of all I just gonna concede right off of
the bat she's not running for you know a
DSA chairmanship or what like of course
she's gonna say she loves America and
every political candidate should say
that so don't try to distract with you
know defending the basic pablum the
pablum is fine she should say it that's
great what she did say and she
constantly frames this interventionist
stuff is essentially a waste of money
and resources versus a moral
condemnation of the killing of civilians
across the globe then when she talks
about these vague bipartisan solutions
I'd ask you to look at her vote against
Syrian refugees which to me is a very
fundamental vote a very fundamental
redline and I'd ask you to go back to
her rhetoric during the government
shutdown when basically when the
government was getting shut down because
of even more demands on this immigration
war of the Trump administration these
are not areas where you can find sort of
common ground
there's broader questions about Civic
spaces about even how you make your
arguments and appeal to a broader
population which are fine I'm all ears
for but when it comes to ice policies
when it comes to terrorizing Syrian
refugees no period full stop and I want
to get to India because you know a lot
of the things have already been
litigated with thing Assad and well
general Sisi is different her visit to
general Sisi
was not attacked in the mainstream media
because the mainstream media whitewash
is the Egyptian record I would say it's
a pretty significant extent as well but
there is clearly an interest in leaders
in the Middle East who framed themselves
a secular strongmen who can clean up
Islamists
now that coupled with the refugee vote
that's something to consider and be
serious about
now in India the answer that Tulsi has
put forward and others have put forward
that talking about her political
relationship to the RSS and the BJP to
the extent that exists as a form of
Hindu phobia and that her interest in
South Asian affairs you know should not
be presented in that way and so first of
all I just wanted to say that you know
I'm a veteran of this stuff because I've
been accused of being the self-hating
Jew of harping on people's Jewish
identity because I am absolutely willing
to call out people who may be of Jewish
to the sent who back the Israeli
Apartheid
very disloyal so you know so the kind of
like petty base identity politics is not
something to come at me with a frankly
period I'm not here for it now when she
went to India she absolutely has also
met with members of the Congress party
and incidentally the Congress party
which has to some extent preserved an
Aryan vision narrows vision of a certain
pluralism is not a party that I support
or something to write home about in
terms of their neoliberalism corruption
and even horrific rights abuses under
Indira Gandhi in the state of emergency
in particular but what you have right
now is you have an Indian leadership led
by Narenda Modi who going back to 2002
is already credibly implicated in some
of the greatest atrocities on earth and
I see a lot of people talking about the
2002 Gujarat riots when Narenda Modi was
head of Gujarat there was a killing
spree of Muslims that last a couple days
I think the estimates of her over 2000
people murdered in the span and look I
apologized and I mean this is an
authentic trigger warning I'm just gonna
say you know lighting people on fire
cutting uh you uh woman's stomachs open
with babies cutting pregnant woman's
stomach sopin I mean we're talking truly
savage horrific atrocities now in 2012
there was an Indian appointed Supreme
Court wasn't a Supreme Court I believe
as a commission appointed by the Supreme
Court
that cleared Modi of all wrongdoing and
that has been upheld now there have been
over 60 inquiries about this by national
and international bodies including a
National Human Rights Commission of
India report that concluded that
violence was supported by state
officials in Gujarat the u.s. is State
Department on internal Religious Freedom
report concluded that the attacks and
I'm quoting now that the attacks have
been premeditated and that officials
were complicit and that there was
evidence of police not acting during the
assault of Muslims the US State
Department also cited how Gujarat's high
school textbooks described Hitler's
quote charismatic personality and
achievements of Nazism to go back to the
founding of this group - RSS which is a
kind of far-right Hindu nationalist
paramilitary group and it's it's
somewhat akin to maybe it's a very
imperfect analogy but if you thought of
the KKK is the paramilitary and the
southern Democratic Party was the
political arm the BJP is a political
project subsumed in a larger RSS project
when the RSS goes back to the 20s and
the 30s and their leaders in addition to
being ardent and correct fighters for
Indian independence were also in some
cases very fascinated by Hitlerian
models and Nazis so people can come at
me and say oh the Indian supreme you
know a Commission report appointed by
the in the Supreme Court cleared the
Prime Minister of India okay I
understand that but I'm thinking that
all of us with some type of left
inclination we probably generally have a
deep skepticism of state and legal
procedures that clear people of
wrongdoing when there's overwhelming
evidence to the contrary including ones
from independent bodies and including
even our own State Department and just
to be really clear this is the State
Department of the Bush administration
when the Bush administration was making
very very tight moves with India for a
variety of reasons including the
counterbalance China so there was
zero interest in sort of playing
interference for a you know for for
Muslim rights in India like let's let's
be obvious and part of the reason that
issue actually grew in Congress was that
a lot of Christians were killed as well
this is in 2014 where and and again
people also say this yes Barack Obama
was very tight with the morinda Modi now
I make I co-wrote a piece before neuro D
in Narendra Modi was elected prime
minister saying Obama should at the very
least keep some distance because of
Gujarat and the ideology of BJP but I
also recognize the difference between a
congressperson eagerly sort of seeking
out a relationship with the head of
state versus a by now bilateral head of
state relationship this is from a piece
in the New Indian Express in December
22nd 2014 Tulsi Gabbard talked to said
that India that Obama and Modi may have
buried the hatchet
she said that Modi was quote a man on a
mission and I'm quoting from the piece
Modi was denied an American visa for
many years after the Ghidorah axe
incident and which claimed the lives of
thousands in Gujarat now it's back to
Tulsi I think it's clear from both
Modi's perspective as well as Obama's
perspective of the past has been buried
and both are looking towards the future
there's been a lot of misinformation
surrounding that event in 2002 Obama's
visiting India on its Republic Day is
further evidence that both that that the
past is the past and both leaders want
to collaborate in a way that benefits
both of them and then it goes on to talk
about her role this is some V role of a
gabbard's meeting with Modi there was a
personal message for Modi to gabbard's
wedding now again people who want to say
that this is a function of Hindu phobia
our making precisely an
indistinguishable a carbon-copy argument
of people who say criticizing Israel is
anti-semitic or criticizing Pakistan is
anti-muslim the reality is we should be
criticizing and fighting against
rightward forces in all of these
countries and there is a reason by the
way that you can actually see a very
tight relationship between Netanyahu and
Modi there is a incredibly diverse Hindu
tradition there's an amazing book by
Amartya Sen called the argumentative
Indian I'd recommend people read it you
can criticize BJP and RSS on Hindutva
within Hindu sources that's not the
issue at all and I really would like
people to not only be a little bit
honest about Gabbard in this regard but
actually use it as an opportunity as I
say to try to understand the politics
and the dynamics of one of the most
important countries on earth and who's
actually running it right now and the
types of escalation that we're seeing
with regards to Kashmir and that would
have been a lot for Virgil to pack into
a question but I think you take my point
[Music]
you know look yeah she did a great job
talking about Camilla's criminal justice
record but um nobody gets a complete
pass Ron Paul says some nice things
about Wars - Ron Paul said a lot of
great things about Wars and might have
he might have might I would have to
double check but he might have said more
about civilian casualties you're calling
from a five one six area code who are
you where you calling from this is Mike
from my worn out hey Mike what's going
on I want to talk about the gun
conversation that's been going on lately
now it seems like but it seems like a
talking point for like mainstream media
how so what you mean well it just seems
like there's some things that they're
just
you know we talk about a you know
foreign policy and you know economics
but like the gun rights thing is like
something that they're just allowed to
talk about no not really
I mean I think I'll give you just my my
two-second snapshot on guns and one is I
liked what Jamie said yesterday that if
you have a conversation that because
because there's a big problem right
because a lot of gun control
conversations don't take on the gun
industry as an industry as a as a
capital eye industry that is a danger to
us public health and global Public
Health actually the global small arms
industry is one of the greatest threats
on the planet and then you do get into
this liberal stuff which I do think is
just frankly counterproductive look when
I see some you know dumb schmuck walking
into a Starbucks with like you know
paramilitary gear on of course make fun
of them he's an idiot but the broader
sort of like guns I do think that that
is liberal snobbery that is incredibly
counterproductive and dumb and I have no
interest in playing that kind of
cultural politics I do have an interest
in going after the NRA and the gun
industry as a pernicious dangerous
corrupted industry right and then the
second thing I would say the other two
quick things is that it's very difficult
because if you really want to take care
of guns you got to do something
extremely radical um which I'm not sure
that's where I'd want to spend political
capital frankly and number three exactly
the way the lot of gun measures are
implemented uh and I'm not talking about
really basics of course you can do
background check there's all sorts of
stuff you can do that's a no-brainer and
I'm not arguing against you can stop the
manufacture of these that's the issue is
the manufacturer but on the other hand I
don't want to take I think a rhetoric of
taking away you know people's shotguns
or whatever it is ridiculous and I also
would say that a lot it that is not a
myth the origins of stop and frisk in
New York City is a anti-gun program
which by the way had
some efficacy I mean New York is I mean
there's a lot of guns but it's it's but
that is a the origin that is a
completely racist and racialized policy
so people need to be extremely
thoughtful about what they're actually
advocating for and who's gonna get
police does a result I I just worry
about like you said the political
capital that you're wasting you know it
because you may a lien eight some people
that are leaning left I mean and the
right wing is they're not gonna vote for
a Democrat anyway so you know you're
just it seems like you're pushing some
people away that might have taint your
party well I think that this is the the
nuance that I would make and I'm glad
you say the the real lunatic
you know gun whatever people are gonna
vote for the Republicans
III think there's some people that this
wouldn't be their primary issue and they
could be persuaded in any ways but I do
think that there is there's ways of
signifying to people that you have some
basic respect for them and I think that
that is almost nothing to do a policy
frankly like I think that you know and
the knots in it like look people want to
you know demonize them for it and you
know maybe they cast some votes that we
disagree with but like it's good that
that's an advantage that Bernie Sanders
you know was around a lot of like
farmers and stuff and those farmers were
extremely happy to vote for him it's
just a question of like signifying basic
respect actually I think Obama really
understood that as a politician as well
as a campaign you really stepped in it
our guns though cool Obama yeah Oh with
that statement that he made that was
well that was quintessential because
that wasn't supposed to be public he was
literally saying that to a fundraiser I
think like in in the Bay Area mmm oops
yeah yeah but Obama actually implemented
with gun control policies then prompted
I don't are you talking about the bones
stop is yeah I don't know about that I
don't I don't to be honest with you I
don't know all of Obama's gun control
logs these are you a prey up he'd gone
are you a pain caller sorry
now I'm getting suspicious okay are you
a paid caller sir no I'm just kidding
no I'm not good cool all right who you
voting for but I'm a bird man today all
right cool
actually yeah all right respect you got
got no problem here all right thanks
seen as something of a moderate on this
issue because there is a lot of I mean
for the small but electorally
significant slice of working-class
people who are swing voters who could
swing from Trump to a Bernie type this
is an issue and the kind of cultural
snobbery towards guns that we hear from
liberals is never gonna be helpful well
this was and what was the thing that I'm
sorry to interrupt you but you were
making a really smart distinction the
other day Matt between like you know the
ridiculous weekend or yeah it's and
people who actually have guns for
they're not lying when they say it's
hunting or whatever like it actually is
part of a life yeah a lot of people a
lot of people have like an beatdown
shotguns and rifles and stuff like that
and they and that's like this sort of
like gun lineage and I come from right
like I pheasant hunt a number of times
it's basically a family tradition I've
killed a few deer and it's but those
people there's two different classes
there's those people and then you have
the weekend warrior types which the NRA
started I'm pretty sure majority report
we've maybe even talked about this with
a guest but they started marketing to
weekend warrior types with like special
guns like look at his debt right Desert
Storm was the TV war right and stuff
like that we got all this cool gadgetry
that's a market right yeah and we should
just not allow that market to exist so
like if people want to have like a
double-barrel truck and or something
like that fine I don't care
and those are the freaks that you know
walk into Starbucks with like a ar-15
yeah a barrel would and I would imagine
that you know cuz look it wasn't I
certainly like Ryan grow but nobody my
family has guns or anything but even
just growing up Frank it's so funny to
me that like I grew up mostly in like
basically rural Massachusetts and you
would have
like hippies and college people but
there's plenty of farms and you go to a
lot of houses there were guns it wasn't
and and it both was a not such a big
deal and be it was not um these were not
people who would be super excited for
some you know lunatics who were into
Schwarzenegger movies and have like
their own insecurity issues sublimating
that through getting like high-power
artillery in in in public places and I
so I think a lot of it is just a basic
cultural thing and I think on some level
like like waz made this great point we
were talking about this on woke Bros and
he's just like you know I don't know why
is this like why is it like yeah like
you're into yoga and lattes there is a
target practice like why is one and
neatly better than the other you know
it's not it's not of course not and
getting into all of that stuff is is
always a bad call and speaks to people's
moralism instead of their actual
solidarity oh yeah it's a distraction
and it's class's identity was never
something that we should fall into we
need to unite the entire working class
if we're gonna win and that includes
people who like guns and people who like
lattes well and this isn't just like
we're not for anybody who's the success
of being like this because we support
Bernie Sanders like this is a consistent
with our approach as leftist which is
that you don't make this about
individual consumer decisions right you
go after the industry and I'm all and
I'll reiterate I'm sure we all are very
I mean I'm I'm so I'm in to go against
the arms industry as I say
internationally yes I like I'm the
abolition yes precisely and we also need
to expand these conversations to ramping
down military imperialism and serious
talks about disarming the police if we
really want less gun violence in the
world definitely and also I mean that's
and that's and I'm sure this is a
surprise to no one but I still see you
know the Buddha jej O'Rourke you know
like you shouldn't be should be in
Afghanistan okay
I mean what the hell are you even I mean
you're talking about these weapons
should be in Afghanistan at the same
time there are reports on increasing
civilian casualties I mean it's just
like they should people in Chicago don't
deserve to get shot and people in
Afghanistan don't deserve to get shot
it's really simple yeah like if your
brain goes from like oh look at how many
people were like ripped through with in
Las Vegas by this area 15 like this
should be you know like this should be
in a war zone
you mean this should be in a place that
we've invaded and we've already killed a
masked man yeah I mean it's not like
it's the trenches in World War one right
I'm sorry like there is a connection
between a an incredibly violent culture
whether we're talking about killing
people overseas or the cops murdering
people and the kinds of violence the
individual lone wolf gunmen perpetrate
and frankly the culture follows the
actual implements of war right like
Elvis and you have like armored tanks in
your community that local cops can drive
video games I mean let's talk about the
things that they're based on which are
actually happening I actually would I
alfie kohn i think i'm forgetting his
name there's a really good author for
zero books though who writes on video
games and I'll say before you know
people get all triggered I'm not making
a joke and he's I think he is a game he
is a gamer uh but I like he was
basically saying like yes like piers the
low-hanging fruit of like of course
Republicans just saying that this is the
reason it happens to distract from guns
is ridiculous but also like the idea
that you can't have like analysis of
video games you just have like the only
word on video games that they just don't
contribute like you have an analysis of
anything you know and it could be a good
or bad or analysis it could be a
moralistic or a smart one but like you
should be able to talk about and analyze
anything you're calling them a 205 area
code who are you where you're calling
from died from Birmingham hey Todd from
Birmingham Alabama yeah yeah hi like I'm
sorry time tired what's what's on your
mom
hi how you doing I'm wondering if you
guys are gonna get anybody on to talk
about it Italy
well dining I did a conversation on this
show about a year ago about salvini and
social media ah
and I've actually we've done some Italy
like elicit histories of basically like
the kind of like CIA sort of dirty war
stuff in Italy in the 70s and 80s um I'm
gonna ramp up to do more it's on my
radar that's all like yeah I could tell
you but we've done a bit it's on my
radar that it alright then alright
alright yeah ok yeah in the tweet at us
if you have good sources on this yeah
definitely uh you're calling from a 609
area code who are you where you calling
from 609 hey Kenny can you I think just
speak a little bit closer to your phone
I think maybe that would be it your your
your I can hear you but it's it's not
great right that do you hear me a little
better now and my much better to speak
from much better all right there what's
on your minds alright ok so I kind of
had a sort of private Eureka moment I
think I you know I think like a lot of
people my time consistently uh
frustrated and exactly over the the kind
of the really palpable divide between
you know what what I expect as like a
voter and someone who wants to be
politically active and to change society
for the better versus where a lot of the
older people in my family are in terms
of what they actually believe is
fundamentally possible or even what they
will like co-sign on to and I guess the
what really and I
it's anecdotal but I can guess I'm
hoping that like I can tell you this
anecdote and you can tell me if I'm
reaching or not or if I or if I'm onto
something here - go for it
oh ok so you remember that Jonathan
Wiseman tweet you know deputy washing
added Washington editor for New York
Times he had a tweet a while ago where
he was you know retweeting at justice
Democrats promoting Morgan Harper for I
believe it was yeah for as a comm for
Congress and you know the Tweety posted
is justice Democrats has backed another
primary challenger this one seeking to
unseat an african-american Democrat
Shirley's baby who represents Columbus
right now sure right a ferret yeah a few
people including Morgan Harbor ourselves
you know I read that tweet and responded
to him you know with the acknowledgement
that like Morgan Harper is also an
african-american Democrat from Columbus
and his response was more or less to
just dodged the question completely and
say yeah I saw the picture but not
really acknowledging like just the the
incredibly strange like wording of and
bracketing of like this but we which
either seems to suggest that he did not
know that Morgan Harper was an African
American woman and simply lied about his
mistake or that he was you know
deliberately trying to come up some kind
of you know controversy is justice down
and either way it's my words what's your
what's your kind of take away from that
well my take away from it was that like
I don't really care if he's just a just
a um well I guess I do care like if
you're the deputy editor
one of the major publications in the
United States you should really not be
you know if you are ignorant of the race
of the person who is being run against
the incumbent
I understood I so I got it what you said
you had to kind of take away from it
what's the take away well I tried
talking to my parents about it and I
realized that despite the fact that it
was abundantly clear to me that he was
either ignorant right and what were
lying by they say they just didn't
pocket they were just like he was
they just didn't buy it it was just like
this like well he was just stating but
she's an african-american Democrat yeah
I mean there's you know what man you're
just running up against and this is
actually you know this is a way you mean
just obstinate
inertia just inertia just obstinate just
just I mean it sucks but a lot of these
people know that they can fools enough
for the people enough at the time like
that's the world we're in now right and
that's why it is important that stuff
like that you know that he get
embarrassed and dunked on over it
because it will you know it's important
but I think some people some people were
just dense not you know and I'm not
saying I didn't roll but just thanks for
the call man yeah honestly all right
take care guys appreciate it man thank
you
that's that is pretty unbelievable
Weissman got demoted to by the way for
that yeah for well for that and
everything around it then came right
here as previous he sucks he's a dumb
guy just a dumb damn guy working for the
family yeah I work another dumb guy
working for the feeling near does it by
the way she was african-american even
Hackett and they were both
african-american how do these people get
these jobs and Jonathan Weiss I do know
it makes me feel both better and worse
about myself to see the kind of idiots
who get the jobs that I could never get
so this is Donald Trump this is not on
the sound sheet this is new hot for the
press
Donald Trump whose whole administration
basically I think their primary one of
their primary things has been to make it
harder for people to for I mean I'm
forgetting the exact example the point
is is that for all the posturing he's
extremely hostile to gay rights because
he runs
a Republican administration here he is
when did this drop today
here he is Donald Trump's I Can Has game
rights record oh oh the wait okay all
right let's restart this Donald Trump
remember when Donald Trump was running
for president and he said what's the
best but what the art of the deal is the
second best book ever written what's the
first one and so it was like the barbel
he's like that's right the Bible to
Corinth and he's super into 2
Corinthians so this is and by and Sassie
Trump had an amazing Donald Trump Bible
rundown he's back out of today on
Bloomberg politics
you mentioned the Bible you've been
talking about how it's your favorite
book and you said I think last night in
Iowa some people are surprised that you
say that I'm wondering what one or two
of your most favorite bible verses are I
wouldn't want to get into it because to
me that's very personal you know when I
talk about this oh I don't want to get
into it I don't want to get into it
means a lot to you that you think about
ersite the Bible means a lot to me but I
don't want to get into specifics yeah
even to cite a verse you know like I
don't want to do that every Old
Testament guy or New Testament probably
equal I think the whole Bible is an
incredible joke very much so they always
hold up the art of the day I saved my
second favorite book of all time
but I just think the Bible is just
something very special
oh you like the Bible name three of
their songs Jesus a probably still funny
and we do that's really just people they
they're very seldom to pull you from
their holy books cuz it's private what
does HUD do that's private and we want
to get into the details of that I would
just say that it's very important and
it's great and I love it love it it's
very it's a very special agency I like a
bit with Jesus and a bit with God yeah I
mean but that's why you like both in a
certain sense yeah like that father one
and two yeah it's
because it's when you really think about
it Godfather 1 and to exist as a whole
so it's crazy to pick one which better
do you think
interviewer knew what he was doing well
that was Halperin and I think he did
because normally he wouldn't ask
questions like that but I think he's got
a like I think he wants to basically get
some shine definitely know they they
knew what they were doing Colorado guy
it's time to tax the rich out of their
lives of illusion and back into the
slow-roasting hell that is reality but
for ordinary Americans economic recovery
plan of three steps reform the tax code
forced corporations to finally pay
federal and state taxes also raise the
top marginal rate up to 90 percent
cancel student debts reinvent the
economy with around green renewable
energy while rapidly shifting away from
high finance little olive ray left his
best and much-loved to everyone nice
water bow from cashmere some more info
on cashmere some selective landlines are
open but still essentially an
information blackout to quote a Kashmiri
activists in HuffPost India in the 21st
century there is absolutely no reason
for shutting down the internet the only
reason is that you want to carry out
human rights abuses about the world
watching absolutely Indian troops are
detaining and beating Kashmiri
journalists forcing them to delete
delete' footage at the same time India
an electronic and print media is
embedded with the Indian military
they're getting rides and military hire
la cop ters and armored vehicles think
invasion of Iraq right there is a
campaign of terror in Kashmir which is
difficult to describe but I'll leave you
with the following security forces are
breaking into homes and destroying food
rations detaining boys as young as 7
purposely abusing young women and girls
publicly to humiliate them and I'm only
writing what is trickling out of the
root of the Western press reality on the
ground is much worse it's disgusting
yeah going after food rations is sort of
like ogee genocide move 400 500 years
that's right
this Modi regime is at the heart of
global fascism Donald Trump let's oh
wait no forget it well we'll do that
yeah well let's do this first so Bernie
Sanders has been putting out incredible
policy proposals
and he's the reason that things like
medicare-for-all who he's still
absolutely the only candidate to trust
on Kamla Harris has fully reversed
herself and back flipped on that Joe
Biden is overt that he does does want to
keep major elements of our failed and
catastrophic health system in place and
even Elizabeth Warren has not
foregrounded that issue and has danced
around it significantly enough that if
this is your primary issue which is that
every single human being in this country
gets full health care with no BS and no
nonsense Bernie Sanders is that
candidate in the last couple of days
he's put out ground baking proposals on
criminal justice labor and now an
amazing new Green Deal proposal now I've
criticized the rhetoric of plans before
and I want to make a really clear
distinction here the reason that this
sort of fetishizing of plans is
problematic is because nobody is going
to just go into the White House and put
through plans we don't live in the
British system we don't live in the
Westminster model so the only way you're
going to have a prayer of getting
anything passed is with a massive ground
movement around you to get it done the
first phase of Bernie's campaign and
ongoingly is showing you that he
actually has that movement which he does
completely incomparable compared to any
other candidate in terms of ground level
volunteers and always leading in small
level donations he will have the context
to put forward these bold radical and of
course the most progressive proposals
this is let's do it string of tweets
this was beautiful he said this
yesterday if there's gonna be class war
in this country it's about time the
working class won that war let's get it
hell yeah that's the truth then he said
this fossil fuel executives should be
criminally prosecuted for the
destruction they have knowingly claws to
hash tag green new deal I'm look I'm not
a car so I'm not a you know I'm not a
prison person in general but absolutely
at the very least financially liable and
certainly held criminally accountable
for
literally the suffocation and ending of
life prospects for planet earth that's
what the CEO of Exxon and the Executive
Board of Chevron or BP or any of these
companies are doing I mean at the very
least since corporations are people we
should see some corporate death sentence
oh definitely corporations of people
we're gonna be neat to throwing out the
death sentence all over the place then
he said this about jay Inslee as I said
jay Inslee was really one of the only
also-rans who had anything useful to say
congratulations to jay Inslee on his
impactful campaign to bring climate
crisis to the forefront of the national
conversation there's no more important
issue facing humanity together we'll
work to pass a green new deal and create
millions of new jobs and I'm gonna quote
now a little bit from a write-up on
Bernie's green new deal the proposal
Bernie Democratic presidential hopeful
Bernie Sanders released a sweeping
sixteen point three trillion dollar
climate plan on Thursday vowing to
create 20 million jobs and completely
zero out planet heating emissions by
2050 the proposal outlines easily the
most ambitious vision for a green new
deal to date which calls for a massively
expanded public ownership of everything
from power generation to groceries see
this is so fundamental because that
green new deal of course also needs to
be a jobs plan so it has a broad buy-in
it needs to be a radical deployment of
renewables and that includes breaking up
energy monopolies and reabsorbing a lot
of those parts of that industry into
public ownership and democratic
accountability and it also applies to
things like food systems which of course
are a also a major part of the climate
crisis which is why Bernie's leadership
on breaking up agricultural
conglomerates fits in but in addition to
that this is a another area that we need
to talk of as a public good it is an
insane and fundamental global public
threat that so much of the food supply
is in public is in private hands that is
fundamentally dangerous just as with
health care and housing and also of
course food is a justice issue there's
still tens of millions of people in this
country that are food insecure so this
is an
proposal the scope and challenge ahead
of us share some of the same
similarities with the crisis faced by
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt in
1940's the plant states faced with
battling a world war on two fronts both
in the east and west the US the United
States came together within three short
years and restructured the entire
economy in order to win the war and
defeat fascism as president Bernie
Sanders blowed Lee embraced the moral
imperative of addressing the climate
crisis the plan opens with Sanders and
continued quote the plan opens with
Sanders vowing to slash us at missions
seventy one percent below 2017 levels by
2030 with a 100 percent renewable
electricity and zero emissions vehicles
it declares war on the fossil fuel
industry with the proposed bans on
fracking drilling in public lands and
all imports and exports of oil and gas
and V and threatens companies with civil
and criminal charges for polluting and
obstructing climate and obstructing
climate action he pledges 200 billion to
help developing countries reduce their
own climate pollution by 36 percent the
next decade that is a brilliant
brilliant model for a healthy
partnership with China and India as well
as developing countries across the board
and this also has major implications for
civil liberties because when he talks
about criminal and civil liability for
preventing climate action that would
also have a very trend be very
transferable for all of these federal
and state initiatives to critic ruminal
eyes protesters like the water
protectors in Dakota he and so I'll just
say a bit more it has a generous plans
generous pledges for workers animate
Sanders plans Sanders proposal the plan
which comes the same week the campaign
released its plan to boost Union
promises - promises five years of
employment unemployment insurance wage
guarantees housing assistance job
training pension support and priority
job placement for all workers displaced
by the transition and an author's quote
early retirement support for those who
choose or can
longer work and it proposes high wages
and union protections across nearly
every sector and how do you pay for it
well you scale back military spending
drastically spent on protecting the
global oil supply it's 100 percent right
and 1.3 31 trillion from federal and
state welfare due to the creation of
millions of good-paying unionized jobs
and that is actually true you will have
less people utilizing emergency programs
like food stamps if they have full job
protection Union benefits and high wages
nothing wrong with acknowledging that
you know I usually when the proposals
are small small-bore I have a big
problem that framing but when you're
talking about a radical restructuring
the economy which would improve the
baseline for everyone I have no problem
acknowledging the obvious that of course
most people prefer serious Union jobs as
well as retraining and early retirement
assistance and Pensions to stopgap
programs uh and then there's a variety
of other proposals I mean look this guy
there's also a writing the New Deal's
wrong sections which focuses on the
civil rights dimension that's how
important the plan calls for a forty
billion dollar climate justice and
resilience fund as well and it promises
to adhere to the principles of
environmental justice first set forth by
the first national people of color
environmental Leadership Summit in 1991
and the United Nations declaration on
the rights of indigenous peoples look
I'm sorry guys if you have any type of
remotely serious left politics or even
just any type of keen understanding of
the future and concern for the broad
base of humanity this is the candidate
and this is also the only candidate who
is a prayer of enacting any of this
stuff because he understands that just
as it would be profoundly foolish to
dismiss the power of the federal
bureaucracy and actually acquiring the
instruments of state power it's also
delusional to think that you can do it
without a mass based movement in concert
and coherence with you the Sanders
campaign is not just the best campaign
it's a completely different thing and I
hope people get serious about it
absolutely I also like that as far as I
know his plan sidesteps any nod to the
kind of green militarism that we've
heard from about cutting their injury so
cutting military spending which it's the
number one draws the connection very
clearly between oh how are you gonna pay
for it and what are we spending way too
much money on right now and when
Elizabeth Warren talks about green
militarism she could never support the
UN declaration on the rights of
indigenous people because if you cannot
see a direct line between as an example
- why did bolson ro visit CIA
headquarters when he first came to
United States Matt this is important
what is this
yeah and weird actually just now getting
adblock on it but basically the US
government is basically the number one
polluter in the entire planet producing
more than Sweden and Denmark right Green
that up no I mean and even inside her
their own bill there's an emergency
waiver on some of the targets if it's
deemed to be like a national security
necessity and I'm I'm sure that there
will be no funny business with that
inside the Pentagon
I mean look once again it's just a
question of where we're at I mean I
remember 10 years ago 15 years ago when
people like Thomas Friedman were saying
that you know the US military would lead
the way on climate and it would be a
muscular green New Deal and I understood
some of the political mechanics behind
those arguments fortunately we're in a
much better place due to this do to
occupy do the Sanders campaign do the
movements all across the country we
don't have to play that game we can
start to work to fundamentally
restructure and that's what the Sanders
campaign represents and that is also why
in fact he does have the broadest base
of support amongst working people of
every type of background yeah I mean I
gotta say I was disappointed that full
decriminalization of sex work was not
included in his criminal justice
platform this is something that we just
passed a resolution on at the DSA
convention
to try to hold our endorsed candidates
accountable but this is a movement
that's picking up steam right now sex
workers are becoming a constituency and
an active voice for the first time and I
mean baby I'm being naive but I really
believe that he can be pushed on this
well I just also want to just say like
of all of these candidates who would be
pushed on that I'm not even saying he
will but like who has the constituency
the policy advisors and the inclinations
yeah and I and I and I think it's just
obvious and I and I also just want to
say I totally hear that that's very
important and very valid and also like a
plan that would if enacted immediately
cut the prison population by 50% that
really needs to be foregrounded I mean
that's that is that is that is a radical
decrease of human suffering along with
ending cash bail
I mean banning the death penalty that
plan cannot be de-emphasized how radical
that is and and also as soon as the
dynamic shifts and in fact I think
you'll see it in the coming months the
dynamical already shift he's gonna get
hit on that plan from the right by
Harris and Biden and others um and and
certainly in a general election Trump is
gonna fear monger the hell out of all
this
all right literally on all right let's
do we have to end fairly soon so let's
watch it what is it this is look Donald
Trump cannot do this under any legal
mechanism that we have today
now obviously the courts have been
totally compromised in the courts or
another area where you're gonna need
some serious strategy planning on but
this is both you cannot be emphasized
how important this is in and of itself
because who knows where we'll be if God
forbid Donald Trump is re-elected and
also because this is the same
administration that is killing children
through kidnapping and neglect
and now wants to hold him indefinitely
here he is talking about birthright
citizenship this is the re-election this
is the reelection it's racism xenophobia
and conspiracy theories there's very
little room left for fake economic
populism that was a major part of the
equation 2016 which I hope liberals can
understand but I hope lefties
can understand that in 2020 that's not
gonna be really on the list here this is
what he's got left
[Music]
we're looking at that very seriously
birthright citizenship where you have a
baby on our land you walk over the
border have a baby
congratulations the baby is now a US
citizen we're looking at it very very
seriously I don't know how you found
that out but that's very good we are
looking at birthright citizenship very
seriously it's it's frankly ridiculous
there it is I mean again look just be
clear what Donald Trump what the
Republican Party need to do and also be
really clear this is another reason I
always keep saying accepting the science
of climate change does not matter that
much as a political analysis as to why
it is occurring and how to actually
address it because when the right starts
accepting the reality of global climate
refugees and changes in atmosphere and
whether they're going to come up with
enhanced apartheid systems to deal with
that if you read a chill on bimbe who
wrote a depressing and brilliant piece
in 2016 before Trump was elected it's
called the age of humanism was ending he
looked at Gaza as a prototype for north
and south rich import watch children of
men I mean children of men is really
does hold up is the most brilliant to
still be a movie I think certainly of
this century so far that's what's gonna
be put on the table and that's why you
need a truly radical response yeah yep
that's why something like whether you
call it open borders or the free
movement of people is gonna be so
important going forward as a way to
counter this rising tide of right wing
eco fascism or whatever you want to call
it right like well I just want to add to
that which is that you need to Center it
in my view as a fight against
colonialism and against the reasons that
are rooted in these horrific Mal
distribution of resources and abuses
which is what will like we don't want
climate refugees
so when we have like nobody wants that
period when you have refugees when you
have a crisis you respect and what's
interesting to me is things like
protocols on refugees that are already
in the books are actually pretty good
and are actually pretty you mean and so
you need to synchronize following those
international obligations but actually
also seriously dealing with the
fundamental drivers of the crisis as
well oh yeah it makes no sense to do it
in a vacuum right because climate change
imperialism and capital itself is still
going to be moving people around and
that's not truly free movement if that's
what's moving them it needs to go with a
ramping down of imperialism a ramping
down of colonial violence and a closing
of borders and a placing of restrictions
on capital which also means
International labor regulations and
absolutely and it's it's compelled
movement it's not free movement so you
have these situations where you have
absorption of massive population changes
that are generated by our foreign policy
our abuse global inequities and then
when they do arrive in different
environments in different contexts it's
political Moneymaker for the demagogues
and the bigots and also you know again
it's like the classic model - of like
the elites or the capital class does not
deal with an interface with the changes
that actually occur when cities and
towns transform themselves so you need
to have a clear moral argument against
racism xenophobia and that's why you
need to destroy ice and you need to
bring in like even frankly Warren's
proposal I mean ten times as many
refugees is not that many I think we
were down to only like we were well
below a million a half-million I think
we're even down to 30,000 in 2019 which
is abominable
atrocious
and then of course there's the whole
other element that needs to be
disaggregated which is that there's like
1520 million people who live here today
who just need to be immediately granted
citizenship I won't even say amnesty
because that implies some like great
wrongdoing but we need to disaggregate
those things and we need to make the
core of it on the climate military and
trade policies that lead to these
patterns in my view and that's another
reason to I'll say I find I think his
proposals domestically are cool but
Julian Castro with his record in his
politics talking about a Marshall Plan
for Central America is horrifying for me
it sounds to me like ensuring that the
you know the the Honduran military base
that we have there is is is well
lubricated and there's more sweatshops
at least as I see it you're calling from
seven 7:03 area code who are you where
you're calling from
hello hello how we doing good what's on
your mind oh good man I'm picking up an
uber eats order here in a sec so this
might get awkward here a bit but I want
she get to the question oh yeah yeah
yeah well I wanted to talk about Bernie
I just wanted to talk about how I'm the
only only driver in the DMV area with a
medicare-for-all bumper sticker on my
car nice and I get a lot of get a lot of
honks I get a lot of drive around we
have a like a don't tread on me bump
license plate in Virginia that a lot
alike Wow
in concern guys get so it's like they're
like yeah like stick it to the man I've
got a snake on my license plate like
they're really like they think they're
super super cool but I did yes my
ovaries orders here think I'll keep
talking about that so also I want to
talk about how I've recently just got
promoted to like a managerial position
okay and I'm kind of struggling with the
thank you so much appreciate it I'm
struggling with the the whole thing
because I really do think like there's
way too much like labor exploit
Jason waves Exploitation things like
that and we get a lot of Labor goals
where we literally can't have anyone in
the whole store to have an hour of
overtime like I'm not even allowed any
overtime look like nobody is yeah I you
find it hard this kind of struggle with
that just like exploiting labor things
you know just like being in charge of a
business and kind of having those views
but struggling like implement them I
mean to be really honest with you I I do
like it would be much harder if it was
in like an actual business like you know
I guess like in maybe it like to me like
I if you're talking specifically about
like TM yes like having some people come
in and you know work like you know just
like having be like hey Matt I know
we're pals you gotta be here at dick you
know I mean to play no that doesn't that
doesn't bother me to be honest I mean I
think obviously if it was like I mean I
you know it would have to be such a
radically different situation I mean if
if one of the reasons and this is way
ahead of my myself but like when I think
of even like as my show grows and we
think about like what we're doing and
primarily I think about what I'm doing
frankly because I you know just
definitionally put in like you know it's
a full-time job for me one of the
reasons I wouldn't necessarily want to
scale in a certain way is just I would
just never want to be in a position of
making love actually like per of dealing
with like full-time and that whole kind
of structure I know I wouldn't really
want to make those job as it now they
have to clock out you know what I mean
it's it's tough to be like yeah hey you
grow a rep parte in a relationship with
these guys especially I'm so young
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I hear just one
more thing I just wanted to brief
comment on the election that people to
judge sucks okay I'm staying
okay Wow well you're you're a good man
little Ollie Bray Oliver thanks to the
call I know what that would feel like I
feel like that would feel really sick to
be in in like some type of act like
environment like that why did you say
speak okay all right yeah guys um we're
gonna take one more call to Miriam's
than we are out of here because speaking
of not coercing people to work extra I
am NOT Sam all right you were calling
from a 700 area code who are you a call
in from hey Mike uh Robert from Colorado
hey Ron Iran has opponent oh it's going
okay
I'm at work and get paid yeah I wanted
to talk about what the normal like
right-wing politics are what do you mean
but I looked at this power plant so just
what the normal person in the right wing
like Trump kind of guy is uh huh in
Dearborn yeah you know we're to leave
that's her district um these guys are
insane there's um like this one guy uh
he was former Army this guy's like Jesus
he's a fascist like essentially ye hmm
lemme remember like six months ago that
one guy at the border got arrested for
arresting like like a migrants he was
they were all complaining like oh my god
this patient got arrested for yeah um
you know and they were like you know how
we should really stop the migrants like
wink wink we should execute them like
that's what they think and he's he's
like
he's kind of the string one but the
other like yeah okay that sounds like a
good plan and I yeah no I mean I I just
anyone actively Mogga to that extent is
a fascist yeah again I keep trying to
disaggregate between I you might have
people in your family that are fascist
it sucks right and I just look I think
that there is AI am in a lot of reaction
to some of the like Lib rad Lib whatever
you want to call a tendency to dismiss
people to not hear people out to not
have liked and also just frankly realize
when sometimes like you know we're wrong
sometimes right like there's a lot of
subtleties to this conversation that
really matter but one thing that is not
subtle is that if you are actively
supporting Donald Trump right now in
2019
you are either a fascist authoritarian
or a oleg arc or somebody who is I mean
just to put it generously just
completely off of the map and
you know that's the truth so it doesn't
surprise me at all I appreciate Coleman
thank you all right we're gonna relate
to im's
and then we're gonna add here hey
Michael regarding the recession do you
think global discussion needs to be had
economic powerhouses around the globe or
starting to either stagnation or
recession I work for a large European
country we've had set a company we've
had several meetings regarding economic
stress in Mexico China Germany UK in
Brazil Hong Kong Singapore and more this
is clearly larger it's then as the US
trade wars and shows we're all
interconnected and one we like it or not
how do we start a discourse to make this
a global issue well I mean it is a
global issue I don't think that there is
much of a context right now for having
global conversations of any sort um I
think that's you know that's obviously a
big part of the problem of today let's
see
and the final I am of the day
got Whitlam hey Michael would you ever
interview Chomsky 40 MB s of course
alright folks tomorrow Ben mankiewicz
with a movie recommendation then Matt
bender comes into studio
take care
[Music]
I was I just got cut
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is tickin
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
