[Music]
[Music]
today
in dying
the same
[Music]
we got the wrong in
not a PNG Andy Kindler look he must have
just been looking for Sam or something I
mean Gervaise guy he's even Jewish I
don't think he is Andy no now do your
Judy gold scumbag it looks like
somebody the bag of the
dump up folder with tear pie Mike
Pence's gay gay people
in Trump is fat alright cuz I'm
a dyke
I like our we're all in the mr studio so
we're like tyrannize buy all the
characters I'm like let's not say that
too loud a Nation of Islam Obama Mike on
to say I say something problematic that
you can't get away with saying and your
normal voice well I think we'll should
be able to sit in that lek seat because
once you get in you know this area
you're just immediately high on
marijuana
that's what how it works right well we
are gonna be talking about some real
bong rip today we've got an
excellent interview lined up with I I
think maybe my favorite science fiction
author is it I don't know about you guys
you might have another he's neck and
neck with Ursula Quinn for me well he's
in the convo he's in the convo he Kim
Stanley Robinson is his name OOP you and
we're gonna be talking with him about
how to integrate a sort of leftist
futurism with literature that is
interesting and fun and enjoyable and
touches on all aspects of human life
without being completely boring
like so much leftist literature it's so
good I'm not even gonna try to pretend
that we didn't already do the interview
because I think I'm still a little bit
high on talking to one of my sci-fi
heroes how about you will well first of
all I want to thank you guys for letting
me in it sit in on this one I've been a
huge admirer of Kim Stanley Robinson
ever since I read his his Mars trilogy
and I've stayed with them and you know
he is a you know he's a sci-fi writer
but he's also you know of the left in
his books I think most importantly deal
there you know deal with a future but
like not just a future of a
post-capitalist future and I think an
important thing that's touched on in
this interview that I like about his
work and I think is really important and
going against the grain of popular
culture today is that he is sort of
against a kind of like dystopian or
apocalyptic future but one that still
takes seriously you know the
catastrophes of politics or the
environment or any of these things that
can happen but but but that doesn't just
take for granted that we're all gonna be
you know in our hands and you
know eating dirt in the next 50 years
which you know as he says the inner
could happen yeah but it doesn't have to
happen and there's no like it's it's a
failure of imagination on the part of
our culture that all science fiction now
and all really every vision we have
about the future is inherently
apocalyptic it's a it's a kind of
laziness yeah our imagination and our
politics that I think he does a really
good job of getting past well it's easy
to feel sort of cynical and dystopian
when you're so mired in what's happening
right now in current events right
because things are pretty dark right now
and I think especially when you do a
show that is like sort of hooked to the
news cycle like every single day like I
do at majority report if that's all you
see then like yeah you do start to feel
kind of doom and gloom as a leftist
right which is why it's so important to
look to the future and not just like
2020 not just a few years down the line
but like the far looking future and
what's possible for Humanity yeah that's
a really good point I mean so much of
what we do and I mean we in the larger
sense and in the culture or as
individuals or people in the media which
I guess we are is yeah it's very
short-term thinking right about like you
know how are we going to organize this
campaign
how are we gonna canvass how we're gonna
get more members for our organization
what's the next you know big social
struggle that's coming up and it is so
easy to lose sight of you know what
happens not just two years but 20 years
and even 200 years is important because
you know as human beings were ultimately
passing something down to generations
you know in the future and what we do
today has a huge effect on you know how
those people are gonna be living in
hopefully living because socialism or
barbarism is more real now that I think
it's ever been I would that with climate
change and the this reactionary wave
that we're seeing right now but you know
I would say that that science fiction
has always been instrumental for me not
to like pop psychologize myself but
maybe there's something about the fact
that I'm really into history or I'm
really into the future that says
something about my idea of the present
because ever since I was a kid who has
always either yeah like history in the
past or science fiction in the future
yeah no I think it's same here cuz I
think honestly especially in fiction
unless you're like an extremely talented
like novel is like the writer of the
highest level I think it's almost
impossible to say anything meaningful
about the present moment in fiction
writing about it now right like it to me
like writing about the past or writing
about the future is to me like the most
interesting way of talking about you
know your lived experience or the
cultural moment that you're in without
being you know cloying or forgettable or
just instantly disposable like you know
much art is not that it's all bad but it
just sort of you know you forget it just
you consume it and forget it
and I guess if you're not familiar with
Kim Stanley Robinson's books I mean the
Mars trilogy is sort of the the entry
for a lot of people and in that in those
three novels he sort of creates a kind
of history over several centuries of the
human colonization and terraforming of
Mars and you know through characters and
through fiction really describes a
political economic and ecological
process and and both the individual
characters political choices and inputs
in that and and sort of a broader vision
of
humanity and ecology that is fascinating
and I think really useful towards
understanding you know our present
political moment time is a flat circle
so if you think about it really the
future is just history that hasn't
happened yet from our current vantage
point within the fourth dimension which
of course is time that is not the first
bong rip thing that will be said during
the course of this episode as we get
deep into the spiritual and
psychological and psychedelic aspects of
Stan's worldview is going deep going
deep going all the way in I think the
last thing I would say before we get
into the interview is that I think will
you pointed towards this - it's
important to to kind of when we're
talking about technology we're talking
about history we're talking about these
grand sweeping events and we're talking
about political change it's so easy to
lose the human you know the actual
relationships and the psychology and the
importance of the individual and their
relationships and I think what Kim
Stanley Robinson does excellently is
he's able to say write a series of now
of novels a trilogy that goes span
stoute hundreds of years rather and at
the same time make it human
you know because ultimately you know if
nothing human is alien to us we need to
always keep track of that and be aware
of that moving forward and things like
the Mars trilogy and his other works I
think are really good at kind of
squaring the circle between the meta and
the individual yeah science nerd
but make it human exactly like I always
I wasn't really okay so true story Sean
got me into sci-fi I was kind of into so
I find fantasy when I was a kid and then
you know grew up and I'm like oh that's
for nerds but Sean I don't know if he
did this on purpose but he no comment he
gave me a little book to read called the
dispossessed by Ursula K Le Guin and it
really got me thinking through some of
these ideas about socialism particularly
more anarchist versions of socialism in
a way that I hadn't before and probably
wouldn't if it was not also a book with
lots of you know
ships love and sex and fun stuff too
it's like it's all it's all part of the
same delicious yin yang messy whole and
I think he does a very um you know so to
speak I think he does a very good job
bringing those things together in a way
that really gets the back walls of your
mind indeed indeed it does well this
this interview touched all the walls of
my mind for sure
the whole ways of always folks that's
why yeah and like I think if people want
a little intro to the way that he
envisions utopia you know maybe you
don't have time to read a whole book
right now although you should read you
know all of his books of course he wrote
Kim Stanley Robinson wrote a great
article in kommune magazine about the
role of utopia and the sort of lazy
cynicism that people can fall into with
dystopia and I like it because I think
the utopia has been wrong that the
utopian has been wrongfully painted as
this naive Tay in politics in culture
whatever when this is this is something
I think about a lot he used the term
asymptote in conversation and in the
book to talk about human development in
various ways and I that's kind of a big
part of how I envision communism right
because full communism is obviously this
utopian vision right people make beams
about it we're all just like her dreams
floating orbs in space just like doing
BUTT STUFF and having literally in
twenty-three-twelve nice time in the
book and like you know maybe well maybe
we won't ever get there but but there's
the but we that doesn't mean we can't
try right and if communism or if what we
conceive of right as our like democratic
socialist society or whatever is
striving ever closer to us
that delectable goal maybe that's good
enough everybody on the forward march
not one step back towards full BUTT
STUFF communism and on that note here is
our interview with Kim Stanley Robinson
I hope you enjoy it as much as we
enjoyed doing it boom
[Music]
all right we are here with author
award-winning author and science fiction
hero of all of ours Kim Stanley Robinson
hi Stan thanks for being with us
hi Shan's good to be there Jamie I think
is gonna start the round of questions we
are here with of course will menaker
still hello and yes we're all extremely
excited for this so Stan Jamie is gonna
start throwing some curveballs at you
just kidding that they're gonna be
they're gonna be soft bumpy here's a
gotcha question just kidding it's a nice
question so about two years ago I think
I pitched and got assigned an interview
with the sci-fi author Orsola Quinn who
was very influential in my own life and
my own political awakening shall we say
but unfortunately she passed away before
I had a chance to speak with her and I
know you studied under her at UC San
Diego and I'm sorry for your loss as
well as the world's loss what can you
tell us about ursula Guin about her
influence on you on your own work and
maybe the world in general well thank
you for that I'd love to talk about
Ursula grin she was indeed my teacher
which is remarkable coincidence that I
treasure
I had gone to UC San Diego as an
undergraduate gone off to graduate
school in Boston freaked out at the
wintertime in Boston and retreated to
San Diego where I took up graduate
school there instead of in Boston and I
felt like an idiot after I got back to
San Diego but the right soon after I got
back UC San Diego's loser Department
announced they had gotten Lagoon -
agreed to come to teach for Spring
Quarter and so then I thought well maybe
it wasn't so stupid after all and my
going back to San Diego it was at that
point I had sold several science fiction
short stories I was completely committed
to being a science fiction writer I'd
been to Clarion
I've been reading intensively for about
at that point no more than six or seven
years but very intense reading and
Liguilla had published in the same time
that I had gotten into science fiction
well she had already published a left
hand of darkness but while I was into it
she published lathe of heaven and the
dispossessed and the dispossessed was a
mind boggler that I had read about two
years before she showed up at UCSD and
so she was even then the preeminent
American science fiction writer it was
pretty clear to everybody and especially
if you're on the left
I'm sorry always wind chimes in the
background is that bad it's kind of
endearing actually charming I am it's a
windy day I'm outdoors where I always
work and it's sunny it's cold but sunny
and I can put the kibosh on the wind
chimes if you want you know we're
recording in Brooklyn now and we don't
know where our listeners are in the
world right now they probably don't have
access to wind chimes and I don't think
it's a problem let's just allow that
ambient
wind chime to go in the background let's
let's just keep okay well I could say
also that I'm taking part in Cornell
University's great Bird Count
and so today is the last day of a bird
count where you count and name all the
birds that you see and so I'm out next
to my bird feeder and while we're
talking I'm keeping a little tabulation
on how many white-crowned sparrow show
up yet can we get a count on how many
birds you see today
all right particular you should can I
have seen I don't know if I you want as
much detail as I could give you yellow
billed Magpies they are absolutely only
local to this part of the valley birders
come from all over the world to see
these yellow billed Magpies lots of
crows lots of Canada geese lots of I
call them little beige birds because I'm
not a real birder a red red tailed hawk
a Swainson hawk flicker and a little
blue bird that I've never seen before so
that the bird hunt seems to have called
up for me and a lot of gold finches
there perhaps it's evolutionary
psychology and our
desire to be surrounded by wilderness in
nature but I'm feeling a little bit
jealous right now I have to say I've
seen zero Birds today unfortunately yes
Brooklyn I know Brooklyn a little bit
and I love Brooklyn but it doesn't seem
like a great burger there's a standard
pigeon but then of course you know
sparrows and starlings are about the
most common occasionally I do see a
Hawks Hawks in Brooklyn right they have
a thing with the skyscraper setbacks I
go to the that if you go over to the
river up at is it Astoria at Hell Gate
there's some I did a quite extensive
exploration of Brooklyn end of the New
York area for when I was writing my New
York 21:40 and my best friend in New
York lives in Brooklyn and took me to
places that I wouldn't have known to go
to that got into the book and I'm always
looking for birds although I have to say
I'm not a good birder I don't know what
I'm seeing most the time but I've gotten
really interested in them because of my
work life here I always write in my
front yard and that's what Davis gives
me oh yeah we saw a picture of that and
I think the article that wired it on you
and it looks like a really delightful
and lovely place to work
it is it's a little bit freakish what
I've done about ten years of sitting in
this chair where I'm sitting right now
looking at the bird feeder and at my
gates and my fence and my Japanese maple
and I know what season it is because of
the tilt of the Sun over to my left and
on it goes like that I see the sky the
clouds the wind and the trees right now
it's beautiful and has put many years
onto my writing life that might not have
happened because I was feeling so burned
out 10 or 15 years ago when I when I
moved out here and discovered that I
wasn't burned out on writing I was burnt
out on sitting indoors well I can sit
outdoors all the time very happily yeah
that's not it that's amazing because I
think that all of us here appreciate
that you know that burn out has passed
and thank you to Davis California for
allowing you to make all the great
novels that you've done so you you
worked with Ursula Le Guin and I think I
saw somewhere to that the famous Marxist
cultural critic Fredric Jameson was also
part of your your studies and your
inspiration
so between Ursula Quinn and Frederick
Jameson and your other experiences in
life how did you become radicalized how
did you become an anti capitalist and
how has that affected your work yeah I'm
sorry I stopped you in the middle of
talking about it's better to have
organic conversation and it's good for
me to kind of collect my thoughts as
well it Jameson was crucial and the
third of the of the great writers that I
was lucky enough to have as teachers and
I'm I'm astonished at the luck involved
with this
the third is Gary Snyder the California
poet and you might call him an eco a
Buddhist eco warrior a leftist for sure
and a hero of mine since the same time
that I was beginning to read science
fiction I was reading poetry and Zen
Buddhist texts this is all very
California hippie 1972 type intellectual
background and I discovered the Sierra
Nevada and Fred Jameson was my first
French professor beyond the
conversational classes the first
literature classes and he insisted on us
all speaking French which was a bizarre
constraint because I only had about a
hundred words of French in me and he
assigned the short place of Camus and of
Sartre and so we read those places and
we discussed them in French and Fred was
very patient with us very slow in his
speaking and very clear and also very
existentialist and I didn't realize that
at the time and very Marxist so it was
the 70s the Vietnam War was still going
I had a draft number I was radicalized
by that a very practical concern of not
wanting to go to Vietnam and feeling
like the war was a disaster and a crime
so it's very situational to my
generation and the time that I came
around and I
I now think that that's true of
everybody that you are that were partly
are just expressions of our historical
periods and the individual choices that
we make are are predicated on the
opportunities of the time that you're in
and for me the luck of running into
Jameson now who is a very persuasive
very modest man a bookish guy he loves
books in movies and that's really the
way that he likes to talk about things
is through literature but he's very
committed Marxist and he was I guess
what you would call the preeminent
American Marxist critic and especially
in Western Marxism trying to figure out
what what did it mean to be a Marxist
after the Soviet Union and through the
70s and 80s and so by reading him he is
my guide to everything else in the world
of political theory sometimes he'll make
suggestions and I'll read the people
that he suggested to me and I'll
understand them and it'll be wonderful
people like Ernst Bloch or Raymond
William oh yeah and and many other of
the famous Western Marxist other times
he'll recommend someone as being good to
read important and I'll read them and I
won't understand them at all and it
seems to me that Jameson summary of them
is better than their own original
writing in terms of clarifying their
thoughts and I don't need to specify who
because I compared Lee remember but what
I can say is that he was my political
teacher and and and a lot of it was just
reading him he moved away from UC San
Diego before I was even done with my PhD
he was directing it it was unfilled okay
dick I was in heaven he moved to Yale so
luckily my undergraduate adviser Donald
Wessling really good teacher very strong
literature professor and a leftist but
not into science fiction at all so
Donald took over my PhD dissertation
that time and lagoon came when I was in
graduate school early on and Snyder I
was only a reader of but he was the one
that explained for me how nature fit
into all this that that nature culture
political / natural combination that I
think is very important to me and to
everybody Snyder was the the great
teacher there for me and I ran into him
years later up here in Davis where he
taught at UC Davis through the 90s and I
got to know him and we've become friends
I love Gary and I probably know him the
best of the three although I've stepped
I've stayed in excellent contact with
Fred and I was in intermittent but warm
contact with Ursula through the years
well you sort of anticipated the
question I was gonna bring up to you
speaking of uh being a product of a
place in time in this case California in
the 60s and 70s and you writing your
thesis on philip k dick I was just you
know really interested in first of all
like what the thesis was about and just
you know what reading dick for the first
time like you responded to in his work
sure I love Phil dick and his work
although it's not my favorite he's not
my favorite writer by any means
and when Jamison said to me this is like
1972 or three he said if read Phil dick
he's the greatest living American writer
BarNone and I went out and I bought
galactic pot healer and I read galactic
pot healer and I said what was he why
would he say that this is just a
ridiculous scrawny little short story
very Union very Spacey very reality
break down very philip k dick and you
know he said read on you got to read all
of it you gotta read huge swathes of it
the individual books don't matter it's
the totality that matters which as usual
with fred was a very smart way to go at
it and so then i read all of dick under
his direction and i began to see what he
was talking about he's dick is a
tremendous novelist without
being a great stylist and the best of
his books in terms of style is the man
in the high castle yes but even there
has an introduction to man in high
castle that is very funny talking about
how everybody even the Germans speak in
Japanese English which as Ursula says in
their introduction must pause to
consider yeah you mentioned that
like Jameson saying that you have to
read him all of him to get a kind of
total effect and his individual stories
and novels do you have kind of a shaggy
dog quality but when you read them like
as an entire body of work what do you
think emerges for you good question I
think the little man the ordinary person
as hero of the novel so this was
revolutionary in science fiction where
you had the kind of john w campbell a
superman the Nietzschean uber mentioned
the spaceship captain that kept in curt
blah blah and with Phil dick it's always
the tire we groover the base repair
person and so ordinary people and then I
also love the structure of his novels
which I've imitated many a time which is
you write from third person limited
point of view so that you're inside one
character's mind the narrator speaking
of them in third person but reading
their thoughts and the other characters
are outsiders and then the next scene
it's a different character looking back
at the first character from inside the
second character's mind and this robing
point of view is an extremely powerful
tool for shaping novels and giving you a
sense of three dimensionality to the
characterizations so in technical terms
I think dick even though he was writing
you know on speed at a thousand miles an
hour and several of his novels like one
year there were five novels and there
was a five year period where there were
thirteen novels and this is the mid-60s
and he would write them in two weeks and
so they're pretty slack and messy and
rushed but on the other hand they're
really powerful and strong and
he's a mixed bag and then also the
political angle he's without being
intensely theoretical about it he's just
instinctively anti-capitalist
his novels and this is something Jamison
taught me to see they're all about the
corrosive effects of capitalism on
ordinary human relations how it
instrumental eise's everybody and you
turn into a calculator of value even for
other people and and so dicks novels are
keep coming back to that they're really
about America in the 50s and 60s and how
I always think of the new BEC were
essentially everything is coin-operated
like from your front door to your coffee
machines everything in that book is
about you know coins and then of course
the coin comes back telling you whether
you're really alive or dead at one point
in the book yes I just had occasion to
do an introduction to Ubik I reread it
for the first time in about 40 years and
it's just a long short story it's a mess
and yet that exactly right what you
pointed out that the fight that joechip
has with his door a coin-operated door
to get out of his apartment and trying
to bargain about credit to get out of
his apartment I mean it's AI it's it's
all the stuff that we're thinking about
right now and and and all done at this
level it's probably one of the greatest
scenes he ever wrote because it's it's
very funny and it's very penetrating so
more on this on these political aspects
we noticed reading your work in both the
Mars trilogy which we've all consumed at
least once in this room but also tried
several times while reading it I just
want you to know that thank you I'm sure
she'd not a bed yeah but also then in
very very much a different novel which
is years of rice and salt which is an
alternative history in both novels in
both universes there are these specific
moments where it seems like the kind of
collective scientific knowledge and
social awareness of human beings kind of
combined together to create a sort of
phase change in human affairs
it's almost like in in both of these
instance whether it's the past or an
imagined future humanity is able to
create something like historical
materialism something like ways of
grasping and they're kind of
interconnectedness of all people and
being able to overcome tyranny and
division and want this seems to be a
theme in your work do you want to talk a
little bit about that about how people
are situated and how we collectively
understand the world it seems to me the
basic problem or issue the it brings up
just the question of history and is it a
story of us pulling our act together and
making a better civilization or is it
just one set of power dynamics after
another and so I it comes to a question
of what is revolution can there be
revolution anymore it it our revolutions
more positive than negative when you
consider the violence in the backlashes
and could there be a peaceful somewhat
organized revolution what Raymond
Williams calls the wrath of the long
revolution or you might just say social
democrat democracy type reform from
within the legal systems instead of
could you if you did enough of those and
did them smartly enough could that
constitute a revolution instead of the
the classic form of the French or there
Russia under the American Revolution of
armed revolt and violence and death and
then subsequent reactionary backlash
which especially in the French and
Russian was obvious and then the
American one more settled and strange so
I'm I keep trying to write stories where
that could be the topic and it it
presents a problem for the novelist it's
a problem that historical novelists had
had all along and science fiction is
kind of the flipside of the historical
novel in that you're trying to write
both individual lives characters that
you care about the kind of telepathy of
being inside someone else's head
and the novel is really a bourgeois form
it's about the individual consciousness
in a lot of ways and then small groups
and then how does it encompass history
how do you include also history itself
well your characters have to go through
something big and so in both the Mars
trilogy and in years of rice and salt I
invented ways of having individual
humans that lived longer than we usually
live right right the longevity treatment
in the Mars trilogy and reincarnation
and the Bardo that was fascinating yeah
yes and so this gave me a chance to talk
about history explicitly and keep it at
the level of characters and in my other
novels where I've tried to deal with
both these elements at once but with
ordinary human lifetimes I've struggled
to make it work and the novel that I
think is best called green earth my
Washington DC trilogy and in several
other books
23:12 or the one that I'm working on now
I've been trying to continue to do that
kind of project and write about moments
of historical change that maybe they
aren't revolutions but they might be
revolutionary in their ultimate impacts
um speaking of your work and I think
sort of a contrast in my mind with with
your work and other more other forms of
science fiction is it would seem to me
that the the dominant mode in science
fiction or really most of our popular
culture right now is overwhelmingly
dystopian and apocalyptic in that like
everyone just sort of seems to assume
that the the Mad Max scenario is the
future we're headed for how do your
books consciously go against that like
particularly and what I think that's
important particularly from a sort of
leftist perspective well this brings me
back to much that I have learned from
Jameson this is really kind of JAMA
Sounion to say it's dialectical dystopia
is the flip side of utopia it's it's a
political response and that's therefore
interesting but he's also accommodated
from
time that we're weirdly comforted by
dystopia that it's a way of assuring
contemporary readers that as bad as
things are for us it's not as bad as
it's gonna be for these poor characters
in the future and so you can read
dystopias badly or they can serve a bad
function of just comforting you with
kind of disaster porn that you read from
a Semite comfortable spot in the
precariat in this current year but
there's another way of reading it and I
know that Jameson will agree with this
too that it's an expression of how
people are feeling and novels are very
important for that how do young people
feel today well they feel scared
put-upon hopeless and so dystopias have
this immediate expression of a political
feeling so the political unconscious as
Jameson wind cut of dystopian Texas a
sense of entrapment and despair and and
their and so they are an honest feeling
but once you've expressed that feeling
you have to turn it over and you think
about the utopian view that the reason
that dystopias appealed to us is that
there's a broad sense that things can be
better and that the future could be made
to be better by what we do now so I this
is for me
I think dystopias are easy and now it's
a little complacent it's it's become
kind of a cliche or a marketing category
and it's too easy that in fact after the
they won't be Mad Max although that's a
kind of a worst-case scenario but it
won't be an end there will still be
humans if this whole notion that it goes
back to a kind of Hobbesian war of all
against all is there's a reading of
human nature that flies in the face of
sociobiology itself and we're actually
incredibly social incredibly altruistic
and cooperative and it may be there were
only altruistic within tight
chuckles of family or group or can or
even supposedly nation-state or ethnic
although those are mostly concoctions
but we we actually are team players
so what's interesting is to say after a
disaster
what does ordinary I feel like for
people who only know the
post-apocalyptic state and so that was
what I was trying to write about in New
York 21:40 after the sea levels rise and
there's a half century of utter disaster
in chaos then life goes on and the young
people of that time that's all they know
they just think of it as normal
oh the past there were disasters here we
are in this new normality and that's
what dystopia misses out on this this
notion that it's gonna be a boot in your
face forever as is simplistic I guess
I'm saying yeah I really like the way
you put that and I really like the way
you put it in blue Mars to when you
write it was a crisis which could have
triggered a terminal disaster a descent
into chaos and barbarity and instead it
was being met head-on by the greatest
efflorescence of civilization in history
a new renaissance and i feel like that's
a theme and a lot of your work which is
both like sort of catastrophist because
you know bad things happen in fact
things probably are going to happen in
real life but also very optimistic and
that you know human nature it's a very
difficult thing to define but it
definitely contains at least the
possibility for a kind of pulling
together that we see already you know
amid disasters or what-have-you and
people help each other out
it it's it's cool to think about
especially because I have to deal with
people on a day-to-day basis who think
that um you know I'm not being practical
by being a utopian or being ideological
and people whose horizon is like I don't
know some kind of left liberalism are
not being ideological they're just being
realistic about the possibilities of
humanity right yes there's what I call a
fashionable cynicism or it's also a
self-protective
that I don't want to seem naive I don't
want to seem stupid and so very often
being labeled optimistic which I often
am this is code for the poor guy he's
stupid he doesn't get it how bad things
really are yeah you know maybe it's
biochemical maybe he's just fooled but
it's you put you put yourself out there
in a risky position when you say things
could be better or that it actually is a
remarkable achievement for nearly eight
billion people to be alive on this
planet without everybody already killing
each other that it could be so much
worse that you have to keep a balanced
view of that and and and the balance is
hard because you have to admit that a
were on the edge of a mass extinction
event that could be really devastating
that gets us to the true dystopia even
to the Mad Max moment of ultimate
devastation that's possible and so with
that kept in mind it's so scary that
when you say well but on the other hand
we also could have inclusive prosperity
as this new economics group is has
called it which is not a bad name
especially if you include the whole
biosphere in the inclusion that that's
also possible well since it is you ought
not to deny that either and what you
come to is a completely bizarre moment
which maybe every moment in human
history has been the same but it feels
more bizarre now I don't know why that
we could from the moment we're in right
in this moment it could be a terrible
human future and biosphere future or it
could be a pretty great human future and
biosphere future both are equally
physically possible and so then the
political work becomes to try to shove
it towards the good future and and on in
the on the most fundamental level just
to dodge the bad future yeah we're back
to the socialism or barbarism well yeah
I think years back this moment it's
becoming more and more clear because we
have this historically unprecedented
brush
of climate change and you know even
people who used to pretend that it
wasn't happening aren't pretending that
anymore but you still hear people say
things like oh you know we could have a
green new deal and try to stave off
climate disaster and like save the human
race from dying out but it might be too
expensive so maybe not like what's up
with that it's the the attacks on the
green New Deal have been revealing how
shoddy and insufficient that ideology is
at this point the old-style Republican
capitalists
business as usual that is leading us to
the mass extinction event just looks bad
there is even old-time right-wingers who
are used to sounding plausible with 50
years experience like George will their
attacks on the green New Deal are
entirely empty of substance and usually
they they toss the word they say oh but
that's socialism as if that is a QED on
how and why it can't be done at all and
one thing that Jamison pointed out quite
recently an electorate Duke which I'm
listening in on us if it's a podcast is
that in the previous moments of American
leftism that have been prominent and
then crushed after World War one and
then after World War two and then the
third one would be in the 60s they all
had a moment of the florescence an
appeal and then they all got crushed by
political reversals and by a deliberate
suppression but none of them ever dared
to say the word socialism in America
mostly after World War one but this is
Jameson's point is that the idea would
be that the socialist cause in the
United States would do the good things
without telling the general American
public what they were and it kind of
been a long guard ISM and then after the
fact after we were in a better state say
oh by the way that's actually socialism
which was a silly way to go about it
because the American populace isn't that
easily fooled and we
are the American populace and so what's
different this time he pointed out is
that people are unabashedly using the
world socialism and claiming that it's
okay to say that word and still be in
the American political mainstream
discourse it's a new moment and I myself
am stunned because I I've been paying
attention to the situation ever since
those early seventies moments and and
this is a kind of a first and a new
horizon and it might be a sign I think
it's true what you said Jamie that
climate change is shoving this onto us
it's a kind of an enormous pressure that
is forcing us to reconsider the way that
we think about politics yeah totally I
think it's especially salient for young
people right who look at I don't know
some older more conservative voters who
are probably going to die of old age and
say hey I could die of climate change if
we don't do something about this so
what's up yeah well they might not die
of old age if we get that life
expansionpak the Sharon solarz show
they're dealing with these people
forever but really in favor of longevity
treatments at my age but I can tell you
from my perspective it's not going to
come fast enough and it looks to be way
harder than people thought back in even
in the 90s there's an asymptotic kind of
resistance involved to physics and the
difficulties of biology so no I think
people in fact average lifetimes are
going down because our health habits are
so poor so I think we're stuck with what
we've got and I think that young people
do need to grab hold of the political
discourse as fast as they can and to
reject the ordinary business capitalism
which is so amazingly destructive and
now that everybody's in the prokaryote
that there is no middle class that if
you're not in the 1% you have reason to
be scared there's there's it's instead
impetus you know the reason there was a
leftism in the 70s that I was part of as
a young person was the Vietnam War
there's a physical practical danger to
your life that forces your politics it's
very
materialists and now the same kind of
thing is happening with the
precariousness of the gig economy which
is it really just more exploitation yes
Stan you mentioned the the
gerontological treatment perhaps not
being on the horizon the immediate
horizon but there is a group out in
Silicon Valley the Peter Till's and the
Elon must of the world who want to have
that who want to be immortal to the
extent that they are taking young
people's blood and you know putting all
sorts of money into research to extend
the billionaires lives at the rest of us
it touches that vision of the world I
think touches on this kind of duality
between dystopian utopia you were
talking about because a lot of the
thinking around technology and science
and the future is pretty dark right now
especially coming out of Silicon Valley
there are the fears of this sort of AI
singularity there are these ideologies
of neo reaction ISM and the dark
enlightenment or some sort of fascist
acceleration is dark in mint as I like
to call it these seem to be percolating
you know in the same sort of way that
you were talking about as a response to
social and technological change do you
think that this is a science being
divorced too much from the humanities is
it an educational problem or have we
just not either face the problem
correctly or are we letting the left is
the left letting futurism be taken over
by people whose interests are not our
own there's a the future is a contested
space like government is a contested
space and like science is a contested
space so they're all battlefields
ideological battlefields a discursive
struggle is everywhere now the Silicon
Valley I have a lot of contacts down
there being one of the great space
cadets of our time and you know an aging
white male science fiction writer gets
invited to a lot of these things to
speak so I take advantage of that and
I've met a lot of these people and the
Elon Musk is an interesting guy Peter
Thiel is not an interesting guy
there's a lot of fantasy going on all of
these people the billionaires of which
I've met maybe a dozen now they are all
gonna die in their 80s and none of this
there's a fantasy response which is
essentially a bad science fiction
response and it's not confined to one
political group everybody would like to
be immortal and live longer and they're
not going to and so you can either admit
that and and persist with what lifetime
you're given and accept that we're
mortal creatures or else you can go into
fantasy lands and talk about uploading
yourself into an AI and all of the AI
people are actually working on it down
at Google and elsewhere in Silicon
Valley will freely admit that that's AI
is just a fundraising not phrase there's
nothing to it it's just there is an even
machine learning to speak of and the
opportunities there to help humanity are
substantial in terms of crunching big
data and doing the things that computers
can do but it's not at all transcendent
or transformative and we probably won't
even help self-driving cars so you've
got to understand that most just talk
now about technological innovation it
has to do with fundraising there's a an
awful lot of venture capital out there
after the after the quantitative easing
and the 2008 crash 15 trillion dollars
were created and given to the banks who
then gave it to the rich you know 90% of
that money went to the 1% and then it's
trickle-down theory all over again what
it means is there's more investment
money than there are good investment
possibilities if you're trying to have a
broad portfolio of future tech
possibilities so a lot of is
getting thrown around and a lot of
money's getting invested in things that
are going to be shown somewhere between
five and 20 years later to be complete
 so that's just what Silicon
Valley is and you don't want to get too
distracted by that as a young leftist
thinking about how do we change the
whole political / economic system
a Silicon Valley is kind of like a
distraction like Hollywood or something
that's it's not the real story the real
story is probably in Washington or it's
out in your garden
it's regenerative agriculture or it's
some kind of green new deal support
system and I and I actually think that
the billionaires are that they're
there's two things you could do you
could say more and more often there
shouldn't be any such thing as a
billionaire the tax structure should cut
billionaires off you should be able to
make about ten billion dollars a year
and beyond that the tax rate rises to
nearly 100 percent and it goes back to
the people who generated that the
American Society amen so strong
progressive taxation great and I don't
even think that needs to be called
socialist although it it's a way of
tweaking us towards more leftist values
for sure but you can remind people that
during the Eisenhower that Dwight
Eisenhower presided over a 91 percent
top income tax rate and that was when
people hit $400,000 which these days
would be about four million dollars so
you could even say let's just do like
Eisenhower did which I find very funny
to return to on your own work and and
some of the interesting contrasts that
it makes with other more popular or
other forms of science fiction in our
popular culture usually in science
fiction the author takes you know a
piece of technology or a social trend
that exists in the present and projects
it into the future to omit you know
spaceships robots computers etc and you
imagine that evolution into society in
our society like into the future but in
your work you you do of course do that
with technology but you do the same
thing for economic systems and social
relationships and I was wondering if you
could talk a little bit like how do you
approach that process of imaginative
speculation as it applies to let's say
capitalism is it different than the same
then of just imagining what computers
will be like in a hundred years it's a
little the same and thanks for this
question because it gets right to the
heart of where I'm working and worrying
and I'm gonna talk to you whilst I move
inside because there's somebody next
door with power tools
first a wind chimes and then the power
tools the bane of my outdoor existence
here is how frequently power tools are
employed in a neighborhood context but
I'm throwing off the bird count
oh that's right I should be out here can
you hear the power tools okay
no I mean let me get back to the point
yes what I've found is that it's what I
usually do is try to get help from
scientists and I and so in terms of
technology like how do we get to Mars
what have we doing to get to Mars
scientists planets ologists they're
lovely helpers and they're willing to
talk when I think of what's the next
what's post capitalism what's the next
political economy they were gonna live
under the help is remarkably sparse
there the written political economy of
the last 50 years is I could practically
name them on one hand and they're there
they're great Herman Daly and butcher
and Hazel Henderson and such of Capra
and you know there's a variety but
they're kind of off the cutting edge at
this point and at no point did they give
me much help so when I was writing my
novels especially the Mars books I was
scrambling and Mondragon Spain has been
a perpetual comfort to me as a
functioning town that is nothing but
coops as a transitional state I'm sorry
we can definitely hear the power tools
now it's like the birds away too so it's
a it's kind of a double wing here okay
why don't uh why don't you keep talking
well I move as long as it doesn't work
I'm headed in all right sounds good so I
I do my research I try to find what
examples there are around the world of
strong leftist communities I think hard
about
and what happened in the whole Soviet
experiment I really tried hard to
understand China and I have to admit
China's not easy to understand nothing
red moon you did you did struggle with
that but it came out great at the end
I'm sorry go on no I'm glad that you
brought that up because that's my most
recent effort that and the New York
novel I'm trying to imagine some what
would come next well maybe nobody at
this point can imagine that very well
and even using the word socialist as
much as I am willing to call myself that
and I just love it that there's a
democratic socialist of America doing so
well happy to join that I still think oh
hell yeah I'm uh I'm a part of the
Democratic socialists of America by the
way so isn't everybody I mean everybody
should be well are you I am a
card-carrying member but I I don't go
much further than the unfortunately yeah
I pay my dues and I read the things and
I try to help we'll take it yeah but but
what I'm saying is maybe what the
political economy that's going to come
in though if we get a good one in the
21st century and maybe maybe it'll meet
a new name maybe it'll look like the
older socialist attempts I what I would
love to have everybody doing is D
stranding the the what you might call
the toolkit what the defining
characteristics of socialism which ones
are crucial and necessary which ones are
accidental and historical and how do we
apply them the ones that are crucial and
necessary to the current moment that
we're already in because we don't get to
have a fresh start so these I think are
the ongoing questions
[Music]
you will you brought up a Mondragon
Spain and I and then previously we were
talking about Silicon Valley like have
you talked about some of the the great
potential that technology could be used
to aid humanity and I I wanted to ask
you about in one of your novels
23:12 you talked about something called
the the Mondragon Mondragon Accords
which is sort of a describe that it's a
good economic system that has sort of
replaced capitalism through the use of
quantum computing to sort of create a
centrally planned economy like they
could like that gets over the hump of
the problems of having a centrally
planned economy through quantum
computing yes sure and that brings in
all kinds of things of course but there
was an old question that Frances
Buffon's novel read plenty brings up the
historical moment where the Soviet Union
computer scientists were trying to
invent a computer system that was strong
enough to run a command economy without
the market and that failed because of
corruption and the Soviet system and
because it wasn't clear you know now
we've got computers so immensely
powerful the things that they can do are
amazing and if you get quantum computers
even more so and quantum computing is
another and big if but it might it might
happen and even classical computers are
an enormous least wrong
why couldn't we put into our our economy
what everybody needs and then send out
to the to the factories and to the
fields and then create what everybody
needs and then distribute it back out to
what everybody means without a market
since the prices in the market are
systemically wrong and in the market
systemically devalues people and the
environment so that's two big things
that are being destroyed by underpricing
of the market and when you say the
market system is is a failure well this
is completely terrifying because we are
in a global market system and we don't
have an alternative so in
twenty-three-twelve I was suggesting
then 300 years from now we might have
all these things worked out and that
trade would still exist people would
still make different things they would
still need to exchange the stuff that
they make or that they do for the stuff
that they don't have her that they want
so China has market socialism well what
does market socialism mean and what our
markets really and these are questions
that I'm trying to explore where the
response is especially when you bring up
the words markets is extremely
ideological but put on the other hand
that's not a bad thing everything is
extremely ideological it's just that
markets are a huge force right now there
one name for global capitalism the
market yeah that's the one thing that I
really object to when people treat the
market as this like neutral objective
almost naturally existing thing that is
not heavily mediated by ideology and
created by humans ostensibly to serve
humans right
yeah and it's a lot of system legal
system so the legal system could change
and you could have something that was
what would you call it the post market
or the pseudo market or the rationally
contained and survivable market or
whatever but when people say the market
like you say that as if it's as if its
nature itself well this is a terrible
category error and I think part of the
work of the left is to is to clarify
that issue that free markets are a legal
regime that actually are not free for
most of humanity suffers in the free
market system not to mention the ecology
right because like this is something
that I often have trouble explaining to
people who maybe aren't familiar with
Marxist economics the idea that we can
solve the problem of climate change
under the current political and economic
formation of capitalism is it's a
fantasy
it's at least as much a fantasy as
building socialism within our lifetimes
right because under I mean if you
believe in Marxist Marx's concept of
value
environment and the ecology around us it
has no value it's just this infinite
free gift the capital can use to extract
value and in that sense it's I just
cannot see solving this problem while
continuing capitalist accumulation on
this planet unless we expand to other
planets right but that's like just kind
of moving the problem around
well you can't explain to the other
planets that's that's definitive so
really the problem has to be solved here
so ya capitalist accumulation is
physically impossible at a certain point
and we've reached that point what's
interesting though is that I mean I
would agree with you completely
and then what's the next how do you
alter markets in a rapid step in other
words if you had a hundred reforms in a
row that you could write up as
legislation and enact one law after the
next to get from where we are now to a
perpetual mobile of ecological
circulation where humans fitted into
this biosphere on this one and only
planet what would those hundred steps be
that's the that's the interesting
question and I would say this right away
the the proclamation of the green New
Deal is a fabulous start on this it was
an impressive document it was nowhere
near as content free as as I was fearing
and and yet the hundred steps the laws
that you might introduce as bills in
Congress and then if you had a majority
you passed them they became the law
people began to act according to these
laws what would those laws be it's
interesting we'll mention the the Modric
on collective that exists in the real
world today and you know you you pushing
that out into the future and imagining a
way that that could be a kind of
overgrowth and overcoming of capitalism
in red moon your most recent work you do
the same thing with the technology of
blockchain and cryptocurrency which I
found to be really fascinating because a
you tied it into the
fundamental contradictions of capitalism
we were speaking about but also tied it
to a way of accounting for ecology you
know when it comes to creating a you
know it's a socialism or something
beyond capitalism blockchain and
cryptocurrency is typically a right
libertarian thing can you tell us a bit
about how you came up with the idea of
imagining a kind of financial revolution
that was based on a new type of currency
arrangement I can try although I will
immediately fall into the deep waters
beyond my understanding
there are radical economists that are
trying to create new cryptocurrency
platforms that would be based on
socially useful actions as the creation
of value so that carbon coins solar coin
these exist and and blockchain is at the
basis of all the cryptocurrency is a
technology but blockchain is also a way
of distributing information that can't
be altered after the fact amongst of
large population that's that's its very
definition so these things could be
great populist socialist tools and money
itself you create more money like CMS
quantitative easing after the 2008 crash
more money means more expenditure means
more exploitation of nature means more
running out of finite resources means
more climate change more Marcio to
burned into the atmosphere so money
itself as a measure of value and as a
generator of human energies if there was
a a currency that was based on doing
good things and then currency didn't
exist without them there is now a plan
and if you google it I hope the right
papers will come out it's called carbon
quantitative easing where the central
banks of the world create new money as
they did after 2008 and they do instead
of giving it to the banks they they
created and give it out based on how
much carbon you have sequestered in a
reliable certified blockchain manner
and so this their carbon coin is like
you save a hundred tons of carbon or you
burry a hundred tons of carbon or
somehow fix it to rocks and then you've
got one carbon coin which would then
trade on the currency exchanges with
other forms of currency like the franc
the dollar etc and if the carbon coin
was supported by the essential banks of
the world with a like a hundred year
bond so that investors in the normal
capitalist financialized world would say
well we could we could fool around with
the dollar remnant be exchanged or we
could invest in carbon coins and know
that we'll get a payoff on a regular
basis that in other words doing the
right thing could compete financially
but doing the wrong thing right so if
you if you google carbon quantitative
exchange oh hopefully you'll get a paper
called by by a economist named Chen I
think it's D chance ehem and it's an
interesting paper it's getting some
traction it's getting some discussion
there's another new group called
economists for an inclusive prosperity
eafit and they're brand new like their
announcement came out day before
yesterday mainstream economists with a
leftist bent or an desire for
survivability or a desire to make
economics work again for the good of
humanity and that's a pretty big and
vibrant group of mainstream economists
so in other words the front is broad but
but the problems are pretty clear that
have to be solved and I myself I'm just
a storyteller I I'm trying to learn
about this stuff but what I really would
love is for a lot of academic economists
and whole economics departments to
become political economy departments
instead of economics to purpose hmm to
propose new changes that that's such a
good idea
like we've talked a lot on this show
about how economics it was Richard Wolff
who said that the function of economics
departments right now and universities
is primarily
ideological yeah right and it's like an
old joke about how at every University
the Economics Department and Business
School are like on completely different
campuses because they you know when they
teach you the the other one
they teach you how to action so like
this stuff is certainly ideological
these changes that we're talking about
but like it's not an idea logical the
way we do things now something I'm
always trying to call people's attention
to well I hope it's generally understood
I think things are getting contentious
enough and dangerous enough that that is
more and more understood now that there
is no such thing as as news now that
there's no such thing as objectivity I
think it's really becoming understood
and that's a good understanding because
it was always true that everything was
there dialogical and now that everybody
realizes that what you want is an
ideology that explains the most and
gives you the most positive ways forward
I didn't understand for a long time that
economics doesn't mean anything but the
quantitative analysis of capitalism but
economics is not in the business of
doing political economy that there are
two different fields of human thought
and I was like most people I think and
that I was thinking that economics and
political economy were the same thing
but it's not true
economics is job is just to analyze
capitalism and the then the currently
existing set of laws and see what their
effects are and maybe suggest some
tweaks but never basic on fundamental
reforms and then political economy is a
19th century thing that went away when
capitalism basically took over the world
so you have political economy back and
you know you could be like for yeah you
could be like crouton you could be like
marx and engels
you know there was political economy and
now there's just economics but I think
political economy has is coming back out
of necessity I hope you're right yeah me
too um so to switch gears a little bit
uh uh-huh you know the sun's gone down
this is anti Fattah after dark now there
are a lot of cool drugs in the Mars
books all of which seem to be legal in
this utopian future society there are
also
other pleasures like the bathhouses
where young people go to get each other
off and basically invent new ways to
come are you trying to turn young people
socialist by promising them sins of the
flesh one of the things about being a
leftist and I must say that a lot of
this comes out of the 70s the 70s were
extremely radical in ways that are
probably hard to I can barely remember
them and especially the feel of them and
for young right yeah well done for young
people like yourselves it's a it's a the
seventies is like what for me would have
been like the 1930s you just can't
recover at times forty years ago and and
capture how they really felt while you
were living in them so a lot of my
writing comes out of a couple of core
beliefs that the pleasure is good that
Puritanism is bad that fiction and
especially American popular fiction was
all about sex and violence and I didn't
want to write about violence so I
decided to compensate for that lack by
writing more about sex and renewable way
yeah I try to be honest about it and and
and have some fun with it and it's
actually very hard to write about
intelligently and with a sense of fun
and and and that's there's so many human
activities that are hard to write down
that there's no reason to pick on that
one but I think it's important to insist
that a good life includes a sense of
young people having a sense of the
pursuit of happiness of the potential
and that your your 20s in particular
ought to be a gigantic adventure and not
a period of anxiety and dread I mean
it's fairly simplistic on my part I I'm
not a complicated thinker no I totally
agree and it's it's a special
salient looking at what's happening to
young people right now right like kids
are having fewer adventures basically
they're having less sex they're not
experimenting with drugs they don't even
want to get their drivers licenses which
I find like kind of alarming and I think
part of it has got to be that you know
their futures are looking more and more
uncertain that you know their parents
really want to protect them and just
like train them to be as productive as
possible at all times sure and they and
they themselves have to worry
will I have answer insurance and a
pension will I have a place to live well
can I make enough money to have a decent
life have adequacy they say when these
are worries then you're gonna see
political change I think but - I I I
feel like how can I say it the when
situation is as bad as it is now then
there should be a push and I'm seeing
the push this is why you get the young
people declaring that they're socialists
there's a rebellion against the the trap
that they see themselves in I know the
other thing I wanted to mention is that
is the internet and screens that you you
all are the first generation to have
grown up with screens and it's easy
especially with the minds of young men
to get trapped into the screens as an
alternative reality and it's easier than
a real reality and you get a whole bunch
of dopamine rewards speaking of drugs
for small accomplishments in the games
that you play in the interactions that
you have and in short it's a virtual
reality already that is replacing real
reality in a bad way and so some of
these like I don't need a driver's
license I don't need to go outdoors I
still have a full life because I have
World of Warcraft or whatever something
newer than that I'm sure I'm gonna
resist the urge to call Shaun out right
now
for all the nights he's ignored me while
playing for tonight see this is a
category or and what I want to suggest
is there you're on Brooklyn I think well
I'm in a city what can I do about it you
can just walk down to the East River and
sit there underneath in Dumbo underneath
the Brooklyn Bridge and just watch the
river flow by and you will have had a
better gaming experience than anything
you can do online and living in a
simulation your mouth to God's ears
though yeah but I realized that but on
the other hand as a as a you know an
aging public intellectual and and also
an aging hippie if I can call out to the
younger generation that anything you do
outdoors including like throwing pebbles
at a bottle on on a post it's like a way
better video game than any video game
ever invented has more pixels it has
more texture it has better problems it
has better dopamine results that's
sitting down across from someone and
brewing up some coffee and drinking tea
and having a face-to-face conversation
is just way better than anything that
can be done on a screen well I realized
that this is a little bit swimming
upstream in the current culture and I
mean I have I have two sons who are
young men who just laugh at me when I
say things like this but I'm convinced
that it's true and also I point to a
historical example in London when
telephones were first introduced into
common around the turn of the century
say 1904 everybody spent two or three
hours in the day talking on the
telephone to somebody across town
because it was so remarkable that they
could do so rather than crossing town
are talking to somebody in the same room
with them I feel we're in that moment
with the Internet and a time is going to
come when a lot of people are gonna
unhook unplug kill their Facebook
account and walk outdoors and and go to
the local park or go to the local coffee
shop and sit there looking at somebody's
actual living face and realizing they're
having more fun nope I think will as
somebody who would never be described as
extremely online I had a question I mean
this is a government-backed idea the the
fun sex and drug stuff but or perhaps
you know something that you don't
necessarily have to swim as hard
upstream in our culture's particular
young people another theme in your books
in addition to imagining a
post-capitalist economy or society you
definitely also imagine a post-gender
society and I'm speaking specifically in
23:12 the two main characters of the
book and the book kind of is a love
story between them are both have a
gender I don't know quite like the main
character Swan they're capable of I
think if I'm remembering this right both
male and female sexual reproduction but
you also talk about sort of post nuclear
family and different sort of ways of
raising children that are outside of
this this current paradigm which again I
think more and more young people like we
learn more and more about this everyday
and I was just you know again like how
is that process of that imaginative
process work or like you know what are
you drawing from and where do you see it
yeah what's with all these cultural
marxism that's why gender it's really
you know the working class is socially
reactionary come on anymore I'm not sure
there's any working class anymore that
isn't in China and they've got their own
problems but for us I'm basically
reflecting San Francisco that's the
capital of California and that is a very
much of a gender-fluid place and I love
it look I adore San Francisco it's
really the capital of my heart I go down
there I essentially I'm a guy that lives
in the provinces of San Francisco and I
Drive down there it takes about an hour
and a half I get there and I'm having a
blast and then I come back to my boring
little university town and and it's
except exceptionally boring and San
Francisco's exceptionally exciting and
their friends are who taught me all
kinds of things trans friends gay
friends whatever also just straight
friends who are a part of that community
and yeah one young person and I can't
even remember their generic gender
identity which could be anything said to
me once well it's all skin Stan it's all
skin and I that was like a little switch
turning on in my mind this is when I was
doing twenty-three-twelve I thought well
yeah that's true I mean what's the big
deal and of course there are the social
rules the of course there's patriarchy
and
there's there's all kinds of cultural
determinants but when you get down to
bodies and individuals well it's all
skin so you know as an aging straight
male this was like a mind boggler but I
did have one experience that was
transformative I brought up my two boys
as the mr. mom figure as the daily work
of taking care of infants and toddlers
because my wife is a chemist she worked
you know twelve hours a day and from the
very moment our first kid was ten weeks
old I was the the cultural role of mom
of a 1950s housewife
except of course I was writing these
novels during nap time well I spent a
lot of time with women it was women
doing that work and in fact women still
do all the work the work of social
reproduction taking care of infants and
toddlers teaching young people in
schools nursing the sick and taking care
of the dying these are all 90% women's
work occupations and they're poorly paid
when they're paid at all sometimes
they're unpaid and social reproduction
is the is the real work that capitalism
is a parasite on so pay no attention to
all that stuff when I was hanging out
and cuz some time there would be groups
of 20 moms or Opare young women and
their kids their their infant toddlers
and me the and that is not a wonderful
harem like oh my god I've got all these
women around me that's actually
uncomfortable and I knew I was screwing
up the discourse in that room by being
their type of experience
it was euro and specifically about that
in your in the capital series right when
you're talking about being in the gym
Gymboree or whatever it was in
twenty-three-twelve you describe like a
kind of crash model for child rearing
and then sort of kind of sort of a
communal family group like sort of
Genesis for that idea come from there's
a lot of it in the Mars books one of the
secret bases yeah and like it reminds me
of a lot of stuff I've read
Alexandra : ty Clara Zetkin and other
soviet-era thinkers because they were
really wrestling with this idea because
they knew right that one thing keeping
us from having gender equality was the
work of social reproduction which was so
much more often being done by women but
then then there were people who kind of
bent the stick too far in the other
direction who are like well you know
parents are just incubators they
shouldn't have any contact with their
kids at all they're like too emotional
to like handle such an important task
and that seems kind of unhuman to be to
and I feel like you kind of come down in
the middle we're like you know what
maybe it should be a personal choice how
much or how little involvement you have
in the work of social reproduction or
raising your kids or like maybe there
should be a balance between you know the
familial biological bonds or whatever
and the community yeah I would like that
balance I would go with what Jamie just
said about a balance between because you
can go too far both ways the the 1950s
nuclear household suburban castle to
parents to kids is bad it's bad for you
it's normed in America but it was it's
not historically normal usually you'd
have a big old house with three or four
generations kind of banging around in
there so there's the big house model
there's the village model and there's
the Paleolithic pack model I called it
the mini tribe of four or five families
and multiple generations and then of
course you still have your parents the
biologically and I am pretty confident
that that will persist despite all the
gender fluidity in terms of making
babies the bulk of them when you don't
have technological help involved
etcetera etc it's going to be one man
one woman zygote and on it comes to be a
baby so there's parents and who knows
what the gender identity of this man
woman I've used them with quotes around
him but on the other hand there's
biology going on here then you got kids
but they could be brought up by a group
with the acknowledgement of their
parents and their parents basically
getting help that balance I think is is
the
way again I was lucky when my wife and I
moved out back to Davis where we had met
and we had been in Washington DC which
was as Green Earth shows poor Charlie's
experiences nuclear isolation going
crazy with a kid doing your best and
actually it's a lovely bonding
experience to be spending every day with
an infant toddler it's one of the most
beautiful human experiences of all I
would you don't want to miss out on that
on the other hand when we move back to
Davis we moved into village homes which
is a kind of a hippie version of
suburbia or tried to imitate the English
village model my my little front yard is
a courtyard but mainly there's no fences
here it's all agricultural the
landscaping I've got my garden plot and
I've got a preschool Center that I took
my kids to where I they met all their
friends and then their parents became my
friends and so the what what that taught
me was that design and urban design and
and what you might call civic design it
can shape social relations intensively
because I have lived a kind of English
village life of the year 1600 simply
because of the way they designed this
particular utopian I'm in and the best
friends in my life are the are the
parents of my kids friends and my my
kids and their friends aren't even
friends anymore but I'm totally friends
with their parents still because we
still live here so I live I've seen one
version of the balance and the crash
model I think is a good name for it you
can't go too far the other way because
then you get to the boarding school
model which is it's actually a syndrome
in in British psychological pathology
you know if you got sent away to a
boarding school when you were six years
old they're 9 years old like so many
middle-class Brits did you end up crazy
or the British ruling class we're all
you know they're all they're boarding
schools it's like you're a lot of
buggering you're ritually abused so you
learn to you learn that you teaches you
to do it to other people like that's how
you view other people is just you know
sadistically basically yes yes and I
have several friends of British friends
who went through this system and they
just shake their heads and say that's
definitely not the right way right
what are you gonna do except try to try
to find the balance between us as social
primates that have a really deep
I believe that culture I believe in
sociobiology I'm just saying that as
social biology actually leads you to
leftism this is something I would
suggest to all young leftists that like
you were saying that cryptocurrency
looks like a right-wing libertarian
thing and as sort of does when it's
Bitcoin and sociobiology was immediately
tagged as being a right-wing right makes
might makes right type Neil Wilson yeah
yes I've heard a lot of people be very
highly suspicious of anything to do with
sociobiology just because it's been used
for you know really reactionary purposes
in the past yes but I would say this
that they're mistaking it for social
Darwinism and it's not that iya Wilson
is great I love him and his students
Sara hurdy wrote a book called mother
nature that puts the feminist slant on
social biology in a way that iya Wilson
would thoroughly approve the the
primates since we are a primate the
primates that were most closely related
to some of them are gangsters like
chimps some of them are hippies like
bonobos
there's no determinism there's no
biological determinism all social
biology is trying to do is say well
let's see what we can learn from the
fact that we are animals no matter what
our brains and our internet screens tell
us yeah totally there were primates we
continued the savanna
yeah sideburn I just wanna I just want
to continue to say that if you follow
that lesson very far it leads you to a
good life you begin to think I got to
spend more time outdoors
I should really walk a little bit every
day I should maybe try dancing having a
lot of sex throwing rocks of things you
know altering my consciousness on a
regular but controlled basis I all these
things are Paleolithic and good for you
that is the mindset Swan the main
character in twenty-three-twelve one of
my favorite little conceits in that book
is that there is even some question
about whether she remains
or I should say they remain human
because as part of some ritual or just
party she ingest an alien hallucinogenic
alien bacteria that continues yeah
multiply inside them is kind of the
internal flora of their body yeah I was
ahead of the curve on this gut
microbiome and how much them like my eye
because in 2011 when I was writing this
stuff that wasn't quite as known as it
is now it's funny how quickly things
have changed and we may indeed find
alien bacteria on Enceladus or on Europa
now eating it would be a bold move
person I could have read that one the
scene in the end of Lamar's you know
spoiler alert when they all take Sachs's
memory pill treatment really reminds me
of descriptions I've heard of what it's
like strip on ibogaine are you familiar
with ibogaine or a gain or iboga
I've only heard of it I've never tried
it and I'm like too old to try new drugs
they have to confess to you but when I
was young the what I'm really loving
this rehabilitation of psychedelics
because for about forty years I've just
felt embarrassed at the stupidities of
my youth and now it's turning out that
it wasn't so stupid after all except
that we didn't actually know what we're
taking but if we were taking what we
thought we were taking psychedelics are
now being seen to be a very powerful and
profound changer of consciousness not
just while you're tripping and in fact
that's almost not the most important
part but afterwards somehow absolutely
the Michael Pollan book has been a
revelation and it's brought all that
stuff back onto the table and then again
for people in their 20s or in their 30s
who are still young and semi immortal
Okin and can stand the psychic shock of
an event that big I think it's good for
you I've never I've learned some
important things I gotta say about
myself in the world from taking
psychedelics so I cosign that same
ibogaine was fiercely the drug that
Hunter s Thompson completely made up
that Democratic presidential candidate
Edie
skee was on but he made that out of hold
cloth but actually involved in this 1972
presidential election oh my god Thompson
Wow
the road of excess leads to wisdom he
was a very excessive guy I was never
that excessive I have to say it was all
for me rather Mountain oriented a sort
of Sierra Sierra and surfing oriented I
was very much of a nature hippie and
yeah I'd very much recommend if you're
going to do them combining psychedelics
with the outdoors and some sort of calm
controlled way are you saying shouldn't
take psychedelics and go see Hillary
Clinton speak at a technocratic health
festival you and I can do this is the
thing that we did to ourselves because
we're at aunts level what you came out
the other side did you end up a jelly of
laughter on the floor cuz that would be
the best trip I was laughing but mainly
I was under swapping and crying just
mainly underscores for me how
boring everything how much you didn't
want to be watching Hillary Clinton yeah
I didn't mad compared it to one of those
like hollow Tibetan bells when Tom Perez
be speaking of spirituality yes I can to
continue on this especially in the Mars
books in the Mars trilogy you riff on
something that I think is kind of
bedeviled the left or socialist or
communist through the ages or at least
through the centuries which is what is
the role of spirituality you know if we
are these these primates the spiritual
experience seems to be something that's
somewhat universal for folks but yet
there's been a lot of leftists who have
taken a very hard line against religion
in the Mars book Hiroko comes up with an
entire religious system essentially
based around Mars and this and the
spread of life so how do you envision
for yourself you know spiritual
spirituality fitting into some sort of
post capitalist
good question if I revert to a kind of a
existentialist stance that the universe
exists humanity came to being by
accident there is no meaning to anything
so that if you take that as the base
situation then you have to make up your
own mean it's a it's a human creative
act to make up meaning and so religio
from the latin is to bind together so
you can the meaning comes from
solidarity with other people and trying
to reduce suffering and so I get led
towards Buddhism as our good
binding together but then there's also
just this kind of cosmic consciousness
of why our what is consciousness how
what is this universe a big gigantic why
kind of shouted in your face with no no
obvious answer but but it is kind of
amazing miraculous and and mystical that
we're here at all having our thoughts so
it's a combination of those things that
I think will never go away the brain
scientists are finding you know the
religious center of the brain is in the
temporal lobe near the near the site of
hypergraphia and epilepsy and babbling
it's kind of funny the the part of your
brain that trips on that when you get
these moments of cosmic consciousness or
solidarity with all people or one kind
of thing or all living creatures are one
which is a better this kind of biophilia
or biosphere consciousness of the
biosphere being a single earthly body
it's it's it's quite beautiful
and if it strikes you as as real enough
to believe in or affirm then that
becomes the meaning so that never goes
away and I and all the political work
then is to clear the decks so that you
don't have the unnatural suffering and
the various human badnesses of greed and
violence that those get cleared
by an organization of society so these
you can just feel better the the deeper
meanings the cosmic meanings so I think
that's how it works and I keep trying to
write that out I the the lessons to me
from Gary Snyder or are crucial and and
my life in the Sierras my life is a kind
of a California hippie Buddhist er they
mean a lot to me well I have to say that
for the listeners out there who have
never read a Kim Stanley Robinson book
now is the time to go to your nearest
bookseller in person not go on
amazon.com in order from a screen but
actually walk down to a bookstore and
interact with human beings and pick up
one of Stan's excellent works it's it's
really helpful I think in like at least
for me I think for a lot of people who
maybe are new to these kinds of ideas
and maybe don't want to like spend hours
reading some dense theoretical text like
I love science fiction because it's it's
fun to read the good the good stuff it's
very human and it helps you think
through these things and wrap your mind
around them in a really really cool and
unique way that I don't think you can
get from anything else oh yeah I mean I
mean for me science fiction is great
because it's sort of like ideology it's
it's a story we tell ourselves about the
future and the stories we tell about the
future tells us you know what you know
what we really believe and what we what
we want for ourselves and you know Stan
your your works have been hugely
influential on me and along with the you
know many other great science fiction
authors are just fiction in general I
think teaches us so much about politics
and ourselves really and I can imagine
living without it well thank you for
that I am a patriot of science fiction
as a as a way of thinking and it's some
kind of my home town it's a it's a small
community it's scattered all over the
earth but when we gather all in one
place there's only just a few to several
thousand of us and I love that hometown
although I think that everybody in that
hometown would hope to also exist in the
big city of the
of the larger world but yeah science
fiction is a beautiful way of a lens to
put on to current life it's most
especially for savvy political people
it's an easily transcoder bowl so you
read a science fiction text and you can
tag the year it was written you can tag
the political angle of the writer there
it's a kind of game that you can play
that is not a very hard game because
it's inevitable that the writer is going
to reveal aspects of their personality
big aspects of their politics and also
the time that they're writing it in you
can't escape that just by pretending to
be futuristic you can make efforts to be
mind boggling by by like I did in 23:12
and that's a kind of a craft trick but
you can never really escape the moment
that you're writing in so I it's it's I
would agree with a Jamie of the heavy
text I read them I try to strip-mine
them and read them as fast as I can it's
not that much fun but when I read a
novel boy I am immersed in some other
reality and I'm enjoying it even as I'm
analyzing it it's just like telepathy or
time-travel combined into one package
it's it's a it's my favorite thing in a
way literature is my religion and then
the reason I meant so involved in
politics is that I think that that
political engagement makes better
literature so my ultimate allegiance is
to is to literature itself as a meaning
system so I'm glad that you guys are
reading it I'm glad I very much
appreciate it Sean Jamie will it's been
it's been a big pleasure I I hope you'll
censor this so that I haven't completely
blown my cover but I actually feel like
my complete works have blown my cover so
completely there's nothing I can say
that will be shocking at this point all
the cars are on the table speaking with
one of our
our literary heroes your
