[Music]
meanwhile just earlier in this this
network feed from Fox News one hand they
talked about how horrible it is that you
would in any way reinterpret the
celebration of people fighting to
enslave other people bring on Tucker
Carlson who is going to also scare white
people as to their future but that's not
what you're saying hold on you just said
we need to bring in people because
Americans aren't reproducing in
sufficient numbers positive for one
second I should tell you that he's
talking to Luis Miranda about
immigration good why aren't our leaders
thinking about how our people can afford
to have children they don't even
consider that a subject worth studying
much less trying to fix it's just like
oh well they're not having enough kids
but those are mutually exclusive you
know you're saying that our low birth
rates are the justification for
immigration I'm saying our low birth
rates are a tragedy that say something
awful about our economy and the selfish
stupidity of our leaders that
combination of our growth and our
prosperity that is enables us to have a
stronger economy so there's there's
definitely a both sides to this where
you can look at well who are gonna be
hurt but when you looked at states like
Georgia and others that have implemented
anti-immigrant measures that forced a
lot of these immigrants out what you saw
was you know food rotting on the vines a
lot of lost crops because there weren't
enough people there to work them and so
the reality is is that we can both do
something that's essentially economy for
people who are suffering it's so and who
are American and who have lived here
their whole lives they want to have
children they won't have an opportunity
to do better than yet there may be
someone should care about them a little
bit absolutely it's the most important
thing that we have to demonize the
immigrants who are legitimate victims
demonizing anybody I'm not against the
immigrants I'm for Americans and nobody
cares about them yes nobody cares about
America
place you and it Tucker Carlson nobody
cares about Americans first of all his
premise is wrong it is expensive to have
children in in our society surely there
are some people who make the decision
not to have kids because of cost the
reality is that women in the highest
bracket of incomes 20% of incomes are 5
times less likely to have children than
people living in the lowest income
bracket now certainly we should be
making it easier for Americans to have
children and I appreciate Tucker Carlson
coming out strongly in favor of things
like Universal child care like universal
paid sick leave like universal mandatory
and paternity leave all of these
medicare-for-all all of these things
would help in and raising children but
the idea that there's a low birth rate
which is common amongst as nations
become more wealthy because people had
children because they needed a labor
fall off after the recession the fact of
what's that oh yeah yeah I mean I think
people III mean I think people tend to
react to specific moments but broadly
speaking the reality is is that one of
the reasons why immigration is a net
positive is because of the aging of our
population but I just want to say I mean
this is another I always say really
watch Tucker Carlson because he's very
clever and he knows how to latch on to
some totally legitimate and real issues
and well no no but I'm never going to
take the next step and actually offer
any more and that's exactly where you
always need to go so it's a right-front
war you need to of course debunk and
respond to his bigotry and his his
barely dog whistling racism but you also
need to exactly ne if I was ever on
TV with Tucker I Billy Tucker I reject X
and oxen these other things I not only
are you raising a good point I a hundred
percent agree with you so join me in
card check medicare for all universal
paid right leave I'm looking for we can
do this maybe you do it and I'm
excluding and we could fund it with a
tax rate of 90 percent on you know
return to Eisenhower levels it doesn't
even have to be that radical basic
moderate progressive stuff are you with
me and yeah
