well let's just talk about this - before
we get into the debate cause it's gonna
be interesting to see if Elizabeth
Warren addresses this Elizabeth Warren
is yet to come out with a medic a
version of her Medicare for all plan she
has signed up to support Bernie's bill
but also signed up to support other
bills that are not Medicare for all in
the context of how Bernie's bill defines
it nor are they for all in even like the
the colloquial way in which you define
it and there's some polling out today
showing that the 35% of of Democratic
voters who are in favor of compromise
are supporting Elizabeth Warren a lot of
those people people who want less
compromise among those who perform
prefer politicians to stick to their
positions
Sanders top choice 26 percent and so
this maybe should not come as much of a
surprise but there was an interview with
the odious David Axelrod interviewed
Harry Reid and this is what Harry Reid
had to say about his perspective and I
think the Axelrod is setting this up as
look isn't going to be supporting
Medicare for all a liability isn't that
going to be a liability in the election
and I get some polling that refutes that
notion but but that's the way he sets
this up and Harry Reid has an
interesting perspective on whether he
thinks that that position is immutable
by Elizabeth Warren there was a concern
as well that's expressed by some
establishment Democrats that she is
too far left I think that that's uh
let's just wait for example
medicare-for-all I asked me how do you
feel about that I said I think we need
to do first is let's make sure Obamacare
is strengthening Republicans have done
everything they can to hurt him
let's strengthen it we almost got the
public option the first time that's as
good as Medicare for all anyway and so
that's not what she's saying well but I
think you should give her some time I
think that she's not in love with that I
think she you will wait and see how that
all turns out so you think she's more
pragmatic than all I know she's not
pregnant
he's a wait okay so I mean to be clear
Harry Reid is saying he has a
perspective and that he believes
Elizabeth Warren is sharing that
perspective I you know and the question
maybe he's just speculating but Harry
Reid is the type of guy who can't quite
keep secrets so you know I think that is
something to keep in mind now like I say
35 percent of Democrats who want someone
to compromise on these things you know
they are the biggest cohort of those
people to support a specific candidates
Elizabeth Horne so for some it may not
be an issue for other people it may be
more of an issue going into this I mean
I don't know why Harry Reid offered that
that's weird I'm not well I don't have
an answer it's speculation that I
actually have a slightly different view
about the compromise point but the thing
that's funny about Harry Reid is I think
he's very close to Elizabeth Warren but
he actually has some closeness to some
people in the Sanders campaign so I'm
wondering like in some ways I'm like
who's he trying to make mischief for
here by saying that is interesting to me
but III mean just to the point yeah in
terms of the question of Medicare for
all as to whether the premise that
Axelrod sets out or at least as he ATAR
articulates with Democratic
establishment as if he doesn't believe
that the question is is Medicare
Medicare for all a liability in
general election and the polling on this
is really interesting because it is so
much of it is how you present the the
question to people and there's an really
a fascinating dynamic so here's this
question do you support and this is from
the you gov blue poll then I think I'm
sure I think if you gov blue do you
support or oppose a quote medicare for
all health care system where all
Americans would get their health
insurance from the government strongly
support 33% somewhat support 18% don't
know is nine percent so you have 38%
somewhat are strongly opposed and you
have fifty-one percent support or
somewhat support and then it says would
you support or oppose a national
medicare for all plan if you heard that
it would require a hundred eighty
million Americans to move from private
insurance to the Medicare for all plan
this is the you know sort of a
Republican frame of this it would
require 180 million Americans to move
from private insurance to the Medicare
for all plan but let's frame it that way
to and some Democrats Francis my Oscar
but maybe is a right but it is also the
case that at least on any given year 25
percent of people lose their private
insurance thing and have to move to a
different private insurance or or not so
in that instance when you frame it that
way things become a little different it
only has 38 percent support whereas it
has 44 percent against so when you
present the question that way the
numbers change but this is what's
fascinating when you ask the question
like this will you give the whole story
would you support our suppose oppose a
national Medicare for all plan after
hearing these two arguments some say it
would require a hundred and eighty
million Americans to move from private
insurance to the Medicare for all plan
others
say that people don't actually love
their insurance companies they love
their doctors and under Medicare for all
you would always have health care even
if you are fired or switch jobs and you
would be able to go to any doctor you
want hearing these two arguments would
you support or oppose Medicare for all
now remember when we just did the do you
support or oppose Medicare for health
the Medicare for all health plan it got
51% support when you ask the question
the way that they just did where they
present both arguments it actually gets
52% support it goes up and they're still
burying the lede which is that it's free
a point of service free a point of
service that is a pretty big lead to be
buried and it's a big lead to be put now
again another right wing talking point
would you support or oppose a national
Medicare for all plan if you heard that
it would require most Americans to pay
more in taxes well 46 percent somewhat
are strongly opposed and 41 percent
would sign a strongly support or
somewhat support so it pulls badly there
but then if you're presented with this
question would you support or oppose a
national medicare for all plan after
hearing these two arguments some say it
would require most Americans to pay more
in taxes others say while taxes would
technically go up under Medicare for all
Americans would pay no private insurance
premiums co-pays or deductibles instead
you would pay a premium to the
government that is less than what you
pay for health care now and you would
wind up with more money in your pocket
overall hearing these two arguments
would you support our suppose well then
it shoots back up to 50 percent would
support strongly or somewhat and only 35
percent would somewhat or strongly
oppose I mean so the pathway to making
this argument too
and having it be a net positive for you
in the general election is is there so
the idea that it's a liability to
maintain this position in the general
election
is a fraudulent one from people who
simply have some type of motivated
reasoning about this ideology all the
way ideology transactional interests you
know they want you know maybe Medicare
for all is problematic just from a bra I
mean there's a whole host of things but
whatever it is it is not accurate to say
that supporting Medicare for all in a
general election if you argue the two
most basic premises that you're gonna be
able to have access to health care and
your doctors that you have now and it's
going to be net positive in terms of
savings for you at the end of the day
those two things are very simple product
you know arguments to make and if
they're made then people respond in a
positive way so then the question
becomes why did she leave herself that
wiggle room on Medicare for all I mean I
I think cuz she wants that wiggle room
like if not to win the general who is
she thinking about well I I don't know
that she subscribes to you know that
polling there I think to a certain
extent people leave their you know a
wiggle room in the general because they
feel like maybe they need to tack
to the right that doesn't necessarily
mean that you will but it's quite clear
relative to let's say Bernie that she's
leaving a open wiggle room where is he
saying no wiggle room I think she just
clearly doesn't I mean object of Lee I
think does not have the same commitment
level to that specific set of policies
and I think it also reflects and how she
is gonna approach I mean maybe not even
the general I think governance I think
what she's gonna come to the table with
and how she views negotiation and I
think that you know she can definitely
excoriate people but I think she does
have a much more inside bureaucratized
view of things than Sanders does it also
seems fair to mention that her daughter
works in the pub in the private health
industry well I mean I think her
daughter will do okay if she becomes
president I know I mean I I mean as
possible but I sure but she's got those
ties she doesn't necessarily view the
private health industry as the enemy of
the people in the way that Bernie does I
mean I think I think that's fair point
yeah maybe she does I don't know she
matters if Bernie's kids works for the
private health insurance industry to
sell in them all right
