[Music]
so a Texas team did a funny prank he
humiliated Texas's fascist governor
lieutenant Saavik excuse me his fascist
lieutenant governor he basically made a
sign which was an abolish I sign and of
course hashtag apologize and he got this
dumb-dumb
to stand in front of it with a thumbs up
because for some reason if you look at
this like at the very least just the
sort of collage quality should give off
that this is a hippie kid who made it
this is not the mind of a pro-ice
fascist goon teenager right this is the
mind of a kid who's been a little
sensitized to injustice and barbarism in
the world but Dan Patrick that's not
authentic
lieutenant-governor not the ESPN guy no
not the ESPN guy posed with calleb Brock
who made this great poster we'll check
it out we also have a video here yells
we got to watch this video this is
awesome Tea Party
cap there you go and he goes to Brier
guy in high school is that your mind
dead Texas travel to the our here any
brought me a painting that he did that
someone showed it is pretty cool is
everybody doing tonight
[Music]
so this is the principal and then we
have one final thing here Caleb's a hero
can clip and steam and clip and present
sign and clip where the crisis line
started following me he says yeah
Caleb's only request was that a link to
the immigrant rights charity races are a
icees Texas org he's too humble to plug
himself so I will give him a follow at
Caleb a Brock underscore and check out
the cool art Edo so shout out Caleb Jana
Caleb your heroes there's awesome he did
an interview with a club at scene I
believe and how he pulled this off he
said he went to this Fort Worth Texas
Tea Party meeting he said I went in and
pretended to be a huge fan of Dan
Patrick showed it to some tea party
people in name badges
yeah like long-hair hippie kid who just
hates immigrants or honestly just like
any teenager even a right-wing one
that's like it no it's the
lieutenant-governor
like for the for the for the guide book
for Dan Patrick security say like be
extra skeptical of anybody showing
enthusiasm for Dan Patrick all right
talk to security and then some lady who
I assume had a place on his staff and
then they put him on stage with them
amazing not good that's inspiration for
all you listeners out there if you can
get in there I don't know I'm speaking
like Trump but but if you have a local
especially GOP you know event go try to
especially very artists I mean this is a
great way yeah any artists out there
that is free publicity that's right I
want to
order something from yeah we need
something from Caleb yeah Caleb got in
touch
