[Music]
this is a heartwarming story up in Rhode
Island look these days we because of
tight state budgets and whatnot we're
trying to figure out how we can both
maintain state funds and shame poor
people at the same time and so out of
Rhode Island we have an innovative new
program that's going to both shame
people living in poverty particularly
their children because the children are
always always the most vulnerable if you
really want to shame someone the way to
do it is to hurt the children and also
maintain the integrity of state revenues
first at 5:30 tonight the Cranston
School Department is asking for its
lunch money back in a letter they told
parents they're hiring a collection
agency because so much lunch money dead
has gone unpaid Eyewitness News anchor
Steve Nielsen has the story that's all
new at 5:30 Steve oh Mike Caroline lunch
debts are nothing new it's a complicated
issue some school departments and
committees waive the unpaid balances at
the end of the year others seek
reimbursement but on January 2nd
Cranston schools will send bills to a
collection agency lunch is so much more
than food nutrition is really important
for healthy minds and healthy kids
Elizabeth Burke Bryant from Rhode Island
Kids Count tells me it has lasting
impacts and when kids aren't getting
proper nutrition during the school day
it leads to a lack of concentration it
can lead to behavioral problems those
can lead to real much more difficult
mental health and other issues over time
but those lunches cost money and a
letter to parents Cranston schools say
the unpaid lunch balance is now more
than $45,000 Raymond Votto with the
school department writes to parents the
district lunch program cannot continue
to lose revenue in an effort to reduce
our unpaid balance the district has
retained the services of a collection
agency only one school committee member
returned my phone calls Thursday for
comment he told me to speak with Votto
at the school
apartment who was unavailable today a
Cranston School Committee meeting agenda
confirms though it was the committee
that unanimously hired the collection
agency in October parents I spoke with
outside schools Thursday afternoon
didn't want to talk on camera but all
question the need for a collection
agency the leaders of the orchard farms
parent-teacher organization wrote to me
the district's sending out a blanket
email to all families threatening with
collections during the holiday season
seems very Scrooge like we have to
remember that we are talking about
children and helping these children to
thrive regardless of their family's
financial status the answer to this is
to raise taxes now I understand that
it's possible the state school of the
the school district doesn't have the
ability to get these funds and maybe
this is a way of of encouraging the
state to raise money via property taxes
but it is absurd
there should be no charge for school
lunches this is something as society
that it's part of their education and a
need for their education there's no
reason to charge anybody for a school
lunch it takes away the stigma of people
getting free lunches allow everybody to
get a free lunch raise your property
taxes in fact let's do it one better
take away the property taxes is the
funding for these schools and let's have
the federal government fund every single
public school in the country it's absurd
it's absurd it's I mean it's just like
the ultimate sort of illustration of the
issues we're having I mean there's no
such thing as a free lunch but maybe
there should be I mean there of course
there's a free lunch it's just a
question of who's gonna pay for it and
society should pay for it there's also
no such thing as in a free no lunch
because we're going to pay for this down
the road we're gonna pay for your kids
who are
nourished and not getting an education
because of it we're gonna pay for all of
it one way or another the question is do
you pay for it now and make lives better
or do you not
there's no no there's no no paying for a
free ad no lunch we live in a society we
pay for everything it's either you pay
for it now or you pay for it later it's
like it's like you know I I saved money
I haven't changed my oil in my car for
seventy five thousand miles well it's
not like children are the future or
anything so probably fine let's just
unbelievable me just be curious if
that's a DSA a local issue that's good
for local DSA chapters go Daniel Denver
he's in the Rhode Island DSA over there
zyne Rhode Island yeah
come from an
