[Music]
yeah I was going to ask you like because
I have not watched that much cable
television although last night I went
and did Hayes's program in the first
segment was there was a lot of talk
about Joe Biden being a little bit shaky
yeah and it was and to hear it their top
of the show
Joe Biden's looking a little shaky you
know at the end of the day it's like
this is this is sort of like the
establishment II yeah place yeah and if
people are starting to say that I mean
that is the one thing that sort of you
know because I'm very concerned that
we're gonna go into the general election
from the perspective of wining Trump
gone and we're going to go into the
general election with someone that
nobody seems terribly enthused about and
but gets just gets across the finish
line
yeah and then turns out to be like you
know there because of like a projection
of who he was five or six years ago yeah
like the worst-case scenario in my mind
is or the second worst scenario case
scenario my mind is Joe Biden as the
nominee the worst case scenario in my
mind is is a like a lame joke yeah like
a diminisher yeah yeah and here is a
moment where yeah this is a compilation
of of him getting beat up by people and
like you said I think this is what
Warren and Sanders probably wanted was
like other people to do this so that
they'd be the Chris Christie that's how
I was talking about with someone else
well I think I'm right no de Blasio was
gonna do that Blasio sure was supposed
to be the Chris Cruz but he didn't get
there he started strong yeah I mean yeah
you didn't bring up that that that
meeting more than once which was a big
mistake
yeah but he did bring up TPP yep
and we'll talk about that in a moment
because I think that was actually yeah I
think he did exactly what he was
supposed to do with TPP yeah
unfortunately vice president fine you
just simply inaccurate mr. vice
president there's a saying in my
community you're dipping into kool-aid
and you don't even know the flavor mr.
vice president you won't be present
United States you need to be able to
answer the tough questions I guarantee
you if you're debating Donald Trump he's
not gonna let you off the hook
senator Biden your plan will keep and
allow insurance companies to remain with
status quo doing business as usual mr.
vice president your argument is not with
me it's with science and unfortunately
your plan is just too late the science
tells us we have to get off coal in ten
years your plan does not do that Vice
President Biden I didn't hear your
response when the issue came up with all
those deportations you were vice
presidents I didn't hear whether you
tried to stop them or not using your
power your influence in the White House
mr. vice president you can't have it
both ways you invoke President Obama
more than anybody in this campaign you
can't do it when it's convenient and
then dodge it when it's not what we need
or politics I have some guts on this
issue it's really irks me because I
heard the vice president say that if
you've got a PhD you can come right into
this country
well that's playing into what the
Republicans want to pit some immigrants
against other immigrants if you want to
compare records and frankly I'm shocked
that you do I am happy to do that
what vice president helped author in 94
was a mistake
and he has flip-flopped on these things
Vice President Biden was in the United
States Senate working with
segregationist you said women working
outside the home would lead to the
deterioration of family my grandmother
worked outside the home so my mother
worked outside the home but it was wrong
to take the position that he took at
that time mr. vice president it looks
like one of us has learned the lessons
of the past and one of us hasn't there
are people right now in prison for life
for drug offenses because you stood up
and use that tough-on-crime
phony rhetoric that got a lot of people
elected but destroyed communities like
mine all the problems that he is talking
about that he created I actually led the
bill that got passed into law that
reverses the damage on the Hyde
vice-president where you made a decision
for years to withhold resources to poor
women to have access to reproductive
health care and including women who were
the victims of rape and incest you
didn't answer my question
what did you mean when you said when a
woman works outside the home it's
resulting in quote the deterioration of
family and that we are avoiding these
are quotes it was the title of the op-ed
you do nothing to hold the insurance
companies to task for what they have
been doing to American families mr. vice
president mr. vice president I didn't
interrupt you please show me that
respect sir Wow
I mean a journey I almost feel bad for
you looks like genuinely hurt and so
much for that video I think he comes off
as that's the most sympathetic I think
I've seen watching all that edit it
together I'm suddenly like oh no you
like walks home like George Michael I
mean on some level he comes off as a lot
less sympathetic when he's actually
given a chance to speak yeah that's why
he's an arrest her shut up all the time
III imagine that's part of it
yeah and that was speaking of like the
his performance that wasn't the other
remarkable thing was he kept just being
like ending his like just being like and
now I'm done like no more there was
there was like he's in the middle of a
sentence and senator and he's like okay
yeah I'll just stop right there I'll
wake up right there I that is I mean
this is this is one of the things they
were saying on that panel last night
which was that he's not like the happy
warrior yeah that he and and I tend to
think that stuff is you know silly a
little bit yeah but I can see what they
meant by that that he didn't seem that
he seemed it seemed to be exhausting and
laborious for him yes
rather than he was getting a he wasn't
right he wasn't like enjoying the
opportunities thank you yeah I think
it's it's a little bit
well I don't know I guess in in those
instances when I getting into arguments
with people I that's actually probably
what am i happiest but I think like but
it shouldn't be the most exhausting
thing if you're starting out at the
beginning of a presidential campaign
yeah well you're right right you'd be
questioned at the very beginning and
next the next time when there's a much
smaller group of people on that stage
he's gonna have to talk more and talk
longer it's not gonna be you have ten
seconds to respond well well with that
said there's gonna be 10 people that's
true and they're gonna all bit there's
gonna be more parody so they're not
going to be able to ignore two or three
people at the edges in the way that they
have been or maybe they will but he's
not gonna have to talk more until it's
down to like seven or six people right
and who knows when that comes I mean on
some level if I was if I was someone who
wanted to charge the DNC with protecting
Joe Biden I would be complaining that
they're not cutting it down to six
yeah right yeah I mean honestly like
that this is the best-case scenario for
him right keep it 20 people yeah
especially because next time people are
gonna be taking shots a lot more shots
at Sanders I I would I would think so
yeah but I think there's I mean the
funny thing about the debate so far as
the the palpable frustration that taking
shots at Sanders has now resulted in
popularity like among the like bollocks
and Delaney's or whatever keeping they
keeping like why isn't this working well
there are all the chris Christie's yeah
exactly right I mean they're the chris
christie's for Biden yeah and it's not
working yes and this is the this is the
thing that struck me in that first
debate and I think it was the it's the
case of really the two of them combined
the the progressives are ascendant mmm
like I mean do you remember a debate no
that was like what Sanders and Warren
were saying obviously they say it there
they're there their ideas are much more
for
and they're they're much more tested in
a way tested in safaris like they've
been attacked for quite a while and
taken seriously mm-hmm but those are the
two who you usually see on the end this
is that's what's incredible to me is
that watching that the first night was
that the kucinich on stage was the
moderate white guy that was the kucinich
exactly the guy who kept being like I'm
like I'm the mainstream centrist right
who's that kook on the end that complete
nut sticking up for the private market
honestly like if you had that sensation
and your entire adult life no I mean in
the period no I don't know what you're
doing as a kid well I mean I was
watching the debates I was stupid I
don't I wasn't quite as savvy yeah that
to me I was I I mean people were like
that debate well you know you I saw
someone say like that debate was man I
was like are you kidding that was one of
the most exciting things I feel like
I've ever seen it was like I was getting
like that dynamic is amazing really and
it didn't go away in the second debate
no right I mean there was nobody who was
put on the defensive right for their
espousing the most left position right
