[Music]
let's talk a little bit about what
happened with the Amazon and by well
Amazon has has said that they're not
gonna build their headquarter but
they're still gonna expand they're still
gonna add jobs in in new york they're
not building another headquarter which
leads me to believe that maybe they
didn't need these things like maybe
these jobs it's weird that you're
planning to add 25,000 jobs it seems
like a lot of jobs for amazon like i
don't know how many people amazon
employees can we look that up someone
looked that up how many people does
amazon employ 25,000 jobs I would bet is
a non contractors not contractors
directly employee I would imagine 25,000
is a significant number of people for
them certainly more significant than
jobs in New York City and it's weird
that they're not going to have a
headquarters where they're gonna fill
those 25,000 jobs right but nevertheless
the bottom line is they were hostile to
unions they were hostile in terms of
providing monies for infrastructure that
they were going to change they were
hostile to a whole set of things and and
this is the thing even if you were to
believe that there was a net benefit to
the Amazon headquarters and I think that
is a belief that is not necessarily
founded in at least the experiences in
the past I mean you can see it in terms
of Foxconn you can see it all these
deals rarely end up materializing in the
way that they are assumed to materialize
and but even if you were to believe that
it was going to be a net positive the
precedent that would have been set for
New York State to provide this
any subsidies to such a large and
already successful company when they
would give no decent terms
insofar as like even being neutral in
terms of unions New York City is a Union
City and if you set the precedent of a
company that doesn't need the subsidies
is going to get the subsidies then you
have basically forfeited the city's
ability in the future to rest any of
these negotiating terms in any deal they
get into the future so you can't just
assess the net results of the amazon
deal in isolation and that is I think
the fundamental people a mistake that
people are making even those people who
assume it would have been a net positive
which i think is a big assumption to
make
but even if I grant you that it would
have been a net positive you got to
start to roll in the implications of
that deal for subsequent deals down the
road in terms of it being a positive and
I think it's undoubtedly negative well
now we know that New York City has three
billion dollars lying around that they
could spend on things we need well I
mean this would have been overtime I
mean this theoretically would have been
deductions on what these corporations
would have had to pay but yes there's
obviously flexibility for it we don't
necessarily need the next three billion
dollars coming in in terms of corporate
receipts but here is a celebration that
broke out I think this is fairly
spontaneous right many celebrations and
this is these are folks in Long Island
City odd that they would be celebrating
if it was going to hurt them
[Music]
[Applause]
lot of energy between Amazon being next
to a large housing projects I love it so
much
like I'll admit I was a little skeptical
when so my DSA comrades were saying we
got to kill the steel we're gonna do
community activism with all these
community groups and like we we think
that we could make a difference I was
like oh well you know it's a noble goal
but good luck with that guys and you
know this just goes to show you that
these tech overlords are not yet
all-powerful and at least in a place
like New York we really can make a
difference just by doing good
old-fashioned organizing go vote for an
organized for know Mikey Const I think
that definitely her platform and
position running a real campaign for
Public Advocate played a small role in
this but not an insignificant one and we
need people now in leadership we were
just gonna oppose these things I think
it also exposes the intentions of Amazon
at coming here because if they were if
the the intentions were strictly
material in terms of what they needed to
do for their business in terms of
specifically their operations they
wouldn't be that concerned that there
was like public sentiment was was I
guess jaded towards them this is a
company that fundamentally does not want
to be a citizen of the community therein
that's why they didn't even bother to
look at places that really needed help
right that's why they didn't even look
at these places where they could go in
and make a difference a positive
difference on day one where perhaps
getting subsidies would actually be a a
worthwhile thing to do in cities that
were hurting at least at the very least
in terms of some type of tax reduction
you know if you're in a place like
Detroit let's say it's conceivable that
it's a
the the need in the for a city like that
may be that much more acute than in New
York that the stakes for giving a
subsidy to Amazon are less than they
would be in this city and so but but
Amazon fundamentally does not want to do
that and so they apparently what they
wanted to do was I think is to be close
enough to New York to have influence on
the media of course they picked New York
and the DC metro area I mean it's quite
like this whole ridiculous feudal style
Hunger Games national competition I mean
III think that it does underscore how
grotesque it all is I mean it was so
obvious where they wanted to go and then
they would have a bunch of pad and
pageantry and I think even just the
process of all of these cities and
states prostrating themselves and
begging this company which is
structurally dangerous to our economy
and delivering them all the details
about their current infrastructure yes
yeah it's a giant info it's it's it's it
was like a large-scale version of the
scam of like do a work assignment for us
as part of an interview process pay me
right god yeah I read actually one
factor that concerned Amazon executives
was how I'm quoting now from Twitter com
how activists in New York brought in
their attacks from the specifics of the
deal to the company's practices far
beyond the five boroughs on unions and
working with ice according to two people
familiar with Amazon's decision and
Amazon the reason why Amazon didn't say
you know what we'll stay neutral when it
comes to unions is for the is the exact
same reason why or I should say the the
inverse of the reason why New York had
to say no to them because Amazon doesn't
want to create a precedent in New York
that they're going to be neutral in
terms of unions they don't want to set a
precedent that they're offering card
check to those employees in in New York
who might want to unionize because they
don't want to do
in Seattle and they don't want to do
that in DC and they don't want to do
that anywhere else that they have a you
know an outfit and so for that same
reason that Amazon understands they
understood the importance of precedents
in this equation that's why New York had
to reject it let's listen to Fox News on
how New York is just ruined this is
gonna be good so you might have heard
about this big contest to get a hub in
your city 200 cities competed for it
because of that New York City sweeten
the pot they gave tax breaks once this
was built they said you're gonna love it
here and they made sure that it was
something that Amazon wanted to go
because when you have a first-round
draft pick or the fastest-growing
country company in the country you want
to do whatever it takes to get here now
Alexandra Acacio Cortez is among the
high-profile politicians who staked
their reputation on stopping Amazon
because in her mind she said we should
use that 3 billion dollars for other
things three billion dollars in tax
breaks doesn't mean you hold three
billion dollars so she won she actually
believes that New York benefits by not
bringing the fastest most effective the
biggest country company in the country
to New York City listen to her posit for
one second incidentally Amazon's already
here there in New York I don't know how
many employees they have in New York but
it's I think it's thousands and they're
expanding and guess who else is
expanding here in New York without any
of these big subsidies Google I think
it's incredible I mean it shows that
everyday Americans
still have the power to organize and
fight for their communities and they can
have more say in this country than the
richest man in the world
we were subsidizing those jobs so for
the city was paying for those jobs so
frankly if we were willing to give
Amazon 3 with we're willing to give away
3 billion dollars for this deal we could
invest those 3 billion dollars in our
district ourselves if we wanted to we
could hire out more teachers we can fix
our subways we can put a lot of people
to work for that money if we wanted to
there's an expression you got to spend
money to make money we were gonna make
it was 25 to 30 billion dollars over the
next 20 years so what's 3 billion
dollars in tax payer you know what that
company would have done is it spread out
and also eaten oh my I also just I mean
again this makes zero difference but I I
do recall having arguments with your ilk
about you spend money to make money
that's interesting when it only applies
to giving a break to a giant predatory
corporation right general principle yeah
word right word up also with you made a
mention about when you got a great draft
pick like you don't get to bid on draft
picks the team with the worst records
gets to select those so maybe we should
have let like I don't know Detroit yeah
Detroit it's pure and simple they just
keep trying to sell it in a new package
and it's ridiculous and sad super sad
but they're really they're really love I
love the sour grapes from everyone it's
it's hilarious Newark New Jersey says
please bring it here we need it I
understand it they listen you have to
understand some Amazon's a first-round
draft pick you pay a lot for first-round
draft picks and high profile free agents
there's no difference you have to give
you have to make this good for Amazon
all right he's so bummed you know what
that sounds like to me that sounds like
kilmeade bought some property in Long
Island City
thanks Adela you know I had pulled this
the other day when they were threatening
it I just looked a local real estate
folks we're saying
that if Amazon does after they were
threatening if Amazon does pull out this
will be good for the the folks who live
in the neighborhood if they pull out and
some of the big losers of course are
those real estate speculators yeah I
mean I think they're probably gonna win
anyways I mean that's the thing is that
I can I can guarantee you those Amazon
executives who bought the property when
they knew that Amazon was going to do
this and it wasn't public they're gonna
hold onto that property and instead of
maybe making you know seventy-five
percent returns in a two or three year
period they're just gonna make like the
normal 15 to 20 percent return
year-over-year that you make on New York
real estate and there's no doubt in that
area there's gonna be there's gonna be
other companies that come into those
areas they're not gonna have the same
monopolistic power as Amazon they if
they want those subsidies and they want
it aggregated in that way they're gonna
have to give something to the city and
that's gonna ultimately be better but
here is uh is here's some is this please
tell me this is some real estate jackass
wow this is a local business oh thank
god this guy looks like such a schmuck
oh here we go I'm not going anywhere I
was inviting more people to come down
here and tell you what's up this street
is garbage and it's probably partly your
fault
oh okay Ryder trucks parking lot is that
what we're that's the best we're gonna
do around here is a Ryder truck parking
lot where god damnit bear spent to New
York City now because of you guys happy
Wow
well actually I am I mean I think you
should treat Ryder company with a little
bit more respect they actually provide a
lot of jobs I mean the the the bottom
line is going to be we're gonna see if
how New Yorkers react to this and this
is going to be a much more democratic
process than it was set up by de Blasio
and Cuomo in the first place I mean that
was what was problematic is this was
just fundamentally not a democratic
process they did this behind closed
doors they sprang it on people they did
not realize what the community expected
in terms of returns forgiving the one of
the wealthiest individuals in the world
this kind of tax break I also think and
this is just politics
um when Bloomberg came out and you know
not for any deep justice reasons
obviously because Bloomberg is almost
like an avatar of the problem in New
York City but when he basically was like
I don't think they need those tax
subsidies I think that like the way
people are gonna react to it has been
pretty strongly set like the people who
opposed the deal were all over it really
quickly and you could tell like of
course de Blasio and Cuomo were wrong on
the merits but particularly like and
Cuomo doesn't care I mean Cuomo is
actively hostile to this position but de
Blasio obviously fancies himself as part
of the progressive movement and he is in
some ways but I mean he was just could
have not been more flat-footed it's like
dude you're a couple years out-of-date
and it's moving real fast
oh yeah Cuomo is promising reprisals
which I've no doubt that he will deliver
cause he's a vindictive de
Blasio is trying to pretend like he's on
the community side now so they're both
being very care
drastically themselves I also like how
quick they are to blame it on local
socialists as if you know you can still
do the Red Scare on people and well sure
you could still the Red Scare but let's
just say like yes I will take credit we
killed it thank you we have a lot of
power it's good PR all right I get time
for one more call
