[Music]
let's just play Donald Trump and get
this over with so folks Donald Trump
went down to El Paso to give a speech
and he was greeted by some American
patriots who were willing to plant
themselves into the ground and be the
wall when Donald Trump says be the wall
he was he had no idea but he was being
literal
and some proud Americans have decided
that they are going to be the wall and I
don't know have we let's put some some
soaring inspirational music over this
clip of Americans literally almost so
were the 200 of them lining up with
their Mogga hats on the border to be the
wall and I think what we really needed
is some cement footing so that they
could actually stay there I mean that's
the president on it you don't want the
wall to be that fluid but go ahead
[Applause]
[Music]
like how they're shuffling along so that
they're all holding hands
[Music]
the guy with the rifle on the ski mask
that's so that's the America I'm hoping
for is that a match that looks like an
actual cop this is so inspiring
people come together oh look at that
that's it that's a Texas flag with a
some type of semi-automatic rifle on it
that's super cute black the Mexicans
they will be just one there you go folks
there's your your moment of inspiration
