[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat the
majority report with sam cedar it is
Friday February 8th 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today
Digby from the blog hullabaloo for
Heather Parton from the website
salon.com we'll be here to look back on
the week that was and continues to be
also special guests running for public
advocate hot off her performance in the
debate two nights ago she did great
no Mickey Const will call in and then
still on the road legal last time we
talked him was like three or four weeks
ago he's on the road film guy Matthew
who apparently is just living the life
of luxury
but what road guy man also on the
program today five to four
Roberts votes with the Liberals against
the Louisiana trap law but Susan Collins
has some explaining to do
as Brett Kavanaugh writes through the
dissent which would have effectively
gutted roe v-- wade meanwhile Bezos outs
peckers plan to blackmail him as the
Trump National Enquirer scandal thickens
[Music]
Supreme Court makes a move to say Islam
not a real religion thank you and rest
in peace John Dingell leaves us at age
92 got in some very good shots at Donald
Trump before he left but also did not
leave to see his dream of healthcare in
the way that he wanted but certainly
some progress
Trump seeks or I should say seats
another 44 right-wing justices judges
rather and the green New Deal slammed by
the Trump pistas as being too ambitious
turns out Paul Manafort is either a
pathological liar or he has something to
hide or you know the third option all of
the above for both Trump mad that Adam
Schiff is a better boss than he is and
Attorney General stooge Matthew Whitaker
testifies to the House Judicial
Committee and finally Trump reverses the
Obama era payday loan restriction so
congratulations folks you still have the
opportunity to to be subject to
predatory loans that will drive you into
a fine
you'll ditch just a reminder this
program relies on its members to exist
weekend week out day in day out you can
become a member by going to join the
majority report calm when you do not
only do we give you our heartfelt thanks
we also give you extra content every
single day nearly almost every single
day but always we provide you the show
commercial free although some people
complain about that but you can check
out our deals that we have on our
website now it's all bit more than one
usual complaints that we get
well the commercials sometimes can be
fun and also there's some frankly good
deals yes
go to joy bird get 25% off I'm not one
big time that's a good one there's maybe
a nice chair I may get there anyways
I don't want to get any free plugs but
just did well I did I also got a really
nice note that I was going to save for
for when we're doing a Harry's but
apparently somebody uses the body wash
and they really like it Gulag Greg huh
Greg he's is the body so you can become
Gulag Greg endorsed so you can become a
member today by going to join the
majority report com two clips before we
bring in Digby this one from the State
of the Union I was trying to express
this the other day as we were doing our
you know we pre-recorded the intro to
Wednesday show because Thursday and I
got pretty late and involved a lot of
alcohol and I was trying to communicate
the how much Donald Trump did not seem
to be connected to the words he was
saying and the idea that he had clearly
only read the speech maybe once maybe
once and I think nothing captures that
more than his inability to differentiate
between these two ideas
they're just they just seemed to be all
words that he's reading they have no
meaning whatsoever and here is this just
this short clip to illustrate that point
all children born and unborn are made in
the holy image of God the final part of
my agenda is to protect American
security faces just surprised she's like
she's like I did wait what we were
saying earlier that she's like she's
basically breaking in new sin you in her
face
well incredulous she is but it started
over cuz this is how it should be
like delivered all children born and
unborn are made in the holy image of God
the final part of my agenda
okay posit so it was supposed to be all
children are made in the holy image of
God
new paragraph the final part of my
agenda is national security but because
he's not conscious of what like he
doesn't he has no attachment to these
words he is literally reading this as if
English was a second or third language
to him he's good at the but it's not you
know it's he has no idea what the words
mean and he's just reading them off with
no intonation because again he doesn't
realize like new thought they can edit
it better they could get get you fix it
post like that's how I read adds exactly
exactly
Razors good phrases are good the final
part is the code you can't even do it
you know you can't even it's almost
impossible to like to just off the top
of your head print it because it goes
against all of the things that we know
when we get attached to language but all
right here's the here's another clip
this is pretty good
oh do we have Oh people should check our
Instagram thing John Benjamin and Larry
Murphy made a great graphic that we put
up on our Instagram account you know we
have an Instagram account now did you
know that but I was aware yeah it is in
it we retitled it it's the majority
report with sam cedar dudes we are
instagram specialist was mmm I saw the
Instagram specialist came in and cleaned
house and yes they did and if you head
over there now now it's it's a little
bit cleaner and each little morsel of
Instagram is precious we don't but it's
a very funny graphic that shows
ostensibly a Fox News poll those who
oppose taxing people over 10 million
those in favor 70% those against well
you'll have to find out that's a little
tease but meanwhile here is what was
know who what is this this is clip
number what that you have up there oh
this is Maria bark to mow Bartiromo and
she is on fox news with shannon bream
that's her name and bill hemmer is
hammer sleepy today no no sleepies
euphemisms a little bit less
loosey-goosey okay okay all right
sometimes he gets a little bit he's a
real demeanor change these days anyways
here they are they're talking about you
know why you shouldn't tax wealthy
people on their wealth here's the
headline Wall Street Journal New
Democratic agenda sure looks like
government control over the means of
production so they went through medic
therefore all endorsed by 16 other
senators Kamala Harris had the line last
week
let's eliminate all of that meaning the
employer insurance yeah because the
green the new Green Deal endorsed by 40
House Democrats guarantee government job
for all kirsten gillibrand has tweeted
in support of that vastly higher taxes
is now being debated in the House Ways
and Means Committee to raise taxes even
higher there's some of the headlines
from that yeah exactly and when you're
looking at Medicare for all it's
actually as James James Freeman says all
the time
Medicare for none because you're
replacing private health insurance
companies with a new self payer one
payer government assistance Medicare
program so that's of course that's
socialism and posit wait a second but
I'm not clear on why it's Medicare for
none or why it's self payor because it's
like it's just because it's just like
Venezuela I get it now
Chicago politics so that's of course
that's socialism and then the Green Deal
you know this is an idea where the
government is in charge and the
government is allocating resources to
individuals everybody has the same what
does that do for productivity we talked
about that in the past you know why
would you want to work really hard to
think that you can in fact achieve
success if you know that no matter what
you do it's all the same as the next
person it's hard to believe it and that
Wall Street Journal piece also posit you
know this is an interesting theory
because we have seen worker productivity
rise so exponentially over the past 30
years or so that 40 years that the
minimum wage is about if you if it
followed productivity would be somewhere
in the low 20s an hour so this concept
of and these are people I Got News for
you they're they're they would never be
in danger of paying the top top marginal
tax rate as they working yet their
productivity continues to go up
maybe that's why because they're not
afraid of paying the top marginal tax
rate same as the next person it's hard
to believe in that Wall Street Journal P
also took on elizabeth warren's proposed
wealth tax and said this ms warns wants
a new two percent wealth tax on assets
over fifty million dollars and three
percent over 1 billion dollars including
assets held abroad france recently
jumped its wealth tax because it was so
counterproductive and such a tax has
never been levied in America this is
government confiscation merely because
someone has earned or saved more money
than someone else
socialism yeah exactly I love the way
they wrote that actually and it's true
it is confiscation because the truth is
is you could work your whole life work
really hard achieve success make money
and then get it taken away confiscated
by the government
these policies sometimes lead to
unintended consequences where people
will actually see that they're being
overtaxed see that they're being their
money is being confiscated and they will
come up with various structures to hide
income and so at the end of the day the
government's not getting that revenue
anyway I'm positive now you know what's
amazing about this here is she's a
business news right and she is
conflating wealth and income like
they're gonna hide their income because
of a wealth tax no they would hide their
income like they do now because of an
income tax which we also incidentally
have a wealth tax
I guess she's arguing that they'll hide
their income well the wealth as long as
we can see the wealth or at least part
of it we'll get two percent of that
wealth on I'd be happy to take a much
more aggressive punitive approach to
that as well so if the issues that she's
concerned about is like lack of
regulatory authority and investigative
powers by the IRS to get that money I
think we could take care of that stuff
on crime and tough on the causes of
crime is there another area where
they're like oh people might not follow
these laws therefore these laws
shouldn't exist why would you have three
strikes laws people still shoplift
exactly well I I would actually maybe
will really need to bring in the ATF for
this forget about the IRS let's just get
the hardcore SEAL Team six well actually
see that they're being overtaxed see
that they're being their money's being
confiscated and they will come up with
various structures to hide income
so at the end of the day the
government's not getting that revenue
anyway I'm talking about legal
structures in in some ways where people
will try their hardest to change the way
their income is measured and that's one
of the unintended concepts it will
clearly be an issue during the primary
for the Democratic campaign yep so all
these candidates going to be asked about
it were they where they stand
exactly I saw a Business Network
yesterday afternoon it was not Fox
Business at the the banner on the
screens that attacked me socialism
attacking attacking socialism with the
president's face behind his say the
Union now segment well I was double take
double take oh no no he didn't take a
double take he took a double take we
could just go back on that I mean no
this is getting petty here but I just
want to say the Union now I took a
double take he is so scared of socialism
he can't even talk right now it's great
socialism come in a bottle
well maybe why does he drink well there
you have it the itself it is pretty
funny though to hear them like read this
off as if like they're almost like
holding back laughs laughter and the it
just doesn't match up with the words
when they're saying like proposing a 2%
wealth over 50 million dollars I think
if it went for too much longer they'd
probably start crying well I know what
they say we like to keep from crying of
course but it when they deliver their
stuff and they're attempting to make it
sound bad and stupid it can't help but
resonate with people just go I'm not
sure what's so funny about 2% on 50
million is that gonna be there they're
relying on tone of voice to make the
argument exactly all right we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back
we'll be talking to Digby
you
[Music]
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome back
to the program a regular Friday guest
ladies and gentlemen who inspired this
little ditty dig bake how are you I'm
fine I'm ready you're ready and I know
you've been watching you've been
watching the the Whitaker hearings and
we were watching this beforehand just
give us a brief update what what's
happening up to this point with Whitaker
the Jerry Nadler has been has been
rather I guess he has toed the line in
this instance right Whitaker was saying
that he wasn't going to show up unless
he was promised that there would be no
subpoena but the first thing and and so
Nadler said long as you answer there'll
be no subpoena and when he got here when
he got to the committee shortly after it
was clear he wasn't he was starter
stonewalling Nadler said you know what
we could subpoena you because you're not
really holding up your end of the
bargain that was pretty I was pretty
happy with that but what's happened
since then well since then as far as I
know I've been I haven't watched for the
last 10 minutes or so but prior to that
it was pretty clear that Whitaker I mean
he had obviously been prepped for this
and was prepped with some sort of wooden
halting answers that were designed to
say you know I will not you know discuss
my private conversations and he didn't
explicitly evoke executive privilege or
that weird Jeff Sessions and Steve Banta
and the rest of them who had evoked and
one of the things that nadir was trying
to do was to sort of deal with the fact
that they have been in the two years
prior coming up to the hill and evoking
this weird privilege that doesn't exist
in other words just saying well I'm not
going to see
because the president might want to
evoke executive privilege in the future
that's not how it works the president
has to do it that's his it's his
privilege and he has to say you know no
you're not allowed to talk about this
that's executive privilege so they've
been trying to change that and I think
that nailer a lot of this thing around
Whitaker and this particular you know
sort of controversy that's been going
back and forth I don't know if people
have followed it over the last few days
but needler had you know obviously
Whitaker had been stalling and trying
not to actually have to make
disappearance before he left before
William Barr was confirmed but they they
were unable to do it so we ended up
having to come up and what nailer had
done back in January was sent up a
series of questions saying I'm giving
you these questions in advance so that
you can ask the president if he wants to
invoke executive privilege if he does
then you left to let us know 48 hours in
advance so that we can properly prepared
the committee that's reasonable
well they ignored it or p4 god or
something but in any case he didn't
respond and so neither said you know he
they decided to hold a vote in the
committee as to whether or not they
would subpoena him if he decided not to
show up at all which was entirely
possible the way they were acting was at
Whitaker which is gonna blow off the
hearing they put in Barre and that would
you know allegedly be the end of that
and neither was having none of it so
they went through this subpoena battle
back and forth over the idea that you
know he was you know he was either going
to comply or he was going they were
going to start using the sanctions that
they have available to them as the
oversight as a congressional oversight
and that they were going to subpoena him
well they went back and forth until the
end of the day yesterday finally it was
agreed upon that that he would not
subpoena him if he came down to the hill
answered the questions and then as you
say this is what's happened this morning
so they're continuing the hearing but
from what I understood and I may be
wrong about this Naylor said look you
know we may have you we're gonna have
you come back and do a deposition and
then we'll release that you know under
us and then we'll release that
deposition to the public so I don't
think this is over and I think you're
right that needler nanners not playing
and
neither are the rent neither the rest of
the committees in the Congress they're
not playing they are absolutely going to
press this stuff and as I've been
watching Whitaker this morning I mean
this is just he's just saying he didn't
invoke executive producing I'm not going
to talk about this I'm refusing to talk
about this stuff I don't talk about
about ongoing investigations which would
be fair enough normally but he did do it
in a press conference the other day and
he also said that you know he's also
saying that he won't discuss his private
conversations with the president which
to me indicates that he had them in some
respect or another so that's where we
are today on this and you know the guys
just adult he has absolutely no business
being in this position at all let me
just ask a broader question about
executive privilege so what my
understanding is what they've basically
been saying is that we've developed a
new form of executive privilege which is
the anticipatory executive privilege
right because executive privilege is
just specifically where the president
the president invokes executive
privilege there is nobody in the cabinet
can exactly can invoke an executive
privilege they don't have it they can
only communicate to the committee
the president has invoked executive
privilege on this particular manner and
so what sessions did and I'm reiterating
what you said just to make sure that I
understand it - what sessions at all did
was like I think the president would
invoke might want to invoke executive
privilege for this so I'm invoking an
anticipatory executive an anticipatory
privilege associated with me about what
I would anticipate the president would
do with him and that doesn't exist
that's a made-up thing what why what is
it about the president invoking
executive privilege I mean my
understanding is all it is is it's just
the president invoked executive
privilege and the president has a reason
not to talk about it is it just that
politically it's associated with stuff
so much from Nixon that it's toxic I
mean like I don't quite understand the
the the the the Sally
this because it seems nobody cares about
norms anyways well I get I agree with
you that nobody cares about norms
anyways and certainly the the
administration doesn't care I mean they
they have no respect for norms or even
you know the constitutionally required
congressional oversight I mean clearly
they just don't care about any of that
but and and I am no expert on this so
forgive me all you lawyers and experts
out there if you're listening if I get
this wrong but my understanding is that
executive privilege does exist but it's
never truly been litigated all the way
the reason we know it exists is because
the Supreme Court agreed that it existed
in the Nixon tapes case but there were
exceptions and from what I understand
from you know just what I've seen by TV
lawyers who talk about this that it's
not just something you can just blanket
you know that that you would expect that
you could just blanketly invoke when
whenever you don't want to talk about
something in other words the president
has to have a good reason for it
national security or some kind of you
know they want you know unfettered
advice from their staff and they could
they would be able to get that if they
had to talk about these things in other
words it's not just a blanket sort of
privilege that that the president can
can invoke whenever he wants to
however none of this stuff has been
litigated and and my personal feeling is
that I think that Naylor understands
that they are they're about to go into
some serious litigation over this stuff
that this stuff there is going to be a
point at which it's going to go to court
and we're going to start seeing the
courts involved in that particular
question of executive privilege and it's
not because Kneedler necessarily wants
it to be but because they have used
these weird excuses and have refused to
do the proper process in invoking the
privilege I mean the president for
reasons that I don't understand is
refusing to do that or at least they've
decided maybe they've decided that
they're going to you know I mean look
you've got some real extremists sort of
lawyers on the Republican side who may
have decided that they and they believe
in
federate executive power that maybe
they've decided that they're just going
to take this all the way and say the
president never has to talk about
anything he doesn't want to talk about
ever because he's the executive and it's
his privilege to not say anything and
they're just going on the assumption
that the American people or at least the
American people they care about are fine
with that so I mean that's my that's my
guess on that that nailer and the rest
of the people in the Judiciary Committee
understand that this is just a beginning
and they're trying they're setting up a
series of probable confrontations
because they know this is going to be
like going to be litigated down the road
I mean I could be wrong I'm just
guessing on that but that's how it looks
to me I mean this all seems very kind of
it's thought-out on their on the
Democratic side for sure that they are
actually they've been plotting this
knowing that they were going to be
coming up against as much you know
possible resistance as they could get
right and let's get this resolved as
early in the in the proceedings as
possible because it's there's only going
to be more stuff you know in some ways
they're like okay let's let's just
address the process issues early so that
we can continue on with these
investigations and there are multiple
ones obviously and we should say the
investigations range I mean if there was
no Muller investigation right there
would be still a record-breaking number
of needed investigations from just the
sheer sort of I don't know if I would
call it graft or corruption that has
existed so far in the Trump
administration each cabinet member seems
to have add their own sort of uniquely
impressive corruption scandal H which is
which we also saw this week which was
sort of fascinating and you know I think
so much of this stuff gets sort of
rolled into the Russia investigations
but presuming there was no question of
you know whether there was Russian
collusion or
you know all the lying that's gone on
and all etc etc the money laundering
that probably happened under Trump
administration the I mean I should say
under the Trump Trump Inc this week the
Southern District of New York a you know
the US Attorney's Office opened up a an
investigation into the Trump
inauguration because there was so much
money raised for so little delivered and
I think and I'm a I'm curious what you
can tell us about why the Southern
District of New York would have
jurisdiction over this the other
question I have is it seems to me that
it's gotta have something to do with
that huge amount of money paid to a
consultant who is a friend of milania's
but it could be anything right well I
think it's all tied up with well let me
just say this I'm not sure why it's in
the Southern District of New York you'd
have to ask somebody who understands
those the way those jurisdictions work
but my assumption is as a layperson that
this has something to do with the Trump
Organization which is in New York and
that there is yeah I read a very
interesting piece this morning on The
Daily beef by Barbara McQuade former
prosecutor US Attorney I think she's
from Michigan in any case she's on TV a
lot and people who watch these shows
probably recognize her but she had a
very interesting take on that on this on
the inauguration and some of the other
stuff because we also learned this week
that the Southern District has been
interviewing members of the Trump
Organization so we don't know if that's
connected or whether there's something
else or whether or not this is one case
or you know many cases but her theory is
is that this is actually has the
contours of a Rico investigation and
Rico is a racketeering Act which was an
invoke you know created back in 1970
mostly as a way to try and get to the
mob because what what they had done was
organized
themselves in such a ways to insulate
the the big bosses from from any kind of
kind of criminal exposure so they had to
find a way to do it and they created
this law which you know as a civil
libertarian you know I've often thought
and boy this is really reaching but in
this case it may be the only way that
they can they can do this or at least
using the premise of the you know sort
of RICO concept of how you put together
a conspiracy that conspiracy case that
that you know this may be the way that
they're going about this and this is
where it has to do with the inauguration
which has to do with the Trump
Organization and the fact which you know
getting to your back here regional point
if there were no Muller investigation
the mere fact that the president the
United States refused to divest himself
of his business and put it into a blind
trust or do something other than just
say well my boys are in charge and you
know I'm leaving it up to them would be
cause for you know a tremendous amount
of investigation and theoretically a
criminal investigation as well because
this is it's not just a constitutional
problem with the emolument there's
obviously been pay to play which is what
we're looking at with this inauguration
situation we've got massive amounts of
money that were raised it really appears
just judging from this person that you
mentioned he was from milania's friend
who ran it it may actually be that she
winds up being a big whistleblower on
this thing because it was just revealed
that she there are tapes between her and
Michael Cohen that were picked up during
Mike the raid on Michael Collins offices
in which she's talking about her own
misgivings about the way this money was
spent and how she had tried to bring it
up and was told to keep it quiet and
this and then you know you've got Rick
Gates who is the man affords you know
majordomo who has been cooperating with
Muller and you know maybe cooperating
with the Southern District of New York
as well because that's he was on the
inauguration committee and so all of
this money was turning around he raised
like twice as much as Obama's in 2008
and we know the results it wasn't like
you know they had a lavish right
ceremony or anything so that money went
someplace and and there were there's all
these you know foreign in you know a
parent you know kind of a slush fund
foresters in there I mean it's quite an
ugly thing and then all those tentacles
come into the Trump Organization then
you know they come back out into the
Muller investigation and all of this is
intertwined so you know this is a very
this is the kind of situation conspiracy
sort of situation where you could see
the RICO statute kind of being put to
use to try and put the whole thing
together I am convinced and this is
based on nothing I should say or very
little but I'm just the whole thing
sounds to me like and again like this is
complete speculation that this was a way
of funneling money to Melania like I'm
sure there was other things that they
were doing this but when her best friend
or her friend is getting gets literally
like twenty was twenty five million
dollars for a consulting fee that sounds
like to me a backdoor way of paying off
Melania like I'm sorry that I won the
president like a you know all the
reporting was she was extremely mad and
something's got you know like the idea
that her best friend is brought in and
then it's just sort of like shuttled
away that's just sounds to me like you
know these are all professional money
launderers and and so the idea of like
you know this is the way we this is the
way we deal with things we money comes
in one end we give it out another end we
make sure that it's not traceable in
some fashion I mean and this this seems
to be fairly straightforward the
Southern District of New York is going
to be able to follow that money it seems
to me fairly easily right like it goes
into your bank account then let's we'll
find out where it goes after that maybe
someplace in the Cayman Islands it would
be my guess
but it's gonna be pretty pretty nuts
I think once we start to dig into that
and again this is an investigation that
if it was just that this right if it was
just this it seems like that would be a
huge huge scandal what did you think
about this you know Trump said yesterday
he woke up on the wrong side of the bed
yesterday morning and accidentally
watched MSNBC and heard that Adam Schiff
was you know hiring some people you know
from that had once worked in a White
House National Security Council and he
heard this story and he was completely
freaked out and he you know did his
usual tweet tantrum and in the course in
that tweet tantrum he said this has
never happened before no president has
ever been investigated like this this is
outrageous this is you know disgusting
it's Saturday and we know how he feels
you know he's a whiner maybe the most
you know vociferous whiner in world
history and so he was he was really
upset and the idea that he you know he's
there fin investigations his entire
adult life starting Richard Nixon and
his abuse of power and corruption all
the way through to Benghazi every single
decade there's been there have been you
know there's a Ron contract and and of
course there was Clinton which the
Whitewater case was about some you know
crappyland deal from the 1980s from you
know decades before that was worth you
know thirty thousand dollars they spent
years and years investigating that and
he's acting like nobody's ever done this
before well you know they need to look
in the mirror because of course it's
been done before
and by the way the people who you know
have really been crooks in all this were
you know where the Republicans Clinton
turned out to be just you know some it
was all kind of penny-ante gothic
Arkansas nonsense and you know Benghazi
my god they spent you know years on that
for absolutely no good reason so you
know he needs to stop complaining
and recognize that you know he
apparently didn't take this into
consideration before I ran for president
that you know if your criminal and
you're running a criminal enterprise
maybe not a good idea well put yourself
under this kind of scrutiny because it
was always going to happen he may have
also I mean to be fair he also may have
thought I'm never gonna win right and so
no one's gonna levy this type of
scrutiny I think there's two things
going on I think it's one he didn't
think he was gonna win and so I didn't
think he'd be subject to the scrutiny
and two I think this is sort of the
Cavanagh principle it's like hey wait a
second I am now part of a class of
people who don't have my forebears did
not get held accountable this is not
fair that's what that like this is a
loss of privilege for me and I should
not be held to this level of account I
feel like as part of it all right but
let's also just turn to this other thing
that's sort of fascinating so Jeff Bezos
I guess it was yesterday
takes two medium and writes a letter to
the world basically saying that he got
contacted by the folks at National
Enquirer who are concerned about the
investigations The Washington Post is
doing into the relationship between the
Enquirer and the Saudis and the Trump
administration and basically said we
have dick pics of you that you took and
your girlfriend and boy it would really
suck for you for them to get out into
the public maybe we should meet in the
context of all the stuff that you're
pursuing you know in terms of chasing us
down and Bezos basically said I'm the
richest guy in the world and I live in
my own universe and so I don't care what
picks you have of my penis I am going to
out you and that's what happened and I
don't know that for me the really
fascinating part was how much he talks
about Saudi Arabia in this piece right
like it just that's
like a little bit of a bank shop but
it's as if he is it's his way of
threatening them like with like look I
want you just to be aware we're much
closer to finding some connections that
you may not have thought of and we're
gonna put it out there right now this is
the way that we leak stuff out there
oh absolutely there were there and there
are a lot of rumors to that effect that
the you know the post has some kind of
information you know I mean they were
the employers of you know you know they
were and and and they've been truly I
think the people at the post who worked
with him I think they had an end
reporters in general but especially at
the post but but we're just completely
appalled by what happened and also the
fact that that you know Trump and Jared
Kushner who apparently was helping MBS
Mohammed bin Salman you know with his
damage control on the story was calling
him up and saying hey let me help you
out here
they're truly appalled and offended by
this and so they've been pursuing this
and at the same time I think that that
Bezos hired you know one of the
country's most you know well-known
private investigators what's his name
Gavin de Becker I think excuse me out in
Hollywood you know he's very well known
as a you know super top investigator and
you know I think I'm not surprised that
basis would hire him and he's also been
on this and there of course Bezos was
sending a shot across the bow there
which was kind of like hey you know are
you sure you want to go here are you
sure you want to mess with this and I
think that that a lot of that has to do
with the fact that I don't think
baseless cares about his dick picks you
know he's the richest man in the world
you know okay whatever you know and you
can buy anyone out of penises after that
or it doesn't matter yeah who cares you
know and I don't you know none of us
care about this at this point is like
you know what I we've seen one dick pic
we've seen them all right so you know
this is no big deal and and the fact
that basis you know is extremely power
fall in terms of his wealth and in terms
of sex that he owns the Washington Post
you know I think that that he's decided
to take a you know to take to use that
power that he has as a billionaire or
excuse me as Howard Schultz says a man
of means
right um that he said he's gonna use
that to try and push this and and you
know actually try and do use his power
for good in this one respect I mean I'm
not trying to give him a pass on all the
rest of it but in this case and I mean
hey you know this is a really you know
interesting tactic on basis this part
because I mean when I was in second
grade I guess it was a sixth grade
Charlie had cook caught a note that I'd
sent to a friend in which I called the
teacher a and he was black he
blackmailed me for it and was saying
that he was going to tell her and I had
to give him money and do all that so I
took the note to the teacher on one
second
just got a note that breaking news we
just broke some news of their good about
Charlie Adcox yeah right the whole story
right right I know it's a big one really
really interesting but I'm just saying
this is say this is one way to deal with
blackmailers right which is just take
take it upon yourself to just sort of go
and admit that this thing happened and
in the end blackmailer often looks way
worse for having for doing what he did
so I think that that's what his what his
approach is here and I think you know
he's done himself some good too I mean
the dick-pic say the least of it right I
mean at this point we may be talking
about an international incident that
could reflect very very badly on on the
on the Enquirer and also on this you
know The Enquirer has been doing this
with Trump's enemies for a long time
right I mean this came out during the
Kohen thing I mean we knew that pecker
was called up to Trump Tower when Trump
decided to run for for president and
Trump said so how can you help me help
me with this campaign and pecker said
well let's see what we can do here so I
mean the idea that there's a political
overlay here that perhaps he was also
helping out his friend friend Trump is
is also a big part of it
yeah and I I mean more and more it sort
of feels like there's this group of guys
who are friends who are just like we're
gonna get in on this deal and there's
all these like you know it's it sort of
reminds me of I can't the his nameis
Kate was a Collins who was the
congressman who was like getting insider
information for stocks and what's a
Collins and was just like I've made for
millionaires in Congress you know
they're good they're all rich cuz me
like all the money just sort of flowing
around with these guys and you start to
wonder you know you know with the with
the Saudis and UAE I mean there's just I
don't know there's a lot of stuff
flowing through here and it just seems
like it gets more and more layered as we
go but Digby
thanks for unwinding some of this
go back to watching the Whitaker the
Whitaker case well I need something I
need to catch up on it after the show so
I'm gonna go read what you've written
about it as always thanks so much for
your time today Digby have a great
weekend everybody
all right folks we're gonna take a quick
break and when we come back we're going
to be talking to a candidate for Public
Advocate we are just days away from the
like literally a couple of days away
from the the end of the period we're
matching grants where you can make
enough money to get matching grants in
the public advocate's race super
important and this is coming off the
heels of a debate the other night know
me Constance going to join us in just a
second
[Music]
you
Sam cedar on the majority report on the
phone it is a pleasure to welcome to the
program
the former TYT correspondent the former
are you still a member of the the Unity
Commission on for the Democratic Party I
don't actually think we we finished all
of our business like there's a DNC
meeting every six months and I think we
have a couple of things that still may
be voted on but for the most part we
don't need anymore it's not a commission
that holds hearings we published a
report but we haven't well in that case
then I will introduce you as a current
candidate for the public advocate
position in New York City with the
election just literally what is it two
weeks away right oh my god don't freak
me out yes it's Tuesday February 26
ladies and gentlemen no me Const is
joining us.hello no me see how I Drive
really dragged out that intro all right
well so there was a debate well first
off let's just start with this because
this is hugely important and you know
I've been talking to people about that a
lot of people don't realize that New
York City has one of the best public
financing schemes for candidates in the
in the country where you get where they
will match eight to one a dollar for
dollar up to $250 so that big money
can't influence it you know to
dramatically they will will match as
long as you get past a threshold of how
much in the context of your race so for
this race because it's very it's a very
unique race in a special election on its
$62,500
but to get more technical you can't you
want to overshoot it because people saw
their names wrong they have the wrong
address is the avenue instead of road
and the CSV to campaign finance board of
the city because this is taxpayer money
they're very strict about this and and
people have gotten a lot of trouble for
abusing the system in the past so we are
trying to overshoot and raise about
$80,000
in matching funds but of course we're
receiving donations from all over the
country and we've raised over 125,000
but it's a big deal as soon as we hit
this deadline we are able to spread our
message in these final two weeks which
is the time when everyone starts to pay
attention and so if you're out of the if
you if you live outside of New York City
you you still give through the link that
we have on the majority dot F M Play
page but if you're in New York City know
that if you give five bucks up to 250
you can multiply that times eight and
that's how much money noemi's going to
get for her run and so with that out of
the way you had a debate two nights ago
there were one nine candidates on the
stage at least a total of ten you know
nine other nine others and all right so
give me your sense of how that debate
went you know it's so funny because I've
been debating since I was a kid like
it's my it's one of my favorite pastimes
um I always feel very different about it
and then I watched it and I see
something that's very different than
what I felt when I was on stage so you
know I was actually extremely nervous
I'm no going to be completely open and
honest if you weren't a cannon on stage
that was nervous you did you probably
associate about frightening but you know
there's a lot of those in politics I I
was I was very excited to see that
online most people said that we won the
press has been a little funny about it
because we got almost the most air time
the only person who got a little bit
more than us was the former Speaker
Melissa mark-viverito but the feedback
on her airtime was not positive so at
the end of the day I think that we
probably did the best in the debate and
the end and the biggest reason is is
that what separates us from the rest of
the candidates on stage is we are not in
bed with real estate developers there's
are hundreds of thousands of dollars
that have been thrown around possibly
millions actually on in in this race in
previous races people are using
developer money in this race from from
their old accounts and while all of the
we're talking about no band-aid issues
we were able to get to the heart of it
and say no you can't do this if you
don't deal with tax and developers you
can't do these things unless you deal
with taxing you know these amazon the
tax schemes and I think that resonated
with folks I called out a lot of folks
who portray themselves as progressives
in the past but then I I asked questions
about why they were aligned with certain
financial interests and you know I think
I think that one well for my part I mean
next one in a couple of weeks we'll see
how that one does well there's a there's
I know this question of taking a real
estate developer money has been one of
the corner store and stones of your
campaign and I think anybody who knows
New York City politics knows that the
big some of the biggest issues really
frankly center around housing weather
you know and that bleeds down to the
integration of our schools it bleeds
down to the black space it bleeds down
to who can afford to live in the city it
bleeds down to public transport so this
is this is what the you know every
everything sort of is downstream of this
question so I know some of the other
candidates you know we've had people ask
us about this why isn't the the pledge I
think it is by the New York rental
rental Association why isn't that
sufficient as opposed to what you where
you have staked your flag on in terms of
taking no developer money whatsoever
well why is it not enough to say I don't
take for-profit developer money well I
think you know at the end of the day you
see these I call them develop said this
on stage in the debate that there's
developers philanthropy being given out
so take these rezoning that are
happening there was a there was a little
bit of a moment where the former Speaker
this week counsel Melissa mark-viverito
I asked her question is you ran on an
anti gentrification pledge when you
first move to East Harlem and ran for
the council but soon after you started
taking developer money and you were part
of a of a developer philanthropy scheme
in which you rezone your neighborhood
but it was in exchange for building
these big these big buildings that are
fancy luxury apartments that hand out a
couple of affordable apartments in in
them and that's not that's not actually
preserving affordable housing in New
York that is a partnership that really
left these developers get their tax
breaks and then they throw a little bit
of candy to the city but they're
changing the neighborhood they're making
it more expensive for people to rent
around those buildings they're driving
up the cost of living they're driving up
the commercial rent cost and and they're
not contributing back on top of it so
you know this is an old scheme in the
city um since since real estates been
deregulated in the mid-70s and I think a
lot of Democrats have used as cover
because they have some sort of
affordable housing plan but that's just
philanthropy and I think that we need to
get off of this the developer model of
they decide how we fund our in the
billionaires decide how we fund our city
and not the people and I said the same
thing about the MTA I said this is wrong
this question do you think that the
governor should control the MTA or the
mayor's who cooked well the MTA and I
said well I think the MTA should be
municipal eyes I think it should be
controlled by the city you know when you
have political appointees on the board
of the MTA one of which is a developer
that living and live in the city you
know that's determining the lifeblood of
the city that's determining whether or
not small businesses are able to afford
their rents yeah there's the subway
stations that got shut down in a story
or I am right now for over a year and a
half and thousands of businesses had to
shut down because those subway stations
were shut down just for you know the
renovations they had are all just like
digital enhancements it's not actually
fixing the MTA so yeah we got to get to
the heart of it by taking on these
developers use tax breaks all right I
know you just got a couple minutes here
because you got to get to another
interview but lastly what what over the
course of this camp because we spoke to
you about a month or two ago maybe
leading up to this what
has have you has your perspective on
things changed at all are there things
some things that have become clear that
are more problematic than others as you
have dug into this yeah I mean it's
fascinating to see how the New York City
campaign finance board while we do have
a better system it is still very very
very hard for candidates who are
grassroots to raise the money to be able
to not only receive the matching funds
but also to be able to compete on stage
so the debate you have to not only have
gotten on the ballot not only have a
view did you have to raise a certain
money to spend a certain amount of money
and that is I just think it's not very
fair for democracy I mean sure you want
to make sure that the candidates are
viable but when the limits are as they
are
it really does empower those who come
from you know law firms or developers or
you know in line with certain interests
or institutions that can just image your
boss says can you can you bundle $250
checks and so people were coming from
law firms have the partners in law firms
telling their associates to give money
and then very quickly they're able to
qualify for matching funds whereas our
campaign has collected thousands of
donations from New York outside of New
York but you know it's split in half
just like all the other candidates but
we have way more small dollar donations
way more contributions than all the
other candidates and we have the lowest
contribution that's what's taking us a
little bit longer to get to matching
funds but the end of the day these are
voters these are people who are
organizing on the streets these are the
people who are going to be voting in
this low turnout election and I think
the biggest disappointment is that most
people in New York don't even know that
they have the public advocate which is
there to represent them which is there
to make sure that their interests are
brought to the table against these
special interests and just one more
thing to add if anybody is on the fence
here every single New York City elected
official has received developer money
opponents in this race are playing a lot
of tricks right now they're using like
you know they're saying well go there
we'll know me she received 27 dollars
from a grandma who rents her basement to
her grandson but at the end of the day
my opponents have received tens of
thousands some cases hundreds of
thousands of dollars from the worst
pay-to-play real estate developers like
the Ratner family and you don't get that
money unless you sit down with the
radner's and you cut a deal and I and I
think you know the press is not really
reporting on that fairly and part of the
reason why the press is not reporting on
our race just like they don't report on
Bernie Sanders or don't give a OC fair
treatment is because we go against the
business model we got more airtime than
anybody else on that stage and the press
your time barely even mentioned us so we
just have to keep organizing we have to
keep talking to each other I'm so
grateful for your reporting Sam because
you actually pay attention to the
details and follow the money and and
know your history and you're not bought
by these folks who we really want to
take on well know me wish you good luck
there's a link at majority dot F M if
people want to support your your
campaign and over and it's it's Monday
is that right is the deadline for Monday
at xi xi yes monday tell your family all
right
and then afterwards volunteer good luck
know me thanks for coming on
thank you Sam ticker so folks that's the
deal if you live in New York City you
you can donate I guess up I don't know
what the the maximum is is like $2,000
but 250 the first two hundred and fifty
dollars of that will be matched by the
city if you're a New York City resident
and you got to get it in there now so we
have a link we just tweeted it out we
also have it on the the front page of
the blog we'll put it in the YouTube
thing and you donate five dollars it's
like you're donating 40 you donate ten
it's like you're donating 80 that's
right we can go around just like winning
this is about don't let the math go to
cut this is
this is literally what we do at dinner
with with with Maya and Saul I just
talked about donating to no Mickey yeah
no with my Allah doesn't participate but
with Saul I just keep everything is a
math problem for him he loves math mmm
and that's probably where we're gonna
have our biggest fights yeah I was gonna
say cuz we're pretty addit orally
opposed to math yeah at one point I'm
just gonna be like if you continue if
you insist on doing these type of G you
know algebraic problem right you take it
out of my that would actually be amazing
it's not gonna happen in my house my
rules
Retin there no mad about doing no math
that's awesome
that is a new terrain and child abuse
yeah so folks if you're if you are
contemplating giving money to to know me
in this public advocate race do so and
again you know for me well I think this
came up the other day when we were
talking about somebody had asked us
about jimana Williams who I am you know
broadly speaking very supportive of and
certainly was in his statewide race but
with all due respect to know to know me
she's a little bit of a bridge burner
and it's like your highest form of
respect well yes but I mean most people
think like oh wait a minute but it's
true and like she is willing to you know
not make friends in pursuit of what she
thinks is the right thing to do and in
the context of this job I have known
some former public advocates before in
fact we have some and we have some
former Air America folk who have come
into the office as well as some former
majority report well one yes one and one
hi Kelly's here Dorsey's here we're
gonna wait to the fun half to get you
guys on camera because I think people
haven't seen Dorsey and ages ever maybe
on camera and but we Dorsey you were
there right when we had the we've had
experience with another
bug advocate not gonna say the name I'm
not gonna say the name alright I don't
want anybody to get turned green with
envy because I'm not saying the name but
and my experience of that guy was here's
a guy who took that job who's gonna do
one or two things that are gonna look
showy but he's making deals in fact he's
not even making deals he's going and
having dinner almost multiple times a
week when one of the biggest real estate
developers in the city commercial real
his brother and that's also why his
brother was oh this is a good place to
have my my brother sitting in this job
because I'm then I'm covered and this is
a problem in the city so you need
somebody who's willing to go in there
and say I know I probably don't have any
future in democratic politics and
therefore I don't need to make friends
with certain people I don't need to be
worried about offending certain people
and from my perspective that's the type
of person you want as a public advocate
in New York City it is still a
relatively new position and is one of
those jobs where it will be what the
person in the job makes it and so that's
that's with the basis of my support hmm
again head over to majority report
radio.com
or check out our Twitter feed you will
find a link let's take a quick break
Matthieu film guy is still on the road
what I know that's why we're calling him
up to find out what the hell is going on
we'll be right back after this
you
you
ladies and gentlemen on some Fridays we
play this
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
well okay ah you gotta get him all
Matthew film guy now when I texted you
and asked if you could do this I thought
surely by now
Matthew is back from Boca Boca dealt
with Boca Raton and he's left the
confines of his grandmother's compound
there he is is drained everything that
could be drained from tequila willie's
and he is back in in Queens resuming his
duties anywhere from shooting corporate
videos to shooting directing comedy
specials or teaching at the JCC Learning
Annex held early folks about film and
yet no your own world's greatest longest
vacation I agree I agree it has been the
greatest vacation yeah and we're really
we're wrapping it up here I made a stop
here and I'm talking you from wonderful
Knoxville Tennessee where my sister
lives with her husband and my baby niece
so I'm getting some family time on the
way home with Mary and the puppies here
so we're very close to returning I had
to come back by the 12th which is when
my next a senior citizens film class
starts you know I've been working
remotely but that one I got to be there
for but now how long have you been gone
for you're already living the the
democratic socialist dream aren't you I
mean you know listen there's a fine line
between being freelance and being
unemployed you know so with the
alienation confers freedom you know so
I've been able to do a little bit of
things that people tied down to a job
don't have and I'm gonna take advantage
of that yeah I'm not gonna apologize for
that no we're forced your grandma to
watch depressing Scandinavian movies too
well first of all it's actually my
mother who is now a grandmother her cell
Carly does technically fall under that
rubric and no I don't force her I did
actually watch with my actual
grandmother when she was with us she was
into these kinds of films so she
actually took me to see The Crying Game
when I was 17 that was an amazing
experience
let's see this oh there's nothing your
grandmother that's right neither of us
knew what to expect and then boy were we
entertained yeah I think my grandmother
like literally jumped out of her seat
about four feet at the moment of truth
in that movie no spoilers but it was
quite the memorable bonding experience
between my mother and myself when it
turns out my mother she doesn't really
care we marry and I managed to watch
about a movie a day while we were down
there and my mother didn't really join
us she has her own life so what so a
second so how long have you been gone to
see this is you know calendars have just
lost all meaning for me at this point I
want to say I don't know six weeks going
on it will be we left three days before
New Year's so where are we now man all
right yeah oh yeah you jealous sad you
guys have done a lot of good work in my
absence there I've been keeping tabs I
am so now I'm listening from the beach
and to tell you how jealous I am to have
that type of time to just travel around
now but I'm gonna try and fight through
my resent and at least I'm distraught
what yeah on this right what now what
did you you you sent me this like a film
box what the header box what is this I
believe a couple times ago we talked
about how I transcribed in my list I had
up every single right here I thought
since 1995 well this is the social media
a movie sharing website where you can
list those things and follow your
friends and you can see what they're
looking at and what they're watching and
it's got reviews and I haven't done too
many of those yet but it's called
letterbox and it's like a social
platform for sharing movies that you've
watched and I just wanted to put it out
there to have any chats with other
fellow film guys who sometimes find me
on Twitter you can find me on there now
these are this recent activity I notice
won't you be my neighbor is
is that you did you see that the mr.
Rogers movie what did you that's right
that was one of the ones I caught up on
that what did you think of that I did
did you give that a four star there is
that yes you know it listen that's one
of the ones that's really hard to
separate the filmmaking from my
emotional connection to the content I
thought it was serviceable filmmaking I
mean they did a good jobs kind of laying
out kind of the history and they found a
lot of great rare archival footage that
I had never seen but you got to
understand I was definitely raised by
mr. Rogers so I appreciate it especially
and as a film guy that I'm trying to
like fight this fight about like
attention spans is the ability to like
see things that aren't like super fast
and you know multiple cuts per second is
philosophy I think really you know jives
with mine you know that you need to be
able to have the attention to absorb
certain things and to the extent that
you don't you miss like entire chunks of
what it is to be alive what it is to be
human so on that send crowd I literally
happiest you're really saying so I mean
to two or three times for sure I mean
you know sort of peers throughout but
like a few real just like got punches of
just you know just cuz it's like also a
sense memory hearing those songs and I
just remembered like all the lyrics to
it was like very programmed in my DNA
like it literally could be the first TV
show I ever watched so that was
something and it's just amazing to see
what he was an advocate for he had a you
know I didn't realize that he had such a
sort of definitive kind of teaching
philosophy behind it you know his his
sense of rhetoric and what he wanted to
put out there I thought was really
sophisticated which you know is whatever
a three-year-old I couldn't have breast
I yeah I mean I agree with that
assessment I didn't think it was such a
great movie but it was it was pretty
sentimental it was also it also the
timing of it couldn't be better right I
mean it was almost released as sort of
the antithesis to Donald Trump and some
has a movie ever made you
oh I cry yeah every movie I ever see on
an airplane I cry I cry
there's nothing about the altitude like
I remember was that Armageddon is that
the one with with Liv Tyler and and and
who is the other the guy from die hard
Bruce Willis right like a baby on a
plane yeah no it's on a plane whose arm
again like there's no movie I can see on
a plane that I won't cry what about at a
lower altitude lower altitude below sea
level I mean I I saw Ralph wrecks the
internet and I was very concerned that
Ralph was not gonna get back directly
into that messing with your business
well he gets back he gets up but
vanellope I was afraid was not gonna
make it back and then it was sad who
said I'm not gonna lie it was sad well I
was and I cried I cried all kinds of
things TV commercials if they hit the
right note so it's not that you know
there's crying it when you're
sentimentally manipulated you know and
then there's kind of like a more
cleansing deep healing kind of crying
right rare to get that one I don't but
it's pleasurable to go through the sad
feelings of the kind of a sentimental
cry thing I when there was that big Mega
Millions and I watched the broadcast of
that and I didn't win yeah yeah I'm sure
Donald Trump cries you know when
something doesn't go his way
kicks his feet and stamps his feet you
know that kind of thing then kind of
crying too I'm looking at the the film's
here that you that you've listed Sekar
oh that one sorry oh sorry you only give
that a three star now that that is the
basis of Donald Trump's fever dreams
about what's happening aria - I think
it's a sequel actually yeah that was
that was good just as like a you know
first one you would like Sicario sounds
like that that's my kind of movie the
kario two's not so great yeah yeah that
it's just a it's just like a well-done
kind of action movie with some minor
political overtones it's not it's well
done for what it is but I wouldn't call
that like a great mood that's my kind of
airplane movie
crying yeah you you like well done but
not great yes that's what that is you
always think of you saying you like
Ronin you know with DeNiro
yes okay yeah not great but okay yeah
you're backing away from that one you're
backing away from that I never said it
was great I never said it was great but
I definitely said it was worth watching
okay I thought that was like you kept
saying to me send me more movies like
that well yeah of that genre okay okay
that's in there that one's in there
Sicario so do you think mr. Rogers is a
comrade because I kind of do well I was
fascinated to hear that he was I didn't
realize he was a minister and that he
was a Republican you know so those two
things I thought were like pretty
interesting information and it didn't
mean that he necessarily like I didn't
hear him say like you know health care
is not a right you know like he didn't
say anything that obvious and and his
demeanor in that one say all the
cheering when I fought for ya access
that access is what's important kitties
no but he's really an old style you know
conservative where it's like human
nature is still something that you
respect you know you're not trying to
corporatize and and commodify every
child as they come through the school to
Prison Pipeline so it that was shocking
but I think on the witty vote for Bernie
yes I think he probably wouldn't vote
for Bernie at this stage if he was
around it's it's super interesting cuz
I'm it's one of my DSA comrades had a
similar experience to you watching the
film Matthew and now he's sort of
forming the basis of inspiration for
this new neighborhood councils project
that we're doing to try to kind of
combat the atomization that occurs in
modern urban life that was so good I
mean that's what he was all about won't
you be my neighbor you know joining you
know connecting with fellow humans I
mean there was a lot of great examples
of stuff in there that I didn't
necessarily remember like the way he
kind of normalized the african-american
cop as his friend they put their feet in
the pool together little subtle nods to
just say like I'm not going to you know
hang a lantern on it as they say but I'm
just going to show these people in
things that maybe you're controversial
in a way that I just feel is comports
with my worldview of
we're all great you know we're all worth
something despite like what we do
alright and you know what I also say I
had I had time on on my vacation to
listen to the audiobook of a great book
that I had read years ago called amusing
ourselves to death by Neil postman do
you guys know about this book I read
that book Matt put this one on your list
no I've read like Neil postman actually
founded my department that I went to at
NYU the media wow that's awesome
I feel like mr. Rogers is my board I
want I want a pretentious travel okay oh
yeah get that one in autumn I can I
appreciate that
but I want to say like I feel like
that's kind of what I'm fighting for in
these little movie segments we do like
the ability to say like yes there's the
TV kind of stuff there's the TV movies
there's entertainment but we can't lose
sight of the value at some point of
trying to use your brain in a different
and I would consider a deeper kind of
more difficult way you know I struggle
with it too if I watched a lot of TV and
then I try to watch a movie like winter
sleep which is on there with binary Bill
Gates shaylen which I loved but the
rhythms are really slow the personal
interactions are not necessarily that
obvious in the kind of expositional way
that you're used to in some of the other
shorter form storytelling so in the same
way that Neil postman kind of decries
the death of the written word I'm here
to say like these kind of harder movies
you know call it call me pretentious or
whatever you are I think it's actually
an important thing to fight for to keep
alive even in some small corner because
it's not like I'm some purists where I
don't watch the TV in the kind of trashy
movies and so on but you know I'm trying
to add into the conversation like
something is lost by the inability to
concentrate on something for more than
30 seconds what is what was that I I got
to tell you Matthew that's all well and
good I'm sort of convinced though that
recording stuff is over
we've basically we peaked it's done it's
about to wrap out I'm now only live
theater only live theater yep that's it
for me it's really you can afford that
that's great oh no Benjamin paid for me
Benjamin took me all night
you know now I put that Arby's money to
good use exactly I went to go see true
West last night and oh you lucky that's
my favorite play I have now it's funny
cuz I don't see a lot of theater but I
did and I didn't realize it I got like
it would bench was like let's go see
true West and I'm like I don't know what
you're talking about and he's like the
play I'm like oh okay okay yes and our
friend Gary Wilms is in it there's only
four people in the play and then O'Neill
play no Shepherd shepherd and Malkovich
and Denis did the kind of quintessential
PBS TV version and that's what that's
what Malkovich made Malkovich Malkovich
really yeah but I saw the Philip Seymour
Hoffman yeah Riley version john c reilly
yeah in the round you remember which who
was playing who and how long as they
switched roles
yeah they switched every night I don't
remember in fact in fact I barely had
remembered that I had seen it and then
we were walking to the play last night
wait a second I've seen this before
in the round and or three quarters I
guess it was and I don't know who I went
with or when it was it was probably
twenty years ago and yeah so I don't I
don't remember any of it but I saw the
version last night it was okay Ethan
Hawke and then this other dude and Paul
Di'Anno
yeah you should occasionally right sure
that could be good for the well it was
okay it was Ethan Hawke in someone else
but I know I didn't see it but I thought
Benjamin paid my ticket but I liked John
Malkovich years ago Ethan thank you
that's Ethan Hawke was good that guy
Paul Dano apparently he's very good in
some movie yeah but you know no II know
he's in the escape from
Maira elmire is that what is escape from
Dannemora more anymore Dannemora that
was my beat for a while at death taxes
by the way writing about the big-dicked
fugitive well I had no idea about any of
what you're talking about
I missed that yeah that was quite the
story but I don't know I didn't find the
I I wasn't you know I'm not gonna get
too deep into this but I wasn't I wasn't
blown away by all me by all mean by the
by the acting sometimes you know you
gotta have gonna have something under
the hood yeah absolutely yeah listen I
know what you mean that Paul Di'Anno was
a Nokia though Paul Di'Anno was in okiya
the movie about the pig I recommended a
few times ago all these are different
movies are different I'm going a play
it's just it's different yeah and yeah
that should be the colony right movies
different movies different now okay so
Matthew Riga you you you go from Boca
ratone to where are you in now see dr.
Alton well we we went up the west coast
of Florida to visit some old friends
from film school in Sarasota first then
Toa dirtier water Pensacola no we drove
past it we drove past it but stopped in
Sarasota went up to Tampa or Clearwater
really then a little bit more inland
Zephyrhills a friend of Mary's that we
know was there and then we drove up here
to Knoxville so we did a couple days you
know as we drove up there what are the
signs rather than a nice you're living
you're living the life Matthew it's
great we got like our Mazdas like our
Conestoga it all fits in there you know
it's good good square footage and
everything we need is just you know one
rest stop away really did you visit that
town with all the psychics Cassadaga
whoa no oh my god how did we miss that
that would been that's like like catnip
to Mary where's that nowhere in Florida
I believe there was a Bright Eyes album
named after it which is why I know about
it you could make a few more yeah that's
why
your answers to this interview already
answered and you wouldn't have been oh
just like a psychic then Sam will say he
didn't see the movie
yeah well complain about his sleep
schedule ah so next is Matthew film guy
is it was there anything adventurous or
was it just oh we just drove around
Florida and saw some people we knew and
then went to Knoxville or was there any
was there I don't know did you get into
a fight with the truck or a truck stop
did you like no we brought our two dogs
into every establishment that we visited
and met with mostly approving stairs you
know our two dogs Dudley and Mabel they
basically come with us everywhere and I
think that was the most adventurous
thing we had like we'd be outside like
this place gonna be cool let's go in and
find out and we're just like we barge in
and people go like Oh cute dogs and then
we're like okay great that worked now
you going to like Piggly wigglies they
got Piggly wigglies down there no they
have Publix and the winn-dixie I think
yeah we did we draw the line at the
grocery store we know they're not wanted
there alright cuz the Piggly Wiggly that
is a fun that's that's I don't know I
know Paula just they're just basically
like Stewart's up and I guess they got
them in New York or come B's okay
zombies I mean you know we did what Mary
and I did watch a Mississippi Burning
and so it made us a little paranoid and
driving through the south you know like
we hey Jew boy who you got there with
you I thought you were awesome worse
southern jewelry Matthew there is there
absolutely is but you know like we're
driving through some of these more let's
say remote areas on the highway going up
there so you know we try to just play it
cool
alright but nothing like that went down
that's too bad I'm so sorry to
disappoint you I didn't spend a night in
like a County Jail you know I'm sorry to
hear that I am very sorry yeah that all
right time I will commit some low-level
felony
I'm well I have no doubt that you did I
just don't think that you got caught
that's what make that I want to clarify
on that now so film guy Matthew
now that you now that you're you know I
know that you've been in Vig
Haitian mode but put your I have been
doing let me just say I have been doing
some work on the great Ted Alexandro
podcast a little bit me which I urge
everyone to go to iTunes and check out
if they want to hear the insider view
from this community does Alexander oh
Jesus Christ well he's he's the guy I'm
working for right now so let me let me
pump a little bit I thought you
respected the game like I do respect the
game that's enough he does all right
talk about him more correct yes so
anyway just want to put that out there
Michael wants to know where his videos
Briony ways so talk about it what I've
been doing that okay what would you like
to recommend to us to view I'm gonna put
it from Denmark vein it's incest on
capitalism alright so I go ahead I jump
the gun I would see that movie the heart
I know you but
oh dude do you know wait a second do you
know there's an Elaine gay film festival
going on up here
I do I'm missing it I've seen all the
movies already but I would go see it in
a heartbeat she's definitely one of my
all-time favorites
okay listeners of this segment have
probably heard me mention her a lot it's
yeah it's musty stuff okay a new leaf
right also a Heartbreak Kid Mikey and
Nicki is probably my all-time favorite
movie of any kind it's great off the
wish star and there's little more sort
of obscure ones okay
say again okay so your movie
recommendation of the week we gotta get
going okay I want everyone to go see one
of the great war films of all time
it's harrowing it's brutal it's sort of
surreal it's unrealized called come come
and see
ILM Klimov if I'm saying his name right
and it was made in 1985 and it's
basically about the Nazis brutal march
through Belarus and the kind of
partisans that fought back there and
it's told through the point of view of a
thirteen year old boy who starts off
saying like I'm gonna go defend my
village and then within the first ten
minutes as villages like brutally
massacred and it's just so batshit crazy
it's it's it's holding a semi kind of
documentary style but a little bit of a
sort of Tarkovsky and moving camera slow
cinema style but
intermittently just like totally surreal
and really just like shocking
come everyone come and see come and see
it's a Russian film and it's available
streaming on Vudu but it's also
available on DVDs everywhere and all
your alternate film website
Vudu okay alright there it is February
it's released 8 1987 was first released
in New York by LM kilm of alright great
well Matthew film guy want to wish you a
safe journey home for the rest of your
trip and I hope that it gets you know
it's not too too much longer it's really
it's it really is annoying that you get
you're driving around for seven eight
weeks just cruising around you can relax
I'll be home I'll be home on Monday so I
appreciate all right tell mrs. really
man yeah
Matthew film guy always a pleasure same
here guys take care okay folks we're
gonna head into the fun half of the
program wherein we will have more fun we
have some video of Candice Owen
apparently had some comments on
nationalism and Hitler hmm I'm sure that
we're quite measured and learn it yes
I'm interested in seeing seeing that and
hearing that also we have some Oh a
Brenda struck is gonna run against a OC
that's gonna be very excuse the one
person wanting to reward him with
attention one just do do that please do
that
don't do that he also said a fringe
left-wing train is infiltrating the
government is the only one that can
reverse it right is that's another
questionable word choice it's definitely
a mixed metaphor yeah that's a mixed
metaphor to say the least but he does in
his own words choose his words very
consciously
he's the only one who's gonna stop that
he's a creative lexicon alright let's a
pathetically steamroll over that in the
fun half and spiced brush on Spicer is
draw finally gets untellable
he is we got a lot to talk about and
more we will take your phone calls may
take your IMS of course Friday we're
gonna run out of time soon
over oh don't forget you can support
this program by going to join the
majority report com join the majority of
port comm for just pennies a day you can
support this program and also get the
fun half content also just coffee co-op
for a coffee tea or chocolate use the
coupon code majority get 10% off
majority report radio.com you will also
find the link to know me cons to support
her run for public advocate in New York
not much time to do so and Michael today
is Friday which means that at the
beginning of the week was Monday and the
day that follows as Tuesday however this
week the Michael Brooke show was on
Thursday right and it was a great show
with Brianna Joey gray and Jeffrey
Halper check it out you can watch the
whole thing at the Michael Brooks show
YouTube channel and of course get the
whole thing at patreon.com slash TMDs
jamie yeah so this week on the anti
Fattah we did a collaborative episode
with some of our October crossover well
well no because it wasn't a crossover it
was just a bunch of our excellent
listeners most of whom have been with us
since the beginning who came into the
studio and helped us make a pretty cool
episode with their own conspiracy
theories about the various things
various parts of American life that
Vladimir Putin is messing with and
subverting democracy around I can't
believe that was this week I feel like
that happened like I know it's cuz we
took some time off in the middle and we
did a livestream and it's been very
intense also on Monday we were dropping
a bonus for all of our patrons /
treasured patrons Andy is still in
Mexico
and he caught up with blair-taylor of
the Institute for social ecology at
porta viar-toe a bear weekend which is
exactly what it sounds like we're in
they talked about Murray Bookchin the
libertarian socialist experiment
happening in rojava and the growing
network of radical municipal ISM
building counter power in the u.s. that
is not what it sounds like oh I mean I
guess it depends what you think about
when you hear the word bear I think of
like a bunch of big hairy gay men having
a party oh I thought was literally bears
I don't know but that's what when
someone says oh no it's it is what it
sounds like oh okay bears apparently
Murray Bookchin is huge in the bear
community
who'da thunk it okay I will Google this
I know you don't like the term
libertarian socialist so I'll call him
an anarchic communist instead thank you
very influential Matt yeah literary
hangover coming soon I think next week
will be the unparalleled Adventures of
one Hans fall by Edgar Allan Poe which
is maybe one of the first sci-fi stories
ever oh really
Edgar on Polk may have started sci-fi as
well as starting detective fiction is
that right and you know are you are you
like working for anybody might want to
promote this guy Edgar Allan Poe is I
hear he's coming back I've been
recognizing him
and I'm just trying to hitch my trailer
to that mmm band we gonna reminds me to
send out the majority report contributor
disclosure forms make sure you're not
promoting something that you getting
kickbacks from Thank You Kelly
promoting something that you don't get
kickbacks from Kelly you what she's a
big literary hangover fan yeah that's
what he was just talking about the
literary hangar
oh yeah she's actually a patron of mine
Wow very nice Kelly very nice all right
we're gonna take quick break
oh also on the show maybe we'll get
Kelly and Dorsey to say hello
generations collide this is like a like
a weird like generation it was like a
last show ever
yeah this is it I poke cinder too
hopefully will be here on Monday but we
should be all right
a quick break headed to the fun app six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is a number we'll be right back
after this all right folks six four six
two five seven thirty nine twenty see
you in the
[Music]
can we bring back DJ Tanner yeah or a
couple you put them in rotation DJ dance
well the problem with those is they're
like 45 seconds long so I don't know if
they're enough of a break that's
Hawkinson and the alpha males Oh
Oh
[Music]
on the back
the back
back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis keeping it 100 birthday to
meet you boy
the alpha male we are back is the fun
half ladies and gentlemen let's start
with this clip of Howard Schultz shall
we because this is pretty fun this guy I
think you need to this guy is going to I
think he's gonna run despite the fact
that he just you there's no way put this
way there's no way a month ago he's
sitting with his consultants Steve
Schmidt Bill Burton who knows who else
and incidentally we're talking Steve
Schmidt and Bill Burton they're getting
like not just you know they're getting
Central Park West apartment money yeah
like they're getting millions of dollars
to do this and Bill Burton used to work
for what is it SDK Knickerbocker still
does know I'm he's on leave of absence
he's the head here's the funny part of
the callee office this story that came
out the other day where people have been
going after Starbucks and SDK is trying
to convince Democrats and to lay off
Starbucks because it apparently even
though Schultz is no longer there
apparently he's close enough that it's
starting to pinch a little bit
if the only outcome of this is that
liberals boycott Starbucks that's gonna
be amazing
that's gonna be sadly I don't think it's
gonna be the only outcome because I
think this guy's gonna run and because
my point being before you know three
months ago when he was sitting around
with his incredibly
overpaid consultants there is no way
they had a projection I'm sure they came
up with different scenarios what what
things are gonna look like after we do
our rollout I am convinced that no
matter how diligent they were did they
come up with a projection that would
have covered how badly this rollout went
there's no way they said well it's also
conceivable after all this like 4% of
both parties are interested in you and
independence and independence
that that we know is not gonna happen
it's not like you're not you're gonna go
on all these shows and everybody's gonna
be like universally panned every
performance look you're gonna be able to
go to places like like Purdue University
at least and you'll give a speech and
people are gonna respond really well to
you in fact here is that speech under
president Daniels the cost of an
education here will be less expensive in
nominal dollars in 2020
than it was in 2012 congratulations you
know anytime used the phrase nominal
dollars you're reaching the height of a
rhetorical power eight years later
nominal dollars much harder for you to
get those now want everyone to have the
same nominal dollars in that grand
future you know they're all just you
know why the hesitation of clapping was
because it was like we're all in debt
right it's like thank you Jesus
we're marginally less effed I guess
using terminology that we don't
understand than before Thanks yeah and
like we're still experiencing like we're
between those two different points right
instead of leaving this university with
somewhere between sixty and a hundred
and twenty thousand dollars worth of
debt we're gonna be leaving this
university was somewhere between 59 and
119 thousand dollars worth of debt and
we know
nominal dollars actually Brandon made a
really good point about this though that
like a lot of people like we said last
night when we played it like oh this is
his Jeb Bush moment but it's not because
it's the difference between like a cocky
billionaire schmuck
because he's kinda he's saying like come
on like that's good do it versus the
like can i I've been totally beaten down
by life my family and my mom and my
brother and I'd appreciate a clap
so there's yeah I think you guys are
just being haters right now it's a
really great example of exactly how
inspiring the centrist message can be
yeah it's super inspiring it's in it and
if you don't get inspired by it we're
gonna demand you do it son American
doesn't require it son America it's not
American to not be inspired the man who
brings us together by calling a OC
unamerican on sort of like five-minute
intervals this clip is also pretty fun
apparently here's our let's introduce
this as a riddle what do you do if you
have been exposed as being a white
nationalist as the the leader of a group
of thugs who are currently winding our
way through the New York politi New York
City a justice system that you have been
alienated from your neighbors because
they don't like your brand of of
supremacy of misogyny of flippancy about
these things what do you do well you of
course blame the Southern Poverty Law
Center and you sue the case
super-interesting satori alloys and you
sue them and how do you announce that
lawsuit you dress up as a plantation
owner and go in front of their offices
and make this proclamation and explain
why the Southern Poverty Law Center is
wrong
there is no racism in America and how do
you prove it well you have a special
insight because you're an immigrant
yourself I
picked this picture of America which is
basically the worst of the 1930s
coast-to-coast and I know as an
immigrant myself coming here from Canada
I go to a 7-eleven in the south and I'd
see like a black guy in line with a
white lady I go oh we got trouble here
these two hate each other we're in the
center of a trade we're in the eye of a
storm and she'd turn around and go hey
what's going on with your with your mom
now she okay oh yeah she's not okay but
she's getting better but she's still
bedridden and we're very worried worse
oh that's terrible it'll be a gay guy in
the lineup playing hey guys are you guys
gonna be talking this whole time cuz I
want to go ahead yeah you can go ahead
you come ahead Charles and I go wait I
thought this was the land of hatred
I saw the SPLC hate now it looks like
it's a dangerous place to be and this is
not just a misnomer it's not just a lie
it's not just a myth it's a dangerous
precedent to set because we're positive
he's using precedent wrong but that's
not it that's not relevant here just the
idea that he has this one anecdote which
happens well and then a gay Chinese guy
said I would like my : even if even if
that anecdote did happen
the idea that racism can't exist if a
black guy and a white guy in a gay guy
got along in line at the Piggly wigglies
is a fundamental misunderstanding of the
problem in society not to mention I love
the fact that he comes in with this all
this pre-existing notion which I guess
when he was an immigrant in Canada had
this idea because he kept reading the
Southern Poverty Law Center site so much
that he went in there was like oh I'm in
the south and I am anticipating there's
gonna be some friction here this is just
a guy who didn't read any history about
anything and doesn't understand how
racism works but he's so blind to he's
so blind
the idea of prejudice that he will now
give you an example of prejudice and
offer it as an example of something that
is not prejudiced continue not just a
misnomer it's not just a lie it's not
just a myth it's a dangerous precedent
to set because what they do is they cast
this wide net of everyone's a Nazi and
they start destroying lives and I'm
thinking of the one that cut pops into
my head is Jennifer Morse of the Ruth
Institute and she runs a group that says
if we're adopting can we maybe focus on
mom dad's first before we do gay at
option and that became she hates
homosexuals now now no here's the thing
well isn't a strong opening no like I
don't know who she is I don't know
anything in that story I just know what
he's just told us and here's here is
what Gavin's still does not seem to
understand when you say instead of focus
you know why can't we start with moms
and dads before we go to gay adoption in
other words why can't we start with moms
and dads before we go to dads and dads
or moms and moms in other words why
can't we just say that if you're gay
and you're in a loving relationship that
would otherwise be really helpful for a
kid who's looking to be adopted why
can't we just say that gays are gonna be
like in the second tier of people like
almost like second-class citizens why is
that prejudiced why is that prejudiced
there's can't say anything anymore no
data last month there's more exactly no
data that shows that gay parents are in
some way less helpful to kids than
straight parents adoptive parent there's
no data none whatsoever but let's just
do that and that's not a reflection of
prejudice he's doesn't even quite get
that now just to add to the absolute
cluelessness that Gavin McGinnis shows
not just that he's out there trying to
argue he's not hateful we're a
plantation outfit now of course we're in
a plantation suit does not make you a
racist it just means that you either
have no awareness of the racist history
within this country or that you're just
trying to make a point that in some way
like oh I'm gonna do this despite the
fact that I'm trying to establish and
I'm not racist in other words I'm going
to do something offensive just for the
fun of it as I'm trying to make an
argument that I'm actually a sincere
person who who doesn't put here is where
he's completely clueless so clueless
that it's that it's awesome fun actually
let's be real here is at the start of
his speech he makes some really bad
jokes like honestly like if you go into
a Chinese restaurant that you're doing
you know stand up in a road gig and you
look around you would make a series of
bad jokes like he does but then he lands
on one that is just completely clueless
thank you I said I've never been here
before I've never seen the s plc's
headquarters and it looks like not Luke
Skywalker but it looks like Vader's
son's apartment doesn't it looks like an
evil empire
yeah it looks bomb-proof wonder why the
Southern Poverty Law Center might feel
like they should have a bomb-proof
headquarters he's just so religiously
not funny you know he used to be funny I
will hand that to him Wow he used to be
kind of funny wine offensive like the
Vice do's and dont's they were sorry
they were kind of funny I don't care
about offensive I just never seen him be
funny I'm actually fascinated send me
links so far I have not seen anything
from this guy I like it really makes me
feel good on a personal level because
this is someone who's come after me
personally as well as someone whose
politics I just despise on a very basic
level it's been one of the great joys of
the past ten years of my life to watch
this person fall from someone who you
know could more or less dictate the
terms of what was cool and what was
funny and what we just all had to shut
our mouths and put up with if you want
to have a career in media - now this
living purgatory where he's self-aware
enough to know that he's surrounded by
losers and he's never gonna be cool
again yeah hey uh hello - this this
place looks like it's set up - it's damn
bomb blasts right it's weird
what are they doing expected what are
they doing with interesting architecture
choice they're guys but not exactly
welcome bacon right yeah you think an
anti hate group would have a nice
exterior yeah I thought you're supposed
to be so much where's the transparency
guys where's the hope at this I thought
it was all open arms what's the opposite
of hate friendly that doesn't seem
friendly seem friendly to me at all you
know it is friendly is the winn-dixie in
Mississippi in 2010 where there was a
bisexual Filipino brazilian guy and he
held open the door for a black lady so
racism doesn't exist Wow
anyways just dress like Don Johnson to
deliver my you've ruined my life by
calling me white supremists lawsuit the
only thing that destroyed his career
would be get with Katrina Pierson dress
up like a plantation owner and liberals
are gonna get all outraged about it and
then he's gonna say oh look look at this
dumb outraged culture and this liberal
hypocrisy but like both things can be
tossed out rage culture could be bad and
it could also be bad to dress like a
plantation culture I mean yeah what are
you doing let me just make this
absolutely clear we did not play this
video because we're outraged about Gabon
we played this video as on one level
just on a human level it's so pathetic
that we felt it was funny we played as
we like
punching down yeah and and that's why no
it's also a cautionary time very
cautionary tale if you're if you you
know it's it's a good Josh you founded a
hipsters ninety media entity that is no
longer relevant in 2019 but had a lot of
currency in the Obama era and does like
weird drug documentaries where first
you're hanging out with cool cartel guys
but in the end you're basically just
pawning off DEA talking points
don't become a white supremacist it
could you forever that's my common
quote I say it's you forever we're
done all right let's move on that's fine
doesn't work this one I haven't seen it
just came across the transom Candice
right off the wire Candice Owens are
there with Charlie Kirk is that charlie
Kirk there that's him there he is he's
got a haircut he's recovered he's
recovered they're in the UK and as you
know the turning points has had some
problems in the UK they have been mocked
mercilessly on social media they have
been parodied there have been parody
accounts that have mocked them and made
fun of them which is of course as you
know against the Constitution but they
don't have the First Amendment oh but
they do not have in Britain they don't
have the same Constitution so you're
allowed to mock them there and make fun
of them you're not actually silencing
them and here is candice Owens you know
when you go when you go to overseas and
when you're in Europe you got a show
that you you've got some bona fides when
it comes to understanding European
history so she's going to give a crack
at it yeah I agree I actually don't have
any problems at all with the word
nationalism I think that it gets the
definition gets poisoned by elitist that
actually want globalism globalism is
what I what I don't want so when you
think about whenever we say Nationals
and the first thing people think about
in at least in America is Hitler you
know he was a National Socialist but if
Hitler just wanted to make Germany great
and have things run well okay fine the
problem is is that he
wanted he had dreams outside of Germany
he wanted to globalize he wanted
everybody to be German everybody to be
speaking German everybody look a
different way that's not to me that's
not nationalism so in thinking about how
we could go bad down the line I don't
really I don't really have an issue with
nationalism I really don't I think that
it's okay it's important to retain your
country's identity and to make sure that
what's happening here which i think is
incredibly where are some in terms of
the just the decrease in the birth rate
that we're seeing in the UK is what you
kind of want to avoid so I'm not I don't
have anything problem I have no problems
with nationalism its global isn't I try
to avoid it is just like the Jesse Owens
thing said can we just play the first
part of that again because you know and
I just want to say like there may be
some members of our society that might
be offended a little bit by what Hitler
wanted to do just even if you just
wanted to do it in Germany my domestic
policies are fine oh by the way I really
did was a you know ah Jews and our
homosexuals and our gypsies right but
very not messing with anyone outside of
Germany just ours Thomas Friedman Hitler
that's a pretty good character that she
just gave me bought us Japanese Toyota
executives how the earth is flattening
so did you hear must be killed elsewhere
supply changes be synchronized I mean
did she really doesn't have a problem
with Hitler with Hitler did within his
borders it was just this was glory it
was a globalist yeah let's just one more
time yeah I agree I actually don't have
any problems at all with the word
nationalism I think that it gets the
definition gets poisoned by lead
internationally want globalism globalism
is what I what I don't want so when you
think about whenever we see nationalism
the first thing people think about in at
least in America is Hitler you know he
was a National Socialist but if Hitler
just wanted to make Germany great and
have things run well okay fine
the problem is is that he wanted he had
dreams outside of Germany he wanted to
globalize he wanted everybody to be
German everybody knows German everybody
little friend no way that's not to me
that's not nationalism too many Kansas
the trains they ran slowly because of
the elitist how did Jesse Owens thing we
should we should well we need to do is
just keep it inside the German it's okay
if you keep it inside the porters we
have Germany is that our bloodlines are
a little problematic Germans not having
enough babies some of the other types
having too many babies the world but
problems in one place without another
yeah it's a global good economy my
friend yet Ishiyama nada from the Toyota
Motors tell me he said the world is
flattening and hyperlinks so we need to
kill the Jews they're Jews can we talk a
little bit I just you may not want to go
too hard and everything would have been
fine
that was that was I'm gonna get away
with just not raising Hitler to make
your point about why nationalism is good
you know the thing about we could
probably find other examples of how they
mentioned African independence we yeah
we should talk about like goeth go with
the whole India didn't want to be
colonized rattle did a little by your
logic versus a bold expansion into Nazi
territory right Kirk knows he done
goofed
I think that yeah but you know think
about Candace Owens is she's too smart
for therapy as she explained to Russell
yes - hi van Eyck yeah she said I love
high IQ individuals can't do therapy and
you're saying oh thank you maybe take a
second let me say that yeah some IQ
individuals need therapy urgently let's
go to the phones
you call them from a seven one eight
area code who's this where he come from
hey Abby how are you good good
I got I I really want to talk about
something that it's this Russia thing
that's troubling me and the framing of
it I think you were getting at it a
little bit yesterday with with the guest
but you know it makes me think of like
in the post Nixon era post watergate we
had the church committee i forget the
name of the house committee but we had
actual investigation of malfeasance but
from the president and also from the
investigators really focused on the
intelligent class i had to take these
word community because i think it
created when you get for them but you
know that was the legacy of Watergate
and here we really have those same
nefarious forces that were investigated
through the church commission taking
over the investigation and with no aim
towards public disclosure with no aim
towards like any type of analysis that
is going to edify the public as to the
actual machination of power within like
the real estate class in New York or the
old guard class globally and how they
wander money right it's really the
nature of a prosecution and the nature
of a special prosecutor is secret and
individualistic and so that is like how
I'm thinking about this more and more
and why I think it's really important to
push back on this Mueller it's going to
save us we should be pushing for a
special committee a congressional
committee like let AOC we do you know
where everything that they've developed
so far take it from there
and make it with an aim towards
disclosure to the public with an aim
towards public participation right and
democratic accountability right I mean I
I agree with that and I think I think
the Democrats are gonna push towards
that a little bit I mean I think I think
that's but I do agree that I mean I I I
think that they've there's I just based
on just my my gut I feel like they've
uncovered a lot of crap that they don't
really want to deal with I've learned
that from because it's the whole I mean
yeah I started looking like a Marathi
and Gulf money it's it's I think there's
just a lot of stuff that they've
uncovered that is been you know more or
less business as usual and I think
they're trying to I think there is an
interest
i I can't point to an example of it but
again that part of that is because the
whole process so is is so opaque that
there's an interest in in severing
certain things from other things right
so that they can they can get to the
illicit behavior by specific actors but
don't want study Jeffrey Epstein but
don't really do that right exactly
they don't want the whole structure of
things to be you know in any way
implicated and I think that's the worst
part about the the Russia narrative is
just that there is a there's something
sort of more problematic out there I
think I'm not even talking about
political I'm talking like on a surely
like criminal criminal level and and I
think I don't know I mean you know I
speculated before we went on the break
about just a bunch of garbage in New
York that I feel like people have
probably avoided dealing with for years
in
part I think because there were
relationships that were formed between
law enforcement and you know national
security with with with NER do Wells if
you will that I think they'd rather not
make public because it wouldn't
necessarily make those apparatus look
too good I mean remember we're also
coming out of we're also coming out of
two decades almost now of in the wake of
9/11 where we know torture was like
given the green light one could imagine
there's a lot of things that law
enforcement and national security
apparatus all I mean if torture was
okayed what other and we know about you
know warrantless wiretapping there's a
lot of stuff that probably you know gray
areas where a lot of people don't agree
and absolutely that you know they're
these are overlapping sectors of power
if you're talking about billionaire
class if you're talking about that you
know the US Attorney office and big law
that represents the billionaire's after
they get out of yet $30 right so these
people are all connected and and so it
it is a there's a class that needs to be
exposed that I agree there's a lot of
hesitancy to expose that but I like what
I worry about is that this becomes de
rigueur and this this kind of it's like
a subcontracting of congressional duty
to the prosecutor's office to to solve
problems to fix things rather than
expose the structure and so this is like
what happened in Brazil literally right
so this is like a this is a dangerous
precedent to keep escalating the special
prosecutor as a law in society like I
have no doubt that a right-wing Congress
will fully take advantage of this
president going forward I think that's
totally right it's a really good point
and and we should also add I mean it
does certainly feel like you know we've
seen now the transcripts of testimony is
flowing in one direction flowing from
the house intelligence committees
- the Muller investigation so that's
where all the resources are headed but
yes I agree with you there needs to be a
broader a look at this now and I don't
know where that's gonna come from at
this moment but I suspect that's you
know you know that's why he got like Tom
Steyer when he's pushing for when he's
pushing for impeachment you know it's
too narrowly focused in some level but
you know you're setting up with the
importance of an apparatus to have the
elected representatives do this
investigation on ostensibly for a
broader agenda than just you know get
Donald Trump indicted but appreciate the
call lobby yeah call him from a six
seven eight area code who's this where
he call him from are you doing this is
Chris from Georgia Chris from Georgia
what's on your mind
I just wanted to talk to you guys about
what you were saying about I think you
guys like to believe the South is more
bigoted than then it actually is I grew
up in Georgia all my life I'm actually a
bisexual and the pride march in Atlanta
is one of the most glorious things I've
actually ever seen I've also gone to the
pride march over in Birmingham Alabama
obviously not as prevalent there but
very accepting place I've grown up in
both places over I have family in
Alabama I wouldn't say that we're not
like that the south is necessarily as
racist as you would like to believe but
I would say that it is it is very
anti-islamic like my family in Alabama
is I don't keep in contact with them
watching more just because of their
shared their views on Islam and it's
been very bigoted and like very
Islamophobic and I guess I just kind of
dissociated with them because I've read
the entire Quran and won a lot of my
best friends are Islamic and it's just
believed that the south is anti Islamic
but I think people jump too too soon to
believe that it's it's racist
would you agree well I mean I I don't
you know I don't know what it means to
say that the south is racist in your
mind in my mind it means that we have a
long-established history of systemic
racism in the south that that if you
look at things like disenfranchising
voters we have a real problem in states
like North Carolina for instance in
Georgia for instance I mean I think
there's a very good case to be made that
Stacey Abrams would have won that would
have won that election but for the
there's a lot of mixed review on that I
mean once that goes through court I can
definitely I can definitely agree with
you on that but there is a lot of mixed
with you on that and I haven't come to a
conclusion on it quite yet what do you
mean by mix reveal a lot what do you
mean by a lot of people there's a there
is a lot of just like people are not
well it I mean I wouldn't even say mixed
review I would say just there's not
certainty on the fact at least in
Georgia you might be right in North
Carolina I don't know there's not
certainty on the fact that there is
voter suppression and voter suppression
of specifically illegal voter
suppression specifically of
african-americans well why specifically
on african-americans look there's a long
history in this country like for
instance poll taxes well of course the
history I absolutely agree with you it's
absolutely just monster war but with the
Stacey Abrams vote there is no legal
certainty the purging that Brian Kemp
did you can believe that it may have
been in thought of malice it was
completely legal what he did and it was
actually a law that was made up by the
Democrats the what the law that he used
so it's it's that's what I'm saying it's
not certain yet once it goes through
court she is doing him achieve what
comes out and wins and settles with him
I could change my mind on that I mean I
I a yes Michaels point is it can be
legal and then also discriminatory B I
would say we've never had a law in this
country even in the in the Jim Crow era
that says black people can't vote we did
prior to it but then there was but then
there was an amendment to the
Constitution that made it much harder so
what will you let me finish but then
what we saw were poll taxes and literary
literacy tests now it is true that not
only black people were filtered out
there was a lot of also poor white
people but the idea was you know it's
sort of like I'm not fishing for for
dolphin you know when I throw out my
tuna Nets but if I get some dolphin in
there it doesn't matter cuz I'm really
getting a bunch of tuna that's the
situation you look at so I don't know
what you mean by specifically but I find
that to be racist so I think you know to
you know to art yeah I think there's
plenty of Republican lawmakers who
probably if you're look if you're making
like racist in a super super limited
sense of like some type of personal
antipathy
I bet probably a lot of them maybe even
most of them don't but they're
strategically racist because they don't
want people voting for candidates that
they're gonna lose to if they were clean
and open election so it wasn't just the
purges in Georgia which you're I
questioned you on fundamentally they
definitely targeted Democratic voters
across the board period and the second
thing was they also shut down polling
places in predominantly african-american
neighborhoods and that was another huge
feature of the election so regardless of
whether or not like maybe maybe Brian
Kemp personally uh you know doesn't
dislike black people or whatever but as
a structural matter
that's strategically structurally racist
as literally an electoral college II
that was the Daily Show segment with
aasif Mandvi that was used in a
destroyed North Carolina I was no but
I'm saying the same principle the guy
said some he said racist stuff that was
but at the end of the day his actual
point was I don't care whether they're
African Americans or students or whoever
we're blocking people from voting who
will vote for Democrats that's the
bottom line
I would also argue right for that
because I wanted to ask you actually ask
you guys something about tulsi gabbard
but um so be the worst color a
Republican thing it could just be a it
could especially in the state of Georgia
I think it's been a Democrat and
Republican thing especially considering
well I mean you just you started this
call you started this call we started
this call you started this call by
saying the south isn't racist I do think
it's as long as I don't think it's as
racist as you'd like to believe in the
present day that's all like that well I
don't mean how do you know how much you
think I would like to believe that it is
racist does okay I mean I would say
George George northern Georgia is a much
wealthier area and there's a lot more
there's a lot more Indian people there's
a lot more Asian people even African
American be great great white people you
have in Georgia the less racist it will
be but you've called up and you've said
it's not as racist as you think it is
Sam well you don't know how racist I
think it is then you've gone on to say
that most people are actually more
Islamophobic then you've come around and
said excuse me
then you've come around to say that the
racism is not just Republicans so let's
do appreciate the call finally Jesus I
mean is the point he was trying to make
that relative to the north you know I
the North Pat's themselves yeah I think
that's maybe what and I have no doubt
that in the South plenty of people have
said to me that in the South there's
actually just more warming and damn
interaction but talk for 20 minutes he
didn't say anything about the I was
ready to agree with him that not every
single person in the South is racist and
it's not helpful when liberals try and
paint every southerner with the same
brush and then he just did himself no
favors I don't think that everybody in
the south is racist but I think they're
all white trash
we should probably nuke it I'm just
kidding that's probably not helpful for
outreach either hard folks Sean Spicer
has had a very rough go of things ever
since he was the spokesperson now to be
fair I think Erik Bullard has actually
had some bullying
Eric Eric Bolling has actually had some
some difficulty right I mean lost his
son so I do have some sympathy for him
it only goes so far but Sean Spicer I
have no sympathy for and so this is fun
to watch these guys assess like first
off where are they oh they're in trouble
Bobby I see okay that should see the
glass there's no Braille so it's not
that well Sean Spicer tried to distance
himself from the whole Trump
administration thing and then he did it
work you couldn't get a TV I can't get a
job
and now he's now he's trying to do the
opposite in this clear whole time yeah
he said why don't you come back to the
White House and I told them I said very
clearly mr. president I love you I love
this White House but you never get me
back what's the next response Spicer you
can go to Sean Spicer calm and I I'm
having a fun time
how's it wait a second let's go to Sean
Spicer dot-com shall we
I'm super curious what is a Sean Spicer
calm Spacek talk let's see what's next
for Sean Spicer that hub of imploded
message fill we can
download podcasts we could buy the
briefing check out recent media here I'm
gonna go down to this I need to start
selling briefings there is here is on
Virginia I use on Fox News talking about
Virginia's Democratic leadership but not
as a contributor there's it come well
it's mmm you can buy the boat oh this
poor son of a yeah download
podcasts let's see what we got here this
is a different one than we saw if you
don't know what's in the rest of this
clip wow he's gonna what okay let's keep
going
it's a bodega boy spin-off one time I
went down and talked to Glenn I've
talked to you a bunch hey wait I'm I'm
walking
true story I'm walking through the
airport I'm coming back from Charleston
you come back from DC a from DC a but I
was in we were in we were in it was
seven below in Ohio came back to DC a
days showing I coming back and I'm like
oh your ball laying down the hallway
spite were we you were in a like I was
like a client mean he's yelling at you
and you barely recognize me and you're
like oh you're behind a rock I'm like
what spice your knee don't you like a
velvet rope I love it I love velvet it
feels good feel free look at that's good
I never knew that target had good
clothes like that all right so so do we
keep showing for the new weeks we have
any tweets we have some pictures that
was a real burn yeah he didn't like that
do we know this is beautiful
want to see this nothing like watching
these guys slur at each other and say
nothing
feels good feel free look at that's good
I never knew that target had good
clothes like that all right
so so do we keep Shawn for the tweets we
have any tweets we have some pictures
some pics can we do it I know he's got
to get good
Armani yeah after the party watching
back in bowling make America great again
you have another one give us another one
pretty good stuff watching so to Big
Spring
oh man that looks like a wide shot guy
Dwight shot by shot this place is crazy
here the place is packed
so to live from by the way the blaze
Groupon that you offered you know it's
not place Groupon let's be honest it's
bowling drew ladies tv.com slash SOT you
you get 20% it was ice bowling Groupon
free drinks at the hotel spike you know
you want you know you want it on this
bike I believe that yeah I definitely
believe that oh also I gave foggy drink
vouchers I'm not a TV Eric not only
should people not have to watch that on
TV that a conversation should not ever
exude what are you talking about that is
some of the best right-wing media that I
see years and I have to watch this
garbage every day I feel bad for the for
the for the sport jackets in that
conversation just that they actually had
to like exist within the two of them how
it was awesome down to the it's Armani
after like several seconds of resisting
it's funny I'm not gonna go for the bait
I'm not gonna go for the bait I'm not
it's her money also I want you guys to
know Shawn Spicer's podcast is called
everything's going to be alright
present it without comedy with Katie
Pavlich a lot of meaning in that for
everybody
Katie pavlikov she's the one who ate the
best like the Texas she she used to go
out with that guy Brandon got it Darby
or something like there it is though
it is nice though however to see that
Sean Spicer has to drink so heavily and
he's returned to you know
conceding that he is what he is what a
 but ladies and gentlemen we have
some some important breaking news
are really going over 20 according to
Twitter just two days ago it took us two
days to get to this news sorry can you
scroll up oh yeah here is okay Brandon
Straka the unsilent dot dot then saw it
minority on silent minority I'm
considering running against AOC in 2020
in New York states 14th congressional
district and then of course his
followers please don't be joking please
don't be joking please do this do this
do it do it
they also me he came back do this and he
wrote back not a joke I never wanted a
career in politics no he just wanted to
be famous but I would consider this
because I'm probably the only New Yorker
who could go up against her and stop
this crazy fringe leftist train from
further infiltrating our government and
reverse its course what is up with this
dudes use of language
that's the crazy fringe left astray I
know I love the idea that somehow he has
the idea that he's probably the only New
Yorker who could go up against it he
said probably he did hedge it I'm gonna
run as a Democrat or a Republican do you
think I he's our boss away from the
Democrat I can't walk back yeah well
I'll talk to what you walked away from
Wow
maybe that would actually be really
funny if he went old don't you see I'm
the only New Yorker who could take her
odd oh my god I I'm torn I don't know I
mean how much attention do we give him
but god it would be fun but yeah I mean
the that he said we need to stop this
crazy fringe leftist train yep so just I
mean this is a mixed metaphor we all
know this but just to go slowly through
it stop this crazy fringe leftist train
so it's a fringe leftist trend that's
great a crazy train that's ozzy osbourne
crazy crazy further infiltrating so it's
a train that's infiltrating but I
thought it she's already in Congress
though so if it was further when he be
taking out another person like that is
he another district doesn't make someone
else who might join her and contender
reverse the AOC so really should rosy
should save River see he makes you he's
doing the same thing to me now he did it
to you he makes you super pedantic with
you what you mean is reverse the Train
red well there wasn't one eighty percent
of your conversation infiltrating our
government means getting deeper into the
apparatus of the government so it's not
he perceives aoc is not just showing up
at Congress but boring further into the
establishment which I think it's you
know arguable it's arguable but he wants
to reverse the course of the crazy
fringe leftist train as opposed to the
non crazy fringe leftist train so the
regular fringe the regular leftist train
could go probably also the regular
fringe left his train it's just the
crazy leftist trend that he wants that
so he probably feels but maybe
so he's he's saying he feels comfortable
with Nancy Pelosi it's it's unclear yeah
it's unclear and that's that's one of
the things we wanted to say Brandon if
we need to talk about you're incorrect
use of language with the hopes that
perhaps you're run for Congress will be
more enjoyable and more likely to happen
from our perspective let us know where
we are of course we're gonna be
apathetic about it yeah so we're just
gonna throw it out there through a
lackadaisical it will be the Roger stone
to your al Sharpton and I'm sure Brendan
doesn't know what that means but look it
up apathetically that was amazing that
people who haven't seen the debate yet
we're members only four members yeah we
should come a member of the majority
unlock it to maybe but just that there
was a real segment of the like a not
inconsequential amount of time of Sam
like a sort of condescending
disappointed parent and Brendan struck
is like a belligerently stupid
thirteen-year-old literally arguing
about the usage of the word apathy I
mean to keep having transportation
noises okay what math sentence I found a
steamroller noise no is this thing I
just love that sounds like no no so you
think that was the Inca note you would
say what you would say would be a
pathetically doing nothing so as an
example you would be not and he's like I
use my words very consciously which is
the sound drop from the debate for me is
I choose my words very consciously I
can't wait to see him go after a Oh see
see how that goes for him okay let's do
this at this clip of Mullen yeah setting
the parameters in which you're allowed
to be concerned with the separation of
children from their parents again it's
almost like yeah the children have a bed
they don't contemplate you really hear
people like the suffering that the
parents also endure the idea that their
children are taken away but this guy's
from Oklahoma he's got a very very
specific litmus test as to whether you
can find the separation of children from
their parents the kidnapping of children
to be morally and wrong or wrong on just
any level that cage is from 2014 the
images that I have seen in the media are
mostly from the Nogales processing
center during the 2014 in right so 2014
so that was under the Obama
administration right correct yeah
correct yes I worked oh so my colleagues
on the other side want to say that this
is the Trump separation and the family
separation but the separation was going
on prior to this policy for one second
to the extent that there were family
separations under the Obama
administration and they certainly
contemplated very briefly as my
understanding to the extent that there
were there were parents if they were
came in and they were found to have
narcotics on them or if there was reason
to believe that they were a danger to
the children they would be separated but
it was not a wholesale separation like
this new policy by the Trump
administration where definitionally if
they came in they were considered to be
criminal and therefore that's the guys
under which the Trump administration
separated thousands of children from
their parents the this is surely Mark
Wayne Mullen knows this but of course
he's lying separation was going on prior
to this and all it is is about the
safety of the children now if we can't
agree on anything let's not make a
political point out of this and start
pointing fingers at each other it's
about the children it's about the
children I know some of you guys have
opened your homes up to kids but how
many of you actually opened your homes
up to kids right now I have six living
with me three are biological so you want
to talk about opening your family and
talk about the kids then get off your
butt and do it yourself you want to
really be compassionate about it then
open your house up oh wait just
political point I'm okay with just
sitting here I'm okay with just saying
we need to do something well do more
than just say something now there is
some colleagues might on both sides
aisle that have been great that's open
their houses up but there's few that
everybody wants to make a political
point the fact of the matter is at the
end of the day it's about taking care of
the kids and if we can get away from the
political rhetoric and just focus on the
kids then we might actually be able to
get something done but as long as we dig
in to point fingers we're gonna be right
here two years from now to this so this
guy according to him the way you can
help Latin American children who have
been separated from their parents maybe
they were two months old maybe they were
ten months old maybe there were two
years old or five years old or six years
old or eight years old
the way you help them is bring them to
your own home that's the way you do this
and Oh incidentally the parents the
parents who don't know where their kids
are well you're Sol
I'm sorry we don't need that because we
don't adopt parents but and you know
there are reports they have said that
they cannot return children to their
parents some you know the vast majority
of these kids were picked up by sponsors
so the very least some family members
who theoretically are in touch with
other family members in other countries
right but at least 10% we're in this
sort of like miscellaneous crew and some
percent it's not broken down
we're basically provided to Christian
adoption agencies I'm not saying that's
the driving force but this guy's
basically promoting the notion that like
well we've taken care of the kids
it's Dunsey actually
we've been separated from their parents
by making sure that they never see their
parents again it happened a lot with
Indian Removal we'd take the kids and
give them to families for domestic labor
yep so I don't know that's a tough
bargain even more be more active agents
in the genocide guys that's what Mark
Wayne wants you to do
that's just stunning
mark Wayne don't condemn kidnapping kids
unless you kidnap them
Bruce Wayne mom take his kids and raise
them right Chris Collins came up in the
conversation today with Digby to the
extent that he was going around Congress
a while back bragging about how many
millionaires he had made by giving them
inside stock tips on legislation that he
was promoting of course the voters knew
they were and they brought him back
despite the fact that I think at that
point had been indicted correct gotta
say good for him you know I hustle well
that's like chapter 3 if my voters are
to blame book but blaming here is AOC on
the House Ways and Means Committee
explaining this dynamic that you can
basically you know and look this is how
it works in local governments all across
the country small towns and maybe not so
small towns state Reps state like New
York why am i state Rep it's good for
business my business I've got a blank
business and it's how I get clients and
this is how I get me people and I self
thinks this state I mean just
theoretically on the federal level you
don't want to see as much of it but now
that seems to be not the case ok great
so green light for hush money I can do
all sorts of terrible things it's
totally legal right now for me to pay
people off and that is considered speech
that money
considered speech so I use my special
interest dark money funded campaign to
pay off folks that I need to pay off and
get elected so now I'm elected and I'm
in I've got the power to draft Lobby and
shape the laws that govern the United
States of America fabulous now is there
any hard limit that I have perhaps mrs.
Hobart Flynn is there any hard limit
that I have in terms of what legislation
I'm allowed to touch are there any
limits on the laws that I can write or
influence especially if I'm based on the
special interest funds that I accepted
to finance my campaign and get me
elected in the first place there's no
limit so there's none so I can be
totally funded by oil gas and gas it can
be totally funded by big pharma come in
right Big Pharma laws and there's no
limits to that whatsoever that's right
okay so awesome now now mr. Mara Bonnie
the last thing I want to do is get rich
with as little work possible that's
really what I'm trying to do as the bad
guy right so is there anything
preventing me from holding stocks say in
an oil or gas company and then writing
laws to deregulate that that industry
and cause you know that could
potentially cause the stock value to
soar and accrue a lot of money in that
time you could do that so I could do
that I could do that now with the way
our current laws are set up yes yes okay
great
yep there you go she then goes on to
clarify and confirm that there are even
fewer laws constraining what the
president can do yeah it's yeah what the
president can do just about anything in
that respect and I mean the emoluments
are supposed to clause is supposed to
prohibit some of that but have a hotel
yeah it's a little bit tough to get
charged a real problem yeah some else
does yes so that's
I thought it was a transition
yeah money in politics is bad sorry go
ahead breaking news yeah but that's not
just that's not money in politics right
that's just that's enriching yourself
that's not the influence of outside
money in terms it's simply just using
politics as an extension of your
business and that's just that's just
pure corruption that just happens to be
legal in this country she's so good at
breaking that stuff down in a way that
people can understand she's really good
at doing that and also like the media
follows her so it's not just that she's
really good at maybe that's me you know
it's maybe a little bit of chicken in
the egg but I think she's just
exceptional at doing that and fortunate
that the media is following her around
and she's superstar and so we get that
message broadcast in a way that like we
haven't in decades
I mean I'm I imagine Henry Waxman must
have said that same thing ten years ago
and no one cared
he's pretty life only dorsey knows who
I'm talking about
I see the you know he was a California
and I think it was government I can't
remember what committee it was but it
was a big oversight committee he's
really at the cardi B to is he no good
he's not on Twitter talking about cardi
B here is oh this is a different would
hearing is this know the on Nomar isn't
this a rally all right well maybe we'll
play it down Monday
yo save it for Monday that that's
evergreen it's important all right I got
time for two more calls all right let me
take a look at this now you don't want
to show that fanarts and everybody fan
art when they do a good job like that
they should be rewarded I three order my
book blaming the electric my guide to
hating America coming February 20 19 per
cell by here but look at the cover see
blaming the electorate from revolution
to republicanism how do people
continually fail us by samuel cedar and
it's Sam in his MSNBC pose peering
quizzically over the founding fathers
this is a good piece of work
hey listen I'm saying this right now if
my book title ends up being this is my
idea
no actually it's my idea it doesn't
matter because that is very well maybe
the book I don't know if rather your
book now your book is people can do if
Alice is a pretty catchy title her book
is pretty less catchy but destroyed by
the Bush years is a pretty catchy pretty
catchy tag I know that's why no I'm
talking the subtitle - oh how the people
from revolution or republicanism how the
people continue I'm telling you this is
at sam cedars alter egos sam at no
excuse me Sam cedar alter egos at Sam
killed Seth on Twitter all right let's
take one more phone call and we gonna
get going come from a for a toe area
code who's this where you come from
oh yeah who's this
Sam it's Armand from Vietnam Armand from
Vietnam what's on your mind Armand hey
guys I haven't been watching this show
for I mean I used to listen to you guys
I used to listen to us Sam on air
America back when my dad would played on
the radio when we were driving around
but I hadn't listened to the program for
too long have you guys ever talked about
and I feel like it would be something
Michael may talk about more but um a
book by a guy named Alexander Dugan
called foundations of geopolitics I've
talked about it on CBS yes ah okay um
well then I'll just go watch the episode
and you guys have a wonderful weekend
appreciate the car those good call keep
him coming like that I thought I was
gonna tell us about it call him from a
367 area code who's this where he come
from hey I'm Damon I'm more easily from
one that of what I live in
the UK that order once before I just
wanted to make some few points if
possible I think I'm getting a little
bit worried about the negotiations on
the border security package from all the
reports I've been getting from the New
York Times Washington Post political it
looks like the Democrats I don't know
give Trump anywhere from 2 billion to
12.5 billion for the border wall and
they're not going to get anything in
exchange know that and nothing so Trump
is going to be the idea of the job is
compromises for Democrats to give them
half the border wall and they're not
going to get anything so I urge you to
start protests and the Anna on Twitter
or something so let Democrats not accept
the deal because from other frameworks
I'm looking at right now it's not a good
deal
Democrats are agreeing to give him two
billion for extra border barriers he
still did still the wall so at the end
of the day after all the posturing it
looks like Democrats Dornoch even give
him half of his money for the border
wall so I wanted to say I urge you to
protest that and make okay and yeah make
everyone everyone aware and second I I
wanted to talk just briefly I wanted to
talk about because I'm black also so I
wanted to talk about how we my opinion
when I hear the words identity politics
in my opinion in the context especially
in the context how progressive music
it's the I still here is in the same
context as how conservatives
use the from the dog whistle we're not
here identity politics for me that civil
rights that's oh don't go too far civil
rights that's how I look at it so I
wanna be do your take on that and this
whole idea that we need to understand
the ruler rural America we need to
understand white America but I've never
heard anyone on Fox News ever won't say
let's understand black America black
incarceration rates yeah why do black
people
I heard Bernie Sanders saying we need to
understand them I don't want to
understand them they never understood us
when Trayvon Martin got cube and
people getting killed every day so why
is the onus on nostra up to to to accept
them I don't accept then it was they
never accept it was not once on fox news
do you know who was sympathetic to to
black people getting killed there
laughing not at all being maker
Trayvon Martin Halloween costumes so how
can you how can you accept these people
so I think that's a fundamental
disagreement I have I'm not gonna rule
America when they're near axe
black people they think that black
people getting shot is because they are
stalks so I think that's a fundamental
disagreement I have with the whole the
stand rule America and for me my opinion
of you touchin it but this identity
politics for me that's a dog whistle
that's okay all right okay all right all
right I'm gonna have to let you go
because you
I get your point I mean I think I I
don't know what's happening in terms of
the the negotiations two point five
billion dollars is is you know towards
the wall is is me it's a meaningless
number in terms of the actually building
the wall symbolically it may give Trump
the ability to come out and say that
he's won but again yes I agree with you
if if the Democrats haven't gotten
anything out of it it's bad deal because
you know there's obviously it's
asymmetrical Democrats don't want the
government to shut down but I have a
feeling that the pain that the pain that
Republicans feel at this point at least
to them directly is is is enough to get
some benefits out of it and I would like
it to be sort of some type of permanent
status for dhaka folks and you know the
temporary protected status folks and
maybe even top up but we'll see as far
as the other question about I mean I
don't know if people are calling for
black people to you know learn the you
know to feel the pain of a rural folk I
think
well when you hear people say that and I
don't know that I necessarily even agree
with it and I probably don't but but my
sense is when you hear people say that
what they're saying is that we need to
be able to get a certain amount of votes
and by we they're talking about the
candidates who are running and so but I
agree with you I mean broadly speaking
you know to the extent that identity
politics have been practiced in this
country it is a function of white people
creating these identities I think Stacey
Abrams had a an op ed the other day
where she said you know we weren't the
one marginalized people were not the
ones who established these identities
these identities were established to
suppress people there was no identities
that were formed out there you know a
black people did not to the extent that
black people have have promoted
identities it's a way of basically it's
a corrective well it's a corrective and
it's a reappropriation of identities
that have been used to oppress them and
and I think you see marginal groups do
that all the time right
and and so yeah I am very skeptical at
the the broad notion that we have to
understand the certainly not that that
black people are obligated to understand
the the difficulty for for for white
folk who have lost their social status I
do think it's you know a smart thing to
do from a strategic standpoint to know
as much as the motivations of all the
the players on the on the on the playing
field I would go back and watch 1988
campaign speeches by Jesse Jackson when
he actually really synthesized these
things in a way that no modern
politician does and the conversation I
had on this show
with Bill Fletcher jr. about it that
really transcends the kind of dolt
dichotomies of this debate I mean look
there is a good kind and a bad kind of
identity politics is
far as I'm concerned the term identity
politics was originally coined by the
Combahee River collective which was a
collective of radical queer black
marxist feminists in an effort to kind
of synthesize these ideas and make
Marxism more inclusive of people's
current experiences because they felt
like especially the feminist movement of
the 70s was not terribly inclusive to
working-class concerns black concerns
LGBT concerns or any of it where
identity politics become bad is when
they fall into the hands of neoliberal
and are used in a disingenuous way to
try to quell any kind of dissent from
the left so we can use identity politics
to make our leftist movement stronger
and better and more inclusive or we can
I mean not we or they can use them in a
disingenuous and shitty way and when
they do that you need to call them out
yeah and also obviously the right uses
identity politics oh absolutely
they're the custodians of identity
policy all right folks
we've run out of time I'm sorry callers
see you on Monday
to get to where I want but I know sir
[Music]
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
