[Music]
let's talk about something hugely
important and I guess we don't have any
sound to go along with it
I thought I wanted something on Bernie
talking about the Yemen resolution okay
so basically yesterday and the senator
actually already did this a couple of
months ago and the Trump administration
will reject it I'm sure but I'm gonna
read now from the hill this is hugely
important again the war on Yemen goes
back to 2015 the Obama administration
essentially gave some support to the
Saudis and the Emiratis in this you know
you could use the word borderline
genocide all frankly in terms of the
rate of murder killing cholera and
disease outbreak and as typical of the
Obama administration they put a few
brakes on it but I think they made the
calculation the Saudis were having a
major tantrum about the Iran deal
they were along with other you know
reactionary forces in DC from Israel and
other places in the Middle East actively
trying to undermine the Obama
administration
Prince Bandar wrote a column and either
the Washington Post or the New York
Times basically just with Republican
talking points and how feckless
President Obama's leadership was and so
I there was some element of we can
sacrifice the Yemeni people for the
politics here and it's a you know goes
without saying the quite disgusting and
shameful policy and decision decision it
was accelerated and massively enhanced
under Donald Trump as of course all
global civilian casualties we haven't
even covered the fact that a new Trump
administration directive will basically
add even greater layer of secrecy to
civilian deaths from drones from US
drones across the world and of course
there's all of the questions an air of
you know very likely corruption between
the Saudis and people like Jared Kushner
so this is the backdrop of what has been
a daily mass murder campaign schools
have been bombed but school buses
funeral homes
tens of thousands of civilians have dies
there's food shortages there's been a
cholera outbreak as I mentioned before
and the Senate has voted to stop
basically funding and supporting this
war through things like a jet refueling
Bernie Sanders along with Chris Murphy
and Mike Lee has taken the lead on this
but really again Sanders has been the
main engine Chris Murphy deserves a huge
amount of credit I believe he was
talking about this before Yemen was
really on the radar and then of course
also Rokon it in the house this is
Bernie Sanders talking about the vote
yesterday that the United States of
America will not simply follow the
despotic lead of a government in Saudi
Arabia and do what they want us to do we
are the most powerful nation on earth we
will determine our military and our
foreign policy and not be led around by
a murderous regime so that is an
important accomplishment
second of all what we are saying today
is that in the midst of the worst
humanitarian a disaster on the planet
where 85,000 children have already
solved the death where we are fearing a
imminent famine and perhaps the death of
millions of people what we are saying
now is we've got to end that war we've
got to help the people of Yemen with
food with humanitarian supplies not with
more bombs so today we have said loudly
and clearly in a bipartisan way that the
United States will no longer participate
in the saudi-led war in Yemen thirdly
and very consequentially what the United
States Senate
did today and I expect that the house
will once again do in a few weeks is we
are reasserting the constitutional
authority of the United States Congress
in terms of war making for many years on
the Democratic presidents on the
Republican presidents the Congress has
abdicated its responsibility and allow
presidents to take our people into war
without
rational Authority and today we say that
ends this is absolutely right the second
part of this is of course also usually
important I'm going to quote now from
the intercept the Republican led Senate
voted for the second time to end
American role in Yemen's war American
role in Yemen's war on Wednesday a sign
of continuing concerns over the impact
of the saudi-led intervention a
persistent frustration with the Trump
administration in close relationship
with Saudi Arabia of course this is
still in the heels of the Jamal
khashoggi murder that Mike Pompeo Donald
Trump have run interference and
supported MBS in the Saudi regime on the
resolution which passed by a vote of
four of fifty four to forty six directs
president Donald Trump to withdraw US
troops from quote unquote hostilities in
the saudi-led intervention which the
resolutions backers interpret to include
this is really key intelligence sharing
and midair fueling I'm gonna skip ahead
John Cornyn who if beta or orc wanted to
help this country he would be
challenging John corden a far-right
monster who literally tweeted out a
Mussolini quote a couple of weeks ago I
don't know how many people remember that
he of course voted against this measure
and he's part of the genocide caucus and
Yemen John Cornyn along with every
single Republican Democrat who would
vote against this measure he said this
well that while he was concerned by the
humanitarian crisis there quote a lot of
things that the United States held does
to help our friends and allies that are
not lethal and that includes
intelligence sharing fueling and
logistical support
I think former defense secretary mattis
pointed out that that a lot of what
we're doing was actually avoiding
collateral damage something that the
Saudis left in our own devices were not
as good at as we are so that is the same
disgusting defense that joe Manchin
wheeled out when he voted against a
resolution a couple years ago in arms
sales to Saudi which is that oh no no no
no by being involved and allowing them
to bombard and murder Yemenis every day
we're actually holding it back from
being even worse which is impure
we false because first of all the
american-made weapons are like the
literal things that are doing the
killing here from companies like
Lockheed and General Dynamics and also
the Saudis have logistical limits they
don't have actually a particularly
powerful army they rely on a huge amount
of US support so their ability to carry
out the extent their operations will be
materially impacted by US and UK
withdrawal of support not to mention the
fact that if we exert a diplomatic
pressure maybe that would help the
broader diplomatic process in Yemen
instead of treating the Yemeni people as
a sacrifice so that was the serious
stuff
