and this is weird you know I read this
story this week and I kept waiting for
the other shoe to drop and there is
there's not a shoe that drops there's
one that sort of rubs it's sort of like
lightly taps but but for the most part
this is a this is a pretty positive
story of the Senate essentially
protecting a record the record breaking
the biggest public lands package if you
will in over a decade which it was it
protected 1.3 million acres of federal
land as wilderness which is the the the
the federal government's most stringent
protection it prohibits roads it
prohibits motorized vehicles it
permanently withdraws more than three
hundred and seventy thousand acres of
land from mining around to national
parks including Yellowstone it
permanently authorizes a program and
this is the this is the part that it's
not the other foot dropping but it's a
little bit of a rub it permanently
authorizes a program to spend offshore
drilling revenue on conservation efforts
now it's good that there is a permanent
source of funding there I wish it wasn't
tied into something that has the
potential of destroying our environment
and for extracting fossil fuels but you
know we can always maybe find new
funding when we deal with this but
largely speaking it's just fascinating
that something like this could pass with
a Senate that is so polarized a but be a
piece of legislation that ostensibly one
would think would raise the ire of all
conservatives but it also goes to show
the power of localities right what what
they want but what Americans want when
it really is brought down not into a
national paradigm but in terms of a
local paradigm as translated through
their federal legislators
absolutely and that was the key this
this land you spilled that went through
I mean it was 98 - I mean 92 - 8 I think
I'm not sure who the eight were the
puffit against it but you know that's
pretty amazing in this polarized you
know political world that we live in and
you know a lot of it was pushed by
people from you know hardcore you know
right-wing Republicans from these you
know states with a lot of rural voters
and as it turns out as you point out a
lot of these people just do not want
their beautiful land to be he you know
developed and you know basically raised
by big money and people coming in to you
know dig up minerals and and various
other resources and so you know they had
the backing of people and I mean this
has been sort of going on for a long
time I know in places like Alaska you
know there's a lot of crosscurrents up
there and in this way or I remember
reading a big story about how Idaho they
had somehow managed to bring together
these hard right conservatives and and
more liberals from the cities on this
very issue of wilderness in in their
state and so you know I mean this is one
of those those situations where you can
kind of see where the power of local
politics can really make a difference
and in a weird way it's it's sort of
it's a guideposts for some of this stuff
that we're starting to talk about with
green New Deal and various things like
that because it kind of says you know
you've got to start if people are really
serious about this it's not going to
it's probably going to be better
accomplished through some combination of
these big sort of top-down you know big
ideas and very you know strong local
activism that can bring people into that
because you know this is one of those
things where people you know you go hey
you know do you want your kids to
breathe
you know polluted air do you want to
drink bad water I mean those kind of
things you know do you want to save the
planet for your grandchildren that's the
kind of thing you can come out from a
number of different directions and this
was sort of what was one of those things
that that kind of Illustrated how maybe
we could work our way through
- doing something real particularly on
these kinds of issues and you know and
it also goes back to the idea and a lot
of people said this at the time that you
know if you take away the ability of
legislators to do something on the
national level for their local people
specifically that they can come home and
say look what I did as they used to do
with earmarks right that you take away a
lot of the sort of grist for the mill
that that makes government kind of work
it's not a pretty thing necessarily when
you look at you know earmarks but on the
other hand it did make it possible to
actually to actually pass like you look
at you could actually get people let
people you know have some
accomplishments to take with them well I
mean so just so that people understand
what you're saying explicitly like they
would horse trade you you you you want
to be able to show up at some
ribbon-cutting ceremony of a national
monument or something like that that's
gonna create a little bit of tourist
activity in your town or you need that
that overpass on the federal highway or
whatever it is
earmarks would basically allow there to
be horse trading bring people on board
and into a certain extent like you know
that's what we saw with this bill like
you say you've got you know - I think it
was 3:1 new National Monument in in
California and two expansions of
existing national parks Death Valley in
Joshua Tree in California but then the
rest went to Georgia went to Mississippi
went to Kentucky Utah Washington State
Montana you had people in New Mexico so
you've got a lot of you've got a lot of
you know red to purple states some
democratic states as well of course but
this this is people were getting
basically their candy as it were and
then you know there are I imagine
senators from states that didn't get you
know anything to bring home they still
have a constituency that is like yes
we're glad you
not mining out in front of Yellowstone
even if I even if I'm not even near
Yellowstone that's a good thing and so
it it was fascinating in that way and
like I said I read the piece and I was
like where's where's the hitch here and
arguably that hitch is to a certain
extent the the offshore drilling revenue
being earmarked for it but it is a
direct source of revenue and maybe one
hopefully that can be replaced in the
future when we have other means in which
to generate energy and when we let's
take a break when we come back we'll
talk a little bit about the the green
New Deal and mitch mcconnell's
very cynical but and who knows how
effective attempt to embarrass
democratic senators by having a vote on
it in the Senate I'm not sure that it's
going to work out the way Mitch
McConnell thinks it will we're gonna
take a quick break I'm Sam cedar
this is bring a fire radio
