so Chris in the last segment you
basically walked us two through two
different tracks here that are going on
when Johnson and Johnson one is the one
that has made the news very recently and
that is about the identification of of
asbestos in the Johnson & Johnson baby
powder & shower - our para-power powder
you've also told us about other
potential carcinogens that are in these
powders because the talc is mined in a I
guess in a mine and you don't just
there's no just pure talc I guess veins
or deposits there's other stuff in there
and that other stuff in there has the
potential to be carcinogenic so you are
representing women who have contracted
ovarian cancer as a function of applying
the powder to their their genital area
which you know it's not totally marketed
for that but that's the presumption
right I mean you can put it all over
your body
well how many women are we talking about
Chris and how did we how do people come
to suspect in both instances that there
was asbestos in this Johnson & Johnson
powders and that there were other
carcinogens that could lead to ovarian
cancer well I want to be clear about
this Sam as well because there is
evidence that a well we don't think that
there's any there's any such thing as
pure talc but even if there were such a
thing we think that talcum powder talcum
powder even if it were pure is not a you
know is a potential carcinogen in you
know when it comes in contact with
ovarian tissue but but but I digress for
a moment the truth of the matter is that
they have known this for decades in 1982
researchers at Harvard
conducted an epidemiology study that
basically demonstrated that there was a
you know a 50% or so increased risk of
ovarian cancer with women who use talcum
powder products that statistic has been
shown repeatedly there have been
multiple studies over the years there's
most recently the Canadian regulatory
authorities have proposed that that
talcum powder is a potential carcinogen
and and recommended that women be
informed of that fact the truth of the
matter is that various national and
international semi regulatory
authorities have been presented with the
issue but and and and the World Health
Organization has listed it as a
potential carcinogen a possible
carcinogen some of the other regulatory
authorities have initially labeled that
as a probable carcinogen but when
industry weighed in we believe with
undue influence on the process they
deferred the question and so you know in
many ways over the over the past decades
the issue has been the can has been
kicked down the road a lot of the reason
why it's it's really coming to the
forefront is that people have stepped
forward women have stepped forward to
say you know I think that this is a that
is a potential cause of my ovarian
cancer and have tried to bring their
cases to court how many women are we
talking about here I mean we five or are
we talking tens how many women well in
in the in the federal system the federal
judge is the federal court system there
are about 10,000 cases currently pending
there are thousands of cases currently
pending throughout the state courts
throughout the country there's a trial
that getting raiser begin in January
there have been trials over the past
several years and those trials will
continue on into the future
all right so and here's the question you
know that I find myself asking plaintiff
attorneys all the almost everytime I
talk to them about a case that involves
a corporation selling a product that
they had some awareness some instances
total awareness some suspicions some
reasons to be suspicious that the
product they're selling is fundamentally
dangerous even if used properly by the
the people they're selling it to and yet
they continue to sell it I mean do you
have any insight I don't know where and
maybe you should tell us where you are
in the course of this case but do you
have an insight as to what was the this
the the the mindset of the executives at
this company that they could have some
awareness of these problems and these
potential to cause suffering and death
but yet continue to sell it and it's
called baby powder I mean yeah I mean I
mean it's really hard to imagine but for
several years now there have been
non-generic powder manufacturers who
have started to include warnings on
their products but not Johnson & Johnson
so a Johnson & Johnson has refused to do
that we you know what makes it even more
frustrating Sam is that there is a safer
alternative for this product this is not
as I think you alluded this is not a
product that prevents cancer it's not a
product that helps you with diabetes or
heart disease this is a product that is
is a cosmetic powder and a lot of
powders out there are not or not
but but there are patterns out there
that are corn starch and corn starch is
a reasonably safer alternative like we
use in the law that could have been
substituted for talcum talcum powder
years ago and they decided not to do
that why do you think they decided not
to do that do you have any insight as to
that you know I really can't speculate
into that I think the evidence will show
that they were in denial about the risk
of talcum powder and they did everything
they could to prevent you know the
science and regulatory authorities for
really looking at what is a what is a
real risk of these powders I mean they
represented from 1976 forward that there
Telkom product powder products was
asbestos free and that talc had that
asbestos had been eliminated from their
body powders so ok we got about a minute
and a half left Chris so give me a sense
of like what if I'm out there and I'm
listening to this interview and I and
I'm worried that maybe I have ovarian
cancer or I know somebody who has
ovarian cancer and I'm worried that you
know I I used a lot of this baby powder
like what do I do at that point well I
mean look I if I could back up for a
minute Sam and I know I got a minute
left but but one of the things I really
want to tell people is you know you know
as a lawyer I obviously represent people
who already been injured but one of the
things I really try to tell people and I
try to tell everybody that I know don't
use cosmetic talc if you are if you are
particularly if you're a woman and
certainly don't use it there are plenty
of other alternatives out there use
cornstarch but if you do if you are
diagnosed with ovarian cancer the number
one thing you've got to do is go see
your doctor and you know beyond that if
you feel like you need to consult with
an attorney consult with an attorney but
the primary thing that I that I
and emphasize to people is don't use it
make sure you see a doctor as soon as
you think you you have a potential
potential problem speak to their about
your use of cosmetic powders and that's
that's it because it is a it is a
particularly cruel disease Chris thanks
so much for your time today I really
appreciate it
