[Music]
who's bothering you of the most lately I
mean who is my craw
yeah who's sticking in your craw now I
noticed it you you retweeted a Chuck
Woolery tweet did have you seen this one
that does not matter he blocked me
though I had to see somebody else yeah
we'll be right yeah because it does not
matter if it took four hundred plus
pages or four pages the conclusion is
the same simply put in two words not
quilty you know what I always said when
he stopped selling lubricated catheters
I always said that was where he went
wrong
yeah and you know that one guy in that
commercial he says I didn't know there
wasn't another cast there available
really your whole life you have to put
things up your Hulu and you don't shop
around good night everybody
you're who who does that work on the
road no everybody Hey I'm falling I
can't get up
hey y2k why not - Kay am I wrong hey hey
Sam what's this with this y2k what's
wrong at midnight your computer's gonna
turn into a deli tray good night Phoenix
everybody in this office is just like
what is he talking about cuz they were
all like 10 when when your new staff
doesn't get i still get you Andy
I didn't know can I curse no yeah you
sure you're less stennis Miller oh we
all hate Dennis Miller I'm not just okay
I'm sorry I just got out of that
character I mean he was that dick I saw
I forgot it I'm sorry I shouldn't keep
track of it but he had a he had a Joe
Biden enters the race tweet that really
was genuinely one of those like dude
what are you saying
who did Dennis Miller it was well
Quotes we did it with three question
mark did I get blocked by Dennis Miller
because I haven't seen any laughs I am
in a long time blocked let me see if I
can find it I'll read it that's when
people ask that's what they asked about
his career all the time was I blocked by
energy do you remember when Sarah Palin
this is a true story from the old days
when we thought things were bad this was
married he said she called him Joe
because she couldn't stop saying Oh
Biden Oh Biden in the warm-up debate yes
I remember that
Oh Biden can I read you squeeze because
in the warm-up debates I keep saying Oh
Biden hey Andy if you'd still like to
work out your 2007 palin material go
right ahead
what can i I got something Sarah Palin
wasn't the sharpest that was you all
right Sarah Palin hey Sarah Palin was
like Jim Carrey biggity Kaufman except
it was vice president bad casting all
right this is Dennis Miller tweeted this
out on what is this March 2018 7 March
5th excuse me at 7:58 p.m. it's just
like a very particular time jar-jar
Biden says Trump is a disaster
Joe Biden should be the third guy in the
car and on sonic commercials I'm already
confused like where they went
he's the blank square man asshat
Scrabble
he's also I think bottled water tastes
better when you shake it stupid and
shaky ER than a rescue dog and Phil
Spector's house this actually wasn't the
one there was another one about his hair
plugs but it was even mortgage where's
the beef where's the beef Dennis Miller
where's the beef Denison I don't get any
if those references I thought sonic ads
are the one we also like the burger
right oh here's the hearing I'll decide
two guys in the front seat and they're
very known I know that gave a lot of
guys he should be the third guy gross is
uh was the guy who played was the
executive producer of the president show
and he was also he played Mike Pence on
that show
it is those commercials in the sauna
commercial yeah yeah world I know he's a
murderer or maybe right but I don't know
if he murdered dogs I thought he was
supposed to have murdered people this
one I don't and this one also has the
hashtag Dennis Miller option yes when
someone and I don't know this word I'll
confess what is this word mnemonic no
I'm at a trench yeah pneumatic wrench is
like when you have a airgun Oh Oh got it
okay okay okay when someone used the
pneumatic wrench from the Indianapolis
500 to ratchet in Joe Biden's last hand
plug I swear to God they win a groove
too far and severed the discernment lobe
wait is our hair plug jokes really where
you want to go in 2020 hashtag Dennis
Miller
I mean it's called intellectual comedy
here he also said just yet just like
three or four days ago Biden just got
his first Union indoors April 29th Biden
just got his first Union endorsement the
coveted mid Wilshire corridor cosmetic
surgeons local 431 nod I would no doubt
who could possibly understand where he's
going with no eye I know where he's
going
he's calling Joe Biden a big busty bimbo
that would no doubt it will shirt my
order I don't think people do his sit
down if he wasn't already perpetually
frozen into a post chemical VAT Joker
chesh iers yearbook photo so he's
starting to get good well you all will
have to admit he's starting to come
around to a whole another level let's
hope let's hope so this is and look yes
I would agree Joe Biden looks a little
bit sexy a little bit a little bit odd
with all the work that he's had done but
I'm quite sure Dennis Miller's not going
to want anybody to break into his server
and find those emails with his Botox
he knows where the corridor akan
surgeons know - Denis Miller's credit
and I don't know why I'm doing this hey
I hate paying fair but I saw a brilliant
highly funny routine he did years ago on
The O'Reilly Factor where he explained
that the efficacy of his hair transplant
showed that he took the free-market
option versus Joe Biden's socialist hair
I see so I guess points are honesty but
continued no point operating that's why
it's funny
it's self-deprecating I mean if I were
Joe Biden
I would be like oh wow thanks for the
compliment you think I look so good that
I got plastic surgery cool
I don't think Joe Biden's gonna pay too
much attention to Dennis Miller I mean
it really takes like bottom have a Joe
Biden basic props it seems like Dennis
Miller might have a thing for him
