[Music]
let's this is a fun thing and then we'll
take some IMS maybe one call we'll get
to get out here is this yeah is the
helipad is the funniest one I like the
other one but they're both good um well
maybe we can play both I mean what's
interesting and and and I'll just put
this in context I saw on Twitter
somebody talking about how much they
enjoyed watching the this New York City
Council hearing it's New York City
Council but I guess they have a
subcommittee on economic development and
this person on Twitter and I can't
remember who it was said this is really
amazing to see because on the on the
Seattle City Council they genuflect and
would never ever treat Amazon in this
way the New York City Council however
and this is what it's all about Amazon
is coming here to build the amount of
power so that the New York City Council
cannot talk to them this way that is
what their recipe has been in Seattle
and they want to use New York less to
exercise political control but as a
vehicle through the media there in DC
with the hopes of building that
political control in a national level
they're in New York to build it through
the media and so these New York City
Council people are probably not
benefiting from their presence in the
way that Amazon is used to but here they
are at the very least rhetorically
giving them a talking to let's start
with this one about the helipad why do
you need a helipad so the just be very
clear the Amazon will be paying for the
helipad there will not be city or state
text I would hope so for that
you know why do you need a helipad as we
were we're trying to have a very
comprehensive agreement we were trying
to look out in the future and anticipate
what future needs might be and so we
were examining potential safety or
security issues in the interests of
transparency we wanted to put this
provision in the MOU
but we also wanted to make sure that it
would not be a disturbance to the
neighborhood or to the residents so
there are provisions in the MOU that
limit the number of landings new memos
120 per year and also ensure that any
helicopters don't fly over the
neighborhood but would fly over the
water or the development site do you
realize how out of touch that seems for
the average New Yorker I mean that's a
very out of touch people we have six
million people we think the subways
every day too many people take the buses
they're crumbling - how the helipad be
part of this is I mean it's crazy so
your senior vice president Jay Carney
said that it sentence did not drive this
process for you that's what he said
publicly is that true so tell it was the
major driver and that's why we're very
excited to locate here in New York as
you all know New York has an amazing
talent pool and we're ready and eager to
start hiring new yorkers but incentives
were a factor in our decision but they
didn't reach your senior vice president
Jay Carney said they didn't drive the
process is that true so talent was the
key driver but in fact if incentives
were also a factor would you be willing
to give up some of those incentives so
they could go to some of the other
things we talked about so again our
project is going to have a positive
economic impact and we're only going to
receive the incentives after we create
these jobs and make these investments
we're not getting straight answers does
the word monopoly bother you because do
you think monopolistic behavior helps or
hurts us as a society
well monopolistic behavior is against
the competition laws but if you're
talking about the question you know for
Amazon our goals are to lower prices and
provide better convenience and selection
for our customers how do I marry that
New York City Councilman that was that
was awesome I lose like
the laws which I know nothing about but
we're almost certainly playing lobbyists
to get rid of the tiniest last VESA is
Jay Carney the same Jay Carney who was
the spokesman for the Obama
administration still on the Silicon
Valley Grove single no contract is
there a single member of the Obama
administration that went into a a in an
industry or working for a business that
is not deemed problematic I get Eric
Holder is the best case you just wonder
stills in that corporate law he just
went back to the corporate law firm at
least that's where he was right he
hasn't it isn't like trading all of the
main players in them they're all at uber
or they're like organizer advocating for
some like you know third-world dictators
they if they're at a consulting shop is
Robert Robert I don't see why we can't
join together and you know why should a
secret police only be run by men Robert
gives us at McDonald's
he's the blue-collar one I've actually
been learning a little bit more about
Amazon since this whole deal came to our
town because the TSA is we've been
having a lot of meetings we've been
doing some canvassing so people in the
neighborhood know like the full extent
of what Amazon's gonna do not just to
their neighborhood not just to our city
but the world at large and I just found
out Amazon what you think of as their
front word facing business like you know
selling you things that they send you in
the mail really hard to where they make
their money where they make their money
it's they do tech infrastructure for
like the cops and all sorts of evil
it's basically through the Amazon Web
Services AWS and the server things and
if you had listened to the episode we
did with what's-her-face what was a
Mitchell I am Stacy Mitchell that
you would have you would have known that
is she is that the one did she explain
in that interview I uh
I don't I do remember that she wrote a
piece that Amazon wants to become the
market right they don't want to be the
one that had the it's an old data point
about Amazon but why Bezos chose books
as the first thing see there's a really
that's her but it is okay better it has
nothing it's the metadata that was the
best way to get metadata on people can
tell we have some reasons I started with
books but you know that's the launching
point to people's best sort of full
aggregate understanding of them but you
know what um there's probably not that
much we can do to kill the deal at this
point but we're already seeing union
activity at the Amazon warehouse in
Staten Island yes um there's a group
called Tech action in New York that's
like tech workers that are talking about
different ways to deal with this so New
York is a Union town I say bring it on
good good time to leverage power against
Amazon that's why those guys the Staten
Island did that now was because they
know Amazon cannot afford to right now
in the heat of the scrutiny they're
getting the Amazon cannot afford to shut
down their attempts to unionize their
their situation and largely because of
City Council people who do we know who
the City Council guy is what's his name
I looked him up his name is not at my
fingertips he is the I know he's the
only openly hiv-positive City Council
member now I don't know what do I know
about it all I know is what's on the
Internet
but here he is we should write that all
the sound sheet description what is that
Corey Johnson Corey Johnson right I am I
hate Corey Johnson here is Corey Johnson
and I you know McElwee I think it's
friends with him and you should get him
into another office we should keep him
running this him up the future he should
become mayor of New York City what the
hell here is Corey Johnson stock
pursuing this question as to why Amazon
needs a three billion dollar incentive
to come
ooh the center of the media universe and
a place where supposedly there's such
huge amount of talent Amazon is a one
trillion dollar company is that accurate
you're approximately valued at what
trillion dollars you think it's close to
that yeah close to that so why should we
give you this money so these incentives
there performance-based which means that
we will not receive any money until we
create jobs and make these investment
you're worth a trillion dollars why do
you need our three billion dollars and
we have crumbling subways crumbling
public housing people without health
care public schools our overcrowding why
why do you need why do you need our
three billion dollars this project is
going to provide over one hundred and
eighty six billion dollars in positive
economic impact to the state over the
next twenty five years now just
contemplate this let's just take him at
face value it's gonna cause a hundred
and eighty six billion dollars a
positive impact for New York how much is
it gonna cause for Amazon I mean how
many billions is it going to cause for
Amazon go over the next twenty five
years that includes over fourteen
billion dollars in additional tax
payments that analysis was done by
someone who was hired by the state of
New York and not by neutral third party
academics or companies that could
provide that economic analysis the the
Annette what you're citing was done by
people who were hired to do that on
behalf of this project it wasn't done by
a neutral third party so why do you need
our if you're worth a trillion dollars
why do you need our three billion
dollars we believe this project will be
a positive economic impact for the city
and the state we're here to create jobs
in not only our twenty five thousand
direct jobs but the thousands of
indirect jobs that's a little results
from this would you be willing to go
through you lerp not at this process
idly were we were proceeding with the
GPP plan so you're saying no to the
community who you want to be neighbors
with you're saying no to the City
Council
and the local city council member you're
saying no you won't go through you lerp
I don't think that's an option at this
time it is an option you're saying no to
it okay I'm not sure what you LARP is
but I have a feeling it's another
program it is the uniform land-use
review procedure which basically
assesses the implications of the use of
city land and look here's the bottom
line if Amazon is going to be paying 10
billion dollars worth of taxes or five
billion dollar whatever the number is
multiply that by at least two and you
will get how much money they are making
and so why do we need to subsidize them
if look they pretended they were doing a
nationwide search and they fat this is
like this is like this is like Dick
Cheney's search for a vice president it
was always gonna be New York it was
always gonna be Dick Cheney the reason
why they want to come to New York if
it's the three billion dollars
first of all New York can handle the
Amazon not coming the only way that
there will be a different company there
maybe even smaller companies who still
take advantage of the same benefits but
there are societal issues that go beyond
any type of benefits and even beyond how
much we're paying Amazon to come here
that make Amazon problematic but they
don't need that three billion dollars
they don't they don't yep it's also
already affecting the housing market in
Northern Virginia where the other place
that they're going to it's the other
housing market in Queens because there's
all sorts of stories of Amazon
executives and other people coming in
and buying up that whole area because
down
Road it's gonna drive people further and
further out of the city and also there
was another you know and and Virginia
that's the other place they were gonna
go to DC right just to complete the
point it's this is a whole fraudulent
nonsense yep and Lee Carter had some
pretty good statements calling them out
and debunking the idea that this will
actually benefit the majority of people
in his district all right
