every day casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage our day report with sam Sita
it's Friday August 23rd 2019 I'm Michael
Brooks on a Michael casual Friday this
is the five-time award-winning majority
report we're broadcasting live steps
from the industrially ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on today's program
Ben mankiewicz he's a host from Turner
Classic Movies and The Young Turks
he's gonna give us a movie pick and
we're also gonna talk about the newly
minted king of our people Donald Trump
and just old Hollywood I miss talking to
Ben glad to have been back on the show
and then oh my god say baby put down
that pipe and get my pipe up Matt
Pinchbeck sorry that was very immature
folks it's casual Friday the great Matt
bender has returned he's the host of
doomed a podcast about trolls the far
right so we're gonna talk a little bit
about actually this really wild and
disturbing report that the Southern
Poverty Law Center revealed about a
State Department bureaucrat who was a
underground propagandist for a white
ethno State we're gonna talk about that
and get to some other things as well
play some videos together have some
old-school mm energy although we will
actually be in the same shot no
split-screen
in other news that people might enjoy
trying to trying to think David Koch
[Music]
has died the billionaire conservative
far-right activist has passed away
Angela Merkel backs macrons calls for a
g7 talk on the Amazon fires even as
clown fascist jr. bolson ro proves the
ultimate futility of pseudo woke
discourse he called Immanuel macarons
criticisms of the Amazon fire
colonialist okay
Kashmir continues to be in lockdown as
their calls for protests and a prominent
Indian politician brags about the BJP s
fake news and propaganda capabilities
US officials confirm an Israeli air raid
in Iraq House Democrats it might be
failing to get Trump's tax returns view
hedge fund cash flows to presidential
candidates at Puerto Rico's expense as
you can imagine those candidates include
Joe Biden Kamala Harris bata O'Rourke
and Pete Buddha jej not good people
Justice Department sent immigrant judge
immigration judges a white nationalist
blog post with anti-semitic attacks and
we will get to that and much much more
on today's majority report how's
everybody doin Bernie Sanders put out in
the last three days so now in addition
to single-payer health care a complete
student loan def cancellation the
centering of the fulfillment of
broad-based economic rights for all
significant interventions and foreign
policy in terms of Yemen Iran war a
broader the only person with any kind of
courage and clarity on Israel in the
Middle East calling for preferring
political prisoner Lula which has a
direct relationship to the Amazon crisis
today Bernie has put out a group of
packages in the last several days
criminal justice reform labor rights and
the green new deal of which even a
fraction of which were implemented would
completely reshape American society in
an radically positive radically
transformative direction now is the time
to start talking a bit about plans
because a movement has been enacted in
the context of the campaign to actually
take up all of the endless interest that
will fight against all of these
transformations all of the corporate
oligarchs that run this country and part
of the group of dangerous oligarchs that
run this country of course fossil fuel
companies people who whose whole
business structure and living and
massive wealth is based off of
extracting a public good a public
Commons polluting it and the putting
into the air polluting our global
ecology in a way that threatens the
survivability of the human race and
Bernie Sanders has a message for them it
is no secret that we must transition
away from fossil fuel period end of
discussion
there ain't no middle ground sealed
there is no middle ground
there ain't no middle ground just as
there's no middle ground on a radical
labor reform package that would improve
the lives and offer secure jobs and
benefit the tens of millions of people
an incredible criminal justice plan that
would cut the criminal populate the
prison population by half we went into
detail yesterday the range of things in
this green New Deal this is the most
thorough innovative and integrated
policy proposal anybody's put on the map
in modern politics I can't stress how
exciting and meaningful it is to see a
candidate in campaign put this forward
and I hope people will be again actually
get serious about this campaign and get
serious about the absolute unique
potential of what Bernie Sanders in the
campaign represents wanted give an
honorable mention I don't know if we
have the pack lip number four
just in the spirit of this as well
jay inslee so as I said I've I've
definitely heard very mixed things about
James Lee's record as governor of
Washington and there's a lot to unpack
here one of the reasons that Bernie's
plan is in a different league than all
the others is because it absolutely is a
labor indigenous peoples rights
completion of the New Deal in a way that
also reverses the racist aspects of the
New Deal this is a justice package it's
a jobs package it's a labor package it's
a recreation of power package as well as
taking on the radically ambitious agenda
we need in order to make the human
species survive from the ecological and
climate crisis so there's a lot to
disaggregate somebody like Jerry Brown
has done a lot on the innovation and
renewability side and and an emissions
target side as governor of California
and did very little to nothing on thing
and was harmful in areas like fracking
and clearly did not have a strong vision
of environmental justice Sanders plan is
an example bans fracking and has deep
commitments on environmental justice so
I don't know where Inslee fit in those
dynamics but I do know of a stage full
of people that don't belong there and
are wasting everybody's time Delaney
Hickenlooper clova char and and even a
bunch frankly of mid-tier candidates
that are just I mean you know Buddha
judge Harris this is just nothing and of
course we go to the top and Joe Biden my
god and even some you know significant
criticisms frankly of all the others
besides sanders jay Inslee was there and
I think actually also have to say he'll
de Blasio has has used his position on
that stage to make some strong arguments
and highlight some important things the
fact that Inslee centered this set the
stage for the radical expansion of what
Sanders put on the table and he was the
only one of the awesome wrens who
provided really any value in the
debates so we want to honor him on his
way out of the campaign and glad he was
there to Center the climate crisis and
he also regularly talked about Union
jobs as well in that context Rachel but
I understand that you are here tonight
to make some news
I am listen this show has been so good
to me this is sort of the bookends of my
campaign we started saying that climate
change had to be the number one job of
the United States I felt very good
saying that the first days of my
campaign I feel very good saying that
now and the reason is is this has just
become more urgent a billion tons of ice
melted in Greenland the other day but we
also have had so many people I've met
who are inspiring who want us to act
who've helped me we had 130,000 people
help me in this campaign but it's become
clear that I'm not going to be carrying
the ball I'm not gonna be the president
so I'm withdrawing tonight from the race
but I have to tell you look I've been
fighting climate change for 25 years and
I've never been so confident of the
ability of American out of each critical
mass to move the ball I believe we are
gonna have a candidate to fight this
battle well that's great that candidate
you know is obviously Bernie Sanders I
hope Inslee will be endorsing him soon
and I appreciate what Inslee brought to
this race he least as a candidate he
centered really important issues and he
had a certain sort of decency about him
which I thought was palpable I
appreciated him there
Nate Silver tried to suggest I think it
was Nate Silver that you know his the
lack of performance in the polls suggest
that people aren't ideologically
motivated but it to pick their
candidates right and I just think that's
nonsense cuz I think anybody who really
cares about climate change is frankly I
mean I think they should be Bernie but
they're probably at least war and if
that's their single issue right they
probably know who their vote really
voting for yeah the only people right I
mean you'd have an honorable mention for
a guy who isn't on the map and then
you'd be looking at Sanders and possibly
somebody who could win obvious right
yeah it's not that complicated
I mean look nate silver honestly I mean
just what an embarrassment like I get
that he's got motivated reasoning I get
that he's a right-wing Democrat or
whatever but like dude you can't just
like especially if your brand is you
know nerdy numbers guy you can't just
like constantly opinion eight
and since all day it's here watch I mean
like well like he literally does he
literally opinion eights nonsense all
day and it's embarrassing and sad for
all of us to watch today's show is
brought to you by NetSuite by Oracle the
problem that keeps so many businesses
from knowing their numbers is their
hodgepodge of business systems they have
one system for accounting another for
sales another for inventory and so on
it's just a big inefficient mess that
takes up too many time and too many
resources and that hurts the bottom line
definitely gonna be doing some
streamlining of TMDs systems without a
doubt even in a small thing it really
does if you don't have that type of
stuff done efficiently introducing
NetSuite by Oracle the business
management software that handles every
aspect of your business in an
easy-to-use cloud platform that gives
you the visibility and control you need
to grow with NetSuite you save time
money and unneeded headaches by managing
sales finance and accounting orders and
HR instantly right from your desktop or
phone that's why net suit NetSuite is
the world's number one cloud business
system and right now NetSuite is
offering you valuable insights with a
free guide seven key strategies to grow
your profits you're gonna read this for
literary hangover Matt oh yes yes at
NetSuite comm slash majority that's net
week NetSuite comm slash majority to
download your free guide seven key
strategies to grow your profits NetSuite
comm slash majority what's that
accidentally bumped up the music a
little bit how's the water do we have a
water boat situation today Matt no
definitely not
definitely not I've no doubt I was
actually on an airplane recently and I
was sitting and getting situated and I
was like leaning back and I closed my
eyes and all of a sudden I smelled this
incredible water boat aroma coming on
the plane and for a minute I was like oh
damn is Matt on the same plane
I literally you really not risking a hey
doesn't mean you were carrying water
boat it just means you were smelling
water boat I would never think he would
be dumb enough to carry water boat but
to pre water boat I certainly believe
that you would pre water boat yeah well
that's believable
that's say plot I would say highly
what's plausible I would say likely
that's good Melissa mom could be
listening shut your mouth man all right
we're gonna take a brief break and we
will be right back with Ben mankiewicz
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Ben mankiewicz who is the host Turner
Classic Movies you can also see him on
The Young Turks from time to time Ben
how you doing man I'm well like to talk
to you Michael it's great to talk to you
as always
um talk to us about how long you been
doing Turner Classic Movies now six
years
yeah yeah my I think I made my debut in
September of oh three so we're right at
sweet 16 so look at like how do you
what's your what's your selection
process okay what movies you want people
to check out what movies you want to
talk about well I mean I can highlight
whatever you know I mean like I'm stuff
like this I pick the movies that I think
people will be interested in but we got
a program at department they here's who
doesn't get consulted on our programs
your friends and but but my closest
friend at the channels had a program a
child and so I you know they I've
certainly developed enough of a
reputation there for being involved in
that you know so pick and select helping
to pick guests programmers what's gonna
work for that but the day-to-day
programming they're great at it right as
amazed by the main reason the network is
success as successful is it as it is
it's because they're so good at that
they can you know
Braman each night putting every night
every single night has some little mini
festival some little mini connection
they're there they're geniuses when it
comes to programming over do you think
are you somebody who as a guy in the
movie business for you somebody who's
who's burned out on this whole superhero
movie thing or are you one of these
orders or is that like being a snob and
they're actually great blah blah blah
what do you think no I'm not burned out
I've been cremated I don't I'm uh I am I
was you know I mean I thought Ironman
was really good like the first round
like 2007 or something yeah yeah of 2008
it might be 2007 I think it's a but I
don't even
and so I was gonna say it's been a
minimum 11 years since that movie came
out and even by you know the great
Batman whichever one that was Batman
which I don't know remember the title
Dark Knight you know um like I was like
that's good but I got it like I'm you
know like you know uh Heath Ledger was
fantastic but I like it's - he was -
brooding Christian Bale like I need
movies that have a little and I guess
Ledger provided the key but I mean I was
largely done after that I I don't care
about seeing invincible people punch
each other into buildings and I mean
that blue you know and just it doesn't
that is not interesting and has no now
but that said I'm also not I am NOT a
snob about it because people I love care
about whose opinions I value enormous ly
they love this stuff you know a lot of
people that I love and care about but I
don't value their opinions I mean you
can make a distinction right know what I
mean about movies I care about they're
right you know and so you know I I'm I
but it's not for me I don't think it's
really for grown-ups
I mean the movies are targets abroad I
get it some of kids who grew up with
that but look man I used to play you
know a stratum attic baseball dice
baseball and I would create whole
seasons I'd replay entire season but I'd
mix it up I'd like combine two bad teams
make him a good team wound DC where
there was no team where I grew up and
then play a 85 game I mean a 90 game
schedule and then every day I'd write
down the real major league scores so
that those were their opponents and I'd
have fake standing I mean in that dorky
and guess what I would do it today if I
had time it was really right right
mm-hmm
that was Dungeons & Dragons for a
baseball fan so I get liking something
but my thing hasn't taken over every
billboard and my thing hasn't pushed out
grown-up movies about adults though
that's where the resentment comes down
and everybody in this town out here
talks about that you know movies either
cost a million dollars or two hundred
million dollars you know there's nothing
in the Middle where you know you spend
forty million dollars
you make 70 and people are happy because
you made a little money what I think you
know mix is that they need to make a
billion dollar is the phrase this story
that I heard that and please correct me
if I'm wrong because I the extent I know
movies I always wondered why is it that
in like the 70s there were a bunch like
the quote-unquote mainstream movies were
not all of them but they were great a
lot of them you had the Godfather movies
and Dog Day Afternoon and Apocalypse Now
and Serpico and those were just like the
movies and they happen to be just these
like really great and I and I one story
I've heard is that you know the sort of
Hollywood bosses were sort of just
completely overtaken by the
counterculture and there was a new sort
of economics there and they kind of were
willing to say hey maybe you guys should
just have some freedom to explore here
because we don't really know what the
hell's going on
and then jaws and Star Wars right sorry
go ahead tell me about it you're you're
right you're like that's a version of
the correct of what's correct say 1967 a
1976 greatest ten-year run American
movies ever because they turn these
talented directors the auteur theory
here that they let these directors make
their movie and they got out of their
way and that's what left you with
starting with the 1967 this amazing year
of Bonnie and Clyde and Cool Hand Luke
and in the heat of the night guess who's
coming to dinner and the Graduate all
the way through I think 1976 I wouldn't
I wouldn't include jaws in the list of
where things went wrong that's still
part of what things weren't right that
was Steven Spielberg making a great
great movie it just made so much money
over the summer they were like let's do
this again it really ends with Star Wars
like 77 that's the and and I'm not
knocking Star Wars that but that's when
the economics changed you know 76 still
had rocky all the President's Men
Network you know three unbelievable
movies vital movies for people to see
especially networking all the
president's men to people who care about
the media and politics but so that run
where directors Scorsese and Friedkin
and Bogdanovich
coppola Hal Ashby Norman Jewison where
these guys have the ability to go make
their kind of movie make it their way
city Lynette you mentioned you know Dog
Day Afternoon you know about it Network
flow matters all over these movies and
and then that went away as sort of
corporate control took over and it was
happening of course throughout the
eighties where right you know look I
don't I'm not an expert on this but
basically to me companies were like well
we make a little money we our employees
have a nice life and we have a nice life
and that's good enough
and then as sort of conglomerate started
owning stuff and including movie studios
it became known oh we got paid a
shareholder that matters more the
shareholders matter more than our
employees and you know that shareholders
always mattered but there was some
balance right there was some you didn't
think you were gonna get to be a
gazillionaire because you were a beta
stockholder and some of these companies
you just thought sort of I'm protecting
for if something goes wrong I'm
protecting for my retirement so I don't
have to work until I'm 70 you know
culture shifted in America and it
started and then it began affecting
movies and some of these guys then went
out and lost a lot of money on these
movies right like when the auteur theory
doesn't work you spend a lot of money
and the movies terrible right but you're
right it gave us these you know in
Coppola and three years makes the
Godfather the conversation in-between
about electronic surveillance which is
nothing really everybody should see and
then I got father to I mean it's
unbelievable
what that guy for 39 room you know Mean
Streets taxi driver yeah taxi driver by
the way also 76 76 of all the
president's men Iraqi Network taxi
driver you know that's the unbelief that
is the unbelievable start and oh yeah
that's crazy
yeah and was there was there like a
little sort of I don't know the history
obviously but then there's an idea that
in the 90s there was a little bit of an
indie push back and some of that like
all admit I'm not a huge I don't
remember the guys name even but I was
never into like clerks and that in those
movies I never I just because to me I
just didn't find them particularly funny
Kevin
you can you're wrong about clerks it's
but I hear wrong about clerks I know
I'll rewatch clerks a man I was probably
why probably watched clerks through a
haze of what clerks was joking about
meaning marijuana so you know I don't
know but I think but then you know I do
I do actually i rewatch pulp fiction
recently and I actually I mean you know
it's definitely not as cool as I thought
it was when I was a teenager but it
actually is still a very interesting
very funny very bizarre and cool movie
so what was that sort of like what was
that little kind of opening there that
happened in the 90s and then what
happens to that I don't know I'm not an
expert enough to tell you what that was
about you're right and recognizing that
it happened I mean I think basically you
know it was a look these are creative
people I mean the more reason I love
living out here is because I think the
you know the most talented artists in
the world are here and you run into them
at coffee shops and when you play poker
you know when you play softball give you
an idea what I imagine the perfect life
is poker and you get coffee and you talk
about sports movies and politics and
what out then literally I could die it
you know molds and I'll take 92 die
happy you know that was the focus of my
life I've got some of my best
experiences of actually starting to
understand LA as a town has been sitting
with the Ben mankiewicz maybe also a
Michael Shore and just just just talking
it's great I mean I'm from DC but I love
it out here 20 years now I and I I just
I mean I defended I hate when I get
right now I'm like a New Yorker who you
know how you guys are you know about the
city and I I just love it here and I
know the New York is terrible it's being
ruined by Russian oligarchs and Michael
Bloomberg destroyed every last vestige
of it and but the Blasio can't save it
because he's not left-wing enough so no
trash it all you want there's plenty of
people from Ohio who live here now and
they're terrible by the way I spent last
weekend in Columbus Ohio at the 25th
anniversary of another movie from 1994
Mansfield Ohio but I stayed in Columbus
25th anniversary of Shawshank Redemption
another great ninety-four movie both
Shawshank and pulp fiction better than
Forrest Gump which one of you know won
Best Picture
dombarris and um and so Columbus Ohio
great town great great town I had no
idea I'd never been there
I already I'm kind of in love with I
believe it and then I and that's a great
sort of I think that should be a signal
to the oh hi in transplants here or -
mm-hmm go back to what's great god oh
that's what's great I I know I don't
know why I'm picking on Ohio
specifically well I mean I think it
should be kind of obvious but uh but
much love particularly if you're a
patron of TMDs from Ohio uh the can we
just take a second I do want to talk
about Trump for a minute before we get
to the recommendations but I actually I
don't know if we've ever talked about
this on air I think we've talked about
it in person I haven't seen the new
Tarantino movie yet I just don't I don't
even remember the last time I was in a
theater I want to see it at some point
but I really hope that people will all
see Jackie Brown like I think Jackie
Brown I rewatched that recently and I am
amazed by the amazing movie that is
anyways go ahead I have a great Jackie
Brown story so I so I interviewed
Tarantino for TYT for the Young Turks
like I know two years ago when he was do
when he had the hateful eight out and he
wanted to come in he wanted to see made
super with honor and I was sure that I
was gonna be a part of the extended
Tarantino entourage like the twice a
year at a party at his house like I get
an invite like no we're gonna get a meal
but I was positive anyway oddly that
that didn't happen but it was a very
interesting conversation and one of the
questions that I asked him that I was
determined to I said what do you say to
a Tarantino fans whose favorite
Tarantino movie is Jackie breath and he
looks at me and he goes well I uh I'd
say he's not I'd say that person is not
really a Quentin Tarantino fan well
I'm not really quitting Tarantino fan
than man because that movie I mean I
like his movies he's fun whatever but
Jackie Brown is fantastic it's on a
different magnitude he was I mean I
don't I won't go that guy thing I love a
lot of his Posey said I think his movies
are always fun and I really only
disliked one and I disliked I didn't
like the second Kill Bill movie I loved
the first the second one seemed like a
bunch of sword fights but the but you
know at Reservoir Dogs Pulp Fiction
inglorious basterds there's some movies
I I adore including I mean I really like
the hate boy oh well so you are I am but
yeah but Jackie Brown is my favorite
Tarantino movie and I think it's largely
perfect and I've seen it easily ten
times and I you know all these great
actors just delivering these perfect
performance because the script is so
good so I think he's wrong and it's by
the way I mean I in my movie Twitter
world I have a political Twitter world a
movie Twitter world because of this new
Tarantino movie Jackie Brown was getting
a lot a lot a lot so so it's not no one
thinks of it in first and foremost in
his Canon I can't believe I said that
but it ought to be there it's uh it's a
great gray so I'm from a great book you
know more Leonard you know if you run a
lot of the brief moments yeah yeah if
you're not looking to you know there may
be a moment in your life when you're not
reading about the political and economic
history of Pam panamanian migrant
workers if you have that moment in your
life you should read a bunch of more or
less so I actually did read rum punch
I read rum punch back in the day and
there's another there's another vote I
read it because I liked the movie so
much but there's another Elmore Leonard
book I don't remember the name of it but
I just remembered this scene and this is
a stretch here to try to recreate it but
it was one of the funniest things I ever
read because it's basically like these
two guys are sticking up a supermarket
in Michigan and in very Elmore Leonard
fashion entrepreneur and in super Elmore
Leonard fashion basically like
a very old lady is shopping and she just
does has no idea what they're doing so
one of the robbers is in a position
where he basically has to like check her
out like that's the most efficient thing
to do and you know these guys are you
his main protagonists are never like the
actual monsters so they're not gonna
kill her
so they gotta like bet her groceries and
and get her out and she's so rude and
disrespectful to him and just nasty
and so he's his his like his coup de
Gras is he basically like he tells her
that her coupons are invalid and it's
just like it's like a giant moral
victory for him before they like leave
the place throw whatever small bag of
cash they took it's so funny a version
of that thing is in out of sight which
is also a brilliant brilliant little he
made the next year after Jackie Brown
based on a lot more learned book I love
this I last night almost my favorite
movie not the best movie but it's
perfect to me and this is seeing where
ving rhames has got to steal a car so he
can bust your explaining out of prison
an elaborate plan they have and he this
older lady is wheeling her groceries out
to the car and he stops and he says oh
man won't be healthy with those and she
says well I didn't actually help so
don't expect it gratuity right and so
instantly you're on his side
and he goes oh that's okay ma'am I'm
just gonna take your car and it's this
great but it's just like the coupons is
this little moral victory for a criminal
who you're rooting for and that's what
he does is get you know always there
there's always terrible evil but it ends
up being the cool criminal trying to
take down that the truly violent
dangerous yeah I decide is actually
another amazing movie another good wreck
I wanted just for a minute
and actually in Michael Wolf's first
book which I did read and I totally
defend when he describes Steve Bannon as
an Elmore Leonard character wow that's
great perfect
scripture Jesus what do you think about
us having a new King of the Jews Ben I
think it's great I think it's great I
think we've lacked leadership to
sometimes tell us what
you know write how to behave who to vote
for you know I mean it is I mean it's
you know we're laughing because the
ability to maintain shock is God I mean
a couple days ago when the King of the
Jews was talking about Kashmir right
then induce easily all you got Kashmir
had a lot of different names and you got
Muslims and Hindus they don't like each
other very much big problem probably
place I mean I mean it's enough right
there not to reelect someone if you've
done everything else right like he
doesn't know anything
and he's not interested in anything and
you know he learned that that day and
was like I'll repeat that you know it's
like well yeah I mean he like one on
Wikipedia and looked up Kashmir didn't
know somebody they printed upon there's
no idea right that's why somebody I was
promoting that CNN CNN the last bunch of
Sunday's has been running a series of
movies by the decade and I was on last
Sunday to promote it and they played a
clip from 92 of Errol Morris that's
great they had a me award-winning
documentarian interviewing Donald Trump
and for some reason he asked him about
Citizen Kane and rosebud and Trump's
like well you know rosebud know they
don't really know what it is they don't
you know but it worked and one knows why
they picked it and it was my
grandfather's name for my grandfather's
bicycle that's why he picked it my
grandfather wrote it and so via we
contrasted his grandfather wrote oh I'm
sorry no your grandfather okay I'm so
confused by Trump's lies that I honestly
was confused for a second okay sorry go
ahead
Adam one and so one of the great shames
has been that Trump one of the great
change has been the Trump so used to
laugh yep good we'll have you yeah yeah
um thank you yeah one of the great James
of my life has been that the Trump's
favorite movie he says is Citizen Kane
but as I was listening to him talk about
that and rosebud it's like he doesn't
even know that it's a sled in the movie
and it suddenly hits you you know that
movies whatever is an hour and 52
minutes long it's inconceivable he
watched it start to sense right
like you want to say to them it's a
slide it burns in the end symbol of his
lost childhood not it you don't have to
be a you know there's no genius and
figuring out what happened there
so I had a nice line at least as we're
talking you know I said that's the
president talking about there's things
that are unknowable but they're all
knowable you just have to read a book I
remember that clip I actually played
that it's I I know that we played that
at some point it was and he's like he's
like he's like well I mean it's it's
rosebud and you you go for things and it
it's funny because it's like not only is
he clearly not seen the movie but it's
like the part of Trump that is the
bizarre thing about Trump is that on one
hand nobody is like Trump and he's
utterly bizarre and then on the other
hand he's chameleon like and so that was
the phase of his life where he was
trying you know he's talking to oral
Morris so he needs to show that he
actually has a deep New York
intellectual streak so he's doing all of
these kind of like he hasn't seen the
movie and he's also trying to really get
like you know I mean materialism doesn't
equal happiness
it means it's deep that's right yeah
yeah but I mean he is so incapable
pulling it off it is and it reminds me
you mentioned our mutual friend and
along with those two be on Turks Genk
user and Michael Shore they're you know
they're my two closest friends out here
too my closest friends in the world and
and I lived with Michael I've lived with
Michael twice in my life once for a year
and a half but also when I moved to LA I
stayed with him for the first three
weeks I was here so I was getting my
feet and it was I would call then but it
must have been a couple years later went
early on in the apprentice run um
I said I was wide watched it a couple
times that I was like you know I like
this apprenticeship I don't think about
business but I actually kind of learned
things from it and I think he's like
he's there's not a typical host but he's
he's good it's fun right the way he
fires people is fun and I like that
thing
yeah I think maybe to episode and
Michael says to me I'm essentially
quoting him and this has got to be out
of two thousand four or five the latest
something like that he goes no I'm not I
don't watch I'm not gonna watch I don't
want you to watch
he's the worst person in the world he's
a horrible racist
he's a ignorant he doesn't know what
he's doing and he's perpetuating some
great fraud and I literally hate him
more than any other person and you
should too and I was like oh Jesus I was
like easy Michael whatever yeah okay
great Trump's the worst person in the
world yeah sure
Michael was on it and he was on it early
well there's some stiff competition man
I mean I guess if into well with my
reading habits I would have said yeah I
hear that but guys you got to check out
this obscure senator in Brazil called
jr. bolson ro because that only our our
our worldview that you know I was just
talking to somebody else real good about
when I went to Cuba somebody who'd been
to Cuba yeah recently a filmmaker and he
wants to make a movie there and we were
talking I was talking about when I went
during the Elyon right I went 99 or 2000
right and and you get there and you
think you know I know my dad wrote a
book called Combe Fidel and my dad was
not so much a supporter but mostly
thought this was on the US for screwing
up this relationship forcing his hand
they played baseball everything David
well you know they're 90 miles away they
shouldn't have been aligned and if we'd
been a you know a decent country and not
paranoid we we would have supported that
revolution as as all decent people
should have so anyway I'm telling that
story but I remember when I went there I
still had this image because I the
manner I grew up the you know this is
sort of a reckless outlaw place and we
had to sneak in right you know and they
asked us do you want your passports to
happen and then you get there and
there's things that they're messed up
their guards on the corners and they
want their citizens to tell on each
other right so then the horrible
horrible part and it is well but you get
there and you're like Jesus there's
10,000 Canadians here right there's
people from all over Europe like they
don't care like this isn't about us
we're the crazy one right in that regard
right Canadian think yeah how they got
here they did a flight from Toronto and
then they land they told their friends
I'm going to Cuba on vacation right and
they were Swedes and and we I was to be
bye-bye producer and I we met these
girls they were having coffee with him
and I'm trying to speak Spanish and and
I'm like you want to leave and they're
like well there's not a lot of
opportunity here we'd like to go and I'm
like you want to come to America and
they're like no no we want to go to
Spain they speak Spanish right you know
and they have helped um we are used to
have no good healthcare here yes we're
not the federal right but that is
amazing that that that he would have
that reaction because I just think a lot
of people I mean I I never really paid
attention to Trump one way or another
like I think The Apprentice was a little
bit I mean that was a little bit back in
the day and then you know he was this
racist buffoon guy during the Obama era
but it also was just like yeah whatever
like this guy's just some like 80s loser
who cares and Obama to land a great line
at the White House Correspondents Dinner
you know it was a right right that's
right he was just he was a caricature
figure to mock right actually what
shifted me and I mean this is maybe
still too you know my mom maybe maybe
just a defect because I still find him
very funny at times but what shocked me
I remember when he finally declared he
was running for president was that his
first inner I mean first he came out I
made those races despicable comments
about Mexicans and that was obviously
the engine I mean he gave you the two
engines of his campaign he gave you fake
economic pop in the three fake economic
populism the core of racism and
xenophobia and then the third one was
that he's funny and I remember uh he was
he was going on Bill O'Reilly and he was
just talking nonsense about like I'm
gonna go into Iraq and we're gonna get
the oil and I mean actually not nonsense
in fact he was basically talking what we
did just in his own dumb way and
O'Reilly like well you know you keep
saying George W Bush was bad but you
sound you sound a lot like him and and
Trump just looks at me as like yeah
a little bit smarter and I remember just
quick she's hilarious
I actually had no idea that this guy was
funny until he started doing this I
thought he was just a disgusting jackass
which he is but I didn't know that he
had this ability to kind of flame people
and if any sorry I don't know that he
knows he's funny
i I don't know it surely doesn't matter
right I think it was part of I think
you've touched on part of the reason why
obviously that he's connected with some
people because there is this you know
completely fake authenticity to him
right and most people who are funny or
smart you can't be funny without being
smart oh that was always my belief man I
don't think it's I still think it's
incredibly hard to be it's incredibly
hard to be funny without being smart but
he is proving it because no one no one
can think he's bright enough to have
this job except you know I guess you
know maybe you know I mean yeah all of
the leadership class of the Republican
Party and the wall street right I'm
legit Republican the the notion that I'd
be like man so george w bush and and
i'll these bees are last to this is what
we this is what we put out there hey man
they deliver the tax cuts that's all
they care about I share one theory with
you because I don't do it I thought one
thing that I don't understand is I've
been wrong about like that they just I
think Mitt Romney is the perfect example
of what is wrong with the Republican
Party
cuz you're gonna I think agree with ya I
like this there is this is a guy with
who has zero political risk for the rest
of his life right I get you may want to
run for president again but even that I
think doesn't count
he just won he's not up again until 2024
it's inconceivable that if he spoke out
really against Trump not just spoke out
but acted out like I'm not gonna support
him politically I'll even go against my
interests because he must be stopped we
have to take a stand we have to take
this party back whatever that means they
still be you know they still wouldn't
care if you want to cut benefits for
people who meet the most but
you take that stand um and he is in no
danger of losing even if somehow in a
poorly attended Republican primary in
2024 he got beaten to the right right by
some crazed rumpus
he run as an independent he Joe
Lieberman it he's been Romney's most
famous more but on the planet he'd still
wet
and we all know we think by 2024 what he
would do today would be seen as heroic
and the media would play him as heroic
as the one guy who took a stand the
principle guy who took the stand and I
he it's a freebie for Mitt Romney the
worst thing that happens to him is that
Harry Reid there you know Mitch
McConnell stripped him of whatever
important committee assignments he has I
don't even make he do that because he's
MIT Romney so it is a freebie for this
guy to take shots at Trump and the
upside is a media hailing him as a hero
and even he won't do it I just took my
answer is that and this has been my
position a hundred percent from the
beginning is that it's all there might
be a few stylistic differences but the
reason he won't do that is because he
supports this agenda I mean I just think
that's the bottom line I don't I don't
think there's there's no daylight I mean
you can run through the list of what
they and and also I mean you know we can
game it out maybe but the bottom line is
is that he's the president and he's
unbelievably popular in the Republican
Party so maybe but I don't think I mean
certainly look MIT Romney is not gonna
be the guy who's gonna want to take any
extra heat but I just think the bottom
line is is that we we can't separate
Trump from the Republican Party it's the
same thing no yeah I agree
I know I took no one no real right
thinking Americans would disagree with
that I would want cuz Mitt Romney like
all these guys and I don't blame him for
this he has an ego and he wants to be
president again that's his best path
it's a freebie and it's a freebie but he
had all never again to a Republican
primary though I mean if you ran for
president after getting oh no way that
Donald Trump they're gonna put that guy
on Rushmore for that party
they love him yeah I yeah I don't know I
mean I whatever by 2024 we're gonna I'm
certain that in general they we're gonna
have a different contestant by 2024 well
we might have a different consensus but
the Republican Party is gonna this is
gonna be you know there's gonna be some
like state auditor who says that you
know like black people should be retro
actively stripped of their citizenship
back to like 1670 whose will run for
president I mean I write Crisco Kris
Kobach's gonna have a hand raised saying
I will faithfully execute the test I
mean that's horrified oh no the elected
president but I just cuz I I think the
bottom line is is that if you look at
the Republican trajectory and you read
you know democracy in Chains which to me
is like the best book on understanding
how the Republican Party works they have
they they have gone all in and Trump has
kind of intuited it in his own kind of
dumb way which is like we're not going
to expand their base and what we can do
is even though we have a narrow base we
represent the interests materially of
the most powerful people in the world in
the country not you know the average
Republican voter but there's still vast
majority of ultra wealthy people that
fund us because at the end of the day
our policy set is for them and then
we're gonna combine that with a nativist
xenophobia and if we can make the courts
restrictive enough peel back the Voting
Rights Act enough do this terrorist
immigration policy enough maybe we can
engineer the electorate enough where we
can just sort of keep I mean look
winning races that we lose the popular
vote on but we just get the map right I
mean I think you know that's what they
do that's the plan and so they're yeah I
do think a guy like Kobach I mean
because of his actual connections the
white nationalist and so on you know I'm
sure people like Paul Ryan and Mitt
Romney what would like a little bit more
plausible deniability and maybe an order
or two of separation but on the merits
it's all the same and you know I think
the popularity of Trump really shows
that you're obviously you're right I
mean there's no because because guys
like not even guys are that many guys
but a guy like Romney doesn't do it
right I got you I just I'm
I still find them to be a perfect test
case to prove your point essentially so
that's the so yeah obviously right now
democracy and change is that an Elmore
Larry book actually you know honestly do
you know Elmore Leonard could have
picked some of the characters from that
book and it would have been actually
very funny I think if I'm in great what
do you have some more I mean we've
already given so many great movie and
book recommendations but do you have any
any movie recommendations to leave aside
like we mentioned network so I don't
they're a bunch of people listen the
majority of Fort no network see dealt
with it's worth three say so I'd see
that work again I'd see at cartoon
movies from nineteen two movies from
1957 great ones that again some people
probably face in the crowd where you
realize that Andy Griffith can act but
shoberg script earlier today's movie
that is a trump-like character I mean
not just a trump-like character are
Glenn Beck's white characters and
O'Reilly like character and it's amazing
and perfect and you'll you'll be stunned
that how prescient that movie sweet
smell of success from 57 about sort of
how easy it is is what access how access
corrupts its access to a columnist but
it works shot up like the the sacrifices
you will make the principles you will
give up to get in with the most
important powerful people in the world
it's that it's the best access movie
maybe ever made and then like you know
another seventies movie three days with
John doar like a you know what inside
the CIA just it's the great it's to me
it's the best government overreach
paranoia movie because it's also kind of
plausible right right like it's not the
head of the CIA it's not officially the
CIA but it's enough guys there to to get
something awful and dangerous done in
the name of quotable protecting America
from running out of energy but those are
you know all of those to me oh and I
mentioned another one the conversation
and the Coppola sandwich movie in
between the two Godfather's about the UH
what we can do with electronic
surveillance and it was printed
back then but it is it holds it holds
true today and the world we live in now
that movie seems particularly chilling
those are all and I'll throw one more
Billy Wilder ace-in-the-hole 1951 game
battle reported sort of what what how
the media can go wrong and pursuing a
story that'll raise their profile also
uh all those all those were perfect and
great and everybody will look go watch
good movies
go read Elmore Leonard I'll grab a
Elmore Leonard book if I can before I
fly to Chicago tonight matter of fact
yeah there's mean you can't go wrong I
mean just there there there's twenty
sitter that are nearly a nearly perfect
Ben mankiewicz
you're awesome watch Ben and Turner
Classic Movies catch them sometimes on T
YT Ben thanks a million as always take
care of man all right folks we're gonna
take a brief break we've got a ton to
get to and to do that with us is Matt
bender we're gonna talk about this wild
Southern Poverty Law Center report and
also I really need to get to this story
about the Democratic Congress people
demanding answers and the DOJ
relationship to lava jato if you
supported lava jato whether you are the
Guardian New York Times Washington Post
or Jimmy Dore you are bear some
responsibility for the fires in the
Amazon and I want to juxtapose what's
happening in the Amazon and and we're
doing this very consciously because
depressingly enough a story in a video
that just talks about the lungs of the
earth are burning because of Western
capitalism and a fascist in Brazil and
the CIA that'll probably get I don't
know several thousand views twelve maybe
twelve if we add Megan Dave Rubin
doesn't understand rainforest but likes
balsan ro that could probably shoot up
to about 50 or 60 maybe 70 thousand and
there's actually a reason one it's fun
to make fun of dave rubin but to
if you need some Ruben dunking to
understand the world's greatest eco
crisis I am willing to do that I'm
willing to make that sacrifice alright
we're gonna take a brief break we'll be
right back with Matt bender
you
you
majority report joining us now in studio
in the flesh on his birthday
Matt bender M&M Friday 2019 how's it
going Matt pleasure to have you is
everything okay with the sound guys and
hear me oh yeah now we can hear you
everyone missed my joke wonderful
wonderful
that's alright wasn't that funny so
let's talk about dooms hey it's better
that we get right to talking about your
good podcast versus your okay so let's
get to the doomed podcast seriously I
hope everybody who's watching it is what
is listening and becoming a patron most
people know but we remind everybody what
you gonna do it doomed yeah sure so doom
does a podcast where it's also a YouTube
livestream show youtube.com slash Matt
bender where basically I talk about the
latest going ons in the right online
with you know the trolls of the right
you know internet conspiracies all that
sorts of fun stuff that it seems to have
completely taken over every aspect of
our life since I don't know the past ten
years you are you're still on your by
the way just to just to be clear one of
the many things that I like is Europe
your total Bernie 2020 you're not into
any this other nonsense right of course
what are you I mean no I just I I just
think particularly in the last couple of
days it's just like I mean honestly I
was a Seth Moulton guy until today
Boulton guy yeah he dropped out today
yeah yeah oh we didn't even headline
that right because I mean it's
incredible that a guy who's a US
congressman couldn't even get on a
debate stage where you have Marianne
Williamson and Andrew yeah Marianne
Williamson school I lovely very without
but I mean compared to who she is and
who he is at least in politics you know
yes and no right like actually I was
thinking about this cuz people always
say this but the bottom line is is like
you know what
a national best-selling author who's
been in some form of the public eye for
decades versus like a backbench Congress
person who's never said or done anything
notable I mean I guess I don't know I
think she actually is a significantly
more relevant person I honestly did not
know who she was and so she started
running to be quite frank well I mean
sure but I'm not saying she's like a
yeah Bernie mentioned him in the our
revolution book she has a paragraph I'll
see if I can pull it up that's really
yeah it's like she it's like she spoke
with him once there like said run Bernie
run so she was she was on the Bernie
train in 2016 I think honestly she's
gonna be on the Bernie train when she
drops down as well I think so I have no
doubt that she will it I will doubt and
that will be the only way if she doesn't
endorse Bernie
then you'll get a criticism of Marianne
Williamson for me till then she gets
nothing but props yeah I mean I just I I
think it's like it's interesting because
just the watching though that narrative
of like first it wouldn't 2016 it was
all like Hillary Clinton going it that's
he's offering a pony and it's you know
it's unrealistic blah blah blah blah
blah and then everything changed - well
what does even need to ruin everybody
else aport would he supports and of
course it's like you know first of all
they don't I mean that's quite obvious
and then secondly well another reason it
well first reason is because he actually
has a movement and credibility behind
him and he reconfigured American
politics in the most positive direction
we've seen in decades and set and and
then also because he's actually pretty
committed to this stuff and so what he's
gonna do is after shifting the whole
game to the left were even totally
insincere people like calm Harris lie
about their health care positions he um
now is or I should say just you know
constantly reverses herself now he is uh
redefining
the next stage of where we're gonna go
politically which is why his criminal
justice Labor and green New Deal
proposals are off the charts right right
but also we have to mention that
Bernie's also backtracked on that medic
for all plan by of course coming out
with provisions that benefited unions
even more than they'd already had so I
mean of course what a what a huge
backtrack from birth I tried to do with
the face you talking about the
Washington Post headline and like I love
how like all of the labor union leaders
just had to even even once that I've
endorsed them were just like uh no we
really appreciate the proposal this is
just completely insane delusional and
dishonest but I did that even changed
anything in Medicare for although it was
literally just additions that benefited
union members even more so it's not like
he went back into Medicare for all and
changed anything maybe like yeah new
like like Roosevelt just for like and
that's why this even better deal expands
and the press was like a better deal I
guess he opposes the new deal the Four
Freedoms way to reverse yourself on
Social Security jerk right I mean what
do you honestly make I'm genuinely
fascinated because okay there's the
obvious people that should hate and
oppose Bernie in them and what he
represents and that is the capital class
and oligarchs and lobbyists and you know
all of the small number of people that
benefit from the system including
actually many elite members obviously of
the Democratic Party and so their
antagonism to him is just perfectly
rational it's like yes of course because
he's saying that people are gonna have
well-being and health care and food and
housing at the expense of you hoarding
all wealth and resources and destroying
the earth and I guess you know if you're
hoarding all the resources and
destroying the earth you would not like
that make people's lives better program
I find people and I'm not even saying
like look obviously I don't understand
not supporting Bernie I'm pretty upfront
about that but like look you can
occasionally once in a blue moon I will
meet a person who doesn't support Bernie
Sanders and they just kind of say like
no he's a good guy but you know I don't
know I'm more of a centrist blah blah
blah and it's like a you know okay sure
fair enough whatever I will never
understand
the gist deranged obsessive hatred of
this guy I just don't get it I mean it's
it's so bizarre and and it's so this is
coming from someone who in the general
election voted for Hillary Clinton right
it's literally because he had the
audacity to run against her and not only
that he continued running to push his
movement even when most people say that
he you know he was clearly going to lose
okay fine whatever
but him running he only got us through
the point we are today it didn't hurt
Hillary's chances anyway he campaigned
his heart out for her oh I was actually
talking to somebody who was involved in
2016 and it's funny cuz you know he's
supportive of Bernie but he's not even
as as strong as as I am but he was like
he was like I'll tell you what though
he's like Bernie gets a lot of unfair
raps but he's like the one about him not
supporting Hillary he's like I was there
like you know he wasn't in the Bernie
campaign but he was around some of these
events and he's like I physically saw
this guy nobody campaigned harder for
her and of course you know if you have
any kind of longer memory and you know I
don't know well you know what whatever
because I'm just tired of all the
Clinton just that like literally like I
feel like we beat him into the dead
horse how did Hillary Clinton I just say
that not only the Hillary Clinton not
drop out after Obama had clearly won she
was literally saying things like musing
on people getting assassinated like like
these things go on for a while Bobby
Kennedy was popped very late in the
primary right you know I mean like that
was you know a lot of people have stayed
on after they should have dropped out
maybe even said more provocative things
than people should have health care
right right no but you know if you even
look at the the dates that that were
done for Hillary all the different
campaign events that happened I'm pretty
sure other than herself obviously her
husband and her daughter Bernie Sanders
did more events than anyone besides
those three absolutely which is it
incredible and I didn't take any breaks
to go to little saint james either I
wish
had it in for Hillary as much as these
people think he does because he probably
could have milked the email issue a
little bit more and maybe knocked her
out and won the election 100 percent
that's the other thing that's
extraordinary to me is the guy like if
you were just running as an actual
proper campaign just to beat somebody
because clearly in the beginning the
campaign he went so he was so diplomatic
because I think obviously in their heads
they were running to make a point and
they didn't want to hurt her in the
general election which is exactly why
he's like you know let's hear about your
Damn emails
she's amazing he never gets any credit
for not too damn emails I remember
sitting there honestly as a supporter of
his and I was kind of pissed cuz I don't
care about the emails but it's like you
know you use what you got right right
like I don't know here I mean personally
too bad the Podesta emails didn't come
out during the primary because then
Bernie could have been right a guy who
put together the pizza gate thing and
then he common ping-pong I've I've never
trusted decadent bourgeoisie art and
performance installations I had no idea
how dark it was right that was so funny
the basement talked about Jeffrey
Epstein he could have done the real site
I mean like well I was fighting against
deck after trade deal Donald Dipel
platon died Kevin Spacey we're going to
Africa I wonder what that plane trip was
about just a connecting flight
this is so random but you remember the
crazy press and anti Bernie basically
hubbub of that happened when he went to
go see the Pope no you don't remember
that I don't even remember selection
Bernie went to go see the Pope and
everyone made a big deal because
something I believe like the plane menu
offered like Lobster done well I do
remember like when the when the the big
expose of him wearing a winter coat came
out it was one coat yeah that's all he's
had for like ten years this guy in it
seventy squares a winter coat in New
England what ask oh my god these nuts
I got do you think do people not realize
are they really that had to touch that
like this old guy who has a 20 year old
winter coat that he's worn every year
for the past 20 years that was gifted to
him by probably one of his prized
possessions because it cost more money
than he probably would have spent if he
brought a coat himself right I I connect
with that that's my winter jacket I
don't I would have I was expensive
winter jacket please play a game called
guess who this hack works for after it's
Kamala Harris yeah Oh
Kamala Harris's con guy is really bad
he's mean he's just he's like basically
a glorified Twitter troll even if you
like her I mean he's no no he's not good
also if you like your I mean also if you
don't want to die Murray maturely
because of a lack of health care you
might have a problem with this so tell
us about this story that the SPLC
revealed about this white the
nationalists at the State Department
this is a really disturbing crazy story
right right I just want to say this
upfront though seems like both times
I've con them they should come on the
show recently you guys have just
happened to have me on after I've had
Michael Hayden of the SPLC Hatewatch
o on and his stories both times on this
show so I want to shout him out Michael
Hayden on Twitter Michael e Hayden you
guys should definitely have him on the
majority port or tpms he's been doing
great work and he's the one who did all
the work to find out about this guy who
worked for the State Department and
basically this guy was a foreign affairs
officer with the Bureau of energy
resources which is part of the State
Department and his name is Matthew Q
gehbert and I made the joke that middle
name q interesting right q non
connection maybe maybe but anyway so
this guy gabart has and this is really
important to drive home and I wanted to
really drive this home when I had
Michael on my podcast app last week to
talk about this this guy started working
for the State Department in 2013 so
that's really important this is not a
political appointee and he's nothing to
do with the Trump administration this is
a bureaucrat inside the State Department
right he started as a fellow
13 so you have a young guy here you know
and in 2015 is when he starts to get
radicalized you know so he's already
working for the State Department so it's
not like they went out and has happened
to hire or white supremacists but he's
getting radicalized while working for
the State Department he's listening to
these right-wing white supremacist
podcasts he's reading these different
white supremacist personalities online
big fan of Mike Enoch aka Mike P Novick
of the right stuff and the daily show
and this is the guy who is one of the
earliest internet white supremacists to
really sort of gain a following with his
personality and with his sort of this
sort of like media network he created on
the right and later came out that a
white supremacist actually doxxed him
people who didn't like him on the right
who didn't like him they doxxed him and
it turned out the day the Jewish wife
interesting but uh some real problems
there a few yeah and he's also the guy
who came up with the whole putting the
parentheses around Jewish names okay so
this is a guy who you might know not
know him by name but his work is well
within the white supremacist mainstream
that we now know and so he the one who
really radicalized this guy this guy
gabart became friendly with him was a
regular sort of guest on his show you
know just someone who listened to the
show who would call in and he ended up
meeting with these guys
there were sources who said that there
were well known white supremacists in
that world coming to this guy's home in
in the DC area and he even ended up
leading the Washington DC chapter of
this white supremacist organization and
here he is working for the State
Department again I just want to say you
know you hear he's just a foreign
affairs officer with the Bureau of
energy resources you might think that
sounds like a long-winded you know title
he might not have been someone so high
up ranking but actually from what
Michael Hayden of the SPLC was
you know from fellow to this he was
really on his way up and it became such
a problem that Michael ended up putting
out another report a few days later that
he actually broke on the show on doomed
that his brother had actually reported
him to the FBI saying hey the State
Department employs this guy who's my
brother who is very active in whites the
white supremacist movement and I'm he if
you read the article with his brother
his brother literally says he was
like scared of his brother like
disgusted by what he was seeing and so
he had to actually go and contact the
Unabomber thing right right so what
happened where does the state of things
now so enough right now the the guy who
ended I think this guy was able to buy
his own home in the DC Virginia area so
you know he's getting paid well his wife
actually is not just an innocent
bystander she actually is also a very
much part of the white supremacist
movement they both were well known under
there is this a hundred percent like
validated correct thoroughly reported
have they commented on it right they had
not comment on it the State Department
though has suspended this individual
where they look into it right um the
wife has also been suspended from where
she works she was working for like the
Tourism Board of some state I can't
remember which I was have in my head
she's also been suspended and they have
two kids so this gets even sadder
because you know those kids are are not
only being hurt by you know what's going
on there they're hurt their parents
being suspended from work but also these
kids are growing up in this sick
environment in this sick environment yes
exactly and then you know so so you have
this going on and it's just really a sad
story I mean it's easy to on this
guy and this woman and obviously it's
well deserved and I'm going to on
them careful with any vanity I forget
that we're on right now right right now
all right so new because everybody was
just like any baby T platforms and now
all of a sudden now everything and
everything gets this is the trend
right any any video title that has to do
with do you know that you can get
demonetised out for like Rashida to live
Ilan Omar I because they've went from
incentivizing this alt right algorithm
to now they just want to make it like
CNN on the internet right well I've
actually was I might my youtube channel
got monetized yo you got monitor man got
demonetised entirely entirely the whole
channel it's totally because of the
subjects you cover because they make no
thoughtful distinction about covering
horrific rings versus promoting horrific
I can say though I'm back to being
monetized again wait a second let me see
what should I give you first how you
give this name before I give my one
extra addendum okay go ahead but if you
look through the videos though almost
every other video of mine well you can't
look through the videos because it's
only on the back end almost every other
video of mine is actually D monetized or
barely showing ads due to the content
and when I say the content I mean I'm am
dropping probably an f-bomb once or
twice in the in the video but I don't
think it's then no I actually think it's
the titles of my show there's a lot of
the titles of my shows are white
supremacists yeah white now it's all the
title whatever yes Alton and here's an
interesting thing actually the last
episode the my last week episode with
Michael Hayden on this I had put in the
title white nationalists and I used this
program called restream to
simultaneously stream in all these
different platforms and twitch
interestingly it's the first time I've
ever discovered this would not allow me
to put the word nationalist in my title
right they would not like you they
wouldn't save it however though I was
able to swap out the word nationalist
with supremacist and that was okay so I
think we got a problem here yes this is
the reverse of when I don't know if you
guys recall this but Facebook for a time
said white supremacist white supremacist
content in our network is Bend you
cannot post it right white nationalist
content though is okay because there's a
distinction between supremacy and Nash's
book accepted that facing did yes it was
part of their policy so the silence heal
the Christchurch
and they reverse course and said on
second thought there is no this thing
you cannot put nerds in charge of this
thing and you cannot have that you know
the whole base of a conversation that
has to do with petitioning oligarchic
tech monopolies to monitor and police
and decide these things is catastrophic
you need to break these companies up you
need to my opinion need to nationalize
them and then you need actual
journalistic processes to determine them
and if that's cost prohibitive then they
need to be broken up in a way that it
isn't cost prohibitive and and also it
isn't it isn't it is not cost
prohibitive they these companies have
unlimited resources right and they
certainly know how to spend it where
they precisely need to spend it if we
actually got a minute oh so it's over -
no ridging but it was just I just want
to really emphasize it was not because I
was noticing the Dan Crenshaw when he
was going after Hassan he didn't
say it explicitly but in between you
know not discussing the actual issue
that Hassan was trying to highlight
which was actually important and then in
addition to that and then you know and
then saying that Hassan was triggered or
whatever he had a tweet where he was
like what's really bad is that you know
Google and YouTube profit off of this by
TYT and so it's like what do you think
he's doing there you know if you play
this game and none of these these
companies I have no there's no
journalists they're pretending their
platforms and there's no labor
journalistic governmental oversight and
so you know it's like this way I say
like it can be satisfying maybe even
necessary in a couple of instances to go
after individual craters 2d platforming
or something but as a strategy it's a
disaster right it's only gonna shrink
and then including you you get hit for
covering and exposing this stuff because
no one's gonna make any meaningful
distinction it's it's just not right
joke this this past week actually
Facebook released their audit of
conservative bias now last year Facebook
announced that they were they asked two
separate organizations to conduct two
separate audits right a civil rights
audit that looked at how marginalized
groups were treated on Facebook
and a conservative audit looking at how
conservatives were treated on Facebook
right and a civil rights leader took
over the conservative audit and they
spoke with civil rights organizations to
conduct this civil rights audit which
has already had two reports come out
that basically detailed how different
marginalized groups are actually hurt by
Facebook's policies but this week the
conservative audit came out and Facebook
had john kyle former Republican senator
john kyle put together this facebook
audit and the audit is really weird
because you think especially being that
facebook a okay okay this it would look
at internal facebook data it would have
some sort of numbers to support whatever
claims are being made but no this audit
that was released just this week
actually late because john kyle actually
had to fill in for john mccain in the
senate right so so this art that was
released is actually just john kyle
going around to 133 different
conservative individuals and groups and
asking hey how does facebook treat you
and then just providing that as the
evidence right
so facebook is taking basically
conservative saying this is how i don't
think it's treating me well yes i'll
tell you that exactly so they're taking
that and creating policy around now
luckily according to facebook most of
their policies are already covering the
issues that the conservatives brought up
meaning they weren't strictly related to
whatever the conservatives complaints
were but one of the policies they did
change is that they're now letting
medical tests to that medical tubing i'm
sorry excuse me medical tubing allowed
in facebook ads previously facebook had
been any use of medical tube imagery in
their facebook ads and now the reason
conservatives were had a problem with
this is because anti-abortion groups
need to show that tubing in their all
right imagery when they conduct their
facebook ads to show look what happens
to these these fetuses right and so
facebook is now going to allow them to
do that see the bottom line is you need
to make these companies they need to be
public utilities they and yes it's gonna
mean that the First Amendment applies
that's my view
but even more narrowly you need to
demand and work to somehow acknowledge
that these are journalistic platforms
and they need to have Ombudsman and
editors and so on because all that's
happening right now is that these
companies are just either shrinking the
discourse in a way that just try to like
push people to CNN videos or whatever it
has a disastrous effect on really
important independent left media and
investigative journalism or they're you
know they're gonna actually outsource
this stuff to neo conservative
think-tanks on foreign policy and right
wing nut jobs and hacks on on the studs
it's a disaster um we got to do two
quick stories it'll be a freebie today
arrests all times sake Oh needed a drink
deep cut you're still drinking that
stuff don't you have a family to take
care of how do you think I care my
family stay away sorry well I mean but
God we got I don't know you know like
Mac and discard his health Matt doesn't
have any obligations you have
obligations man you know let's see so as
you're a high enid in case they're
watching and you might be watching that
hi Ezra how you doing man let's do two
quick stories then we'll get we're gonna
do a freebie Friday we got to be out of
here by about 2:15 so we're gonna try to
get through a lot of stuff but let's we
got to talk about the Amazon and as I
said earlier the door to talking about
the Amazon is well first let's get an
actual serious report on this this is a
sound from democracy now this morning
with an Amazon watch Andrew Andrew
Miller from Amazon watch explains the
stakes to Amy Goodman let's restart that
I Amazon watches Andrew Miller was on
something that wouldn't have happened
just five years ago just the fires that
we're seeing which of course are
incredibly visual and have really drawn
the world's attention to what's
happening but the scope of the problem
is is much broader really in terms of
the policies and the rhetoric of the
bull senado administration which is not
the first time of course that the Amazon
has been under assault and not the first
time that indigenous peoples have been
facing threats but we've really seen an
acceleration of and you know an
exacerbation of a lot of the symptoms of
course the fires as you mentioned are up
essentially 80 percent over the same
period last year but we're also seeing
other symptoms like deforestation rates
also being up you know in a very
terrifying way in recent months and the
pressures and threats that indigenous
peoples are facing on the ground from
the illegal miners from the land
grabbers from the loggers so can you
explain what volson Otto is charging
that NGOs are setting these fires talk
about the map of the areas that
indigenous people control where these
fires are
well we've seen 10,000 fires lit just in
the last week so the map of where the
fires are is across the brazilian amazon
and other parts of brazil actually but
if you look at the map of brazil if you
look at the brazilian amazon from space
essentially in some cases you can see
where the indigenous territories are
because that's essentially where the
trees are still standing
you know so these fires are being set in
areas where people are trying to you
know want to carry out different kinds
of agricultural activities but as you
saw in the video they're also going into
indigenous territories and that's again
symptomatic of the broader policies that
we're seeing from the bolson otto
administration they have said in many
cases you know essentially they want to
open up protected areas and indigenous
territories to these two extractive
activities to the agribusiness lobby or
tagger business activities there and so
again the fires are just sort of the
latest manifestation of those policies
and this is exactly right this is when
the Economist said that he had a lot of
innovative ideas this is what they're
talking about this explicitly and
precisely what the Wall Street Journal
wanted when they endorsed him and if we
look more broadly there is no question
that this is the broader context
US foreign policy towards deal Ajith
amaizing the Workers Party and making
Lula da Silva political prisoner on
these are this is a new report leaked
documents to open democracy show
Brazil's bolson ro has pull has grave
plans for the Amazonian for the Amazon
rain far and this is specifically about
whipping up using rhetoric to basically
attack indigenous people basically in a
fascist you know grab of land and
resources bolson ro has said things like
Africans have hurt Brazil um he's
regularly called for the stripping of
indigenous protections and you need to
have ethnic cleansing for ecocide so
that's the strategy of the bolsa nominal
government I love that ball scenario in
response to a tweet from Emmanuel macron
resorted to just ludicrous pseudo woke
language and accused him of colonialism
when really what bolson ro is is an
agent a pure puppet of US corporate in
Canadian corporate interests who's
committing mass terrorism and death in
his own country on behalf of those
interests and well I want to put one
really important thing in the story and
then we'll get to the fun part which we
can all enjoy the lava jato
investigation which I've covered so many
times on t MBS in the show and I hope
people can increasingly understand why
because the stakes of this have are the
JR balsan are was the greatest threat to
human life on earth with all of the
supporters behind him including the
Department of Justice and all of these
various Wall Street interests and so on
if you supported lava jato process in
any way as almost all of the press did
you bear a responsibility for this and
there's a really important move
including The Guardian New York Times
Washington Post Jimmy Dore it's true
just a weird name to end on that list
well it's a weird name but it's it's
it's YouTube so you know people got to
be more thoughtful representative Hank
Johnson has asked the DOJ for answers on
Brazil corruption and the
Sakina former president Lula da Silva
this is a press release aynd this 13
congressmen I'm gonna read really
quickly
Rahul drew Hoffa of Arizona Eleanor
Holmes Norton of DC Jared Huffman of
California Susan Wilde of Pennsylvania
Adriano s Pilat of New York Veronica
Escobar of Texas Ilan Omar of Minnesota
Deb Holland of New Mexico mark Pocan of
Wisconsin Jesus Chuy Garcia of Illinois
Emanuel cleaver of Missouri ro Khanna of
California have all signed a letter that
was led by congressman Hank Johnson of
Georgia this is what Johnson said in his
press release there's strong evidence
that Brazil's former president Lula was
the target of a highly political
operation involving the current justice
minister that was intended to keep him
off the ballot in last year's elections
which he almost certainly would have won
rep Johnson said we need to be sure that
the goj was not part of this tainted
process now we know from all of the lava
jato leaks that the process of
persecuting Lula was totally corrupt and
dishonest and Lula has steadily said
including in a new video yesterday where
he said Hillary Clinton does not like
Latin America that and Barack Obama was
not ready to be President and that
almost saying and also saying that if
they do let me out of jail they should
know that I am going to do politics and
campaign across the country until the
day I die this guy is amazing he really
is the best political talent on earth we
know though that the whole process that
was implemented from lava jato and there
was clear I mean the DOJ coordination is
on the public record including giving
fine money to the lava jato team instead
of the Brazilian state that the timeline
correlates with the discovery of new oil
resources off the coast of Brazil that
was going to be held by Petrobras the
state oil company which the Lula Dilma
governments used to fund social programs
with and which now in addition to
everything else and all the other
destruction of lava jato has been
bankrupt and also cost numerous jobs and
significantly damaged the Brazilian and
Latin
an economy so everybody bears a
consequence here Lula had a double-digit
lead those elections should be annulled
and he should be freed immediately and
everybody should be calling for that
now there's another guy that had some
thoughts about pulsar neuro and that is
you know I criticize a lot of people but
I've always maintained this is the
stupidest guy this is there is no
greater fusion of stupid and Craven
I absolutely would pick Jimmy Dore and
some type of game over this guy yeah no
one worse than this guy Dave is the
archetypal useful dumb guy absolutely
here's Dave Rubin reminding us of his
deep insight on junior bolson ro is your
opinion on Brazilian Prime Minister Boas
our bowls are in a row can we just play
that again you haven't seen this before
you literally have to just not have paid
attention to anything whatsoever in the
past like how many years know that I had
at mat to be fair dave has been paying
attention the important stuff you got to
watch the whole clip don't worry about
pronouncing his name there's higher
priorities here like I don't know
terrorizing gay kids in schools check it
out is your opinion on Brazilian Prime
Minister bolas our bowls are narrow
regarding and there's a lot of things
moving here deforestation of the
rainforest PS I'm a Christian I baked
you a cake though you know I don't know
enough about him but it sounds like he
really hates Marxism and he's really
pushing Brazil to become more of a world
leader and he actually is for capitalism
and he's trying to get some of the SJW
stuff out of the schools I just saw a
tweet by him a day or two ago so on that
front and as again I don't know a ton
about him that all sounds good to me
and as a Christian I appreciate your
offer man thank you for playing that
what a fantastic birthday gift thank you
we also just remind everybody in terms
of like that actually even the bolson ro
government itself is apparently as major
concerns that how poorly received Brazil
is in the world right
now Germany has cut off funding for at
least one program related to the Amazon
and Merkel and McCrone are calling for a
g7 meeting to deal with what's happening
in an Amazon Lula was the most popular
politician on earth when he was
president and Celso Amran was called the
best foreign minister in the world so in
terms of like really making Brazil
better positioned in the world might
need to rethink that one dummy Dave the
funny thing to me is before he brought
up that he read a tweet or two from him
I was assuming that all he knew about
him was deforestation and his first
response to hearing that was well it's
great to hear he hates Marxist I mean it
basically was this was before it to be
fair I'm sure Dave this was several
months ago I'm sure Dave is totally up
on this and will clear his schedule of
really deep broadcast that he has
planned about I don't know like
Olbermann Olbermann students like
protesting TPS or something in order to
deal with the fact that the lungs of
planet Earth are getting burned up I
have no doubt that Davis plan more
likely Tim pool is gonna be on next week
yes Brennan I think it's I think it's in
poor taste that we would make fun of
Dave on a day of mourning
well that's a good point and what might
be a day of mourning for Dave Rubin is a
day of joy and celebration for most
humans and of course I'm talking about
the death of David Koch I like to point
out once again that today is my birthday
[Laughter]
look I think the I think the just
general principle always applies which
is like I you know okay um this is a
great joke from our buddy comedian David
Feldman check out David Feldman show as
per his request billionaire David Koch
will be cremated along with the rest of
Planet Earth look we all know the Koch
brothers if you haven't yet go pick up a
copy of Jane Mayer's dark money to
understand what these people have done
going back to their father I mean these
are two you know they've so much to harm
American democracy so much the hurt so
many people create so much in just the
suffering and poverty but they did put
some seed money into this dynamic
company my father said to me Wyatt you
can do whatever you want to in life just
make sure you do it well and you do it
with passion every day I go to the
office I enjoy creating the clothes
Diebold means to me the authentic be
real be yourself be confident and always
be a gentleman but still have that
tenacity that no one can take away from
you I want my shirts to be able to be
worn in the boardroom or in a
discotheque I really wanted to create
something that's fun outside the box
little trendy yet really bold and
interesting those shirts Oh bends are
you gonna do disco take it for your
birthday this is my funeral clothes oh
my god are you honoring the David Koch
mister flash mob at the funeral all in
white coat gear they're not for everyone
but you could pull it off Oh about $90 I
spent a lot of time with this go take it
yeah you know we use the phrase trust
fund baby of fairly loosely here in the
show raisin but when it comes to the
Koch brothers whose father made his
money building oil industries for both
style and which you know you could
excuse
and Hitler which you cannot excuse me
now xq that's right
and they literally have like this nazi
made who liked made them go through all
this terrible stuff when they're younger
and they kill Moscow the whole if you
read about their made you will feel
sympathy for them yeah it's a good thing
to talk about David Koch's
their whole like philanthropy was
started because their dad wanted you
know I mean like a lot of philanthropy
to reduces tax liabilities right and
that's that's when you see you know the
David Koch blah-de-blah Center which is
all over New York City everything is
funded by the Koch sits just because
there'd reducing their tax liabilities I
don't it's like an fun way for them to
put their name on stuff and not pay
taxes right I mean for as long as I've
known who the Koch brothers were I go
through like the grocery stores and I
know to myself not to buy Dixie Cups
because they're owned by the Koch
brothers boy world you have to like
really you like I don't think people
even realize how much the cokes are
seeped into their life and I mean
talking about name is on on buildings in
New York I'm talking about literally go
to your grocery store they own a major
paper tower company where they are they
bounty ORS brownie which wonder that I
can't remember I don't even know they're
one of those and there's also general
system georgia-pacific right that's them
yeah I think George but I think yeah so
it's yeah cuz coconut is is either the
largest or second largest I don't know
if it's after Cargill or before it but
private company in the world right and
they have and they're also I mean every
Mike Pompeo his whole career is a is a
coke project yeah congressman from coke
congressman from coke alright let's take
a call folks of course are just as
always we're definitely not gonna get to
all calls because we have to a little
tight timewise with the travel but
you're calling from a sorry eight or
seven area code who are you where you're
calling from
hey it's Josh from Chicago Josh from
Chicago what's on your minds hot dog hot
dog ever million Chicago please okay
devil dogs I'll do it yeah do it
I also first lost shout out to jay
Inslee I think I just want to give him
props
yeah I think this climate change muscles
were like me the gold standard and
everybody Bernie adopting some of the
climate justice stuff I think we got a
new gold standard man I don't know if
you have Bernie Bernie's green no deal
is the platinum Stern platinum standard
you know I'm look no one's a bigger
Bernie supporter I was shocked at hoped
that that proposal is you're talking
about the indigenous rights protocols of
the UN in 1992 that no one else is in
the game and there's no one who looks at
politics internationally in this country
at least like Bernal and there's none
none right none no one's in the game
let's be real for sure of the candidates
absolutely no I do I want to talk about
quickly is it invented in England with
Corbin because we don't have a SMBC
centrist here today so we can talk about
Bill issues real left-wing Josh you're
really breaking up a lot so make the
major sisters make it real succinct
please because it's super choppy okay
well I just for me I'm Dems have been
trying to get a voter surgeon with I
believe there is a by-election coming up
in one or in one constituency but for me
I thought was a brilliant move accordant
you offer them
particularly to form a government in
order to avoid in a guild fractious
excellent I totally agree with you and I
will just say cuz we're tight on time
the phone lines a little bad but I I I
will I don't like to kind of be this
crass about it but we I did an in-depth
video on that forty MBS which you can go
watch he made the move he exposed the
Lib Dems we didn't cover it here but I I
covered it elsewhere so it's it's
important you're coming from a nine one
seven Aryan code who are you where he
calling from oh hey Michael this is odd
also known as water war from Kashmiri
hey how are you doing man oh I'm fine
anyone was here I guess this point just
a wonderful guess right
in addition Lobo update and some
comments about that I don't know if
you've heard of Rana IU she's the author
of pedrad files I think she would make
an excellent guest because she actually
like like secretly tape people because
she's like no one's gonna believe me if
I don't take this what's the website
well lick that up because you tell me
the website yeah tell me to write a book
called Gujarat files on its RA na and
last name is are you a why why you be
the book is called Bergerac files
okay somebody's looking knocked down oh
yeah I will try to get her okay
just we're a little tight so just what
what else
obviously arresting people are shipping
them I see outside Kashmir because there
and of course going out that there to
people like in Delhi this cash shortages
food shortages does that fit with one
interpretation that I've heard that this
is India Slee this is a nationalist
ethnic cleansing project of the BJP but
also that this really is about like that
there's a lot of prime real estate there
there's money to be made on ski slopes
vacations and different property values
and if you strip citizenship and cleanse
the place you can basically there's a
lot of kind of primitive accumulation
opportunities is that what's going on -
well there's a big constituency that
wants that and got it and there's little
clashes to like they'll tell you what
you want the moneyed interests got what
they want the middle class that is
falling into line and it is dreaming of
you know going up and find prime real
estate there is looking for that like
everyone is getting what they want
that's one more do you sell it you know
that's what like sort of the way like
Trump like David Cook may not have like
Trump but he like those policies or like
you guys went to Mitt Romney
you know they might hate that guy buddy
what we want right right kind of that
dynamic going on yeah and like the last
comment I would make is the children
that they're arresting they are it's not
just the police it's not just the
military it's also the Prime
so it's not like a local law enforcement
think it is a way to terrorize the
population because what they want is for
people to like not come out in protest
but specifically push people because any
population you can go in and if you you
know poke them enough someone will you
know resort to violence and so they're
trying to pick their own opposition sort
of what like they all listen we're just
trying to put down these terrorists so
yeah just keep an eye out for that and
yeah I'll just keep tweeting out
articles but yeah I know you from time
thank you for your please doing keep
definitely keep meeting yeah tweet me
and actually remind me of your handle
I'm gonna I gotta make sure to follow
you back so I can keep coordinating this
stuff well do a lot more on it
thanks man that's really disgusting Leon
Trotsky hey Michael excited to see you
tomorrow night I know this isn't T mb/s
but Bolivia needs a shoutout for taking
initiative to try to mitigate the Amazon
disaster yes and I do want to get up to
speed with what Bolivia's doing
apparently there's an initiative there
thank you and look forward to seeing you
Chicago tomorrow night great to see in
here Matt bender a square one day we
have to have the whole band back
together Mike what a catastrophe in
Brazil wondering if the people will go
on the streets over this and the Amazon
Jamie good to see you breaking down the
song of the oh of the Bakura resistance
and pronunciation was perfect I'm sure
mine wasn't but yes that does sound
fascinating um there's a lot of people
protesting in Brazil there's a lot of
movements there but there's similar
dynamics to here in terms of the oleg
arcs i mean it's far worse there i mean
their movement leaders get murdered you
know i mean it's it's a completely
different ballgame a former president is
in jail on fake charges a goddess woman
michael you beautiful can I get a
shofar it's my birthday - happy birthday
map in there thank you and house
birthday to you - I love you guys mr and
TMDs make my life in the end of times
more bearable whoo ha leverage jeez
let's try to make it not the end of
times but I hear you and he
a glass house I had some Trump
supporting friends that took issue with
Hassan pikers comments yesterday I tried
to get me to apologize for him it's
nothing but a game to them they have no
problem excusing Trump's constant
degradation of public discourse but will
act indignant over comments made by
leftist they've never heard of
solidarity with her son solidarity with
asan and of course they'll do that and
of course Hassan did not mean that he
was happy that the September 11
terrorist attacks happened he was trying
to make a bigger point about u.s.
foreign policy he's trying to make a
bigger point in fact about literally
people like Dan Crenshaw who vote to
fund the terrorists supporting a Saudi
regime in terms of selling them weapons
even as they're committing a genocide in
Yemen yeah and he misspoke for one
second he deleted the video and these
people are cynical they're Craven
they're lying about him they're
attacking him it's disgusting and we
have solidarity with his son and I just
just a bunch of triggered snowflakes
they are just trying to comedy they're
trying to ruin comedy and you can't say
what you think anymore and you can't
speak with any spontaneity and a live
stream anymore also damn Crenshaw's
crimes go far beyond his voting record
extend to Facebook if you want to Google
that and then also his smearing of Ilhan
Omar he's a fascist propagandist that
just happens that the Congress see funny
sucks and in this case well I might not
do it personally I'm sorry spare me I
don't care people want to make fun of
the guy for whatever reason they want to
make fun of the guy I don't care a fun
thing about him that he's recently
putting together is that you see that
thing that's going around online where
he's gonna do a run across his whole
district which just basically showcases
how gerrymandered it is because he's got
a go like oh yeah she'd do it in
Crenshaw or did he mean it in Crenshaw I
think he is dan Crenshaw is doing it to
showcase how he's gonna meet everyone
across his district he showcased what
his marathon run was going to be right
but it just shows you how Gerry met
yesterday
wait so Dan Crenshaw is doing the yeah
hi doing it Hassan should do the run
Hassan should totally do
Hasaan should definitely be dangerous
yeah I was gonna say maybe not right now
there's a lot of crazy people right now
you're calling from a 308 area code who
are you where you coming from
hey it's Kowalski from Nebraska Kowalski
from Nebraska the Lula leave way
Republican how you doing brother
what's on you yeah I wanted to call in
and just say I'm not in the Warren camp
anymore nice think I'm in the Sanders
camp oh yeah yeah so far for you my
brother
what did you say vrin said damn this
radicalizing stuff is easy how'd it
happen brother what flipped you
[Laughter]
personally speaking my biggest issue
will be pretty much environmental right
just because you know I see that tied to
pretty much everything and I don't know
Warren seems like she's willing to
almost start compromising now on some
positions and today what you will about
Sanders like I certainly had some
disagreements with him but the guy is
like as true as they come like absolute
leases stagnant is Captain America I
mean he has believed the same thing for
50 years and sorry about that so
he hasn't changed and if like I think I
called in a few days ago and told you
about the whole Amazon rainforest is
essential to California and rainfall
because of transpiration and whatnot but
like even the Amazon getting developed
is like a terrible way to raise
livestock and that's like in direct
contrast to US and the United States is
actually technically one of the better
countries to do it just because of the
range land but right but I digress but
just in the long run he is simply better
for workers I'm a worker no planet
consists of mostly workers and they just
time to give the old guard to run for
their money
well I love it I agree with you
completely and I just again you're but
you're so right I mean look it's look
the fact that Bernie called for freeing
is again another reason why he's the
bravest clearest and best but it's also
that it you're right it's interdependent
with these other issues you don't have
the systemic understanding of what leads
to a crisis like this and that green New
Deal is so innovative and courageous it
also happens to be scientifically you
know the bare minimum like we need to do
this in a major overhaul well last told
you guys a little bit about what my plan
I'm hoping to be sharing with everybody
and I I think a good way to phrase it is
just conservation economy yep you can
get conference conservation to sell in a
red state pretty easily and I mean it I
don't know why people get caught up on
semantics but like this is just simply a
no-brainer
I have never supported Trump at all so
like this is just this is a no-brainer
what if he's gonna bring back the cool
coops like the real ones
y'all for that because even the
old-timers out here will say coops back
in the day were awesome yup and he was a
pioneer that and Bern realized that's a
socialist concept so but they were cuz
they worked for normal people I mean he
was a pioneer of that in Burlington
that's another great part of his record
Matt real quick real quick what was it
that made you made you pick Warren over
Sanders to begin with um there was just
some aspect I thought at the time she
may have been like a more reasonable
approach like something people could
actually stomach but I think you just
have to be pragmatic about it if she's
willing to you know compromise now
during a primary when you know you
shouldn't be compromising at all but you
know when push comes to shove
she probably break so say what you will
about Sanders the dude is steadfast and
that's a good thing I just want to like
note like like the thing that's amazing
like look yes you don't want somebody to
be stagnant and by the way Bernie isn't
stagnant he's already a much better
candidate now than he was three years
ago but on the other hand this idea that
and it's this fetishization with
academia and quote uncle
smartness but I've seen people say like
well you know Warren came to these
positions through academic research
Bernie just has convictions right that's
actually a very desirable trait and I
don't know what kind of course it's it's
the idea that you need you need some
sort of data and I just pick the morally
correct position on the it's front is
the sort of thing I think the data and
the technocracy is the second-order
thing it helps you implement the vision
and I and I just think that you you you
know it's very I've seen that other
attempt to reframe and it's not and you
know unfortunately honestly look look at
this point you got to start clarifying
the differences I will but a lot of this
stuff with with Warren is actually I
mean because it's so predicated on this
weird obsessive hatred at Sanders it's
unfair coverage to her as well because
it's always these dumb ludicrous
contrasts that are just trying to smear
him and and don't you know don't benefit
anybody in the long term thank you a
million for the call I appreciate that
how do you a mat your straightedge
unlike hmm but you up I was like huh how
do you the other man makes up for me
being straightedge
how does Matt water boat himself you got
Anika you got any guesses
I honestly you guys are talking about
that I had to ask you guys what that
even meant I assumed it was a drug thing
apparently it's it's only slightly
related to a truck well this is a great
transition because you're making about
as much sense as David Abela made on Fox
& Friends this morning when he talks
about and Matt didn't just take a hit of
something right there no did it he just
had some coke from the can Cola
David oh Bella making a lot of sense
this morning on Fox's outnumbered I
can't prove this just to lose this
California has tried to clear out their
prisons and yet every year they continue
to have overcrowded prisons and the
focus ought to be on a society that
follows the law not allowing people to
defecate in the streets not allowing and
to lay on the street having just shot up
with marijuana and having having a hold
on so mad now I'm worried do you shoot
up marijuana uh no I do brain-busters
with a bomb
alright so David should calm the hell
down all right go ahead oh that's it all
right I allowing people to defecate in
the streets not allowing individuals to
lay on the street having just shot up
with marijuana and having Erich heroin
heroin heroin did David you you awkward
idiot come on even I know yeah he's like
we even we understand I mean we're
trying to demonize homeless people here
can you not be an idiot if you want to
know how far like Republicans have gone
into like this psycho sphere like this
guy thinks that people can shoot up
marijuana
that's how removed he is yeah we can do
one bite and clip alright just sit back
enjoy it that's it just you mean just
you just want to literally laugh at a
man losing his basic faculties okay he
might he might have been motorboating
though he might be water but yeah maybe
Biden's getting high maybe Biden's
blazing Biden should do that Biden
should come out and just blink I'm sorry
about all the drug stuff I promise weeds
actually great I just discovered it a
couple years ago it's been helping me
with stress on the kale stress on the
campaign trail I remember the year was
1982 in 1982 I was in the Senate I was
15 years old in the Senate and Bobby
Kennedy had just flown back he was
actually at it Ghostbusters was popular
at the time and by DB Kennedy was at the
movie theater and then that goddamn a
rap killed him and I sat down with Strom
Thurmond who was my greatest friend in
the history of the earth great guy
I remember Strom Thurmond said to me
said I don't hate black people I made
him pregnant I said that what a hell of
a guy anyways you ladies might not
understand that and I sat down with them
and I said we got to do something about
healing this country and that year was
1987
all right here's Joe Biden my longtime
friend and she's a friend she's been my
friend in and out of public life my long
friend time friend the friend though
guys I don't have the long Frant time
friend and she's a friend she's been my
friend in and out of I think he's
rapping yeah you should definitely take
you know I forgot who said this but I
fit might have been victim but
somebody's like if if Trump and Biden or
both senile like Trump will just power
through it yeah I'm see now it's fine
it's an asset some jello people people
think too much nowadays Joe just embrace
the fleeting impressions as it's under
you imaginary Hancock her Bianca did you
so okay guys what do you think I don't
know if I'm gonna get the Biden voice
but I think the direction and I'm taking
it is pure senility with vanishing with
with mixed-up timeframes that usually
lead to defending segregationist
senators I think that that is going to
be basically the template of the Biden
impression right I think make sense
incredible thing to me is however MLK he
was killed in 1990 I just got a a
breakfast meeting with Ronald Reagan who
is my friend and he shouldn't dropped
about Africans not having shoes but it
was a joke Barack's my friend okay the
amazing thing to me is it's gone from
people on the Left using the term
sundowning to describe what's happening
with Biden to I have literally seen
mainstream journalist doctor use the
word sundown I think the describe what's
happening yeah they they've said like he
gets worse as the day goes on yeah I
mean honestly even like look I hope that
he is not actually like losing like
obviously I don't I hope that is not
happening but on but just like it's
clearly just like yeah this guy part of
it it like it would be legitimate if
there was any indication whatsoever and
there is literally none they've like
saying like hey Bernie seems off like
it's not a gist to say once you reach a
certain point actual like just in terms
Jay do we have to ask some basic
questions and if you cover those metrics
like two three years ago Joe Biden never
sounded like this right he
made gaffes whatever but I actually
always thought I still think to be
honest even with this that he's a
formidable candidate for a variety of
reasons but like 2016 no problems he
would have crushed it this seems
different
he seems the very least incredibly tired
and you know I don't know we need to be
real about that I like what we were
saying like cinimon Sanders is
negotiating for a day what would you say
phone centers like cirque de SOI but the
questions and the debate covered oh it's
what Brendan said yeah there's a mode
said you just like okay so every all of
the candidates are gonna have a question
and it's gonna be at the bottom of a
jello Cup and he didn't want one jello
Cup yeah these are gonna be the person
he wanted twenty jell-o cups to cover
all the main issues so if you're saying
that Joe Biden can't debate without
jell-o cups that's a real
misrepresentation he wanted a lot of
jello to talk Trump versus Biden is
gonna be the first AM debate series
because yeah like all right what did you
do to Joe Biden's gets a 9:30 Sunday
debate with a break for lunch in the
middle of it that sounds fine could I
have a fish fillet maybe we could both
sit on sofas while we do it to get more
comfortable the sunroom old med
threatening to slug each other you know
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump I
thought was the pinnacle election of the
decaying like empire and then if blue is
by Trump it's just like yeah I'll say
right now I won't do the dumb like
self-interested move of like telling
people to vote Green Party or whatever
but I will tell people I think we need
to start doing a hell of a lot more
content unlike on permaculture building
resilient local communities because the
mainstream avenues are pretty much done
just like I could see Simone centers
like there's this report that Joe Biden
only wants to debate if he can have a
jello Cup those jello cups first of all
they're multiple jell-o cups they cover
climate change criminal justice all of
the major issues so it's a
misrepresentation that Joe Biden just
wants to eat jell-o cups with do it
Donald Trump in in Sunday for tea you
also got to throw in a visit just also
my personal opinion Joe Biden said he
could do it without the Joe as far as
I'm concerned Joe Biden could debate
standing vertically for an hour and a
half without jell-o cups I mean that's
the kind of shape he's it good your call
from an eight-six Oh area code who are
you where you calling from
Anthony formally from Connecticut
Anthony what's on your where you know
Florida no nice nice weather upgrade
what's on your minds yeah well I was
calling to address the caller who
disparage Florida now let's county all
right we are a sorry Pinellas County
Florida just voted to sign on to the ER
a cool good stuff though a lot of work
to do though definitely so they got to
extend the deadline and then we have to
convince the Republican governor so
Google Pinellas County Florida er a get
involved thanks for - only sucks if you
let it
oh I like that awesome I appreciate that
man thanks for the call all right final
story well let's just do this one we
could play the trump one - it's 19
seconds but uh this is the most I think
Felix Peterman said this is the most
evangelical thing he's ever seen in his
life
Rick Scott went to the went to the wall
of Western Wall in Jerusalem and he
prayed for an end to Nicolas Maduro as
evil regime and genocide and hashtag
Venezuela there is another group of
people who are infinite
more oppressed than anybody in Venezuela
who live pretty close to that wall that
you could have broken a prayer out for
buddy I know you don't want to talk
about the Palestinians but at the very
least you don't have to be so tasteless
to overhype a crisis across the world I
will say instantly to a Twitter just
took down Nicolas Maduro as Twitter
account I just took it down without any
explanations for no explains just took
down a head of states Twitter account
Trump next if you're gonna be yeah we're
doing that doing that yeah it worked
yeah Rick Scott Rick Scott had the in
the inside right the Jack Dorsey there
is like a nice ravage difficult about
the angle to would need to go to Jack
doofy and you will be taken out I think
if you go to the Wailing Wall you should
at least be giving a nice generalized
prayer for peace security and safety of
everybody in the Middle East but that's
just my thought all right what's this
Donald Trump one is this just the fun
preview of what we have in store for the
next several yeah if we talked about
Biden somebody want to get into Trump
all right let's do a little bit of Trump
outstanding mental well-being right here
intellectual property theft add that to
it and they had a lot of other things do
it
so somebody excuse me somebody had to do
it I am the chosen one
buddy had it do it so I'm taking on
China I'm taking on China on trade and
you know what we're winning intellectual
intellectual property king of Jerusalem
and chosen one it's the look up at the
sky guys a lot of people thought I was
just gonna double down on xenophobia for
the election but actually I'm gonna go
into Messiah
yeah sorry Debbie I mean we got we got a
powerful guy who thinks he's a god and a
call a literal cult that follows him via
cue and on I wonder what could go wrong
there I see a master drinking of the
kool-aid coming soon who knows I mean
well I mean if you're worse outcomes
yeah there's worse outfit I was gonna
say you just I think you actually just
outlined the most optimistic one
possible
[Laughter]
no I like that I like that just them
debating like I'm the chosen one
everybody loves me you're not chosen
when you're making it you're you're the
hate of America you're tearing the
fabric I remember when me and Strom
Thurmond talked about restoring the
fabric and he said yeah he said MLK
should have been a shoeshine boy but
that wasn't the point I disagreed with
him but we were both in the Senate
anyways what were we talking about again
that was my friend there 20 20 total if
you're a reporter asked him about corn
popcorn pop couldn't swim in that pool
so I said you got to go in that pool
corn pop then I sent all of corn pops
extended family to jail when I expended
the SWAT team program that was in 1975
look at me the wrap it up finger Brendan
I'm enjoying myself you keep your
fingers down you both be quiet just
earned yourself another call I told you
we're gonna be out by 2:15 show half of
this disrespect to Sam no but actually
seriously you're calling from a 3:05
area code who are you where you calling
from from Virginia
sorry tell me again look yeah what's
your name bags okay real quick what's on
your mind
so have you I'm reading about reports
that uh I mean I'm I'm a huge velocity
right but uh max Blumenthal is one of
the guys that I read a lot so I am sure
you have a very intricate background I'm
all really sorry because we're just
super tight you got to ask the question
please what's the question okay so next
woman thought basically went to
Nicaragua
I've lived in the Quran 15 years and I
protested against Ortega because I don't
know
honestly I don't have the knowledge base
that's the reason I haven't covered
Nicaragua I need to get much more into
it my instinct is that Ortega has a
terrible rights record and that the
United States is trying to destabilize
Nicaragua I think both of those things
are - are true and I haven't covered it
enough because I don't know enough about
I appreciate the call
I'll look into it more that actually
really is an intention but I'm just not
gonna I'm actually trying my best even
though it's in each of our shared not
just sort of speak off the hilt about
things I don't like we've seen sort of
sources and like Brazil for instance
developed like it's hard to the you have
to find somebody you can trust and then
you have to yeah exactly
try to cultivate it and yeah exactly all
right final call of the days Michael
Brooks from Florida oh he knew my number
that's really interesting all right man
no I appreciate that now that has me
really excited all right I know you're
quick now disparaging Florida was done
for one reason
I specifically cannot stand my
congresswoman that I think that's really
acceptable and linkable yeah GWS alright
she's bad we agree yeah thank you for
the call but like not just bad like
elections feeling bad terrible oh I got
it I'm not well we'll look into that
more this is the Tim Canova zone all
right folks I apologize cannot get to
any more calls because we have to be out
of here by 2:15 because of planes trains
and automobiles
CMBS Chicago all right so let's read a
few im's before we are you're looking
for those im's
youtube.com slash Magnolias pictures
youtube.com slash Matt bender subscribe
it's my birthday thank you for all the
birthday wishes but for my birthday you
could subscribe to my youtube channel
also follow me on Twitter at Matt bender
and yeah that's that's the main thing is
the podcast is that doomed pod com you
could also listen to it and watch it at
youtube.com slash Matt bender as you can
tell I'm really pushing that YouTube
channel teacher Lauren a happy birthday
Matt
Maxon Oakland sounds like there's about
to be a crash in the marketplace of
ideas that's great okay let's see these
kind of jokes are good in case anyone's
not on the same page oh definitely these
are good jokes I become a member of the
majority report today majority dot F M
slash become a member of course we did a
freebie Friday but how becoming a member
is the way that this show happens become
a patron of the Michael Brooke show
picture an icon flushed EMBs Michael
Brooks show on YouTube check out and
join literary hangover with Matt check
out and join the anti Fateha Jamie Matt
what's the address for literary hangover
o Atlit hangover on twitter okay got my
patreon page patreon.com/lenguin
the week nubian new m''d i'm sorry i
don't know i don't know what that is i
apologize the Algerian revolution is
still going strong which is interesting
that France or and the US have not made
any moves that's another thing I would
like to look loop back to folks we have
all new shows next week even though we
were on vacation and we'll be back the
first week of September peace
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option when you don't get
paid
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
they play
[Music]
