so Caleb you've explained to us now
basically how you entered into the sort
of the first I guess step into right
wing YouTube and it came out of your
search for self help basically some form
of discipline some rules in which to
live by to pull yourself out of your
your I guess your emotional funk and
maybe also your your experience in terms
of work life and whatnot so you're
listening to stefan molyneux and he is
giving you these sort of rules in which
to live your life where does that lead
from there well it's actually
interesting so Stef I would consider
very far to the right compared to some
of the other figures that I started
watching after him so because Stef was
like he was like much more moderate
whenever I first found him he wasn't he
was talking about like the race and IQ
stuff but I thought that that was just
normal science I really did not
understand
and so after him he started having
people like Gavin on he started having
like different figures on and they would
go in like routers and Shapiro shows ok
so just saying I just think for people
don't know Gavin McGinnis he was the
head of the proud boys since quit that
organisation and basically has run into
all sorts of roadblocks to get back into
entertainment as it were and you're
talking about bench bureau and steven
crowder go ahead yeah
so I went from like I became a
libertarian and then I started like
watching more of the Conservatives so
like ben shapiro and steven crowder and
then I started to think like okay so I
want this free and open society but I
really like the only way we're going to
have it is people need to be
conservative because it's the only way
you can structure human beings in a
positive way if they're traditionally
conservative so I started like calling
myself conservative and watching those
guys but then those guys would
inevitably start having Lauren southern
on they started having gatim again asan
more and so I started getting into those
figures a bit more and more in southern
how would you characterize folks you
know what she was telling what you
heard well what Lauren southern was
telling was basically the the main
message I would say that they talk about
is the decline of Western civilization
so they say that Western civilization is
falling apart due to famine ISM due to
emigration due to liberals they talk
about George sort of subverting things
all the time and like paying activists
and like really they just it's this
conspiracy theory that everybody's
against them and they're the truth
tellers and so Lawrence southern is
really part of what the what I would
call what a lot of people call the
dissident right and then you start
getting into like figures like Gavin who
say the same things but these figures
like Loren and Gavin they're really
selling you a watered down version of
the actual truth of the actual story and
so that's why they call them all light
they're co-opting all rate narratives
and so I went from like watch you know I
started watching them then all of a
sudden Stephan started popping back up
in my algorithm again so this is post
2016 and they're all nationalists now
and they're talking about like white
people being replaced in European
countries by migrant hordes and and all
this like really just looking back when
I just nonsense and how are you
absorbing this at that point I mean were
you buying into this or was this
starting to turn you off in some way I
mean where there are things in your past
that made you less receptive to that
message or more receptive to that
message the point when I started not
being receptive anymore is when I
started to see the connections between
the alt light the alt right and like all
this Nazi stuff when I started to see
that they were just selling a watered
down version of Nazi propaganda that's
when I started getting nervous but
before that point I had totally bought
into the narrative that Western
civilization was in decline you know
birth rates because among Europeans and
I didn't so much think about it as white
people but I thought that like I guess
implicitly I did though because it was
white because I would say things like
well what white people built the modern
world and why do they have to be you
know shunned for that you know basically
prow boy-type rhetoric and
so I think that I bought into that stuff
hook line and sinker I didn't think
about it for a second but it wasn't
until I got past Jared Taylor and into
some of the really hardcore figures and
they would say no the Jews control the
world it's not cultural Marxist and and
yeah like you know a nation is important
but it has to be a white nation these
aren't Western values these are white
values this is Western civilization as a
white civilization when I started to see
a lot of that and it was around the same
time that I was starting to find contra
points and people like three arrows on
YouTube that we're kind of pointing out
pointing out this stuff I that's when I
started to really get nervous so it was
contra points is a lefty transgender
youtuber who does amazing videos I'm not
familiar with the green arrows but these
are basically left perspective voices
who are sliding into your your your
recommended YouTube videos debunking a
lot of this stuff or it led the very
least drawing connections between it
yeah so in the way that that happened
was a received twitch streamer who also
does YouTube by the name of Steven banal
destiny and he basically goes in and
argues with people in this very
aggressive way and just totally like
just totally embarrasses them and he
argued with all these alt-right
alt-right figures and he you know he had
a debate with lawrence southern which
was very shocking to me about
immigration which was a huge issue for
me in which he kind of just like
debunked all her points and then from
there I found conquer points because he
had gotten into their algorithm and then
he did an interview with contra points
which got concert points into his
algorithm and then from there in White's
contra points and from there I got into
all I started finding a whole bunch of
other youtubers on the left because they
had all done work with contra so that
that's when everything started to change
for me they did they started to debunk
things and then I just yeah I it open it
just exposed the whole Gris to me
basically that it was just all
and there people are just making money
off of it just to push their agenda
alright so with all that said we've got
about a little bit more
minute left what when you when you sort
of came out of this hole this experience
what you know what what is your takeaway
from this I mean like you know if you
were to give a piece of advice to
parents or to to the US government in
terms of what should be done in terms of
Google or to me as a as a leftie
youtuber what what's the advice the
advice that I would give I would give
advice to my my lefty YouTube friends
and then I would also give advice I
would just tell what we're trying to do
now so to the lefty youtubers I would
say you have to start engaging with
these people you have to engage with
these people on the far right because
otherwise you'll never get into the
algorithm on their side you have to
inject yourself into that algorithm I
know we talked about platforming all the
time but platforming doesn't mean a damn
I mean the people that watch your show I
aren't going to get swayed into the
alright but the people that watch on
that side might be swayed on to your
side if they see debating someone you
know over there and then in terms of
everything else I would say this is a
public health crisis you know I focus I
I call this digital hate politics and
that's like that's what all of these
people in the reactionary right are
guilty of using you know not using
aggressive and very demeaning language
to push their narrative which then
desensitize is you just things that are
further and further down the pipeline
and I'd say this is a public health
crisis that we need to solve through
getting people education Zoar getting
people health care and getting people
you know relieving a lot of these
anxieties that these reactionary
right-wingers are able to take advantage
of and that's what me and my team are
trying to do online is we're trying to
set up online digital platforms where we
do intervention with people and we give
people emotional support to help combat
this caleb kane thanks so much for your
time today fascinating stuff and I
really appreciate took a lot of guts to
do what you did thank you Sam
