[Music]
let's play this clip of Eglin going to
the Trump rally was this a trump rally
in Florida or I guess a during the
Democratic debates I think are somewhere
around there and there may have been
some protesters outside it it reminds me
of the time where I went to that 812 I
think it was 812 or 912 Glenn Beck rally
and the Washington Memorial I'm people
we got to dig into that stuff and maybe
pull some of that stuff because it's
still equally as relevant it is always a
little bit sort of let's say
uncomfortable but difficult to sort of
wrap your head around when you talk to
some of these people they have a total
confidence in what they're saying you
know it's not like when you go on the
man of the street like who's the vice
president people like I have no idea or
you know there is I have no idea who it
is there is a level of confidence to
this ignorance that is impressive here
is M of England with a trump supporter I
believe maybe this is outside the debate
we're in a press match and I have a
feeling that's what it was last week but
here it is do you think Joe Biden is a
socialist yes
how would you define socialism I'd be
fine socially when you bring down your
own country your own race because he's
not black and because I mean bringing
him down to black people so you're
saying no he's saying that the white
people he doesn't look at yourself in
the mirror
[Music]
that's what I look at hey you talk about
the white Beamer and look at you know
she actually some no I don't like it
I'll tell you exactly why I don't like
it
he's gotta be eagle he thinks he's
better than God your Trump before we get
off the race stuff or does she saying
Joe is too like woke I think yes she is
she is saying that he is being too hard
on white people and then I think she
does make the very astute and I think
very defensible accusation that Joe
Biden is too arrogant
I think that's though can I just say I
just want to give credit where credit is
due here she's giving a remarkably
similar people ask me what kind of
socialist I am this woman is pretty
closely tracking my take down my own
country and race core mission
Trump said you could shoot someone in
the middle of Fifth Avenue and get away
with it that's fake I swear to god you
can watch your nose fake news okay do
you want to watch the video they say I
have the most loyal people did you ever
see that where I could stand in the
middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot
somebody and I wouldn't lose any voters
okay it's like incredible any of the
Democrats to any of them appeal to you
liars all liars
that beam ochio keeps growing okay and
then you yourself won't have a country
you yourself won't have a country keep
believing all these liars and you
yourself will be out of your country
socialism doesn't work wherever it goes
why is Joe Biden a socialist why is your
by non-associative
because she saw what about the money I
mean socialism is about know the thing
is that Joe Biden is all about the money
it's all about the power the money
that's why Trump's a billionaire
yes and so is Joe Biden yes Trump went
bankrupt four times business but he did
people okay you got bankrupt how many
people do that don't start all over
again after bankruptcy that you know the
Democratic Party really needs to appeal
to people like this and they're honestly
like the the the only I mean the the
valuable inside I guess he gained from
that is just like there is a certain
percentage of the population where it's
just like forget about it yes totally
forget about it's just not happening
it's my people
