[Music]
and of course the view is back from
vacation view is back from vacation and
so I don't know if Meghan McCain spent
her vacation practicing her her
self-pity but she does pretty good here
here is uh you know of course she's so
tired of this topic yeah you know why
it's like every time there are multiple
mass shootings where people in the
double digits die we have to talk about
it the view roading for Republicans
you're going to get nothing done that's
basically the bottom line when it comes
to assault weapon yes America by far so
if you're talking about again I was just
in the middle of nowhere Wyoming you're
talking around going and taking people's
guns away from them there's gonna be a
lot of violence them for many years
during the ban not living without guns
I mean living without the assault
weapons that are killing our children
all right what are living with our is
that we live in a brain signal that
twenty minutes into their we can
actually walk in a mall and not look
around and be nervous that someone's
gonna pull out a shot
[Applause]
again like I feel things that I can
protect myself and I have guns in my
house that all right welcome back
virtue signaling its so it's like could
there be anything more material than the
idea of like I don't want to be shot
why are you Bert you signaling about
children die okay whatever I guess it's
time for joy to do her purchasing all
about kids dying and whatnot is Megan
McCain I'm not bringing out if she has
children she gonna bring her guns to
school to take her kids nay I'll take
jello shots of them and show them
