[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program the author of
eating NAFTA trade food policies and the
destruction of Mexico she is a professor
of Latin American and Latino Studies at
City University of New York and an
anthropologist by training
Alicia Galvez welcome to the program
thanks so much it's a pleasure to be
here so are obviously our relationship
with Mexico has been in the news trade
has been in the news recently Donald
Trump I guess
tentatively renegotiated NAFTA let just
I guess let's just start with the
question of like why approach NAFTA and
this relationship between Mexico and the
United States from from the perspective
of food and eating well it's one of the
ways that trade gets to us really it's a
it's one of the most direct ways that
our lives are impacted by trade deals
most of us are not you know dealing and
you know chips or circuitry or car parts
or or airplane parts but all of us eat
it's one of the best ways that we have
to kind of see how these things operate
and so is it it is that particular in
terms of our relationship with Mexico I
mean or is it particularly with our
relationship with Mexico yeah it's not
exclusive with Mexico but there's no
country that we have a closer
relationship to in terms of our food
systems so we get I live in New York
City and you know much of fresh fruit
and vegetables that I eat comes from
from Mexico and a few other trading
partners we also get stuff obviously
from Chile and from New Zealand and
things like that but there there is a
lot of the produce that gets consumed in
the United States is coming
Mexico and they're consuming a lot of
our commodity grains a lot of the corn
and soy and wheat that gets produced in
the United States is being consumed on
the Mexican side in the form both of
processed foods and beverages but also
animal feed which is contributing to a
you know large growth in terms of the
market for for me so alright so let's I
mean give us let's go back and give us a
little bit of the the sort of the pre
NAFTA history I guess and and then and
then we'll go into NAFTA because that
dynamic of this exchange of food is I
mean largely a function of NAFTA in many
respects right well NAFTA is really a
product of the thinking of a few mainly
University of Chicago educated
economists who were operating in all
three countries so Mexico's economic
policymakers typically have studied in
the University of Chicago as have US
policymakers and Canadian as well I
assume and we have a you know Milton
Friedman you know motivated orientation
towards the free market towards taking
down barriers to trade and the interest
of the expansion of capitalism that you
know really comes to dominate thinking
about economic development and economic
policy in the twentieth century and not
thinking you know basically prefers
foreign direct investment taking away
any sort of barriers to cross-border
trade getting rid of tariffs and
subsidies and things like that
so that capital and goods can flow
freely across borders that sort of
thinking was so dominant that you know
Margaret Thatcher famously said at one
point there is no alternative you know
this is kind of the economic model that
Reagan Thatcher is I'm produced
and we see it you know turning into very
concrete policy proposals so NAFTA is
one of those policy proposals and the
idea is to sort of knit together the
three countries of North America into a
single economic market unlike you know
other examples we can think of like the
European community that took away
barriers to the circulation of people we
never really had a serious conversation
about taking away barriers to people but
we did try to take away barriers to
goods and capital to try to create a
single unified market and that was where
NAFTA came from you know and we should
say this was a longtime libertarian
policy agenda in many respects this
internationalism this is you know one of
the things I think that came out of Mont
Pelerin was this this notion of of
bringing down these barriers to capital
and on some level sort of fighting
against the sovereignty of nations at
least in this respect right it's and and
I think actually we interviewed someone
about it we're looking for the name
right now but we this was a long term
agenda and in many respects NAFTA was a
it wasn't the culmination it was at one
of the one of the culminations I guess
and so yeah so this all right so this
dynamic I mean this is really
fundamentally the the issue isn't it or
is it that there is a disequilibrium in
terms of what can what can cross borders
easily and what can't or who can't yeah
well there are a few problems and maybe
because I'm not an economist maybe
because I'm an anthropologist I'm able
to see some of those problems and ways
that they're visible perhaps to me in
ways that they aren't other disciplines
because there are some sort of
taken-for-granted mantras within the
sort of thinking that I find a little
bit hard to understand and hard to
believe so with the one of them
is the idea that what NAFTA is is free
trade and if we you know kind of look at
what free trade is supposed to be it's
supposed to be getting rid of barriers
to trade getting rid of subsidies
anything that kind of artificially gets
in the way of the market doing its thing
but if we look at NAFTA NAFTA was never
a Free Trade Agreement in spite of its
name the United States never got rid of
its subsidies we still famously you know
pay farmers to grow corn whether we need
corn or not to grow wheat to grow
commodity soybeans etc and so we have a
market that's already not free you know
marketplace where supply and demand are
determining everything so that's one
thing another idea that's very sacred
and the sort of thinking is the idea of
comparative advantage and this is the
idea that you know if one place is good
at something they should do all of that
thing and other plate so if the u.s. is
good at corn the US should produce all
the corn for everybody who wants corn
and nobody else should bother because
they can't do it as well as the United
States can and so maybe Mexico can build
airplanes and work on car parts and
leave the corn growing to the US this is
a very central idea to NAFTA and it's
part of the reason why NAFTA is such a
problem for public health and Mexican
culture and for the health of people in
the United States as well because
basically not all corn is the same the
commodity corn that we grow in in Iowa
is not edible it's not sustainable in
the same way that heirloom corn landrace
corn is in small-scale farming in Mexico
it can't be eaten the same way it can be
used the same way it doesn't have the
same symbolic or cultural value so
there's this idea of sort of equivalents
that gets constructed that's really not
not very logical or coherent and then
related to that yeah sorry
okay well you know what I mean I just
want to I want to just flag that because
I want to return to that diner
I think it's really important to talk
about but but but continue and what will
come back around yeah no just related to
that and this may be what you're
thinking about is the idea of efficiency
and again you know I'm not an economist
but my understanding of efficiency is
that it's a ratio is you know you look
at what you put in and you look at what
you get out and if you get a lot out for
what you put in and something is you
know it's pretty it's a pretty good deal
it's a pretty good effort and when we
look at corn you know part of the logic
for the United States growing
everybody's corn is the idea that the
u.s. is more efficient at growing corn
and that Mexican small-scale subsistence
farming is inefficient but again if we
think about the ratio we have to think
about what's going in and what's coming
out and to get the incredibly massive
yields per hectare that we get in US
commodity corn we have to look at all of
the inputs we have to look at the
patented corn the the seeds we have to
look at the chemicals we have to look at
roundup that's being sprayed on the
crops we have to look at the million
dollar tractors we have to look at the
administrative wings of most farm
operations where they're you know
applying for and administering the
subsidies that are coming from the
federal government estimate if we look
at small scales which is just
subsistence farming oftentimes the plots
of land are so small and irregular that
you can't even have a tractor it makes
no sense to have a tractor they might be
rain fed or they might be irrigated
partially the seeds are saved from one
year to the next so nobody is you know
making a profit seeds are not
intellectual property very few chemicals
are often used and so we see you know
yes very small yields but there's very
little that's going into that production
and in fact it's damaging the the
environment far less than you know the
much more chemically intensive
production all right well so I I want to
go back let me let me let's just go back
over that I want to talk first just to
to go back to the idea of free trade and
that and and I will say that you know
there are I mean there are economists
who make the point Dean Baker comes to
mind who says like these aren't free
free trade I mean we hear that you know
and whether it's TPP or this it's not
really free trade it's just a word
that's associated with it and it sounds
good
but I mean and and you're not an
economist but I mean can we I mean are
there examples even of free trade I mean
do we I mean is it I mean I guess maybe
within the in the context of the
European Union within the context of it
yeah you see you see free trade there
but I mean we don't maybe not even the
consideration yeah I can't point to any
I can't point to any because I mean it's
it's it can lead to some you know
cruelties there they're harsh aspects to
the market you can have people plant and
or nothing and you can have people you
know grow more than the market wants and
and go bankrupt you know there's a lot
of unpredictable factors you know I'm
I'm not an expert in this but you know
part of the reason we have subsidies is
just try to smooth those things over but
but what we end up having is a very
hybrid system that's protecting some the
interests of some are being protected
and some are being insulated from
exposure to risk while others are
bearing all the risks and that's the
point of my book really is that you know
they're you know the the little guy in
all three countries is bearing more of
the risk you know this is rhetoric about
Mexico winning and the u.s. losing is a
false rhetoric because it's working
people in all three countries that are
losing it's people who are vulnerable to
the vagaries of the market who you know
have feast or famine situations in terms
of the jobs available to them and you
know we're left with the crumbs after
everything else has sort of been sorted
out by by the power brokers who were you
know the 1% and the corporation's who
are really managing these situations to
their own benefit
and for their own profit motives in all
three countries but it's it's working
people who are who are left with you
know a really miserable situation and
that's the losing and the winning that
we have to be attentive to
