it is clear I think even to the
Republican leaders and the issue is that
they just don't have as much compunction
about it anymore that the only thing
that animates their voters is either an
animosity towards a woman or animosity
towards a black person or animosity
towards women or black people and or to
be fair also brown people and they're
desperately trying to make it seem like
they're also under assault from just
Democrats in general it's not quite as
effective it's much easier for them to
be under this because a woman who comes
out and simply says it was inappropriate
for this guy to assault me or to attempt
to rape me that is enough to get the
fire lit under conservatives because
they feel completely aggrieved generic
Democrats is it they quite do it in the
same way and so they have to up the
level of assault that supposedly is
going on here's Rand Paul speaking of
that on the Leland Conway show on whas
in Kentucky talk to your wife just
yesterday about the op-ed she wrote
asking some of the I guess cooler heads
in the Democratic Party Cory Booker in
particular to call on his party to stop
this to stop fomenting this rabid
reaction where you know you've been
chased around airports Senator McConnell
who was just on with us was chased out
of restaurants and senator Cruz was
chased out of a restaurant and then
people that aren't even elected
officials like Sarah Huckabee Sanders
chased out of restaurants and we've got
members of the Democratic Party calling
for more of that and asking people to
stay in that mode this is damn dressing
I think what people need to realize that
when people like Cory Booker's say get
up in their face
he may think that that's okay but what
he doesn't realize is that for about
every thousand for one second now
his somebody got off the script because
Leyland said like cooler heads like Cory
Booker and then Rand thought that Cory
Booker was the problem because Leyland
forgets that in rands world you've got
to motivate the voters by talking about
the black guy they got confused but
nevertheless I nitpick hey but what he
doesn't realize is that for about every
thousand person that might want to get
up in your face one of them is going to
be unstable enough to commit violence
when I was at the ball field and Steve
Scalise was nearly killed the guy
shooting up the ball field and shooting
I think five or six people were shot
these police was almost killed he was
yelling this is for health care he had a
list in his pocket of conservative
Republicans that he wanted to kill you
know when I was attacked in my yard
all right deposit okay stop it we don't
need to hear any more from this I where
could someone have possibly gotten the
notion that the just the idea that you
can go and take your gun to go shoot at
members of our government because you
don't like what they're do this oh I'm
sorry
Senator Rand Paul's tweet from June 20
June 16th June 23rd 2016 why do we have
a second amendment it's not to shoot
deer it's to shoot at the government
when it becomes tyrannical hmm that was
a figure of speech in a certain sense
right it's one thing when you're
tweeting about your dad and guns and
super predators and then it's quite
another when you blow leaves in your
neighbor's lawn and he needs to kick
your ass do you remember that I love how
ironically Rand Paul has actually been
physically assaulted for violating
somebody else's private rights right
that's amazing yes sad libertarian but I
wonder I mean I I still can't get out of
my head the massive media tour that
and Paul did following the murder of
Heather hire and by right-wing
conservatives who were we're trying to
celebrate the heritage of the
Confederacy I mean I just had the image
of how of him running around doing all
those interviews still still emblazoned
in my mind maybe I would have if my
goddamn neighbor hadn't broken my ribs
super concerned about civility
and violence and all of that sort of
stuff but you know by the same token
that had it coming he does imply
elsewhere in that interview that that
the reasons his neighbor attacked him
were political yeah maybe it was more
like on a neighborhood politics yeah
yeah the neighborhood politics of I hate
you because you're one of the most
annoying people on the planet Earth and
you live next to me and I'm gonna tackle
you on a right I tell you I still what
was the goal who is get Ronnie Kasrils
and like it acted like somebody doing
like landless movement in India at Ron
Paul's neighbor as like liberation
heroes alright going like I don't I'm
not endorsing that particular act of
violence
I think armed insurrection zone Lee work
when it's a critical mass of people but
if you want to talk about violence the
number of people who have been murdered
by GOP policy just by being denied
health care like violence begets
violence without a doubt but it really
does seem to be the talking point that
the Republicans are pushing here
