we watched Kamala Harris who announced
the week week and a half ago Elizabeth
Warren who is on the verge of officially
announcing both take a little bit of a
step back from Medicare for all they
they mentioned that their co-sponsors
are not just the Medicare for all bill
but other competing bills in the Senate
we also saw one of Nancy Pelosi's top
aides go and it was leaked a PowerPoint
deck that suggested that that the
Democratic leadership in the House is
not interested in pursuing Medicare for
all for for various reasons and that
their agenda has more to do with
strengthening Medicare and Medicaid and
fixing the Affordable Care Act what do
you take from all this and and and I'm
specifically curious about you know
because we went through something like
this in the 2008 race but it seemed to
happen much more behind closed doors and
much quicker like by the time we had the
top three candidates all three of them
almost agreed identically or had
subscribed to the identical plan which
ultimately became the ACA the the
argument was about the public option and
about the mandate but single payer
advocates had basically conceded the
battle before the campaign got into full
swing and it was really centered around
the public option I'm curious uh dig me
what what your perspective is this time
around well my recollection is that the
reason that happened in 2008 was that
they said people who had been you know
the health care experts on the
Democratic side had been working for
some years to create this sort of
incremental concept of doing a you know
the NACA style program but it would
include a public option which was seen
at the time as sort of the first step
into going for a single-payer plan or a
medicare-for-all type thing you know
would you would
that there that would mean people could
buy in it would you know control some
costs it would be you know an option
that people would would like and that
that would usher in something where the
rest of the the system would start to
adapt to that and that is pushed for
years by we should be clear we should be
clear that public option is only
available people on the exchanges so
we're only talking about 10 million
people in the country right out of you
know maybe a hundred and fifty is the
potential you know of people who are not
covered by Medicaid or Medicare maybe a
little bit less or something they were
or you know children's programs so maybe
200 but so we're talking about five five
percent maybe of the American public
that would even be eligible to even be
close to being able to get the public
option right and I think I think that
that had been sold to the single-payer
advocates is going look you know we were
going to do this incrementally this is
going to be your first step we're going
to get that in there so that that is an
option and if they could pass all legal
muster and the public option could be
something where you could say that the
Medicare program Medicare like program
was legal and that a government-run
program of that kind of people could opt
into and buy privately that that was
going to usher in you know the next step
where you could theoretically go to
single-payer or some kind of hybrid
system that would have a robust
single-payer system within it and the
single-payer people bought into that and
in fact that's why the fight over the
public option was so vociferous and they
fought to the nail and when that got
taken down sort of you know and it was
really you and I were both there
you know we're following it you know in
a you know minutely it you know it
really that's what issue shirred in this
idea that you know medicare for all
we're not going to we're not going to
listen to that stuff anymore the
single-payer people are very seriously
they did what they were supposed to do
which was they said okay you know will
back off we're going to be pragmatic
about this we're going to do the right
thing you will do this little public
option thing and then we'll work on make
it
standing that and Democrats you know the
likes of Joe Lieberman and people like
that basically sabotage that in the in
the ACA and the president and his people
did not really fight very hard for it
because that really wasn't what they
were trying to do this was this is this
was seen as a salt to the single-payer
people and something to just keep them
on the team and the single-payer people
recognized it and by the way you know a
lot of feminists and people who are you
know sort of pro-choice they feel the
same way and they're going to fight very
hard for their side as well you know you
learn your lessons right you get you you
you stay on the team you do the right
thing you try to you know be a good team
player and you know you get you are the
one tossed overboard you're not going to
be so willing to go that way the next
time so that I think sets the table for
what we're dealing with now and you know
I don't I don't blame politicians for
this is a very fraught thing we're just
starting to talk about it we don't know
where the public is going to be there's
a lot of sort of polling that shows that
people like the idea of Medicare for all
but they don't really understand if that
means that they don't have access to
private insurance if they want it they
you know the Bernie Sanders style or the
Elizabeth Warren style or this so it's a
confusing thing but you know it's
inevitable that it's going to happen
because what we have now is an ACA that
if it's not you know it's better than it
was before but it's failing on a number
of levels
right and costs are going up and a lot
of people are paying more and something
has to be done so if we're at one of
those crossroads where it's okay what is
that thing that's going to be done the
single-payer people and the Medicare for
all people they are there and they're
going to fight because you know they're
not this is a new day and this is
another time and it may just be that
watching those Republicans vote how many
times was it seventy times or something
against the ACA and try to try to just
dismantle it with nothing has shown that
the Democrats get nowhere with them
either that you know having this hybrid
sort of program doesn't really get them
anywhere with the other side so you know
this is this is it's a fight worth
having it's got to be done right I mean
what are we going to do I'm can't say
I'm looking forward to it particularly
but it is
and we're going to have to have to do
something if the Democrats get back into
power this is going to be job one for
them right and and it's gonna be
fascinating I mean this is what I think
is going to be really I think there's
going to be a lot of elements about the
the Democratic campaign that's going to
be fascinating but this is going to be
the big one it seems to me like like how
you know different candidates sell their
vision of of whatever comes next in
terms of health insurance because there
seems to be unilaterally there seems to
be I should say the unanimous agreement
that something more has to happen right
like again and just saying fix the ACA
is not gonna cut it and now you may have
to you may use the ACA is the basis but
it just seems they under sold the
patient protections the first time
around if you ask me right because that
was actually it was the ACA PPI it was
the actual name of the legislation they
the Patient Protection I can't even
remember what the last letter stand for
but the patient protection was the part
that actually implicated everybody the
ACA
you got it expanded Medicaid and now I
think was the most successful part of it
but then if you are somewhere between
133 percent and 400% of poverty and you
had no job you know had a health
insurance at your job you went into the
exchanges and it didn't you know it was
a little bit better but not really the
best parts about it were the patient
protections the pre-existing conditions
the all the things that that defined
what in fact health insurance were that
was undersold now they're gonna work on
the cost and I don't know how you get
there with private insurance at least as
private insurance as the center point of
the insurance industry but Heather we're
gonna have a lot of time to talk about
this going forward as well it's a good
thing that we're putting a flag in it
we're gonna have a lot newer we're gonna
have new candidates next week when we
talk so until then thanks so much for
your time this week always a pleasure
