CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any away
they are unanimous in that hate call me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday August 20 August
October 23 2019 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
well not just from Brooklyn but from the
Bellagio hotel the Raphael conference
room I am at the mass torts 2019
conference trial lawyers from all across
country trying all sorts of multi
district litigation involving corporate
malfeasance things like the opioids
human trafficking and more but also on
this day Trump tailor-made for
impeachment Kurds given six days to
evacuate their homes after erawan and
Putin carve up Syria Republicans block
an election security bill California
facing blackouts as San Jose proposes a
PG&E take over Bernie Sanders pledges to
end whistleblower prosecutions under the
Espionage Act and we work but Newman
gets paid as the co-working space lays
off a couple thousand workers and gives
its exiting CEO one point seven billion
dollars
I like to meet you Nepal to the ku boots
but not the pay structure that's a
paraphrase by the way not me just joking
meanwhile mojo gets a no no on the
brexit vote seven Vegas who knows what's
next
and lastly Zuckerberg testifies to the
house on Facebook's crypto dreams all
this and more on today's majority report
thanks for joining us folks I am in Las
Vegas as I I do twice a year and I
attend this mass torts conference had a
little technical difficulties this
morning and a little scheduling
difficulties but we have at least a
couple of guests coming by today we have
more tomorrow hoping to talk to people
about new litigation about jewel those
things zantac apparently causes some
problems there is a there are I don't
know if folks have remember in the past
we we've interviewed people about c8 and
this is a case that eleven Papantonio
might Mike Papantonio litigated against
DuPont and basically caused that company
to have to fold into Dow I think it was
their bot multi hundred million dollar
settlement for this company just
basically dumping a material used in the
manufacturing of those nonstick pans and
they're supposed to burn it because it
has like almost no half-life think of an
incredibly long half-life and instead
they they dumped it into the local River
and gave four or five thousand people
all sorts of diseases cancers and
whatnot and out of that case apparently
there has been a
a another chemical that turns out to be
highly problematic involving the foam
that they use for runways when they're
fighting fires and we hopefully will be
talking to somebody about that as well
perhaps some of the litigation that's
happening with the Boeing max Wow 737
we'll we'll see as it goes on but first
let's just start with the the
impeachment yesterday bill Taylor and if
you go back and listen I can't what was
it about two weeks ago that we got the
text messages and we read through those
text messages and they were incredibly
damning and bill Taylor
it was quite clear from those text
messages the relevance that he plays in
all of this bill Taylor was a career
diplomat who was appointed acting
ambassador to Ukraine after the Trump
administration got rid of the first
existing ambassador to Ukraine because
she was I guess unfair and not involving
herself enough in the pursuit of trumps
looking for an investigation into Biden
and Bill Taylor is the guy who's sort of
like he's just not part of the crew he's
there they seem to think he's gonna go
along with it but at one point in the
phone conference in the text messages he
had with sundaland
who is the hotelier who was who gave a
million dollars to Trump's inaugural
ball or fund not quite sure where that
money went
but
and he was the ambassador to the EU he
basically took over the Ukraine
portfolio along with Kurt Volker and
Rudy Giuliani essentially and Taylor at
one point in the exchanges says as I
said on the phone last night
I think withholding withholding security
assistance to help with a political
campaign is crazy
and then Sunderland was like I have no
idea what you're talking about
no one said the words quid pro quo in
fact I just watched The Sopranos on the
plane ride out here the episode where
Tony thought that his buddy was wired
and it turned out to be another guy who
was wired but it was a similar type of
situation and where Tony was like yeah
sure okay I never said that and Bill
Taylor went and testified yesterday all
we have are is his opening statement
which was released but it's quite clear
from that that he when he first got
there could not believe what was going
on and it took him a while to understand
what was happening but by the end he
realized that Giuliani Volker Sandlin
and Rick Perry were yeah how do you best
people the best people this is what he
says he goes tailor lays out a timeline
of Trump's interactions with his olanski
this is the president of Ukraine and the
quote highly irregular channel of us
policymaking in Ukraine that included
Kurt Volker
sunlen Rick Perry and Rudy Giuliani who
I should remind you does not work for
the u.s. government he works for the
President of the United States as his
personal attorney and his capacity is a
simple country
and the the interesting thing about this
is that at least according to what we
know from Taylor's thing you know they
are deposing people and apparently this
is a way that the first Benghazi
hearings went they depose people behind
closed doors then they open it up to
public hearings and which makes sense
it's the same way that you would do any
type of prosecution and and according to
what has been reported on Taylor's
testimony it seems like they were not
even necessarily asking for our actual
investigation they were asking for an
announcement that there would be two
basically obviously two as a way of
hurting Joe Biden in the general camp
election campaign and so the the quid
pro quo is indisputably there and you
know this because
do we have mo Brooks apparently yelling
did you hear about this no the the
Republicans are now yelling about the
process literally I think mo Brooks from
Alabama was like in the hallway like
almost like it did his own version of
like a code pink protest and and they
are going to or emoluments clause we
fake it fake emoluments and the we have
it okay yeah here is here is mo Brooks
this is this is how you know the
Republicans know they have a massive
problem on this question of quid pro quo
this is how they are so stressed that
somebody went to Donald Trump and was
like you can't do the g7 in your
freaking hotel dude right right that's
he had new chief and but they know
how bad this is Bill Taylor is and this
point and so they're going to talk about
process because they're very concerned
with norms and here's here's mo Brooks
the opening statement says very clearly
this is not this is my he says would you
rely just on the opening statement of an
attorney when my first witness today if
you are which you have cross-examination
which early rebuttal witnesses to
determine to explore whether the first
witness man by my side can interact I'm
asking what the substance of what he
said he different
we all know whether what he said is true
or not because of the sham process is
being used oh my god he's good he's
aging the entire Republican caucus yeah
and this is this is this is a big
problem for them this is gonna be a big
problem for them and then you know the
next question is simply going to be how
are the Democrats going to handle this
we see numbers on impeachment are are up
all except for Trump's base which is
highly problematic for the Republicans
and this is you know it's just a
question of timing now and what other
articles of impeachment they bring in
we'll get to those other clips in a
moment whoa mo calm down
sell it later folks is it look good it's
of course it's nice to be here in the
Bellagio Hotel but the sad part is I
don't have my common comfort blanket
it's true I don't sleep as well I don't
sleep as well without it a hundred
percent believe you that's just I don't
and for you folks there's no need to
suffer through another sleepless night
thank you to calming comfort by sharper
image
it is a weighted blanket that helps you
fall asleep and stay asleep naturally
it's made with that super soft Velveteen
material it's designed with high density
comfort fill which mimics the soothing
feeling of being hugged or swaddled and
provides exactly the right amount of
weight to help relax your body
meanwhile the thermal comfort neck and
shoulder wrap uses clay beads to provide
the perfect amount of pressure to relax
the muscles and your necks and your
shoulders I have I have gifted one of
those and they love it they absolutely
love it
I you know they they're like you know if
you're if you're someone who likes to
get massages and you like pressure on
your shoulders
I personally I'm not a fan of that but
but for me the I just the the weighted
blanket now is a must-have I'm sleeping
with the window open keep it nice and
cool way to blanket I I fall asleep I
stay asleep and the common comfort
waiting blanket comes with 90 day
anxiety free best sleep of your life
guarantee from sharper image right now
just for our listeners you can go to
calming comfort blanket calm use the
promo code majority a check out and you
can receive 15% off the displayed price
again that's calming comfort blanket
calm promo code majority you can't put a
price on a great night's sleep so go now
to calm and comfort blanket calm use the
promo code majority and as I have said
in the past hiring can be an incredibly
slow process this guy cafe alter is CEO
Dylan misko it's needed to hire a
director of coffee for his organic
coffee company but he was having trouble
finding qualified applicants he switches
to zip recruiter boom
zip recruiter doesn't depend on
candidates finding you it finds them for
you technology identifies people with
the right experience and invites them to
apply to your job so you get qualified
candidates fast Dylan posted his job on
zip recruiter and said he was impressed
by how quickly he had great candidates
apply he also uses zip recruiters
candidate rating feature to filter his
applicants so it could focus on the most
relevant ones and that's how Dylan found
his new director of coffee in a few days
with the results like that it's no
wonder four out of five employers who
post on zip recruiter get a quality
candidate within the first day see why
zip recruiter is effective for all
business sizes you can try zip recruiter
for free at our web addresses it
recruiter dot-com slash majority at zip
recruiter dot-com slash majority zip
recruiter comm slash majority zip
recruiter the smartest way to hire ok
and now joining me you can see on camera
and Jeff if you could just move right
over here we get to itch in the camera's
view here joining me now is Jeff Gaddy
he is an attorney with eleven Papantonio
and Jeff I think we spoke last time last
time I was here oh here I'm sorry let me
uh let me get you alright why don't you
just try that one there yeah yeah we did
we spoke about a year ago okay sorry
give me one more second
okay give me that man all right so Jeff
I think we spoke a year ago but we did
that's it and so give me a sense you're
working on the opioids just refresh
everyone's memory as to what what you're
working on you know what part of being
that there's various litigations going
on across the country just a settlement
you know hi out let me tell us about
about what's going on
sure so so we represent several hundred
local governments in in litigation
against the manufacturers and
distributors of opioids it's to kind of
boil it down to its simplest terms it's
a supply and demand type type of case we
allege that the manufacturers of opioids
mislead the doctor and patient community
and and drove up the demand for opioids
by by falsely telling folks that they
were not addictive and that they were
safe and the distributor's they they
were they were right there with the
supply in spite of duties that they had
to to be on the lookout for and report
suspicious orders of opioids they
continued to just flood the market with
these pills that has led to so much
addiction and in other consequences
death that we've seen with these so so
that's the basis of litigation there are
there two sets of defendants here the
manufacturers who include what Purdue
and sure so that's the Purdue to Johnson
& Johnson endo Mallinckrodt a lot of
these a lot of these big branded and
also generic manufacturers and then on
the other hand you had the distributors
and all three major ones right there E
major ones that most fun I've never
heard of them till I got into this
litigation but then you look into them
in their fortune 15 companies so they
are very well-funded McKesson Cardinal
Health American and so they're the kind
of traditional distributors and then you
have a lot of folks who who you and I
would probably just think of as
pharmacies Walgreens CVS Walmart what
these companies did was was 15 20 years
ago they realized that that hey instead
of paying the premium for having one of
these big three distribute us our drugs
we can go out get our own DEA license
and just distribute to ourselves so
those folks that have attempted to brand
themselves as simply pharmacies
but they also have a distributor license
which obviously subjects them to the
same duties okay he's a regular and that
is the others and that's the key there
because once they once they assume the
responsibility of a distributor there
are statutory obligations that they have
that are specific to the distributor's
right it just explained that because and
at one point one of the stories was I
don't know if there's about four or five
years ago they were lobbying hard to get
those statutory obligations eased
because I think they knew they were
headed for a problem here you're
absolutely right so the controlled
substance act has been on the books
since 1970 and it's been been there for
for decades where they have this duty to
be on the lookout for and report
anything that doesn't pass the smell
test when it comes to orders of pills
it's not a quantity okay so they're
using data and they have you know the
the functional equivalent I guess of
actuarial tables from what they
anticipate the usage of drugs are going
to be in any specific region or wherever
it is distribution center they have what
we've learned is these folks have data
about data I mean they they they have
visibility from from the top to the
bottom and in what they're charged with
under these rules and regulations is
utilizing that data to make sure that
they're not supplying pill mills to make
sure that that only legitimate
prescriptions are being filled and in
the allegations in the case of these
folks have completely missed the ball
when it when it comes to their duties
and rules and regulations okay and so so
that's basically and so who are your
plaintiffs I mean who your plaintiffs in
this instance so local governments
cities counties towns boroughs in any
any local government and a big big
bigger the one of the big calls to arms
here was you know kind of harkens back
to the tobacco litigation and there was
a two hundred forty seven billion dollar
settlement in tobacco it was
completely driven by the Attorney
General's and and a lot of that money
went to fix potholes and build highways
and what we saw in this case was that
the damages were really felt on a local
level it was the it was the cities and
towns who were dealing with their
citizens who were becoming addicted who
were trying to fund treatment centers
and they just weren't able to do so
so represent hundreds of local
governments who were fighting to to get
funding so that they can address the
opioid impact locally and and try to
make a difference in their individual
communities and this is in the impact
ranges from dealing with future attics
or you know that it's all of the above
we talked about trying trying to gather
funds to abate this this public nuisance
this epidemic and we talked about it
very very globally obviously ever every
location is different we would never
tell anybody how to spend any funds they
recover for this but but education is a
big thing I mean we've seen that with
the tobacco where the ads are finally
starting to roll out from the tobacco
litigation so we think that's important
that you should be in the elementary
schools teaching kids that that the
pills and they're in their parents
medicine cabinet are just as dangerous
as a needle and and if the heroin needle
goes into the room one time it won't be
the last
right um we think law enforcement in
jailing I mean those those those
infrastructures are so stressed by this
crisis so well we don't think this is a
problem you can arrest your way out of
by any stretch of the imagination but
law enforcement we've had a couple of
instances where we've had law
enforcement officers overdose on the
side of the road
searching vehicles because they owe the
the fentanyl can be absorbed through the
skin and you have officers who were
searching a car on the side of the road
touched fentanyl absorbs through skin
and they overdose on the side of the
road oh my god so thankfully those those
officers have been revived in it has we
haven't lost one but but it that should
never happen that should never happen so
the making sure that all law enforcement
officers have the resources to kind of
appropriately deal with this issue and
then of course the biggest bucket would
be addiction treatment services so that
it's needed I have yet to be to a
community and I've been to
I've been to hundreds of them now
working on this case and I've yet to be
to visit a community that tells us we
have we have empty beds we have space
available nobody does right they're all
maxed out they all have waiting lists
they have people on waiting lists who
overdosed and died and that's something
that shouldn't happen and that's what
we're trying to fix with this litigation
okay so what is the status now how is
this is this related to what's happened
in Ohio is that just two specific
districts like it you know because
they're there it feels like every other
day we hear a different report of a
different settlement sure maybe one just
with Johnson and Johnson maybe one that
is just for specific counties so so what
what you're what you're saying is is an
example of the lesson that that trial
pressure brings about resolution and and
and as a trial lawyer and as a firm that
tries a lot of cases that that's
something that we know better than
anybody so what we're seeing here is is
we had a trial it was supposed to start
Monday
I was supposed to be in Cleveland not
not here but but Monday morning the case
settled there was several defendants
that entered into a settlement several
others that were severed out and will
probably go to trial in the next couple
of months but but that's what we're
seeing is all the local government's
cases the ones filed in federal court
consolidated up in Cleveland Ohio in
front of Judge pollster and and this was
the first trial that we've been building
up to for the last two years and in as I
said trial so how many plaintiffs how
many cities or municipalities whatever
it ounce I mean what how many of those
are participating in this settlement
there's about in the settlement it's
just the two trial County so so judge
Polster determined that Cuyahoga and
Summit counties which is where Cleveland
and Akron set we're gonna be the two
counties to go to trial first so as that
trial date was set we saw the dominoes
start to fall you had incest
file for bankruptcy you had Perdue file
for bankruptcy as we started getting
closer and closer to trial Johnson
Johnson said
with the two counties Mallinckrodt
another big manufacturer settled with
the two counties and then it literally
would be at the villa
we had the big three distributors
McKesson mayor source Bergen and
Cardinal help settled with the two
counties so these two counties were
suing like it sounds like a half a dozen
players more I think the list was it was
about 22 23 oh okay and so on and
they're and they're they're they're
they're bringing this case against all
those plaintiffs contemporaneously or
against all those defendants yes those
defendants contemporaneously so how did
the defendants organize themselves or
were you gonna have if you went to trial
on behalf of those two counties and
there's 20 defendants do they have like
20 different legal teams that are
arguing they do and look judge bolsters
a fantastic judgments done a great job
managing this case and one of the things
he did about four months ago was say
there's we don't have room in the
courtroom for 423 defense attorneys so
we essentially split the case in half
severed out approximately eight to ten
of them said that'll be a second trial
and so then we moved forward with with
about half the number that we started
with and and and and we saw the results
of that once once they knew that there
was focus and attention on them that the
settlement started to roll it and can
you tell us what the numbers are on that
so sure they they've been publicly
reported so Mallinckrodt which is a big
big big manufacturer branded in generic
paid about twenty million dollars the
big three that settled on settled on
Monday paid a total of about two hundred
and ten million dollars is what's been
reported there
Teva is a big manufacturer based in
based in in Israel but they have some
some entities here in the US it's been
reported they paid about five million
dollars on Monday so so yeah the fairly
substantial numbers you're talking
almost about two hundred and fifty
million dollars between these two
counties sir and so and presumably the
they they have a split in between you
know between them
and then this money goes into those
various services that they need
now the how these counties end up
spending that money is up to them
absolutely in Cuyahoga County's already
announced that they've they formed a
specific task force to focus on what
exactly what the needs are in their
community which is which is what we've
been preaching for the last three years
okay so now what does the these
settlements today basically establish
benchmarks and an algorithm for the way
that other counties municipalities will
ultimately presumably settle sure I mean
that that's the that's the whole purpose
behind setting some of these early what
they call bellwether trials to kind of
test the waters and and see what a how a
defendant values a case when it comes to
settlement or how a jury values a case
and and obviously I mean we talked about
the numbers they've been reported
they're significant so the fact that
these folks were ready to put that type
of money on the table shows what they
were concerned about as far as a jury
verdict so how will that and then
presumably when these uh you know we
moved down the line with these other
counties and municipalities it's some
type of formula like coyote county had X
number of people and had reported X
number of Odie's and has a budget of Y
and these many pills ended up in this
county over the course of 15 years and
relative to the 125 million they're
gonna get that's what sets the formula
sure so there's a bunch of different
data points you can look at as far as
metrics for for determining something
like that but we've kind of focused on
is is is amount of pills which you
referenced and we're actually looking at
it in mmm ease as opposed to just just
pills so more maybe yeah morphine
milligram equivalents okay so that's
kind of how you know you have a
hydrocodone pill and oxycodone pills the
rows just one pill with the oxycodone
pills 50 percent stronger right
so that's that's what we're looking at
his potency so we're looking at enemy's
going into communities we're looking at
overdose deaths we're looking at at
diagnoses of opioid use disorder so how
many folks are addicted in the community
and those are that those are the three
three data points that that we've kind
of focused in on the most and so
presumably we're going to start hearing
about settlements cascading over the
next like six months you know it's gonna
be interesting to see how it plays out
as I've said a couple times trial
pressure brings about resolution in in
Cleveland there there's no more trial
dates right now so we expect there will
be one roll out soon for the if you
remember I told you about half the
defendants were separate out so we do
expect there to be a trial date for
those folks that will roll out soon and
and will work those cases up
aggressively will prepare them for trial
and if the defendants make an offer that
are that our client tells us to accept
them then we'll accept it but otherwise
we'll go and try the case which is what
we were prepared to do starting this
week now are there other sets of
plaintiffs out there that are pursuing
other litigations our Attorney General's
involved in this anymore or sure so I
think I think Nebraska's the only
holdout I think otherwise every Attorney
General has has either brought a case or
announced the intention of bringing a
case and retained counsel you have cases
that have been filed is McKesson located
in Nebraska they're a SAN
francisco-based company in out in
California I don't know I don't know
what's going on in Nebraska but for
whatever reason they've decided to stand
on the sidelines so far so yeah you have
hospitals that have filed cases trying
to trying to seek reimbursement for for
you know indigent patients that they've
treated who come in with overdoses and
things like that you have third party
payers who are filing filing lawsuits
claiming that they were the the benefits
and risk of opioids were misrepresented
to them so there's there's it's complex
there's a lot out there the the local
government of cases and the Attorney
General seem to be kind of leading
charge but and what happens when the
Purdue for instance says we're bankrupt
are they bankrupt are they protecting
them says a settlement or where would a
court order essentially where would that
sit relative to the other creditors that
they're getting bankruptcy protection
from so it'll be it'll be interesting to
see how that plays out so they filed a
chapter 11 bankruptcy there there
they've been very public about their
willingness to reorganize to spend the
company off to rename it to use the bulk
of any funds that they have available is
there any type of like recourse in that
situation I mean it seems like the idea
that you could sue this company for
doing what they did in you know
marketing this and manufacturing it in
and having a an obvious awareness that
this seems like a really successful
product it's been this big and and
earning billion dollars more well let's
be clear wasn't an accident yeah it was
as big as it was because of the actions
they took up day it was what everything
was strategic everything was intended
and then they just say well we're going
out of business
although the I mean all the c-suite the
the Sackler is they they walked away
with all the cash the business is just a
sort of you know presumably just sort of
like some type of shell right
essentially and they're gonna
restructure they're just gonna be just
that they're gonna change their name and
you know move out of town so it's gonna
be interesting to see how it plays out
what there was there was recently a
temporary stay entered meaning kind of a
pause and all the litigation against
both Purdue they're they're affiliated
entities and also the Sackler family and
in the the court gave everybody until
the first week in November to kind of
decide what type of
what type of discovery would be
permitted onto the financial status of
both the company and the Sackler family
so those negotiations are happening now
in and obviously that that's a huge
question how much money did because it's
a private it's a private company they
don't have you know these public they
don't have these public filings they
don't have the III s that so so uh do
you can you go to the Bankruptcy Court
and say you yeah you can't allow them
bankruptcy protection or so there's a
lot of different vehicles available I
think that if these negotiations come
out favorable to us and we're able to
get the transparency that we think we're
entitled to then you know we might be
satisfied with that and and that's
that's what we want to know we want all
the cards on the table and and we want
to be able to see the full picture
before we enter into negotiations so so
that's what's happening now when I was
there but why would they agree to do
that well I think they I think they know
that the judge is fully aware of the
entire situation he hasn't been living
you know in a box for the last last
decade so he knows the history it's very
public he knows about the crisis and so
they're just satisfying ultimately
they're satisfying the judge or in for
the judge to be satisfied both parties
need to come and say like we've made an
agreement and if they don't satisfy the
judge the judge can get more onerous
about what the judge was very clear that
the stay he put on any litigation
against them was temporary okay and and
that was that he he harped on that
several times that it's the temporary
stay and and and I think that that if
the Purdue and the sackers had their
listening ears on they they heard that
and they and they knew that they need to
come to a to a fair fair outcome by the
first week in November and allow allow
everybody to see
just how much money they've walked away
exactly
profiting off of the abject misery and
suffering they've caused hundreds of
thousands of people across the country
I have no quibble in with that number at
all Wow is there anything that you what
is there anything else that we should
know about it or so you know we were all
geared up we were ready to roll with
with trial this week and then when when
when the settlements happened we're kind
of pressed and pressed Paul's for about
a day and now we're already hitting the
ground running when it comes to the
second trial case we kind of have what
we're calling track B oh you were gonna
you're from Florida
absolutely you thought that you were
gonna be in Ohio for the next guess
three to six months yes and now you're
fortunately the judge pollster was
pretty good about putting reasonable
limitations so it all was gonna be home
by Christmas but but yeah absolutely so
we were we were expected to be up in
Cleveland this week and for the next
several weeks as we put on this case
against against these folks
Jeff Gaddy Levin Papantonio thank you so
much for for stopping by Thanks
interesting stuff appreciate it thank
you all right folks
anticipating a okay and
or okay we'll have another guest is
going to be joining us in just a moment
let's look at this clip as we're talking
about and I think we're going to see
this we're gonna see the attempts by the
Republicans by the Trump pistas to the
way that they're going to be able to
deal with impeachment or the only way
that they have is through process or
simply saying we have no quibble with
the facts as you've presented them it's
just that what makes you think it's
wrong to do this and here is Matt
Whittaker he is the former acting
Attorney General I know people remember
he was the one who stepped in after
sessions and then everybody said like
you can't have this guy be your attorney
general he had some type a hot tub
business yeah I I don't know people
remember it I think it was like a
multi-level marketing thing in
retrospect I think I would have rather
that idiot as opposed to bill Barr who
is were without a doubt significantly
more intelligent but equally if not more
evil but here is Matt Whittaker
explaining his theory of the case to
Laura Ingraham well I really go back to
that they never saw him as legitimate
the insurance policy of Peter struck
failed Muller failed and now they're on
to the next thing well and he's again
he's you know these remember these
global elitist these these careerists
have made promises to our and and have
to have it set in place a world
establishment that operated a certain
way and president Trump has asked
questions like why do we do this this
way why don't people pay why does it's
Germany and France why don't they pay
two percent of NATO and and these kind
of questions which again has completely
upset the applecart yeah has he is being
punished for this and again I'm
prosecutor and what I know is this is a
perfect time for preliminary hearing
where you would say show us your
evidence what evidence of a crime you
have I mean the Constitution you know
sort of abuse of power is not a crime
let's fundamentally Bank you know the
Constitution is very clear that this has
to be some pretty egregious behavior and
they cannot tell the American people
what this case is even about right you
have to do it in secret yeah and I'm
reading this Bill Taylor opening
statement and ice my first reaction was
anything that's 15 pages single-spaced
it's like someone who has to put their
resume on two or three pages that's
never someone you want to hire nerd
first off the idea that presidential
abuse of power would not be an
impeachable offense I mean it's it's
it's not even it's not a specific
offense it's a category of offenses that
you would that you would impeach for I
mean that's the whole point is literally
you have abused your power as president
global elites would have you believe
that's the only good old Maori right
yeah how many pages your resumes am I to
be honest with you I I don't know that
I've ever had a resume but
that's it that's it it is sort of
stunning that they are can only rely on
the fact that it's single spaced and 15
pages long as opposed to talking about
any of the substance in there in other
words we've got a guy who is so
detail-oriented and he Taylor apparently
took copious contemporary notes as we
read yes try hide well he's trying to
impress people this is something
apparently a career diplomats do all the
time and I think he was particularly he
was particularly sensitive to what was
going on and decided to take these notes
as a way of protecting himself and the
idea that this would be the way that
they're going to impeach it's like the
ACA they did the same thing with the
Affordable Care Act like it's just a
hundred pages long who needs a bill it's
a hundred pages long it's that type of
thing but that's a tough that's a tough
sell globalist diplomats - needs a new
world you can't believe a any testimony
that has been typed out single-spaced
let me ask you a question you're gonna
trust somebody in a criminal proceeding
who took notes about the crime please
meanwhile the the rats are really
desperately trying to scurry off the
ship I think and God knows God knows
right exactly god knows what is
happening in the pence home Yes Mother
it's just a matter of time it's just a
matter of time mother here is Mike Pence
there's a lot happening in the fence oh
yeah here's Mike Pence also on Laura
Ingraham talking about how like he had
no idea about any of this but I stand
with the president but there's no
question when when president Trump said
we were going to drain this wall but an
awful lot of the swamp has been caught
up in in the State Department
bureaucracy and we're just we're just
going to keep fighting it and we're
going to fight it with the truth I mean
the American people can read the
transcript of the phone call the
President had with President Solinsky
and they will see there was no quid pro
quo and with regard to Ukraine we were
standing strong with Ukraine against
Russian aggression where the last
administration was only sending them
blankets we're sending resources were
sending missiles we're gonna give it
make it possible for our ally in Ukraine
to be able to to defend themselves and
restore peace
were you ever uncomfortable with
Giuliani's role in kind of getting
involved in some of this I mean it's not
against a law my involvement with
Ukraine was all directly from my
conversations with the President and
frankly my conversations on the phone
and in meetings with presidents Alinsky
and I what I can tell you is that
throughout all of that we were focused
on in ensuring that the United States
was standing with Ukraine for its
territorial integrity against Russian
aggression and that we were supporting
and encouraging Ukraine to deal with
years of
and calling on European allies to do
more to support the Ukrainian people so
in other words I didn't do anything that
the president didn't directly instruct
me to do and so I wasn't involved in any
of this Laura you'd probably be familiar
with the Eichmann defense yeah exactly I
you in particular it would probably be
very aware of a certain trials that
happened yeah I had no idea what was
happening and I have to say this too
about Mike Pence that in the event that
we do get some type of impeachment and
he becomes the president and has to run
again I find it hard to believe that
people are gonna be able to watch him
talk for more than like literally 60
seconds the guy looks like he's on the
brink of crying every time he says
something it's it's very uncomfortable
much more comfortable I mean I don't
think it's gonna happen but pence would
be obviously better to run against the
Trump I don't think just need that I
think so and and you know all the
concerns that people had a year or two
ago about a trump administration I think
we have had largely a trump
administration I mean excuse me a Penson
ministration we have we have the judges
that pence wanted we have the the entire
agenda from the EPA to the USDA the
administrative state destruction i I
think we largely have had the pence
administration during this time but
joining me on that message the Trump
he'll be fired immediately
exactly so back here in the conference
mass torts 2019 joining me now is
Carissa phelps she is of counsel with
levin Papantonio
Chrissa welcome to the program thank you
would you just step in just a little bit
here thank you yes a lot of background
noise yeah and just going to bring it
down just a little bit so okay you are
working on on track on human trafficking
okay can you tell us about are there
plaintiffs defendants what there's so
many I mean there's so many people that
we have not gotten in touch with yet to
represent that need to know their rights
that's where we're at right now and we
know that we have clients that are
signing up that want to sign up that as
soon as they're educated just a bit
about what their rights are they're able
to go forward and and file some claims
against hotels that new really new and
should have known that they were
harboring sex trafficking that they were
allowing it to happen other companies
that were also helping to arrange it and
profiting off of it through websites and
other means and financially the people
who are financially supporting you know
child pornography child sex trafficking
kind of same groups of individuals and
all of those people that make it
possible and make it profitable for sex
trafficking to happen that's where I
think that's what we're going after
after ten years of doing advocacy myself
on the ground level and realizing we
just can't rescue every single victim
all the time and offer them all the
services that they need we have to stop
making more victims okay all right so so
let me just go back in but we'll work
through that so the the main defendants
are hotel chains or specific hotels yeah
I mean you you see brands like big
brands that are out there and some of
them run and operate and own their their
places their work some of them franchise
them out and try to say they have no
liability because they're franchised but
they're putting their brand on that and
there's are we talking like I mean can
you say well who the defendants are are
they like super brands yeah I mean well
motel 6 is a big one and that's on and I
and much more mostly operated by g6
hospitality which is owned by by a
private equity firm by a lot of and
pretty much investments are made through
pension funds so when you track the
money where it goes from it's kind of
interesting because it's a full circle
of these investments these investment
managers are putting money into
organizations where the people's
retirement funds who they're investing
yes are actually either their children
are being heard at these motels right or
law enforcement they're going in trying
to help and battle this problem and they
don't realize that it's their retirement
dollars their money actually funding
this activity by being their owners
their owners of this as well in terms of
that so so okay so let's take motel 6
but I imagine there's other there's
other chains obviously and we can get to
the franchisee a question and I wonder
if the the what the the the Bureau of
the National Labor Relations Board
they're ruling in regards to like
McDonald's does that have any sway do
you know I'm talking about the the
relationship between franchisees and
franchisors does that have implications
in this at all or I mean I think that
you might have to show that some what
they had some some activity going on but
the issue with the motels not unlike the
fast-food industry is that a lot of the
people worked there for a very short
time like these employees the maid
services that even the general managers
it's like they're they're there and
they're gone and so really who holds
liability in that case right who's the
responsible party is is the larger brand
it is okay and so so how did they I mean
tell like what is the theory here that
they that they knew that they knew yeah
and maybe before you tell me how what
they knew is shouldn't what what was it
that was taking place I mean what like
specific sure
so when traffickers use hotels
and I consider traffickers either buyers
actually the people that people call
John's right to try to humanize them
people who purchase sex that go in and
rent rooms for the purpose of assaulting
someone and in the case of children
child sexual abuse child sexual assaults
when they rent those rooms from the
motels are giving them a financial
benefit so that part of it is where they
have their liabilities they're there
they're taking money from people that
they know are about to use their room
for this activity and how somebody is
hurt right happy and how do you
establish that they know that they knew
or that they should have known because
of the number of well sometimes it's a
number of police calls but oftentimes
police stop responding it's actually
pretty sad the worse that it gets at a
motel location the most rampant areas of
sex trafficking they'll stop responding
and that mostly staff doesn't want them
to respond sometimes because it takes a
ding the hotel will or the motel will
take a ding or get a fine or be at risk
of being shut down or be at risk of
being criminally held liable from the
City Attorney's Office so sometimes the
calls are not made to law enforcement
that should be and then sometimes
they're ignored we have multiple reports
that come out of it police
investigations trafficking cases where
specific locations are named again and
again I see so someone is either other
guests at the hotel or you equalizer and
pretty much put in prostitution or
trafficking and other other types of
crimes and you'll see if I'm oh if a
motel or hotel so they are aware that
this is all going on so it is at least
primarily a function of the criminality
that's been found there in the past and
that people are being hurt I mean we're
not just talking about bags of drugs
which are harmful we know that right
that if we were seeing a drug den going
on we would be appalled and we should be
appalled but we're talking about
children being raped again and again
over and over and they're being
information that gives knowledge really
I mean really gives some actual
knowledge that this was happening and
that they're ignored did there seem does
their they're considered the children
that are out there
our disposable by these companies and
the companies have made profits and the
children if they live to be adult if
they get that opportunity to live to be
adults live with an immense pain don't
aren't able to trust right don't go on
and and feel safe in the world right and
then imagine seeing all these motel 6 or
other branded motels and hotels and
these these lies they tell about how
safe they are and that their family
friendly and that they're a good you
know good place to be and hearing that
if you've been victimized there
repeatedly now you you started in
activism that was a function of of
having been yeah victim yourself we know
it's a very personal story because I
tried to get totally away from it I went
to school I went to college I was a math
major I was so far away from trying to
think about my path and when I went to
law school I was focused on business law
I wanted to figure out how to how to
make make sure that capital is used in a
put in a way that really helps right
like we can we can use capital in a way
that can promote social good and so that
was my focus and when I came out of law
school and business school with the JD
MBA I went in back to the streets where
I had been kidnapped when I was 12 years
old I went back to the places and it was
still happening almost two decades later
in the same places rampantly and pretty
much all I could see being the solution
at that point was a bulldozer I mean we
need to just have these properties taken
out of these communities and plan safe
communities with as much destruction
that has happened in these neighborhoods
for as many years as it's gone on you
really need to invest in in that much
more right you have to really make it
the best type of place so I attempted to
do that back in the areas where I had
been trafficked where we're still
happening nowhere was this in Fresno
Fresno girl Fresno California
and unfortunately the whole crisis
happened the financial crisis happened
we weren't able to raise the money we
needed to really buy at that point I
just wanted to buy the properties and
just take them down right so we I went
into just community neighborhood
activism raising awareness because a lot
of people didn't understand what the
issue was
I had a County Supervisor in Fresno
County tell me that every community
needed a place where you could buy sex
and drugs and to my face and and that
was the attitude and that is the
attitude in many communities that as
long as it's kept over there and it's
away from me right and we don't think
about though what drives it and the
profits that drive it and and that's
what we're really trying to think for
for the plaintiffs uh can you tell me a
little bit more about your story or sure
I wrote a book about it
okay I'm pretty open about it and it
motivates me I think that's the
important part is it motivates me to do
what I do
I know that I got off the streets for a
purpose for a reason
and when I was there I met people I saw
things I was a part of I was you know
myself like I said kidnapped assaulted
sold you were kidnapped and he groped
were you living in Fresno at the time so
I was a I was considered an
out-of-control youth at 12 years old a
runaway I had some unaddressed traumas
that had happened when I was 11 years
old and younger and because of that and
because of a lack of counseling and
resources and education where I lived in
a small town called Kalinga the
recommendation and advice that my mother
was yea Kalinga California the in Fresno
County the recommendation an advice my
mother was given was to take me to
juvenile hall and drop me off which a
lot of kids are that happens to them
they go in they go into the system then
they go into group homes they get
recycled through group homes they you
know and for chronic runners who are
traumatized they just end up back on the
streets then somebody picks them up says
and is what happened to my story right
I'll take care of you if you take care
of me with full intention of keeping me
out of motel
and me being that person sex slaves at
12 years old and because it happened to
me I know how true it is right and even
like when I when I finally got out of it
when I got to be able to get my
education get back in school I had
missed seventh eighth and ninth grade I
went back to school graduated high
school went to Community College went to
college and I thought to myself I'm
gonna write cheques to programs that
help kids in another country that this
happens to I did not realize how rampant
it was even though it happened to me and
I knew other girls that were out there I
didn't realize how rampant it was and
how it had gotten not just not just the
same that it stayed the same but it had
gotten much worse and is is that is your
story like typically how it happens in
this country that it's kids who are
falling through the cracks uh anyone
could be a victim I mean we say it's it
definitely an equal opportunity
destroyer it can reach anyone any
household any age group any gender as
well and so I particularly was
vulnerable and there would be
vulnerabilities that are preyed upon
like being you know someone that some of
people are not looking for even though I
was missing I was a runaway I was
reported missing nobody was really
looking for me I wasn't a milk carton
kid right so that leaves some
vulnerability no one will know and it's
how serial killers actually choose their
victims a lot of times is if they are
considered sex workers or prostitutes
and they're not going to be looked for
how did you get out of that situation so
I had been taken from one person to
another which often happens like you
could either be thinking that you're
going to be getting something better so
I went with someone else who was saying
he would get me out of it he was more
violent hurt me more held me and was
actually probably taking me to murder me
when we were pulled over by a law
enforcement officer who recognized me as
a I mean he potentially he saw me that I
was out of place in this car and
unfortunately missed that there was
another 15 year old girl neck
to me she did not get any help and I my
help was being arrested and taken to
juvenile hall spending 30 days in
juvenile hall and that was my escape
from that trafficker it didn't mean that
trafficking was over unfortunately it
continued it continued until later in my
life and I was able to finally turn
things around and go to like I said get
back to school at 15 and start to see a
better a brighter future for myself how
do you how do you like it so you those
30 days was the beginning because then
you became aware of what was going on
I'd say it got worse after that 30 days
well so then how did you know I ended up
getting in more and more trouble crimes
gangs partly for protection to more
sexual assaults more trafficking happen
because once somebody knows that you've
been a victim of prostitution or
trafficking then you become a target
actually more of a target for it again
and again so that happened I was
targeted and then I when I was in
juvenile hall for the longest period
with six months and I met a counselor
who he was a very positive influence in
my life he's still in my life today who
told me I had potential he allowed me
write a journal
he got me counseling therapy like the
whole mix of things that I need it
encouraged me to have an inner
relationship with my mother and help me
to really heal in a way that didn't just
immediately rescue me because that's not
what happens but it started that was
like a pivot point where it started that
I had a new message I could play in my
mind which was you have potential
instead of the other messages show is
the dynamic is the dynamic for obviously
you know it's not true for everybody but
is the dynamic four four four kids who
are in that situation that they it's not
necessarily that they are physically
kept from leaving that it's just that
they don't see any other options
it could be either their life it could
be either I mean you could be have that
physical your trash right I mean
especially imagine as a child 12 years
old you don't drive a
vehicle you don't you can't get out
right you don't even know where this
Motel even if he opens the door and
tells me to leave I'm thinking okay
there's somebody worse waiting for me
out there right you just don't know what
yes so you have you have that element of
being trapped which I think is almost a
physical barrier to getting out of it
and then you have the emotional and
mental pieces of it that you don't trust
people clients that you know we're raped
by police officers assaulted by police
officers who they thought were going to
help them and so that's not so the
majority of law enforcement that's out
there and I really I work closely with
law enforcement so I don't want to paint
that picture but it happens and it has
happened and so Wow and so what I guess
so when you look at something like cesta
Fausta which is a little bit off-topic
here because i do want to go back to you
know how you're establishing claims
against these these courts but but what
sets the FASTA from your perspective
like what what was your perspective on
on the that legislation which I should
just tell people was it basically
prevented the advertising of of sex
workers in magazines or online or web
sites access websites had kind of a free
rein with the Communications Decency Act
oddly named CDA 230 allowed websites and
hosts of websites and designers of
websites to not be liable for anything
that people post on their website and
they interpreted that very broadly the
courts did very very broadly so it was
just basically immunity for the people
who were making the money off of the
activities that were happening the most
money off of it they were immune and so
FASTA says that took that immunity away
and and I think it really pissed people
off it has pissed people off right we
but my understanding is that that some
activists are like this is problematic
because this is one of the ways that we
track
and he'll narratives being paid for and
really yeah I do I think so one of the
things that I'll talk about later today
is Soros Foundation and open society
foundation that has put billions in
dollars into planting a narrative that
says that this these the websites and
that's in that sex trafficking itself is
not sex trafficking that there there's
sex work that we're there empowering and
there's opportunities to empower sex
workers through hold on one second I
think we're having a little bit of
problem with our connectivity are we
there guys
okay all right I'm sorry sorry about
that didn't see so to be clear the Soros
Foundation and the tech industry I mean
we've pissed them off we've taken away a
huge treat that they've had for a very
long time right why would the Soros
foundation okay so the sort of so there
there's this there's a a narrative that
they want to push that people who have
people who have been arrested for being
victims in sex work dude they need a
voice I've been giving that voice we
have a voice where we've been trying to
give a voice to that I myself I just
said I was arrested as a 12 year old
victim that shouldn't have happened
right I've been working against that for
a very long time what's happened is that
turn that's turned into we shouldn't
arrest the buyers we should allow pimps
or managers to be able to do their job
of selling people and this full
decriminalization argument has come out
of the Soros foundation they've been
behind a lot of the other full
decriminalization arguments and other
crimes like around marijuana and other
other issues that they feel that that
should not be criminal actually some
some of the people that are funded by
him and some of the research that comes
out says that property crimes
if someone breaks into your home
shouldn't be a criminal act those ways
but but so just to be clear in terms of
sex work which I don't think exists sex
work itself you don't think it I mean I
think you need big quotes around sex
work because the dynamic and the power
differential of somebody who's offering
money for that piece of you that part of
you is is unequal it's just unequal it's
it's unequal to an extent that doesn't
make it a fair bargain at all for the
person that's being purchased so I don't
consider it work okay I mean I think
that's the that is you know the
perspective I mean I think there there
are people who who think sex work should
be legalized in that and having a
regulatory structure will be the best
way to protect people who are trafficked
and who are you know creates more
victims actually yeah okay I mean that's
alright because I just want that out
there because I'm the the perspective of
some of the folks who are against that's
the FASTA feel that this is the only way
to track what's going on for victims how
else would you find victims or I guess
this litigation is part of that is like
you know we know already where they're
at and that's part of the problem we
know where they're at
I mean do we have do you have a sense as
you pursue this litigation like how do
you establish damages like weird how do
you peg a figure on this and is the idea
that you're trying to reach people
essentially like yourself who have been
victims and have and obviously not
currently victims right now but need to
get out of this system before they
basically say we have a claim against
the hotel companies that
knew this was happening in their
properties and just allowed it to
continue and took profits or yeah so
it's kind of it's been a long road I
started telling my own story in 2006 and
at that time I was uncertain about what
my beliefs were around sex work around
any of it I really didn't know all I
knew that kids were was that kids as
young as 11 years old were being
arrested and charged with prostitution
right and I knew that was wrong I knew
that from my own experiences and I knew
that from going and sitting with the
youth many of them were in foster care
or group homes or probation they were
kids that didn't have parents except for
the state you know we were their parents
and we weren't doing a good job so my
advocacy has been around bringing
awareness probably like the first five
years of the advocacy work I've done has
been bringing awareness for child
victims of trafficking for you know Pat
and and part of my focus at that point
was on Backpage early on I mean I was I
was focused on the fact that this was
happening it was happening rampantly I'd
have young girls tell me well how could
it be illegal it's out there in the open
they really believed that they didn't
believe that that it could be illegal II
thought they were partaking in something
that was accepted and it was being
accepted at that point largely in
society so if we ignore something it's
like the broken window theory kind of
right if we ignore it it gets worse it
gets much worse so and for them to start
internalizing that oh cuz because it's
open and out there somehow it makes it
okay that I'm a victim means that
they're gonna be trapped in that for so
much longer much much longer and so once
we once we've seen services and programs
now being built up because of the
awareness and because there's there's
some funding coming out for services
finally and then those services have to
get mature and know how to deliver those
services and learn and get evidence from
what works and what doesn't work then
you start to see and start to be able to
measure and those are services who are
geared towards kids who are trafficked
so the because I think the I mean at
least I think my conception has largely
been like we're not
he's not aware of what's going on and
it's like some type of rescue mission
you come in you see the kids you bring
them out the Hollywood version and the
end of the story this is really more
about kids who are in a system are not
aware that they're being victimized
until they get older because they're 12
and they just ran and so when you talk
about something like Backpage did they
look at Backpage and say like oh I'm
being advertised so it must be fine
or do they have a like when it was would
have would a victim at this point be
aware of like cesta foster would just
the idea of it
I'll prevent some of that yeah it helps
they they become we're like oh this is
illegal I'm a victim yes yes that's what
it helps and that's where it helps but
it was a huge I mean it was a huge ask
to go to the tech industry or to the web
you know infrastructure of the Internet
companies that were profiting off of
posts and wanted to maintain zero
liability and say can you police
yourselves right can you go ahead and
start doing the right thing can you can
you not allow this to happen it wasn't
gonna happen and so it did take a huge
you know and week wake-up call to say no
it's not going to happen anymore there's
going to be liability and you see that
that has pushed it to other places it's
still in the open I believe that a lot
of the trafficking still happens out in
the open
you have websites like seeking
arrangements and sugar-daddy where it's
happening and there'll be lots of
disclaimer you have ways there's dating
sites presumably dating sites
there's which I think are actually far
worse than some of the other ones but
then there are places where it's just
social media right it's just social
media but you know that this these
traffickers target certain accounts and
certain people and hit them up regularly
right and are basically fishing for
I mean they get out there and they and
they go on they go on and befriend
people I had a young woman that she as
soon as she turned 18 was told oh come
be in music videos in New York can be a
part of this and her name dropped some
people they worked with had some photos
on the web's on the on the social media
site that they were contacted through
and then before you know it she's taken
out you know out of state from across
the country from California to New York
and then told you know be you're
gonna be mine and you owe me money now
for being here and for me getting you
here and that's how I mean these
arrangements are set up it doesn't have
to be necessarily an open site it's
still happening out in the open right
how well are there syndicates of
traffickers we together yeah I mean like
like how is this organized is this a is
this a function of organized crime is it
is there a there's various types of I
mean yes yes so you can have everything
from where the businesses even the
hotels or the hotel managers are
involved
you could have gangs that are involved
and are profiting off of trafficking
that's happened multiple times in
multiple cases where gangs have worked
together to traffic and have that as a
source of funds you have even rival
gangs that work together to traffic to
increase trafficking in the in the
market of trafficking and increase funds
so so yes I mean and all right so how
will you establish ultimately if you
find those victims as you say as
services ramped up and organizations get
in contact with just have start to have
some type of regular contact with
victims this is this litigation is an
opportunity for those services to say
like we can get you a settlement
essentially that will allow you to go
and leave you know provide you with the
resources to be independent to restart
your life
and there's a there's a hurdle when
you're talking with organizations that
provide services because they have a
particular set of interests for the
clients and litigation is not always
easy right one of the goals that we have
is eliminating the statute of
limitations right why should anyone ever
think oh I can get away with this
criminal activity that's hurting other
people if I just if it just has to that
be that they don't come forward whatever
many years and I imagine their state by
state what are the statute of
limitations well the federal one is the
one I'm particularly thinking of is for
the traffic Victims Protection
reauthorization Act the T V PRA right
now is ten years so that'll be something
I'm going to be looking at and I've been
talking to people who are going to
propose some new changes to that where
at least let's not start that ten years
until someone realizes that we've been a
victim because to put somebody through
that while they're in the middle of
going through seeking services getting
help is really difficult I mean that's
gonna be some of our clients some of
them are still mine or some of them you
know parents are outraged like with the
Backpage cases and parents were outraged
and went and sought counsel because of
that so we'll hear from parents will
hear directly from the youth I mean not
unlike not unlike the opioids I mean we
should be hearing from the counties the
counties should be saying hey you know
we know that these companies are
profiting off of this and that it's our
kids that are in our care they're in
foster care right they're in our care
and we have to absorb all those costs of
getting them help in services which may
never happen for them right and so so we
may hear from them as well but it is
difficult for that initial connection to
happen to say I'm valuable right I have
rights or my daughter who was murdered
at a motel right I want to fight for her
I want to bring up that memory again and
that's difficult to ask people to do and
we want to be there for them during that
whole process so we're I mean what what
where is it in the process at this point
like are you you've identified
defendants I guess presumably you are
looking for plaintiffs and yeah and do
you have a
my two strategies myself okay so we have
the big brands that are out there that
we're gonna probably get the mass torts
going I mean that's that is our goal is
we're here at mass hearts conference I
mean it's pretty obvious that's what we
want to see a large number of victims
recover and that's only going to happen
through this type of litigation and I'm
really excited about I'm excited about
learning about mass torts and that's an
opportunity to go forward in that
direction because that's how it needs
that's how things are going to change is
through that now then you have the small
motel operators throughout like
throughout California we'll have
hundreds that this is their main source
of revenue is from him being involved in
this so I've got to think about that
strategy a little bit different because
now we're not talking about a corporate
brand but we're talking about adding up
all these places where they've been
harboring sex trafficking for decades
and getting away with it some of them
not under a brand right right so so
those there's kind of two avenues in the
in the hotel-motel industries that I'm
thinking about mass torts and then
individual claims that that victims can
have and maybe we have dozens of victims
against one or dozens of defendants in
those small motels to what extent is
there a pursuit of legislation that
would be the functional equivalent of
Cessna FASTA but for other entities that
are profiting off of this so like why
isn't there a federal statute that says
if your Motel has been the site of three
I don't know three criminal activities
over the course of five years or it was
just a great argument for that I mean
you probably know like we we know that
hotels and motels have this increased
they have basically a higher duty of
care for their for the people who are
coming onto their property who they're
renting rooms to so how in the world
could you know that your hotel is
rampant with crime with kidnappers with
people who potentially are rapists
murderers you know how could you know
that
keep that door open really I mean it
should and and the industry standard
isn't there yet in terms of policing
themselves is not there yet they're
starting to do education around human
trafficking but we've seen for the last
decade we on the books and they are not
doing things differently when motels use
when when when traffickers use motels
are they like are the kids there for
like you know 24/7 and people are coming
in to buy there so one of the things
that you might see is that they'd be
repeat there'd be a number of people
throughout the day who are unrelated
coming in to that same room to okay if
the motel was even vaguely vigilant
about it they could it's fairly easy to
identify what's going the sad thing that
I've heard is one this is one of the
smaller motels but they had cameras on
every door they could see every door
every door and the children thought that
was to trap them to hold them there they
didn't see the cameras because the
cameras would see the people coming in
and out all the time right so and they
didn't do anything about that so the
kids assumed they were being watched and
that they weren't allowed to go in and
out what what was your reaction around
the whole Jeffrey Epstein thing I mean
what I mean like what was your sense as
someone who obviously now 10 15 years
working on the side of trying to help
victims having been a victim like what
do you have a sense of that scenario I
just hope it doesn't I hope we don't
ignore it just because he's he's dead I
mean it he's hit what he has done will
have an impact forever I mean really it
has an impact on the lives of the people
that he harmed generationally it goes
through generations after that the
number of people that that participated
with him that haven't been held
accountable
yet for the harms that they've done to
those same children that he heard that
he trafficked is appalling and like just
the amount of time that went on on a
dress on a dress I mean we knew what
happened he went to prison but got
released on a program where he was out
every day victimizing people while he
was in prison the fact that we in we
condoned that for so long
needs to we need to look at ourselves as
a society and say what else are we
missing right what else are we missing
it and it should be an indication and a
measure of us how kids are treated
should be an indication of how how we
are doing as a society and we did that
in that case and they're there we're not
the only ones you know in the world that
that are not doing well in this and
there's no magic wand to get rid of it
but we have to address every case
vigilantly and not just slap people on
the wrists for buying for procuring for
offering for selling and and that
includes every level that profits off of
this Christa Phelps hub Council with
Levin Papantonio thanks so much for your
time today where can people go are there
websites that you recommend or
organizations that you recommend for
people to get more information if
somebody needs resources or services the
human trafficking hotline which is eight
eight eight three seven three seven
eight eight eight that's how I memorize
it eight eight eight three seven three
seven eight eight eight and that is that
is the line to call no matter if you're
in need of services or if you're a
service provider and you want to let
people know that you're out there
providing services and you want to be
vetted and be on that line then call
them and get on that line there's also a
text way that that people who can't call
can reach them by text and that's be
free which is two to three three seven
three three that could be text and you
could text info or help to that line and
on on the website National Human
Trafficking Resource NH TRC dot
org you can look up state-by-state
what's available in your community in
your area so that's the primary one that
I would send people to and is there a is
there any type of activists who are
pursuing the legislation yeah and they
have a whole policy page for it so again
if you want to get involved locally you
can see where your state is what they're
doing how they're how they're ranked is
on shared Hope International website but
but Polaris has a start to all that
information and claryce is the National
Human Trafficking Resource Center will
have all that information all right
Chris Phelps thank you so much Michelle
hi folks we're gonna head into the fun
half Wow so we're gonna be talking
amazing amazing story we're going to be
talking to other attorneys Oh tomorrow
about various product liability issues
and other cases there's been over the
years some just some devastating stories
that I've heard here that are really
disturbing and horrific and you know it
it's interesting too and maybe we can
talk about this more in the fun app but
the you know the perspective I think
that you know we've talked about when it
came to sass the FASTA in the past you
know is it's hard to get a sense of what
the best way to approach these things
are I don't necessarily agree with the
idea that there is no such thing as sex
work there are sex workers who I think
are
at least in my understanding that people
who make a choice as an adult - to do
that kind of work
but I guess you know different people
have different perspectives on do you
think maybe I don't know if I'm up and
do you think maybe it's I don't know I
think you know you and I both could used
to talk to plenty of people with you
know like the guest today of I mean
Jesus I don't want to say X I don't know
what the right word would be but people
who know more than us but I think victim
yeah well certainly victim but I'm also
I mean a victim but also an expert right
but I think it seems to me that a term
like sex work is maybe too
all-encompassing because it can be used
to describe potentially way too many
things and we need to spend of
disaggregating what exactly we're
talking about here right like some you
know but at any rate
yeah let's uh let's play one more a clip
as we move on we've been talking about
impeachment here is Eddie cloud on MSNBC
talking about impeachment and I and you
know again two weeks ago we had the text
messages between Bill Taylor and Sundlun
who is the EU ambassador and was picked
by the trumpet we're gonna mean the
weird thing is that they brought in
Taylor it's almost like these guys they
had they were that there was this
corrupt cabal of Sunderland and Volcker
and Giuliani and Perry but they also
needed some expertise so it's almost
like they couldn't help but
bring in a career diplomat and of course
you know this bill Taylor and they're
going to attempt to impeach this guy's
credibility but I think they're gonna
have a tough time language they speak
over their bill well I think I think
it's really gonna be like so bill you're
the type of goody-goody who writes X
copious contemporaneous notes and I see
you only use single space I mean I there
honestly what's now I'm talking about in
the beginning where they're just like
you know I think we need someone what do
they speak crane over there
write it bill get over here we need
somebody dated something but here is
Eddie Glaude in the wake of the reports
of what bill teller has testified to
which I think like I said you know we
were talking two weeks ago we're pretty
clear from the text that that was his
disposition but here's Eddie glad you
know Dan Balz in his in his column today
in the Washington Post made made it very
clear he says the question of whether
this happened is now settled mmm-hmm the
issue now is the whether the how the
president explains it and what Congress
chooses to do about it
so you're right something has changed
The Smoking Gun is here we evidence is
clear now we have to now we have to
assess what will the Congress do and and
I think that's where we are so something
has shifted I think you and and David
all right something has shifted the
question now is what are the next steps
and that is uh the question we'll talk
more about that maybe in the fun half I
should remind you you can say goodbye to
sleepless nights
thanks to common comfort by sharper
image the luxurious weighted blanket
that's made with supersoft Velveteen
material and high density comfort fill
that mimics the soothing feeling of
being hugged and relaxes your body the
calming comfort weighted blanket comes
with a 90-day anxiety-free guarantee
from sharper image and right now our
listeners can go to common comfort
blanket calm use the promo code majority
a check out to receive 15% off the
displayed price again that's calming
comfort blanket calm promo code majority
you can't put a price on a great night's
sleep go to calming comfort blanket calm
promo code majority all right folks
we're gonna take a quick break and head
into the fun half just a reminder it's
your support that makes this show
possible you can become a member by
going to join the majority report com
also Kyle has been a monster an absolute
monster on updating the new app if you
updated it a couple of days ago updated
again has all the features that you want
in terms of like pausing and returning
to the same place when you're playing
the the podcast you can find the am
quickie on there you can search the
index if you're a member
check it out you can go to majority app
comm to find the iOS and the Android
versions and subscribe to the a.m.
quickie you can do that on any of your
podcast feeds today is Wednesday last
night was Tuesday Michael what what the
hell went on there party
Artesia a ball drop came through talked
about Chile Lebanon Chicago and how the
media covers different types of protests
and what the different protests today
are about why Hong Kong is about
preserving important liberal freedoms in
some respects and maybe Ecuador Haiti
Lebanon Chile about economic freedom in
in a in a actual human not libertarian
sense talked about a whole bunch more so
I'll keep it brief I recorded in an
interview I'm incredibly excited about
and proud of with Adolph read which is
going to go up to patrons today they'll
get an early peek at it before we
release it publicly in a couple weeks
patreon.com slash T mb/s Michael Brooks
show on YouTube snag your tickets to
Philly the links on the website Jamie is
Jamie there I can't see on the camera
does not know but check out the anti
Fattah folks
and Matt I presume you're there I am
here I'll be doing the Salem witch
trials for a future Saturday literary
hangover episode so we're going to be
talking about cotton and increased math
there we're gonna be talking about
inequality and a commercial versus a
secular society fighting through the
church and gender and inequality and so
check that out folks on Saturday oh and
folks don't forget we want if you were
building a glossary of things that you
hear on the show that you just feel like
I don't get what they're talking about
what what it what is this why does why
does Michael do a a right-wing Nelson
Mandela impression where did that come
from things like that if you want to
know it's like a cockeyed send us an
email at majority reporters at gmail.com
putting the subject meme or memes m ee m
es means and we will include it in our
glossary so that people can follow what
the hell we're talking about half the
time see you in the fun half six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see you
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
alpha males are back back back
almost and the alpha males
I am a total John can we bring back the
eg dinner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation DJ dance well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break that's
reminder I do dogs have more concerns
and the alpha males are like
Oh almost says what what watch watch
watch watch
the back
on the back
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
alpha males
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 you boy
spottings better tinfoil and the alpha
males are alpha males
all right folks not going to have any
calls today but we'll be taking IMS
throughout the show about an hour ago
Michaels volume was low that's okay
apparently we have full on cue and on
ads on our YouTube channel
who runs q and on ads I have no clue
that sounds great I I knew about I knew
buddy through Himes ads and though right
that's Falun Gong right that's the gun
Minh I would presume if q and non ran
ads they would be not so anon right
Sam's tinder profile hey babes white
right and let's start a class on action
a square this is college of genius to
that bit okay Kyle is a genius but can
we please move the logout button to the
left side panel Wow Sam the mad court
behind the Mad King gave nothing left to
commit crimes openly and say so what get
over it not expecting his base numbers
to move but overall numbers are moving a
lot that this is over the past night I
think it was you know I go around I try
and talk to lawyers to see if I can find
cases for to to interview people about
and one of the attorneys is an
incredible lead knowledgeable guy about
politics it's pretty rare I you come
across people who you're you're talking
to who like you can say I don't know I
mean just any reference to politics that
we talked about over the course of a
show and they're like oh yeah we did
some disagreements about politics but it
was
but very knowledgeable and we were
talking about impeachment and the
question he is of the mind that
McConnell is is going to have a vote and
that that Rehnquist had taken the
impeachment hearings incredibly
seriously with Clinton in fact I had
forgotten this but Rehnquist's war and
maybe Matt you can find a picture of
this and put it up he wore like a
special a serene Court a Supreme Court
robe like a special version of it that
was like I can't I can't remember what
it was like embroidered and like really
you know he took it very seriously for
so it did there's a little bit of
insanity but I think in that but see if
you can find that robe Rehnquist's robe
and during impeachment and he is of the
mind that Roberts will take it seriously
and I am yeah he had one that had
special stripes on it I think it was we
got it up on screen and yeah it was the
special special road and I don't know if
that is just like the Chief Justice robe
or what but maybe that was like when the
girls were white right yeah exactly
and I still contend because the real the
question is at this point is how are the
Democrats going to roll out impeachment
I think they're gonna if they're smart
they're gonna slow walk it
Roka Anna was on Roe Khanna was on MSNBC
this morning saying that he's hoping
that they will have a vote by Christmas
I am hoping that they don't but I think
we're going to see they're going to now
they're gonna continue to depose people
essentially
and then they're gonna start to have
open hearings and they have got to put
the maximum amount of pressure possible
on the Republicans in the Senate because
you have people like Tom Tillis Susan
Collins Joni Ernst in particular Cory
Gardner arguably Sally McMaster in
Arizona and if Mitch McConnell allows a
vote the vote that they those five
senators takes is going to be highly
problematic for them because these are
all senators who will attempt to project
that they are that they are somewhat
independent from Donald Trump and that's
going to be very hard for them to
pretend that they are when and excuse
the lighting here there
apparently there's a that's going to be
very hard for them to pretend to they
when they literally vote to protect him
in the context of an impeachment hearing
so you need the idea that the
Republicans are complaining that this is
not public wait till it becomes as
public as the Democrats realize now that
they can and need to do you're gonna
have Republicans crying about how public
it is like why are you throwing this in
our face constantly and that's what
we're going to see quite convinced of it
and and if the the Democrats are even
remotely aware of how this is going
that's what we'll see let's take a
couple more
AIIMS and then we'll play a little more
we got some more clips here July ax
there was a progressive voice clip where
can't remember his name he played a clip
from your show where Michael and you
were kind of disagreeing on whether
Michael was a co-host or not a lot of
progressive a lot of people were upset
in the comments because they thought
this was silly and unnecessary but I
found it really funny it's both
especially how serious and his
commentary was on it what side did he
did he come out on the right side of it
with me obviously as a co-host and we're
gonna happen we're gonna go back to a
response to his response yeah our
response yeah Robin really no I think
we're we've all overlooked some very
problematic things in the corn pop story
just because it's so stupid but by his
own telling this is Joe Biden's story
about how he was working at a pool and
he had to go out and tell some black
guys to I can't remember what it was he
had to tell him like you can't horseplay
in in the pool I can't remember what it
was is about how he made an emasculating
joke to corn pop and then we'll sort of
apologize to corn pop but like showed
him that he wasn't afraid of him
Wester Williams Williams okay but by his
own telling the most charitable version
of the story is that he's hair shaming a
black kid into leaving the pool in
reality the rules he's enforcing is that
white kids and black kids don't swim
together in Wilmington in 1962
remember he still he's a dozen years
from still not getting busing another 10
years out from being to the right of
Reagan on mass incarceration and he's
using words like thug ten years before
the Clintons dreamed of having prison
slaves at the governor's mansion it's
tough to believe he ever asked a white
guy to swear to wear a swim cap for
pomade in fact I asked my black boomer
mom if she ever remembered white man
having to wear swim caps because of
their hair product none she remembers
plenty of bullies at pools this story
actually had salience II for her that's
fast
hmm yeah I mean I Joe Biden particularly
on the Democratic embrace of the prison
industrial complex and racialized
appeals was a pioneer and there's a clip
we played I don't even remember on which
show from 88 when I was hosting and I
mean he I don't know about Reagan I
believe it but I there's definitely one
of him attacking the first Bush very
much from the right on essentially not
locking up enough nonviolent drug with
riders bless me Father for I have sinned
he's he's still up in the polls yep he's
still up in the polls and that did you
see the one that came out this morning
no I mean yeah he's there's a well there
was a good emerson poll that came out
yesterday that actually showed Bernie
surging and only two points behind Biden
with Warren dropping a third place which
was a nice poll that washable poll that
was a national place these are national
polls than the other national poll that
came out today showed Biden having the
biggest lead since April over the whole
field and I didn't even read down below
that now it was so pressing but these
are national these are national
it's also worth looking at who they're
who they're who they're polling which is
a registered Democrat oh definitely
and I think there was something at five
point I think I saw that pone it was
like a five point eight percent margin
of error but I think like the real and
and I I'm sort of you know brokered
record in this but we're gonna have to
wait to Iowa to get a real sense of what
the shape of this race is because there
is a theory that the Bernie campaign has
that they are operating on which is that
they're going to be bringing in new
voters and voters who haven't
participated before and
that means that the polls may I mean
according to their theory may not be
capturing who these voters are and are
not modeling properly for what the
outcome is going to be what we shall see
in the meantime that's why it's you know
the best thing for you to do if you're
interested obviously if you do this for
any candidate but he's get out and
volunteer and go and do the work we'll
find out I'm the Iowa whether or not Bob
Iger needs to jump in it says he's a guy
from isn't either Disney guy I think
Disney CEO I just read something today
too that the guy from Dick's Sporting
Goods may jump in or as a Republican as
a Republican well there was that New
York Times Martin piece Jonathan Martin
piece of like I think these people are
just having breakdowns but the the names
that you know Biden's not as strong as
they want they're terrified of Sanders
and Warren and so they they're they're
interested in the savior options of John
Kerry Mike Bloomberg and Hillary Clinton
it's like wow okay guys can i campaign
while windsurfing great really looking
forward to having an IM got a get sent
through the new app hey it worked not to
be to pet oh but I recall you reported
on the zantac suit to tort conferences
ago that's by the way what can I just
say that's definitely a meme that we
should always pre explain right so
before you send an email Sam very
happily used the wrong word in a segment
he said pet harassed instead of pet in
tomorrow it was amazingly funny and
we've had fun ever since but III just
let's always restate all that signifies
yes
that'd be great
sorry just lining up another guest for
tomorrow we like it a little behind the
scenes work yeah there you go
that's operated there you go we've just
case closed I like salmon we will I mean
the idea on the santech suit is you know
is to to get updated to see where these
suits are we will see Ren quits had gold
stripes down his robe because he saw it
and Gilbert & Sullivan Show oh yeah he
added those there there is no like
impeachment robe they don't keep that in
a special closet and not with that
attitude yeah and he said that's not a
joke they had an operetta called trial
by jury in one of the characters is to
learn a judge the Arthur Sullivan
memorial and the embankment gardens in
London is well worth checking out wow
that's nuts
what pajama boy Sam what do you gamble
when you're out in Vegas what do i
gamble money I wake raps and blackjack
for the easy know exactly if that's me
behind the register I'm pulling money
out and giving it out
Sam I'm curious about how you think the
Senate will avoid a conviction vote good
luck on your torts exam I I think
they're going to try and claim that
there is some type of procedural thing
where they don't recognize the validity
of the bill
I mean it's conceived you know the only
way that I could perceive of it would be
you know that somehow they they they
they don't recognize the validity of the
bill that's sent to them the impeachment
the articles of impeachment I don't know
how they would avoid it but if you had
asked me three you know four years ago
how could they not have hearings for I
mean I understand there's a
constitutional obligation for them to do
this but I don't know Donald Trump is
calling up saying that the emoluments
clause is fake totally the way the way I
would imagine it would be like this it's
the the the mcconnell claims there's
some procedural problem with holding to
vote because of because it has come from
congress from the house incorrectly and
bill bar gets up and says i concur and
we have a you know we have a memo from
the office of legal counsel and then the
house then I would think Pelosi would go
to the Supreme Court and you know this
is a thing is like I'm having an
argument with this lawyer whose politics
I share but one of the things that I
have noticed over the past 20 years and
in leading up to Bush v Gore and and
knowing this to from from from coming
from a family of lawyers is that lawyers
believe in the rule of law they believe
that law wins out that ultimately
you can have more politicized courts
than others but ultimately like John
Roberts will recognize and the Supreme
Court will recognize that the you know
the Constitution holds and and then I
just say Bush v Gore and the the like I
think you know I basically go around to
these lawyers here and say like okay
fine
you think John Roberts didn't do that
what's plan B right because the legal
profession has to sort of pick up the
pick up the pace here step from Chicago
I was Washington head of decks for the
presidency and one for business there
you go did you see that what's up he was
ranting yesterday and one he was great
because he was doing his like oh yeah
Obama got a Netflix series he never
talked about that when he was in the
White House I'm sure and then he goes
and you know they say George Washington
he was a businessman neither desk for
being president and a desk for business
to business at to debts and what is that
is that a tweet the Trump put up their
nose oh yeah what is this yeah this is a
new tweet by Trump it says that the
never Trump Republicans though unrest
paraders with not many left are in
certain ways worse and more dangerous
for our country than to do nothing
Democrats watch out for them they're
human scum that was eight minutes ago
shout out there and this is and well I
mean this is also a threat yes any
Republicans who who come out and
acknowledge what they're seeing in these
hearings and like he's worried about
bleeding actual Republican lawmakers and
this is a threat to them can we just say
Susan Collins just pack it in you don't
want to go through this just retire I
don't know about that I don't know it's
not a crime if the president does it
I am commissioned what he did was an
absolute crime however what was the word
in the ad they used it unfortunate that
she said over and over again right it
was fortunate and he's committed
multiple felonies but it's also
unfortunate that the Democrats made it
partisan did you guys mention the Tim
Poole did I mention that Sam I have
multiple times I've explained that I
genuinely found it deeply embarrassing
and uncomfortable to watch I the the
giggling fit that he had before he hit
you with the Marvel movie reference
seems like the best thing that's come
out of it are the reaction gifts that
you've granted the CHEM our community on
Twitter very powerful eyebrow energy
yeah yeah but there was a lot of I it
was a weird experience yeah do you
remember what it was like when you came
in the office the day after to talk
about it what did I say I was just like
muted yeah I asked you and you're like I
don't know just well yeah it's very yeah
it was not I didn't have the
unadulterated joy that I usually have it
what was it about that because you're
known for enjoying arguing with idiots
and all forms whether they're callers or
other personalities what what made this
one different I think that there is a
not just bad faith like if you have to
argue about you know the the Fox the
validity of a Fox News poll and he's
unscrewing these polls and then talks
about how he doesn't believe in polls
but he only looks at the aggregate polls
and then he looks at the aggregate polls
and finds that I was two points under
you know where impeachment was and then
just we
just like okay well okay but whatever
and then when someone like brings up you
know a Marvel comic to say that like
utilitarians are like just I usually
that's been the best part about it was
within the first twenty comments on the
his video I was called a dirty Jew two
or three different ones I think he's a
goddamn dirty Jews that open to it open
exchange if I honestly it's like this is
one of the reasons why I hate Jews every
time I've tried to have it artist to
open and charitable exchange with a
goddamned dirty Jew right Jews don't
listen
Oh pretend you haven't seen that Marvel
comic movie that's a Jew that you made
oh my god every would see the barbel
boot they'll it's like such a state of
projection like oh yeah and he didn't
know who dannis was well my I was just
gonna say I'm thinking of changing my
Twitter bio to just I am Thanos I
definitely think you should do that
alright we need more people to die for
the population instead of some like
weird dude yeah for the populate some
type of like commuter animated like
muscular alien it's just Sam a martyr we
need to be efficient I'm not voting for
for any candidate in the general
election who does not call for the death
of half of our population our fans get
on
but Sam's face in the purple Thanos head
I am NOT going I am NOT going to choose
between two candidates who are the
lesser of two non massive genocide errs
I've had enough ly compromise I'm a
utilitarian to do the same thing which
yang um well what is the yang thing he's
he's not for getting rid of private
insurance because it's too disruptive
now oh wait I thought he was into
disruption wait what happened he changed
his mind on private or he's clarifying
no longer into disruption it turns out
yes let's hear this I support the spirit
of what bernie is trying to accomplish I
do think that outlying private insurance
in a very short period of time is a bit
too disruptive and I would not do it
Andrew yang sucks ng well so now there's
so much wiggle room in there like what
does that mean like I applaud the spirit
of this very specific proposal I
wouldn't do it too soon I think there's
a lot of like he's he's wiggling quite a
bit but is clearly trying to sort of
make himself more palatable to
you know the the the centrist
constituency I means a public option guy
I mean it's always been I don't know I
mean I remember his people used to freak
out say he supported Medicare for all I
maybe that was on his website for a
while but I think it's been pretty clear
for a couple of months that you know
like Buddha judge his definition of
Medicare for all is not Medicare for all
let's play this is obviously a
incredible story that is not does not
seem to have any resonance in this
country I think partly as a function of
like you know what's happening with the
Kurds in Turkey in Syria and just that
it's almost too terrifying to
contemplate on some level because the
Trump administration has proven that
they're the they're the I don't know
what I would call it the lack of
diplomacy or just sort of their
diplomacy is a function of like if I
don't have a hotel and Kashmir why would
I care and here is ill on Omar in the
House Foreign Affairs Committee bringing
up the issue of what has been happening
in Kashmir part of the reason I asked
and the part of the reason I emphasize
the context of the larger PGP project is
because I think the situation in Assam
is an is as bad as Kashmir if not worse
and I think in both cases the impunity
we have seen for crimes against Muslims
under the PAP was warming for such worse
things to come in Assam almost two
million people are being asked to affirm
alia prove their citizenship as my
colleague and the Chairman said they
have there have been official statements
to the effect that no Buddhist Christian
Sikh or gen refugees need to worry about
their status and so this is a clear and
Muslim program and I'm sure you've seen
the same reports that the Indian
government is starting to build camps in
Assam presumably to hold those who are
unable to prove their citizenship this
is how the written genocide started at
one point do we no longer share values
with India are we waiting for the
Muslims in Assam to be put in those
camps
this is she's talking obviously about a
province in India but it appears that
Modi's project is not just limited to
Kashmir yeah it's not and but it does
basically I mean you're talking about
people who've lived in India for
generations who are Muslim who were
basically demanding all the sudden
paperwork to establish their citizenship
and it would almost be like I mean it
would be actually directly analogous to
you know I don't know like someone going
to Matt's family saying well you say
you've been here for a while but right
you know progress where yeah hold the
fort there Michael for a minute because
I have to I've got a slight technical
thing you mind if I play some sound well
you know go ahead okay cool let's um I
think this is worthwhile I want to play
this a Shack sound the whole way to
understand what's happening in the NBA
is really as a speech issue as corporate
censorship China wants the same
treatment that Israel gets as an example
in terms of never being interrogated on
its rights record and Hong Kong there's
complexity to that situation but the
bottom line is is that people making an
affirmative statement for protests being
shut down by corporate censorship is a
market problem and it's a fundamental
problem and even people like LeBron who
I like a lot I've had a lot of respect
for the way he went out ahead on this
was was pretty bad
here's Shaq who maybes got some
right-wing political instincts but props
to him for this
he has American people we do a lot of
business in China and they know and
understand our values and we understand
that values and one of our best values
here in America is free speech we're
allowed to say what we want to say and
we're allowed to speak up about
injustice and that's just how it goes
and if people don't understand that
that's something that they have to deal
with but you know I just started with
unfortunate for you know both parties
and then you got people speaking when
they don't know what they're talking
about but Daryl Morey was right whenever
you see something wrong going on
anywhere in the world you should have
the right to say that's not right and
that's what he did and but but again you
know when it comes to business sometimes
you have to tiptoe around things but
again they understand our values we
understand our values in here you have
the right to speak specially with the
social media we're gonna say whatever we
want to say when we want to say it and
the threat to free speech is market Sam
you back yeah I am yeah there you have
it I'm good for Shaq definitely I mean I
don't you know he's still tiptoeing
around it too but at least there's some
acknowledgment I mean it would be
there's some acknowledgement that like
look we're just selling out our values
and I mean I think at the very least
that's somewhat helpful although maybe
it makes it also on some level like it's
okay it's okay to sell out your values
if the money is right I mean it's such a
I'm always remembering the the guys was
at the 72 olympics the two black
athletes who put up a black power fist
their careers were hugely harmed in
sports and the and then there was this
another story of the australian guy who
i forget how he did it but he had
solidarity with them and he was done I
mean he was completely kicked out of
sports in Australia and didn't even have
like you know any trajectory in politics
so you
it's suppressing athletes political
expression is a long history yeah should
we play seven before eight is that Matt
yeah
okay so Chris Nielsen is she is really
full-time project of trying to
rehabilitate herself I think the best
case scenario for her should be she gets
on Dancing with stars
oh yeah and then the other the other
version should be that she just she's
done professionally unless she goes into
some type of like I think she should be
working for some organization that's
trying to help immigrant children or
maybe she just dedicates her life to
finding those kids who are in the foster
care system now and now appear to be
potentially permanently separated
kidnapped from their parents but here
she is on the fortunes most powerful
women forum there was a policy change at
DOJ that was called zero tolerance that
said now everyone crossing the southern
border would be prosecuted in order to
do that they needed children separated
from their parents so parents could be
prosecuted in your role as the head of
Homeland Security you had to allow for
your agents to separate children from
their family you made that decision in
the spring of 2018 I'm asking you if you
regret making that decision
I don't regret enforcing the law because
I took an oath to do that as did
everybody at the Department of Homeland
Security we don't make the laws we asked
Congress to change the law Congress
reviewed the law in 2006 and decided to
continue to make it illegal to cross in
that manner what I do wish had worked a
lot better is that the coordination and
information flow were simply
insufficient for that number of people
coming it's heartbreaking that any
family felt at any time that they had to
cross the border illegally this is a
terrible dangerous journey it's terrible
so what I regret is that we haven't
solved it and what I regret is that that
information flow and coordination to
quickly reunite the families was clearly
not in place and that's why the practice
was stopped through an executive order
she's a psychopath yeah I mean I was
just following orders and then also
there was some measure of incompetence
that had nothing to do with me you know
there the Ryan boiler had an interesting
comment about Bill Taylor who is this
career diplomat who if you look at the
timeline and just the context of his
opening testimony here's a guy who was
brought in from the outside
these are career diplomats they are not
partisan I think this guy was first
appointed to the diplomatic corps by
George W Bush and he's brought in he's
watching what's going on he realizes in
part of the process like oh my god this
is totally messed up and he ultimately
thinks that he's corrected it now it's
clear in the text exchanges that he's
thinking that these texts are going to
be subpoenaed but and it ultimately
resolves itself the the fact that the
money the defense funds were held up
gets reported and the the administration
basically goes on to who knows Plan C or
D or whatever it is but this the the
paradigm of a government official who
gets into these positions realizes what
they're doing is really messed up thinks
that they can fix it you know that that
like I can maintain I can make sure that
this does not go off the rails out of a
sense of like
not loyalty to the to the present but
loyalty to the country like this is I
can I can salvage this right like you
know the story that people used to tell
about mattis and the gut in the generals
right like well I'm keeping them from
the nuclear you know a button or
whatever it is and and and so therefore
do not blow the whistle when the
scandals revealed they'll come in and
they'll testify I like this obviously
they've done that
Kristen Nielsen is not that person she
is not that she is not that type of
player there is no indication that at
any time she tried to do anything other
than to fully execute these really
inhumane directives that were coming
from the DOJ and to let her pretend
otherwise
would be criminal and kudos to the folks
at credo I've advertised on the show in
the past they've been a sponsor years
ago I've had credo people on prior to
that to talk about their political
action here is the credo action
co-director Heidi Heidi has protesting
this Nielson appearance is part of their
you know her her program to you know
rebrand herself
why don't you let her stay why don't you
go someplace else why don't you talk
about her say why don't you Joe she's
just her she's just here trying to have
some accountability yeah she just let
her stay don't touch me I'm not touching
you
nilton separated thousands of children
from
our
Hillary Clinton and dream
nice good for her
good for her some of those kidnap
children will never see their parents
again it's just it's unbelievable it's
unbelievable and at the very least by
holding publicly these people to account
there's you know maybe we'll see some
type of hopefully with the next
president some accountability and some
ability to reunite the these kids it's
it's it's sick
here is some footage from the Queen's
rally that Michael is that Jamie was at
others I was unable to attend but this
is an ad that came out of the Queen's
rally that Bernie is running and is this
the last is this the sort of his last of
these closing remarks yeah okay yeah
this is ink inaudibly power I mean this
is and it's funny I mean I think there's
some folks who maybe don't even know
where this is coming from this has kind
of taken off on social media here is
here's that ad take a look around and
find someone you don't know maybe
somebody doesn't look kind of like you
are you willing to fight for that person
as much as you're willing to fight
yourself
prepared to do that not only will we win
this election but together we will
transform this country I've been so
critical of their ads so so I was so
relieved to finally see I mean it was an
incredibly powerful moment but their ads
I think their ads have actually been a
problem and it's great to see okay you
know this is like we were talking about
a couple of weeks ago like it'll bring
back that coke commercial version of
Bernie where you have a sense of all the
benefits we see I mean you know this and
I think Bernie needs to do this too in
the context of and in Warren too to the
extent that that she's subscribing to
medicare-for-all
in the next debate they need to start
laying out some of the material benefits
in a sort of a a more poetic but also a
more enumerated way you know it's one
thing just to say no co-pays and no
point of service but I think you got to
go in and you've got to say like no
paperwork yeah Garren you are guaranteed
your health insurance do you miss we're
gonna miss waiting on the phone you're
gonna miss but it's awesome yeah for 25%
of the population or I should say 25% of
the population every year even if you
have health insurance you lose it and
have to get another one you know yeah I
don't know this yesterday The Washington
Post guild are losing their great health
insurance for a less substantial Aetna
package so you can keep your health care
unless your boss take as long as your
boss yeah which you know by switching
jobs or other there's 25% people in any
given year we'll have to switch their
health care it creates a lot of anxiety
obviously and it's usually not an
upgrade you know waste of time you sell
the idea that like this is guaranteed
this is no there's you don't have to ask
any questions about it is Gerren
teed they get into a fight with a guy
last night and I maybe I was just tired
but I got into a fight about healthcare
toy and he he was not a lawyer he's a
like a sort of a vendor of sorts and
take care of business and he was like it
was it was pretty again it got to the
point where I was like he was arguing
that the you know that we have the best
health care in this country of anywhere
I've lived in five countries that type
of thing and I was like well it depends
on how you define best healthcare and
he's like my grandmother came down here
from Canada to get surgery because it
was a seven-month wait
and I'm like well is your grandma huh
wealthy he's like oh yes no my family is
very very wealthy you must have thought
that I was saying it in such a way like
are you wealthy enough to have this
conversation with me cuz he really he's
like yeah we're really really wealthy
and I will have you know that my
opposition everybody being covered is
absolutely synchronised with my obscene
family wealth sir I said well your
definition of the best healthcare in the
world is whether we offer the the newest
most innovative most most effective
procedures for kings and queens who
leave other places and come here and as
a mine is overall health outcomes as
measured by how many people actually get
the health care they need yep like and
spread that out and he's like oh that's
not what good healthcare is hey hey let
me ask you this that sounds really nice
in theory but what about the princes who
nearly are having a heart attack after
being stuck at the Four Seasons at the
ritz-carlton by MBS baby I open a Mayo
Clinic and get these stressed I
said something to him that I don't
remember saying to anybody in a long
long time which is we're just gonna have
to agree to disagree
so long and I walked away like I just
didn't I have the energy it's too many
too many too many blackjack tables out
there for here is a Tennessee County
Commissioner who is very concerned about
what is happening to men's rights and to
the was suffocation apparently of
America he's a little bit concerned
about food ajudge running for president
for all the riot wrong reasons I would
add here is the white man has few rights
after the meeting first told me over the
phone that he's entitled to his opinion
and stands by it
you know Thanos is usually the bad guy
that was the easy toilet I read bees in
the Marvel movies not to be a dick or
nothing
yeah I mean the white men's rights
relinquishment act of of 2015 of course
it'll probably exactly these are widely
held beliefs why males can only speak in
special white speech songs got some
white people speaking outside of speech
though here's Larry Summers weighing in
on what progressives are doing in terms
of taxation and just as stunning I you
know it's just important the reason why
we play this I mean cuz honestly it's
like you know why like like why are we
giving Larry Summers the time of day he
represents the he's sort of like the
frontline of I think like the well I
don't want to call it neoliberal because
I get annoyed when that word is used I
think it's one of the most appropriate
yeah like a pretty accurate jack use of
that word in this instance he is
representing a not just a neoliberal but
just really ultimately you know the the
moneyed view on this yeah I'm driving to
Wall Street Harvard axis exactly and he
is going to couch it in the context of a
policy analysis
and here it is of real estate there's no
reason why proper base broadening
reforms of the income tax Oh positive
just go back let's let's go back to the
start he is criticizing the really
slamming warrant and Sanders a wealth
tax proposal and and here it is other
provisions that are in the spirit of
carried interest or exchanges of real
estate there's no reason why proper base
broadening reforms of the income tax
that reduce distortions within the
income tax couldn't raise more than two
trillion dollars which is over ten years
which is substantially more than the
revenue claims that are held out for the
wealth tax I think for progressives to
invest their energy in a proposal that
the Supreme Court has better than a 50%
chance of declaring unconstitutional
that has very little chance of passing
through the Congress whose revenue
potential is extraordinarily in doubt
for that to be the defining element in
the progressive agenda in the United
States it seems to me is to potentially
sacrifice and immense opportunity now is
it which Peterson Institute is it's not
the Pete Peterson Institute right will
you check on that there's a couple of
things to sort of breakdown here first
off he's hiding the ball because the
idea of a wealth tax is not only to get
revenue he's suggesting you can do that
much more efficiently through the income
tax now
Warren and Sanders and people who
support a wealth tax would have to be
total idiots to think that you can't
just raise that money through raising
the income tax the idea is is that
having people with that amount of wealth
in society distorts our democracy it
distorts our politics it is it creates
instability in society and the idea of a
wealth tax is not just to raise money it
is to diminish the amount of money that
is held in literally the hands of the
number of people who could fit in a
quarter of the the conference hall I'm
in right now not even a quarter I mean
two or three hundred people we're
talking about maybe less even and the
idea that it can't pass through Congress
if it can't pass through Congress then
it doesn't pass through Congress and the
idea that there isn't a host of policies
that are being talked about now that the
Supreme Court isn't possibly going to
strike down we don't know that
medicare-for-all or the public option
for that matter would be unchallenged by
the Supreme Court
we have no idea and and then he makes
this shirt romantic being like the
central position I mean from a tax from
a tax perspective it might be because
it's you know both Warren and Sanders
that is like the most prominent tax
they're talking about but this Sanders
talks about his Wall Street transaction
tax a lot too I mean I don't I don't
even necessarily and they both talk in
fact all of them across talk about
repealing
you know the Trump top end cuts I just
want to add to I mean to the extent and
I think it's important to balance all of
the variables from you know the white
identity politics the Republican Party
but also this this model that has
produced such disastrous outcomes for
many people across the country Larry
Summers is like the embodiment of it I
mean he is at every single decision
making point of bad policy that
Democratic administrations have done
from the perspective of people who work
in this country
he's also personally worked at de Shaw
on Wall Street big hedge and I believe
it was the SH I think he worked there
and also this is tangential but I really
would welcome that everybody should look
up Larry Summers world bank case for
toxic dumping in the third world and
remember that he's a god for his job
he's angry for a job to like it isn't
even like you know I might those days
are behind me and I'm just gonna give
you the straight dope he knows that he's
not getting a job in Sanders or Warren
administration in Warren States very
personal reasons so nice is very
self-interested even beyond he's been
going out slamming more Warren I mean
Warren kept him from becoming the
chairman of the Fed yep almost
single-handedly prevented him from
becoming chairman of the Fed and that
was a job apparently that he coveted
like no other and he's and I think he
still does and I and I noticed you know
Ryan grim pointing this out that it when
news outlets are saying you know just
giving you the you know summers says
plan is unrealistic and at the very
least you got a cover I mean I have you
know purse there there is a huge
personal dimension with Warren right you
know all right let's play one more clip
and then we'll do some IMS and then
we'll get going this Mark Zuckerberg on
the hill today will probably have a
little bit more about this tomorrow but
urea is being asked by Maxine Waters
about the Facebook Paul
so you have not fact-checking ads now
well let's let hear the clip and then
and then we could talk about having ads
can be an important way to inject your
message into the Internet me interrupt
you for a minute are you telling me I
think I she said to me before you plan
on doing no fact-checking
on political ads chairwoman our our
policy is that we do not fact check
politicians speech and the reason for
that is that we believe that in a
democracy it is important that people
can see for themselves what politicians
are saying political speech is some of
the most scrutinized speech already in
the world do you fact check on any ads
at all up yes
describe what you bag check on oh sure
when actually is thank you for the
opportunity to clarify Facebook itself
actually does not check it does not fact
check what we do is we have feedback
that people in our community don't want
to see viral hoaxes or or kind of wide
that maybe clear you do no fact-checking
on any ads is that correct chairwoman
what we do is we work with a set of
independent fact checkers who somebody
that Jenks on a 3-bit you have you
contract with someone to do that is that
right I chair woman yes and tell me who
is it that they bag checked on a chair
woman what we do is when content is
getting a lot of distribution and is
flagged by members of our community or
by our technical systems it can go into
a queue to be reviewed by a set of
independent fact checkers
they can't fact check everything but the
things that they get to and if they a
part of something is false then we all
right my kind has expired and someone
else will continue on this line of
questioning
I mean first off you're not censoring
speech by having a banner under an ad
with a refutation I mean you know in
part of what is problematic about
political advertising in the era
of no fairness doctrine and it obviously
didn't apply is that there's no you
don't have the same ability to sort of
like balance things out with two
different arguments and the idea that
you wouldn't fact check politicians ads
doesn't mean you you why can't you just
flag it and say our fact checkers found
this to be false just a banner
underneath click here for more
information
well you know that they don't want I
mean because it goes to their they don't
want to inhibit their address you don't
want to inhibit their ad revenue and
they also don't want to acknowledge that
they're a media company and not just
like a social platform whatever the hell
that even mean right at this point and
and the other thing too you know I
always say to the extent that they have
started to do this they go to like
right-wing think tanks on foreign policy
and all of a sudden you know really
important reporting on you know us
interference in Latin America as an
example is obscured and there's no doubt
that because there is a far-right
constituency sure like Brendan was just
saying to go to free beacon like I mean
Minh Tuan to take the responsibility and
then when they do they go to all the
wrong sources by the way
Mark Zuckerberg has a hands and staffing
people to judge his campaign I'm but I
have a buddy who was looking into sort
of like Texas state races and for the
Texas for a Texas House dictor district
he said the spending for one candidate
was nearly fifteen thousand dollars on
Facebook alone yep the and Jack Berg I I
don't know if you covered this yesterday
or the other day he was saying Facebook
was founded on this idea during the Iraq
war that we need to have other voices he
during the Iraq war I wanted to figure
out a new way to rape my classmates at
Harvard was not designed like that at
all at that times literally to rape
girls hotness you could rate how hot
they were and how good their position on
Iraq yeah it was like yeah are they a
dime piece and they didn't know that the
administration was lying on tell you
the but there was no it was not it was
it was built to be for a specific you
know within specific colleges it was the
we used to get a Facebook yep
in college you would get in who you get
a book full of people's faces and names
yeah
and he just digitized that basically
genius and there was a good there's a
couple people could search for it I
can't quite remember maybe was Daryl
Lind who was there at I think Harvard at
that time I was like the Facebook wasn't
anything like a platform to express
opinions about anything no I mean III
was I was on it relatively early cuz it
really I mean it's so disgusting like
literally it was like Harvard than the
IV's then they expanded it to like you
know Stanford and then they did like MIT
and then all of the small like liberal
arts colleges in New England like it was
totally elitist in every way so I was on
it pretty early and there was I mean
there wasn't even a newsfeed function it
was another way to you know basically
like essentially if you didn't have
somebody's phone number you could
connect with them that way and it
literally was like the whole emphasis
was on your personal page and you know
what books are you reading or movies or
sports you're into or whatever there was
no news aggregate feature at all unless
you wanted to use your personal page
that way alright we're gonna go through
some IMS and then get going with so much
news around Ukraine it might be nice to
get some perspective on what's going on
there as far as political and spanking
current conflicts would you have someone
on like Andrew drew been ski on this is
from Bull Prague yeah well look at their
I actually was thinking I know someone
who wrote a book about oh yeah that's a
good idea
local pizza Mitch will say that because
impeachment hearings were in secret then
the vote can be in secret and whoops the
secret vote came up innocent and before
you say the actual vote on impeachment
was open I asked why you think Mitch
cares
there will be more public but III think
he's going to come up with
procedural as Sam seen the what do you
mean video made to appreciate him yet oh
I don't know if I Sam you actually
should check it out what do you mean is
a a small Australian channel and she
does like animations there there it's
actually a super good channel check it
out oh and the Thanos memes are in the
UK it's a YouTube channel yeah what do
you mean on YouTube she does a lot of
good content I check it out there's a
lot of super talented people in the
community
the Thanos memes are here yeah Oliver
underscore Eddy has one of you I gotta
watch this movie now brave o matic hope
you guys are getting up to speed on the
republicans disruption of representative
ships hearing no we'll look at that for
tomorrow Edward from Illinois hey Mr
crew I have a question for you regarding
where the Democrats should focus if they
take the presidency in 2020 in article 5
three judges on the federal bench are
now Trump appointees largely because the
Senate under Mitch McConnell hasn't
passed any major legislation other than
tax cuts how much time should the
Democrats spend trying to appoint their
own judges to the federal bench in
relation to the major legislative
progressive agenda that our country
needs like Medicare for all and
environmental protections I mean first
off sadly there's not going to be nearly
the amount of vacancies that there were
for Trump to fill right so even even if
they couldn't move at the pace in which
McConnell did assuming that they'd take
the Senate they may not have to to fill
all the vacancies that exist but I mean
I think that should be a top priority
but I'm not convinced that you need to
do one or the other exclusively I think
that's a choice that Mitch McConnell has
made to just simply avoid doing
legislation because they can't get
anything past Republicans brought phones
to the skiff they need to be arrested
Tim Poole's Republicans defense that the
Ukrainians
didn't know fell apart this morning
brothers riot is trending by the way in
relation to the skiff thing really
what's going on what what only brought
gates took a bunch of people to storm
Adam Schiff hearing oh I see
and did the Ukrainians didn't know fell
apart because they brought in that
Pentagon official who was but that part
of it doesn't even matter I'm sorry the
fact that they incompetently
communicated to the Ukrainians that we
were withholding the money to leverage
against them is not a defense that they
didn't do it not to be a dick or
anything but in a lot of movies House
Oversight chairs are the bad guys I like
it iron last Prussian have you listened
to Edward Snowden on the Joe Rogan
podcast it was fantastic I haven't that
sounds I will Sam you'll be discussing
your Tim Poole debate and Rand Paul II I
mean maybe when I get back I'll look
into it a little bit more but do you see
I've heard some stuff about Tim Poole
that I was just I cannot believe Tim
Poole's mom I'm not racist I'm very Pro
immigrant but it's the Democrats but if
the Democrats don't won't let me
personally own slaves then forget it
by the way of a very bad racist person
comrade koala the guy who lived in five
countries you were arguing with did you
share your experience of the Australian
healthcare system versus the US
healthcare system I didn't I forget
about that but when I was in traveling
in Australia
big problem with my inner ear went to
the doctor I know eight times
maybe it was twenty bucks a visit those
nuts nomen dent hello Brendan Jamie Matt
Michael Sam on Monday federal elections
were held and there was some positive
negative results in the positive column
Aboriginal women mum Lee got quaaack
I can't pronounce that one in nuna vote
for the NDP People's Party leader Maxine
burner lost that's right
former Dave Rubin Yahoo I'm not the the
change that I felt in the air tank place
you know he same since did you remember
what he was when he was tweeting out all
this stuff like I can feel there's a sea
change that's happening oh yeah I do
remember that yeah he was kind of like
doing some like kind of like tarot card
vibes for a couple of days yeah if
people can find those tweets please send
them to me and send them to said
majority reporters at gmail.com or tweet
them at me that would be good to see
although I'm blocked so I can't see them
max and Mary this is the stop Sanders
election the Democratic donor class
isn't afraid of him losing the general
that would be great for them politically
their fear is that he would win
yeah I'm convinced the general doesn't
matter to them I I think there's some
truth that Asha 94 not to be conspiracy
theories but there have been three times
when I've been unsubscribed to the
majority of report channel YouTube
channel someone could make the argument
you're being shadow band it's hard to
react to that without having my
soundboard long-form interviews
Alec thank you
in response to the destiny debating Cole
James cash Fiasco where destiny really
showed his true colors folks we need to
listen to our community when people of
different backgrounds call out behaviors
you need to step back and consider their
feelings instead of digging in and
triple down like the L and self reflect
take the AL and self reflect don't be
like destiny okay space bear are you
taking t-shirt submissions ideas for
your mercy store we've been waiting for
you merch yeah you sent him in I don't
know if we'll use them but majority
reporters at gmail.com water boat from
Kashmir yesterday's hearings were heard
on Kashmir the person making the case
for India literally does propaganda for
a living at Times of India she stated
many lies and did a lot of appropriation
but her real sins when she attacked Omar
in jeyapaul for pointing out the holes
in her testimony she literally called
Ilhan Omar and Islamist on Twitter and
retweeted some real Islamophobic crap
about Omar hours after the tweet in the
meantime nightmare and Kashmir continues
in India and Pakistan inch closer to war
that's what I'm saying like the the the
this could be this is the you know
arguably the most dangerous place in the
world for the world right now and we
don't have a president who seems to care
no we're be engaged in this whatsoever
it's pretty stunning alright just five
more bear brains Sam is inevitable
that's a fan house reference Slayton
eight new costume idea going to be the
spirit from medicare-for-all for
Halloween hello look at the actuarial
tables show social security is not
sustainable unless we mass genocide the
older 50% of the population know that
doesn't work Sam's have made very much
the opposite point about that they're
very regular way no need for a genocide
yeah yeah it could be 50% boys genius
and it would still work god damn it
Congressional comic book I Sam Michael
is more of a question than a comment I
know you may be unfamiliar with the
marvel cinematic universe known as the
MCU so let's go over to DC but prepare
to clutch your pearls would either of
you agree that capital suppressors
Thomas and Martha Wayne had it coming I
would I think I know the reference and
yes that's Bruce Wayne's parents they
got killed in an alleyway yeah I know I
think look I don't really think that
that's like socially productive the way
they went but I would say I don't think
they would be playing constructive role
in the current cycle I think yeah I mean
you know well they had to die for Batman
to live
yeah but Batman then became like a
fascist vigilante so maybe they should
have stayed around so he could have just
like I don't know become like MSNBC
pundit or something Colorado guy just
want to do a shout out Bala topia
ballotpedia dot-org I should say
ballotpedia org it's a great resource to
familiar self with your state and local
ballot issues and candidates also show
his public endorsed et cetera et cetera
proposition D D in Colorado with
legalize sports betting in a tiny
fraction the revenue will be used to
fund generic Water Works project vote no
on Prop D D fellow Coloradans three more
here strawberry chaos hi Sam I wanted to
announce that one of my Colorado Springs
hometown villains will Perkins who was a
leading voice for amendment to
legislation that dubbed my Colorado the
hate state for being discriminated
towards LGBTQ people in 92 has died not
sad at all well congratulations on that
that is
we left us in the West you refrain from
reducing divisions and oppression in
India to Hindus and Muslims because
doing so obscures and harm social
justice issues and movements more than
it helps the primary axis of oppression
is about is that of the cast and
everything you've talked about Kashmir
the killing of Muslims in Gujarat the
camp's being set up effect only doli the
umbrella term for the untouchable castes
that's not exactly true
Adi Vasa indigenous people upper caste
Muslims or Christians aren't in any way
affected by what's reported in the media
as violence against Muslims and
Christians I that's definitely not and
not only I mean not that's definitely
not exactly true and Modi himself
actually is a lower caste and has risen
in politics I mean I'm not saying it's
not a huge major issue in India but
there is that axis there that is also a
part of it snoozing dawn today's update
from the YPG a car bomb was exploded in
Camus's Lowe's city centre a border city
in Syria the car had Turkish license
plate many people injured videos of
emerged of Turkish back jihadists on
their way to Northeast Syria - stating
we will show you decapitated heads of
Kurds in a few hours yep
and the final item of the day Sam I
agree to debate you this is CT Steven
Steven scrout errs cos steven crowder
sam i agree to debate you as long as you
stay in a head injury and are late for a
chemistry final alright folks see you
tomorrow
to get to where I want
no son
I just got
feel any better yeah
