[Music]
story in the news Donald Trump had been
threatening tariffs on Mexico he was
going to impose a five percent tariff on
Mexican goods as of today June tenth and
then five percent bump every month
subsequent to this that they didn't do
something that was unclear that they
were supposed to do and it was centered
around immigration and he was arguing
that they needed to do something about
immigration in Mexico well
Mexican leaders said you know don't put
a tariff on us and ostensibly met with
the Trump administration they announced
an accord it was very shortly thereafter
reported that this Accord had been
agreed upon months ago maybe month and a
half ago and there was nothing new in
the Accord and it was an embarrassment
for president Trump it's unclear whether
he just promised that or they just
basically came in and said we're gonna
do XY and Z and he's like a great and he
didn't know that they had already agreed
to do that in fact we saw this dynamic
quite a bit with like plant closures and
whatnot like where you know a
corporation announces we're going to
open a new plant because it's beyond of
the Trump and they had told their
shareholders six months ago they were
gonna do that but Donald Trump is uh how
to touch enough to buy it but then he
realizes like oops
I've been duped or maybe I've been
caught in a lie and so he announces on
Twitter yesterday first thing in the
morning right Brazil or no today
presumably after the after the reports
came out in The Times the deal already
happening because that was a big
headline Trump announces a core
that had already been agreed to a month
and a half ago and so he writes on
Twitter we have fully signed and
documented another very important part
of the immigration security deal with
Mexico one that the US has been asking
about getting for many years it will be
revealed in the not-too-distant future
and will need a vote by Mexico's
legislation legislative body exclamation
point dot dot dot we do not anticipate a
problem with the vote but if for any
reason the approvals not forthcoming
tariffs will be reinstated secret plan
so you know but he knows that I can
gonna be revealed soon so this is
embarrassing for Donald Trump and so
what's the best way to move up in the
world of the Trump world well you go
throw yourself on the embarrassment
grenade and here is what the Acting
Secretary of the Department of Homeland
Security did on Fox News with whose's
Bret Baier Bret Baier and Bosma Kalinin
ok and so this is Kevin McHale Enon
here's Kevin McHale Enon falling on the
embarrassment grenade with a bret baier
but how much of this is new all of it is
new I mean we've heard commitments
before from Mexico to do more on their
southern border the last time they
deployed down there it's about four or
five hundred officers this is more than
tenfold commitment to increase their
security in Chiapas that's where people
are entering from Guatemala in southern
Mexico you were predecessor secretary
Nielsen testified that these things were
happening to the House Judiciary
Committee there were talks about moving
National Guard troops to the southern
border with Guatemala you're saying this
is different than that it's very
different the president put a charge in
this whole dialogue with Mexico with the
terrorist threat brought them to the
table the foreign minister from Mexico
arrived within hours he arrived the next
day and with real proposals on the table
this is the first time we've heard
anything like this kind of number
of law enforcement being deployed in
Mexico to address migration not just if
their southern border but also on the
transportation routes to the northern
border and in coordinated patrols and
key areas along our southwest border the
president tweeted this morning that
stories that said that this was not you
know this was not new as you're saying
are false but he said there are some
important things not mentioned in
yesterday's press release one in
particular yeah I so the the president
tweeted out that this tariff has been
suspended the secretary munition pointed
out that there's there's a mechanism to
make sure that they do what they
promised to do that there's an actual
result that we see a vast reduction in
those numbers and as the State
Department announced they're gonna be
further actions further dialogue with my
skull and immigration on how to manage
this Asylum flow in the region which is
you know a small percentage of the total
flow this is by and large and economic
migration that we needed to stop with
enforcement we need to be able to
repatriate people successfully you're a
pretender incidentally that last long
answer was not an answer to the question
of what is the secret thing that we
don't know about yeah right absolutely
huh we did suspend the tariffs and that
is I mean that of course is something
that you know about of the things that
you don't know about are things that you
couldn't possibly know because they're
secret and we would announce them after
the State Department has done its work
on detailing various different plans
that are going on at this time so we are
very pleased with that progress I'm
interested in more than intellectual
level he meant in terms of ideas you
know but here's the thing how can you
say it's good to work with his people
100% with his people gonna work and we
know that III thinks people that's
actually you know Michael wolf I guess
has a new follow up to fire in fury
which is getting less attention and it's
the same you know thing but I actually
think Michael wolf does have value
relative to Trump I really do precisely
probably because he writes in such a
sort of gossipy way but he said that
what Trump shows and what really
is unique about Trump is that even like
the most scoundrel lying politician or
CEO wants at the very least and the
interest of self-preservation to not be
completely lying all the time because
it's stressful and he said but what
Trump has proved is that you can fool
some of the people all of the time yeah
and that is the whole baseline for how
the thing operates and and I'm convinced
that he he's not like you know I think
there's this notion that it's like
tactical or this and that I think it's
completely a visceral instinctual
reaction like when you know you catch a
kid and they have done something wrong
and you're like did you do that and they
just go know who did it maybe Kevin from
downstairs or across the street you know
I'm like are the Mexicans really helping
you yes exactly
he just gets he looks at the thing and
it says oh they know that I'm lying
about the New Deal
well there's special parts that you
don't know about and that will come out
soon but of course I can't talk about it
because it's secret and we'll see if the
Mexico does the right thing so there's
that I mean and it is effective not
because Donald Trump is unique or
special in his ability to do that I
think there's probably a lot of people
it's effective because of the way our
media environment has now split in it
had been moving in this direction for a
long time but there are technological
advances and that have allowed people to
self sort not just geographically but
psychographically and I just don't think
as a society we have quite figured out
yet what to do with this new technology
right like I mean it's so much easier to
make these assessments when it comes to
like bioethics like to see the gulf
between where technology has led in our
as a society to sort of like fill in
these gaps like with surrogacy there's
still a lot of like legal questions and
you know a whole host of things that we
haven't yet as a society been able to
sort of catch up to in terms of what
we're technologically able to do and I
think it's just less obvious to us
because everybody can work a phone and
everybody can watch a video and
everybody can read something that we
haven't quite figured out as a society
how we're going to deal with this but
ignoring that is not the answer and you
know Donald Trump's people got the
answer they wanted he did it he he broke
Mexico's back
