i Elizabeth Warren if you're serious
about foreign policy if you're gonna
deign to be serious about that you
should remind yourself that there's only
one candidate who's spoken in solidarity
with the anti World Bank and IMF and
austerity movements taking place right
now first and foremost in Haiti and
recently with some success in Ecuador I
went in depth on this last night on my
program you could check it out
bernie sanders and matt dusts are
putting on the table some steps towards
what does a constructive post empire
u.s. foreign policy look like starting
by the way with the catastrophe of trump
tearing up the Iran nuclear deal but
this goes deeper in 2017 Bernie Sanders
the only member of the Democratic caucus
United States Senate to vote against
additional sanctions on Iran which
helped precipitate the catastrophe were
in recently Elizabeth Warren and the
Council on Foreign Relations suggested
that Iran needs to get back into
compliance even though the whole
jettisoning of the agreement was done by
the Trump administration they're at
fault not the Iranian government
regardless of what you think of the
Iranian government and there's an
infinite amount of things criticize them
on the Iran deal destruction is trump
period so from Latin America to the
Middle East there's real fundamental
differences here and even when Elizabeth
Warren going back several years spoke on
civilian casualties she mainly framed it
in terms of the damage on the US
reputation not the innate violation of
the United States cost costing so many
lives in so many places so there's not a
plan here along with the military budget
vote increases look if you care about
this stuff and I believe you are
obligated to care about this stuff in
the heart of empire this is actually
really bad another through line here you
can go back and find plenty of clips or
some clips of Bernie Sanders echoing
trash pablum and nonsense about Israel's
savagery and murder of Palestinians
that's what it is
be
uh that has changed now if you're like
me I want a fully open democratic
society for all that transcends an
ethnos state and that has full safety
protection and democracy for every
single citizen in Israel Palestine of
all backgrounds living in a full
flourishing diverse democratic framework
there's still the lip service to the
two-state solution which has never been
implemented in any way shape or form
every step of the way the Israelis have
continued to construct settlements and
we'll talk a little bit more in a second
about the Barak and all Mart offers but
again this is just history this is two
plus two equals four stuff Bernie
Sanders in the last couple of years has
been willing to speak about the savage
conditions in Gaza which everybody it's
apparently okay that over 50% of the
population you know can't get basic
medical supplies that there's over 70
percent youth unemployment half of the
population as children they can be hale
held in a deprived open-air prison
because of Hamas talking points that's
not okay according to any basic human
rights standard uh
and Bernie's moved significantly on this
issue now Elizabeth Warren defended even
in 2014
Israel bombing UN schools in operations
that took over a thousand civilian lives
no comments on the murder of the
nonviolent protesters at the Gaza border
and now she's trying to incorporate some
woke talking points but again the only
way you'd do anything is if you say aid
is on the table which Bernie Sanders has
said she's gonna say here that aid is on
the table in the case of annexation
which is something that Netanyahu is
talking about but again the West Bank
has been occupied for over forty years
so let's be real this is an apartheid
state this is an ongoing situation and
in addition to her total lack of
commitment on this that she's
demonstrated so far uh this is a shaky
grasp of this issue
you to put it gently hi senator Warren
thank you so much for coming to Rock
Hill my name into Rock Hill thank you
my name is Nazim udin I'm gonna change
it up just a little bit I want to talk
about foreign policy over this summer we
watch two over Congress members denying
entry into Israel to to hold Israel
accountable for how our military aid is
being used in the occupied territories
if you watch closely what's going on
there's news of everyday homes are being
demolished roads are being ripped up
access to water is being denied to the
Palestinian people can you tell us that
as president you will hold the military
aid that we hope give to Israel as
leverage to bring about a peaceful
solution so let me start here I believe
in a two-state solution this has been
the official policy of the United States
of America for nearly 70 years and the
official policy of the government of
Israel and to do that we need to be able
to guarantee the dignity of everyone
this is what I believe in a two-state
solution so let's go there uh if Prime
Minister Netanyahu follows through on
his plans in the West Bank then that
doesn't move anyone closer to a
two-state solution and I believe at that
point the United States of America
trying to create something stable and
lasting in that region has to be willing
to use every tool at its disposal and
that means it will be time to pressure
the Prime Minister if that is what he
does we just can't do this we can't keep
this up
so okay let's start just with the basic
historical wrongs here seventy years ago
I mean I don't know exactly what the
timeline is but 1949 the founding the
State of Israel entailed the removal of
over 400,000 Palestinians from their
homes that's again this is just
historical fact then you go to 1969
which is the when after the war with the
Arab states they occupied these
additional territories now every single
decade has brought an expansion of
Israeli settlements in this area to the
point where even people who looked at
this just six you know on a basic
Geographic logistical level we're like
two states is impossible you're talking
about thousands pieces of settlement
construction and lots of human beings so
that's also just factually wrong then
you had a dude Barack offer a partial
deal to Yasser Arafat but it would not
have entailed territorial entailed
territorial integrity for a Palestinian
state so they had to reject it Jib
Brzezinski even presented the reality of
that right then in two thousand seven or
eight a who'd Olmert weeks away from
leaving office with incredibly low
popularity offers a much more actual
two-state solution but there's still no
answer on the refugees remember talking
about several hundred thousand families
removed from their homes to support the
found the State of Israel does there is
there is that there Holocaust is
happening anti-semitism is a violent
virulent force in the world there's an
understandable reason but no moral
justification you know those historical
events of Europe do not justify the
ethnic cleansing of Palestinians and
even under international law it does not
mean that you can disregard their rights
as refugees so there's no answer to that
in 2009 in the beginning the Obama
administration Bibi Netanyahu said he
supported two-state solution Netanyahu
liquid has never changed its official
policy in terms of rejecting a to stay
and in recent years again in addition to
ongoing savagery and murders in Gaza
they have in partnership with overtly
new of fascist and racist parties
expanded settlement at a radical rate
and he has rejected the two-state in the
last couple years overtly and also
actively campaigned in warn against Arab
participation in Israeli politics within
1967 borders and he's recently talked
about annexing and I think there's no
doubt actually that at some point the
strategy in Gaza is to make it so
unbearable that maybe they will say to
Gaza and say look we'll get you out of
here but we want to reoccupy it that is
the greater Judea full fascist project
in which net you know I was part of so
during this whole process we give them
huge amounts of foreign aid there's
military agreements there's the Iron
Dome we don't step in and intervene on
two different road systems in the West
Bank we don't intervene on malnutrition
lack of electricity and clean drinking
water in Gaza we don't intervene and say
anything affect people like Elizabeth
Warren cheer them on when they're
bombing UN schools and bombing hospitals
and killing over a thousand civilians
they have these nonviolent protests
taking place at the borders where there
are videos of these rallies soldiers
joking about murdering children shooting
them point-blank as snipers and what she
is literally saying is that if an
Israeli government does a formal
annexation then maybe we might put that
into play so let's be very clear it's
historically illiterate
it is definitionally dehumanizing the
Palestinians even as she talks about
everybody's dignity that is a
functionally hugely racist answer
functionally I don't think intentionally
I think there's just a low knowledge
base and when you have a low knowledge
base you go with the consensus and the
consensus is back Israel in the matter
what and Palestinians don't matter
the only ones slightly challenging that
is Sanders then you know and and we'll
do something if annexation formally
happens is also a peep Buju just put on
the table there is nothing remotely
courageous or radical about that
and the idea is that if you want to even
do a remote thing today probably not
even on a two-state solution that's
basically logistically impossible but
just to say maybe you need to torture
Palestinian children slightly less you
need to put 8 on the table and even that
is probably too little too late because
Israel is a powerful economy has a very
sophisticated weapons industry it uses
its bombardments and killings on Gaza as
a marketing campaign they sell what they
call battle ready weapons I would really
recommend the amazing documentary that
Abby Martin and Mike person who just did
fighting for fighting for freedom and
God in Gaza which I was at the premiere
of all half-hour on my show soon people
need to watch that documentary it's
brilliant and people really need to read
up on this because this is another area
where there's a basic moral obligation
and for the first time there's a little
bit of daylight there's somebody with a
campaign that is actually recognizing
that Palestinians are actual human
beings and their well-being needs to be
factored in to some extent and at the
very least if we're gonna pretend this
two-state solution still exists we're
gonna need to actually do something
about it
that's Bernie Sanders no one else is
there and in fact I would say
rhetorically beta O'Rourke has been
significantly more courageous and clear
at least in calling Netanyahu a racist
than Warren ever is so she's quite bad
on that and no one is worse than Cory
Booker or Kamala Harris
they are atrocious on this but they're
basically irrelevant Tulse he's not good
on this andrew yang is terrible on this
incidentally and rehang is really quite
bad on this um but Warren is quite bet
on this I mean really Bernie is decent
ish and everybody else is varying
degrees of terrible and inexcusable but
this is another thing that you can't
just say oh yeah you know but foreign
policy oh yeah but you know your money
is going to murdering and starving
children and there's one candidate that
is saying maybe we'll do something about
this
