[Music]
just some fun Howard Schultz is still
around I love I love help we're in such
a mind-meld and I said this is fun and
you immediately brought the Schulz clip
you knew what I was talking about much
like you know Brendan made the point in
the office yesterday after the show that
Megan McCain by being such a you know
just entitled idiot is doing us all a
favor because just like merely her
existence I mean look it's definitely
the same of Donald Trump but Donald
Trump is not on the view Donald Trump is
the president it states so there's a lot
of other you know cost-benefit analyses
but even Trump on some level what they
are doing by existing and by having
those platforms it's just eliminating
any of the pretensions around inherited
wealth power and access in this country
Megan McCain is the his the Columbia
grad on the panel who seems to I realize
in that clip that we used it for the
woke pros that came out today subscribe
on the bomb feed and I I actually don't
think she understands the difference
between legacy and legacy admissions I
don't even I don't think she's actually
trying to Mugabe water to shame she does
not actually understand I think there's
two I think that's one hypothesis the
other is that she knows her dad wouldn't
have gotten into the Naval Academy
without legacy admissions uh and she's
proud that he did anyway
maybe so but she really speaks as if she
does not understand the difference it's
good at it and similarly Howard Schultz
is doing us a favor because he is
pulling back the last vestige any idea
like look you know obviously as with
anything there's just a huge amount of
luck so Howard Schultz as much as he
would I'm sure hate this he lucked out
right place right time right generation
right timing I mean would something's
would a goofy brand like Starbucks take
off in 2019 the way it did in the 1990s
I don't think so
so whole different sets of trends and
preferences I mean you know I'm not it's
still obviously a successful company I
also make the point that there's a lot
of popular successful coffee companies
there's a lot of popular successful
coffee companies and a lot of them are
actually not there they're a lot nicer
they aren't just places where you can
maybe calculate that it might have a
slightly cleaner bathroom in Airport
than other places so yes so but even
beyond that whatever the guy's a CEO he
knows how to run a coffee company fair
enough
he has the I mean the arrogance with his
such just basic political stupidity to
run for the United president United
States is a great revelation of not only
to disconnect but the path the dangers
of the pathological ego of a billionaire
but it's also funny to watch here's
Howard Schultz talking about the heart
of America let's fight for what binds us
it's worth fighting for because the
center is the heart of America let's be
clear about what that part is America's
heart is principled it encompasses our
core values and it is our common ground
America's heart is aspirational in its
dreams yet realistic in its plans in
America's heart common sense and reason
prevail like people will call me a
person of means millionaires I'm not the
goddamn center of anything
no in fact Howard Schultz through his
money is a dangerous influence and
anti-democratic that amount of wealth
should not accrue in anyone's hands it's
an innate danger even amongst people who
are far more intelligent and civically
minded and less delusional than Howard
Schultz and secondly again I've done so
many segments on this I will continue to
be a broken tape the center of the
United States by every single objective
ethnographic measure that is humanly
possible is some version of quote
unquote socially moderate not even
conservative
and highly left on specific questions of
things like single-payer health care
does this quote and let's just we'll
drop in the middle of this this is a OC
distilled this actually also in our
conversation of Breanna joy or don't
this is from the view where they're
talking about whether a Oasys policies
are way out there if they're moderate
welcome assuming Joy's got some good
poll numbers joy comes through here Joe
it usually does alright let's check this
out McConnell said in October that not
being about that not being about to push
through Social Security and Medicare
cuts was this single single biggest
disappointment of my time in Congress
this guy has sent their deficit through
the roof and now wants people like you
and me and all of us to give money from
Social Security and all of the things
that we're entitled to in this country
that is a right-wing radical position
doesn't make it better today because
someone else wants something worse I
would like to know both sides well in
terms of AOC I agree with you I think
the Republicans like to pick somebody as
a boogeyman and say this is the face of
the Democratic Party let's face it she's
one freshman congresswoman out of 435
but who has the other media the other
thing is that when you you know proclaim
her to be this leftist person when you
look at her policies I think we need to
stop talking about personalities and
look at someone's policies she's talking
about the green new deal there was an
Iowa poll Iowa that just came out that
said something like ninety one percent
polled say that they prefer a candidate
who supports the green new deal in Iowa
eighty-four percent say they prefer a
candidate who supports shifting to a
government-run health care system of
Medicare for all
eighty-one percent care about health
care so let's honor it now she tends to
be her physicians tend to be embraced by
people in the middle of the country so
this notion somehow that she is this
leftist left-wing crazy person is not
oh my god you know Abby Hudspeth usually
plays it cooler but she gotta like she
definitely got Meghan McCain was sick
that day right so she had to take on the
the emotional freak out of the trust
fund baby but I think that manured it's
almost as if the two people on that
panel that didn't have their lives
handed to them are more in touch with
reality and more intelligent it's weird
I mean I you know it's funny how that
work it's funny how that works
so basically Howard Schultz represents a
fringe cult which is totally marginal in
terms of what actual people want and
democracy but because we live in a
plutocracy it still represents a
fundamental danger because it has a
totally outsized influence relative to
any public appeal simply because of
first and foremost money but also the
types of PR manipulation and
institutional prestige that Liz actually
documents in her piece and the Baffler
you see how this all fits together
