[Music]
as you know Bernie Sanders yesterday
it was announced that he had some
blockage in some arteries I guess and
when in got a couple of stents I think
he's out of the hospital now I don't
know if he's ever been announced yet
probably keeping them in there to rest
for another day but this is this turns
out to be a a fairly typical thing I
guess I'm looking forward to mine I've
been reading about other these things
where sometimes they do preventative
angioplasty that involves a catheter
like stuff I don't you want to think
about but I'm closer to that than I am
further away from it if you know I'm
saying and but apparently people are up
and Adam working very quickly and it's
quite possible Bernie Sanders will have
actually even more energy well maybe
we'll talk with Eric Levitz about this
later or certainly maybe we'll talk
about it tomorrow on the show as to what
the implications will be on the race but
if anything I have I think it's gonna be
problematic
believe it or not for Joe Biden because
you know Bernie Sanders I think he has
the ability to come back in in in a week
two weeks be as strong as ever the
problem is now that people are thinking
like hey wait what's going on with age
and why is Joe Biden can't string
together a sentence and why is he so
lackluster but who knows meanwhile
Sanders writes yesterday on Twitter
thanks for all the well wishes I'm
feeling good I'm fortunate to have good
health care and great doctors and nurses
helping me to recover none of us know
when a medical emergency might affect us
no one should fear going bankrupt if it
occurs Medicare for all well the Fox and
Friends guys were very very concerned
about Bernie Sanders and so they decided
to bring dr. oz on now dr. oz is he a
real doctor I guess he must be right
yeah and and does he still have a show
I think so yeah he got as a medical
license from the school of Oprah you got
to see a game he graduated from Oprah
Medical School and here's dr. oz they
bring it on and gosh don't you hate it
when you bring a guest on and they say
stuff you don't really want to talk
about because it's completely
inconsistent with the propaganda you've
been pushing on your network for years
well Brian Kilmeade had one of those
morning's Bernie sent out a tweet I
believe overnight where he talked about
a thank you for the sport he's lucky he
has good health care and then made it a
plug for Medicare for all
well it does help that you have Medicare
we I argue with senator Sanders about
more than Medicare for all which is the
program she's offering this it's it's
worth having that debate I just want to
make sure our candidates are healthy and
where they need to be emotionally to do
it it does take a big burden off
people's hearts and the hachi a minute
half of the doctors in America want
Medicare for all
dr. Price's we right yeah that's a whole
different conversation but I'm Bernie
Sanders specifically he's a patient and
he's recovering well when's he back on
the stump going full-bore or is it a
graduation well I think it about a week
he can resume activities pretty
aggressively and maybe another week to
get the full speed yeah there you go oh
yeah I'm sorry Medicare front we do we
know who that's that's for another never
day that we will have when we talk about
half the doctors in America want
Medicare for all right so you're saying
there's a 50/50 chance my doctor is a
communist it's very possible either
right now as you know you know you may
not be aware of it but you may have a
socialist treating you and then the
other half that doesn't mean the other
half wants absolutely no expansion of
our health care as it is 50% is probably
not just a majority or you know let's I
don't know if it's 50% of 49% but I
would bet it's a plurality of what
doctors want in this country in terms of
health care and you know make no mistake
about it it's going to be a long road to
get there regardless of who is elected
president and we will have more
say about that in just a moment when we
talked to Eric Levites about this Warren
Sanders debate
