[Music]
it's so here is a Donald Trump freaking
out about the reports that the economy
is going soft apparently they've had to
tell donors that they there's a chance
that there may be a small mild short
recession don't worry but just in case
you were wondering about our economic
powers
if you reelect us now here's the thing
here's what is problematic about this
promise
he needs a Democratic Congress to go
along with these proposals but all they
gonna do is float tax cuts for some of
those donors maybe now I have to be
asked what we've heard again potential
payroll tax indexing and capital gains
but would you accept well you know we've
been talking about indexing for a long
time and many people like indexing and
it can be done very simple it can be
done directly by me and so we've been
looking at that as you probably have
heard I can do it directly so we're
talking about indexing and we're always
looking at the capital gains tax payroll
tax we're looking at I would love to do
something on capital gains we're talking
about that that it's a big deal goes
through Congress payroll tax is
something that we think about and a lot
of people would like to see that and
that very much affects the working the
workers of our country and we have a lot
of workers right now by the way we have
more people working today than we've
ever had before in the history of our
country we have almost 160 million
people working today I think the word
recession is a word that's inappropriate
because it's just a word that the the
certain people I'm going to be kind for
certain people and the media are trying
to build up because they'd love to see a
recession we're very far from a
recession there you go so Trump claims
that he can index the capital gains tax
unilaterally
supposedly it would it would cost
according to an analysis by economists
at the Penn Wharton budget models school
it would add a hundred billion dollars
to the national debt and it would
benefit of course the top point point
one percent not the top one percent the
top point percent now this would be
indexing the capital gains tax to
inflation so in other words you go out
you buy something you go out buy
something for a hundred dollars let's
say is stock it goes up huge run do a
hundred and twenty-five dollars you sell
it over the course let's say it goes up
by twenty-five dollars over the course
of two years you sell it you pay taxes
on the twenty five dollars capital gains
of course it's reduced because that is
so much harder than actually working
it's less that you pay gains on that
twenty-five dollars than you would if
you had actually gone out and dug a
ditch to get it and what he wants to do
is say well there was two percent
inflation during the course of those two
years so it's not really twenty-five
dollars that you gained it is only
twenty dollars so we only get to get tax
on the twenty dollars and he claims that
he can do that himself there is a legal
opinion in 1992 that was offered by the
office of legal counsel under Herbert
Walker Bush and they say you cannot do
that so you know again it's one of those
situations where one of his lunatic
advisors like you could do it I don't
know if he'll do it
we'll see if he'll do it but maybe that
is the price that he needs to get some
donors on board guess we're going to
find out
