[Music]
alright this is gonna get a lot of
 YouTube and enraged YouTube and
Twitter comments this question I
actually was considering I might do this
in some version on Sundays TMDs the mad
mailman can you weigh in on the Tulsi
camp keeping Ana off of the Gabbard TYT
interview yes I can if so I'm gonna let
you that's the that's really the big
question yeah go for so if this video
goes up and IMD platformed as I was so
rudely around Dave Rubin hold Samm
accountable for the violent suppression
of speech no but look Anna did a video
and I look everybody knows I mean and I
work together I think Anna does awesome
work a lot of respect for each other she
did a video that focused on the obvious
questions in Tull C's record just
obvious ones if your progressive you
would have a question about her support
for drones you'd have a question for her
ambiguity on torture you'd have a
questions about her voting against
refugees now she didn't interview a
Janke I watched it
some people think that the answers were
great I thought the answers I'll give
her credit I thought she was quite
transparent in her answers I think she's
quite clear about who she is and I like
some of that
I like the anti interventionist message
I like the environmental message I like
the message on Venezuela but she
reaffirmed what Janke even just like
framing on there being like serious you
know like security questions at the
border no there aren't there are not
that's a in accurate way of looking at
that problem she said when she voted
against a majority of Democrats and even
against you know James Comey then
director of the FBI kind of suggesting
that these additional procedures would
be a burden she indicated that Obama
supported what she voted for I'm sort of
an unclear about what she's referencing
there but she voted against most
Democrats for
are more onerous burdens on Syrian
refugees now if you understand how this
vetting process actually works you're
talking that even before that bill was
passed probably at least a year before
and this is pre Trump mind you at least
a year before somebody could even get to
the states to complete that process the
vetting was rigorous as hell
the only reason in my mind that you
would vote for that is if you are
genuinely buying into some version a
really deep paranoia about Muslims or
people coming from Syria and again I
disagree with that
we have different positions
I appreciate that Tulsi is not spinning
and equivocating I think she's providing
pretty clear answers there clear answers
that I and most people who have
left-wing politics would disagree with
just as I agree with what she said about
Maduro and i agree generally about
cutting defense spending and investing
in the country that's great cool then
the other things she's stand by her use
of Islamic terrorism as a moniker the
obvious Rianne then what was incredible
is that in the interview she actually
pivoted to well there's this wool hobby
strain that's funded by the Saudis I
wouldn't necessarily I think
strategically and morally I would
decouple terrorism from any rhetoric of
Islam as much as possible just as a
practical matter for even just civic
realities in the United States and
Europe that being said when she pivoted
to Wahhabism already way more specific
and way less problematic than the
insistence of Islamic again I don't
understand how somebody with left-wing
politics would not see that a Democratic
congresswoman intervening against Obama
not on anything of substance Obama's
bombing Syria Obama is using drones
extraordinarily aggressively and killing
plenty of civilians in Yemen in Pakistan
to intervene to say no no to literally
make the Sam Harris argument that you
need to call it something
what is the upshot of that what is the
upshot of that in a world where Muslims
are surveilled or Guantanamo isn't
closed and there's a global drone
campaign and there's and if you think
that you need to use that specific word
to condemn Isis or condemn al Qaeda or
deal with the intricacies of foreign
policy with Saudi Arabia you need to
make a case that nobody has made because
anytime I hear it from a Republican
freaking out on TV or Sam Harris whining
on his podcast or Tulsi Gabbard
articulating herself well to jank it
never holds up ever and there is never
an answer as to how this wouldn't in
fact put Muslims in the United States in
further harm's way culturally in a place
where there's a rise in hate crimes so
Anna did a video that again especially
if you're a Tulsi supporter you should
want to get out in front of and not
respond like some you know lunatic
dingbat cultist on twitter you would say
okay either you're misrepresenting her
position and here's how they always say
that they're misrepresenting your
position but then always just basically
say what Trump would say which is like
no no no that that is my position but
it's the nice version that's not me you
have not demonstrated in order to say
that you've misrepresented her position
you have to say no no she actually took
the different vote on refugees you
understand how that works that's what
you need to do so Anna did this video
and Anna who I trust completely said
Tulsi agreed to come on The Young Turks
but one get interviewed by her and I
think that that's a bad call I think
Jake did a good job and I think that
Anna absolutely would have treated her
fairly and respectfully but asked her
tough questions and maybe some
follow-ups when I was strongly
supporting Bernie Sanders in 2016 I said
immediately the
way this dude is responding to black
lives matter activists his dad and he
needs to up his game that's what you do
for a candidate that you actually want
to see win and I'm not saying accept
 obviously I don't accept
 about Bernie but none of these
issues I and forth with some but I said
hey I am I'm I would be happy if Tulsi
could be my second choice do you know I
mean let's be stylistically this she
does yoga she's from Hawaii
she's opposed to intervention and in
Venezuela she wants single-payer like
great Tulsi Gabbard I could we could
meet each other at some ridiculous
health spa in New York City okay
like Tulsi Gabbard is seems like cool
theoretically she serves she surfs
awesome
everybody's respond literally I'm
getting reddit threads of her shaking
hands of Muslim constituents that's not
what I'm talking about
and if you can't understand that
difference you're not able to think
analytically and then you're not able to
properly defend your candidate or if you
want to come out and say actually in
some way she has some extremely
right-wing views I support her anyways
cool but that's not my politics
I don't vote against refugees and I
thought Bernie's initial answers on
drones
I thought Bernie's answers in 2016 about
partnering up with the king of Jordan to
take on Isis sucked and I said it
contemporaneously I think that the fact
that he's centering re-entering the Iran
deal talking clearly about the treatment
of the Palestinians being the only major
candidate to talk about what's happening
in Brazil and still coming to right
position on Venezuela while centering
global oligarchy and climate change I
think that deserves a lot of props so
move move and again the last thing I'll
say I mean to her credit she I guess she
isn't really moving but
I don't like where she is and all Ana
did was articulate what is public record
and you're gonna need to figure out a
better way of dealing with that then you
know endless evasion conspiracy theories
and whining Anna's report should have
been seen as an opportunity by people
that support Tulsi Gabbard and an
interview with Anna might have actually
turned out great for Tulsi it's sad very
sad you're talking from us you're
calling from a 7 1 8 area code who are
you where he calling from so no sorry
yes everyone threw my bet
