[Music]
this is very encouraging so here is a
barack obama well the the response is
encouraging I just want to remind you
regardless of what you think about
Barack Obama the Democratic Party under
the era of Obama was decimated the 2010
midterm elections were so decisive and
destructive now granted there is a sort
of a what they call it like a secular
trend where the party out of the
presidency loses but it was huge huge
losses in 2010 and Obama may not be
responsible for that but the failure of
any type of outside apparatus to
mitigate that loss is his failure the
Obama administration and the Obama
campaign starting in August of 2007 or
2008 I should say put the word out to
donors and you can go back and look this
up we were talking about it at the time
put the word out the donors you do not
you do not donate to outside groups you
donate only to us and they had Obama for
America which was considered to be a
huge grassroots organization that a lot
of people felt had an enormous amount of
power and had a lot of potential as a
outside leverage for the president and
they purposefully buried the entire
organization and they left the
Democratic in in in you can also quote I
got this as he's telling Republican
Democratic lawmakers
some type of democratic caucus meeting I
got this so he basically said don't
worry it's on me
we have debilitated all the outside
organizations because we don't want any
type of dissent and I got this
and then 2010 happened and guess what he
didn't got it
Coby except not so here he is returning
to the hill not literally but
metaphorically to tell the Democratic
Party what they need to do Barack Obama
was great and telling the Democratic
Party what he needs to do to win but
there is no evidence that Barack Obama
is the guy to tell Democrats what they
need to do to win particularly not now
but also the fact is not then either and
this is you know divorced from his
policies just as a political strategist
very good in figuring out what what
works for Barack Obama not so good at
what works for everybody else in the
Democratic Party the Democrats lost over
a thousand seats in state local federal
elections how's this looking Brock Obama
was he got it but not the rest of us but
here he is telling the Democrats what
they need to do - you got to slow your
roll now despite that what happened
that's basically the pitch on the other
hand I know from experience in passing
the health care law that I had to work
on in the United States that that was
not the ideal health care program that I
wanted to set up it's what I could get
at the time and if I could establish the
principle that everybody gets health
care and get 20 million people more
health care even if 10 million still
hadn't gotten it that's what I'm gonna
do now
and then I'll fight some more later for
the other 20% so to go back to the point
that was made by Connell a--the what's
true for me when I was a president or an
elected official it's gonna be true for
you as well even within your own
organizations
and one of the things I do worry about
sometimes among progressives in the
United States maybe it's true here as
well is a certain kind of rigidity where
we saying ah I'm sorry this is how it's
gonna be and then we start sometimes
creating what's called a circular firing
squad where you shooting at your allies
because one of them is straying from
purity on the issues and when that
happens typically the overall effort and
movement weakens so I think whether you
are speaking as a citizen or as a you
know political leader or as an organizer
whether you're in the nonprofit space or
in civic space or you're in the
political arena you have to recognize
that the way we've structured democracy
requires you to take into account people
who don't agree with you
and that by definition means you're not
gonna get a hundred percent of what you
want but you should take some time to
think in your own mind and continually
refine and reflect what are my core
principles because the danger is if you
don't know what your principles are
that's when you compromise your
principles away so you have to know
ahead of time here's what I'm willing to
compromise on here the things that I'm
not you can't set up a system in which
you don't compromise on anything but you
also can't operate in a system where you
compromise on everything
the problem with Obama's perspective on
this is that he may have had core
principles and I frankly I don't think
they were quite ambitious enough but but
nevertheless the point is different
people can have different core
principles but when you come in offering
the least amount or you come in offering
basically what your comp
my's position is in position in in your
first offer you are guaranteed to get
less than your compromise position that
is just like a basic tenant of
negotiations and it ends up being in
many respects I it puts into question
where the core principles work what is
it I think the core principles are in
the process not in the outcome
I think negotiation and having everybody
at the table that's the that's the core
principle he conflates the concept of
democracy would the idea of what
democracy is supposed to bring about and
so it's really just like he's
maintaining the that process I think is
a big part of it yes and it was not
effective I mean we got the Affordable
Care Act but there was a lot of reason
to presume that something could be done
in that space and he did not exert the
effort on various players that he could
have and I would add to that they in
many respects they they sold they sold
it in incorrectly because it didn't
really make things affordable also how
many people does it take to make a
firing squad because what this sounds
like to me is more like Obama and the
establishment Democrats kind of throwing
shade on one person in particular so if
anyone's doing a circular firing squad
it's him and and na OC yeah but like
fewer people let's say there are fewer
fewer mainstream elected politicians
right now that are pushing what Obama is
portraying as purity politics and what
we understand to be practical because
we've seen market solutions to health
care and they don't work right right I
mean he claims it's a circular firing
squad but the shots are fired from
everywhere not just the
posed in purity folks I mean it was this
G way staff that called progressives
effing retards right like what is the
you know Wow yeah what is our worry
knots the other problem too is like what
is the basis of like where the supposed
preset compromises come from like this
is where Brad DeLong said a couple of
weeks ago right we need to understand
that we're not the point people anymore
because we lost right right the the the
the purity is on the other foot right
and the practicality is on the other
foot here is Katey Porter one of those
Democrats who was just elected she was
elected in a what was otherwise a
longtime Republican district in
California she in many respects has been
she hasn't gotten quite the attention
that some of the other freshman Congress
people have but she's gotten some she's
considered she was considered a sort of
a Elizabeth Warren protege in some
respects studied with her I think at
Harvard and also was heavily involved in
the in the work that was going on in
California regarding the financial
crisis or I should say the wake of the
financial crisis and here is her
response to Obama's worries about the
progressive of rigidity hurting
Democrats and I should say that last
clip we played of Obama was in Berlin
but he apparently had made a trip
sometime last week or the week before to
the to the hill and delivered a very
similar message don't be so ambitious
agree with the president a former
president I mean is this a problem among
Democrats I don't think we should be
afraid of ideas and have new ideas and I
think we're gonna if we're gonna
energize the electorate particularly
millennial voters we shouldn't be
shutting down ideas and so I think to
the extent that has been rigidity it's
been rigidity around the establishment
I'm a freshman I'm part of a huge
freshman class and we're bringing a lot
of new ideas and a lot of new voices to
the Congress and I think there's a
certain amount of resistance to that
from the establishment so I think that
we should not be afraid of having a
log and be afraid of people disagreeing
with each other within the Democratic
Party it's only when it turns personal
when it turns to name-calling when it
turns to dragging down other candidates
that I think it becomes a problem but
right now I don't like the Congress has
done that right so here's the point as
she's making and it's one that we were
just making is that you have a circular
firing squad and what purity what what
you know like the the the idea is that
the the so called center so-called
moderates and I say so-called center
because there's just no way to say that
they're they're you know centered at
least in terms of the the American
public but the so-called moderates let's
call them just the left issue
Riteish Riteish leftist in in the house
their purity is pretty rigid
you know it's just a different type of
pure the product is slightly different
and they frame it as if the product is
some form of of leftism and we're going
to we're gonna you know we don't need it
to be so pure but but the fact is is
that that's not the politics they have
and so they're being there they're
having purity test - it is swaying in
any way or divert diverging from what we
have been selling and pushing for an
extended period of time this could be
framed exactly the opposite way but the
way way Obama does it and the way that
we always hear this done is as if we are
the norm and they're the difference ones
and we're practically there ideological
right we don't have politics I mean this
is Howard Schultz's pitch - right like I
don't I don't have politics I don't have
ideology I just have can-do spirit and
get it done ISM common sense I just have
common sense in it and in it get it done
ISM I wonder if Dave rube is gonna do a
hashtag walk back after hearing Katey
Porter talk about ideas yeah there you
go looky deep rooted is it here's an
idea
what if Equifax but leasing information
it was a good the way that Katey Porter
frames it is also really the way to do
it too because it then it just she's
using basically their language is great
and it's accurate it's actually it's
like actually if you go to the
progressive side of that equation that
is where people are generating ideas
that are not reheated 80s and 90s plans
that are completely historically
out-of-date unnecessarily convoluted
repetitive and uninteresting to normal
people speaking of appealing to normies
ironically physician heal thyself NBC
News is reporting that the us secrets
