[Music]
so speaking of which of of at least so
Bernie Sanders has spoken consistently
on Brazil the connecting rise of fascism
and how it fits with the global threat
from the United States to India to
hungry
to Russia in terms of global far-right
governments synchronising Saudi Arabia
Israel and he's spoken on Lula
he's also been a major driving force
behind an efforts to stop the
administration from backing Saudi UAE
mass-murderer in Yemen the Yemeni
conflicts gone on since believe 2015 the
Saudis have unleashed just a brutal wave
of killings cholera epidemics food
shortages bombing hospitals bombing
funeral homes bombing school buses all
because of their own phantom fears and
delusions about a hootie government
merely being upon for the Iranians in
fact the Houthis are an organic movement
to Yemen and playing to be Emmons own
very difficult and delicate political
balances arising out of their
disruptions and movements in the context
of the Arab uprisings going back to 2011
the Sanders bill which he co-sponsored
along with Chris Murphy Democrat from
Connecticut Mike Lee Republican from
Utah actually advanced in the Senate a
lot of media coverage focused on this
being somehow to do with Khashoggi or
sending MBS a message not fine enough
the primary concern of course should be
ending as I say us enabled and backed
mass murder in Yemen this is Bernie
Sanders talking about the vote earlier
today let me thank all of the people at
the grassroots level throughout our
country who helped us today when a major
vote on the path toward ending u.s.
involvement in the war in Yemen but let
me caution everybody given the extremely
obscure and complicated rules of the
United States Senate this fight is far
from over what we won this afternoon was
vote to discharge our resolution out of
the Foreign Relations Committee and that
was a major major victory but what we
have got to do is continue our effort to
make sure that we end up winning the
resolution to proceed to go forward and
then finally we have got to win a final
passage on this legislation and what we
did today was of enormous significance
this is a really important step forward
and what this fight as you all know is
about as three fundamental things number
one what's going on in Yemen now is a
horrific humanitarian disaster we're
talking about the reality of 85,000
children in the last few years
starving to death starving to death and
what the United Nations tell us tells us
is that millions more people are facing
imminent starvation in Yemen today which
has always been a poor country but in
Yemen today what we're looking at is
10,000 new cases every single week of
Cholera which then lays people open to
all kinds of other illnesses and death
so what we are saying is that the United
States of America in our resolution has
got to get out of that war and instead
of being part of the killing in Yemen we
have got to do everything we can to
bring peace to that country and
humanitarian aid so that we stop this
horrific humanitarian disaster all the
things that Sam outlined so well in
terms of caucus assignment with
progressives a couple days ago do the
same call your senator make sure that
they're supporting this bill thank them
if they have if there's someone like Ben
Sasse as an example who is a grotesque
windbag who voted against this but likes
the posture as an upholder morality even
as he aids in the mass murder of Yemeni
children maybe if you're in Nebraska you
give his office a call and you say that
maybe he should have
conscience and not side with Trump who
he supposedly finds so odious and maybe
with someone like Bernie Sanders who
actually is supporting humanity and
ethics and u.s. foreign policy we need
to stay on this needs to be very
aggressive and there is a possibility in
terms of public sentiment the forces of
both Emirates and Saudi lobbying efforts
as well as of course all of the arms
manufacturers like General Dynamics and
Raytheon who are making a killing on
this are what we're up against and
here's a list of the 37 o hyde-smith oh
okay what a surprise
this is a list of the 37 Alex Koch
tweeted this out on Twitter roll call is
in for the Yemeni resolution these are
the 37 nay votes so we have Barroso of
Wyoming Blount of Missouri Boozman of or
of Arkansas burr of North Carolina
capital of West Virginia Cornyn of Texas
cotton of Arkansas Crapo okay these are
all Republicans let me we and maybe we
should post this but were there any
Democrats that voted against this it
looks like it looks like there are no
Democratic knows on this actually yeah
maybe they can be shamed into doing the
right thing if you're if you're senators
on here go ask him or her why they're
part of their part of the Senate Yemeni
genocide yeah why are they part of the
Senate Yemeni genocide caucus and why
are a couple of yeah Raytheon assembly
lines which could be again it's not
about losing jobs all those jobs can be
turned into productive activities but
people are literally voting that I mean
this is as basic of vote gets for a
campaign contributor that directly leads
to literal mass murder yeah this is them
supporting like that this is they would
have supported in the South African
apartheid Oh abscess is like that boat
this is right yes these people probably
did some of them probably did these
people are disgust
thing you should all let them know call
them and particularly yeah I like the
the postures are here
Rubio sass truly grotesque 37 the Yemeni
genocide caucus give them all a call and
also the rest who actually voted on this
Republican and Democrat please thank
them including Michael E is totally
atrocious he needs to get a ton of props
on this Rand Paul is atrocious needs to
get props on this this is the smart
version of where we're not dumb
partisans when it comes to passing
essential legislation like this and I
got to say I mean look Bernie is the
indisputable choice for 2020 if he runs
I don't see a real argument otherwise if
you care about a left perspective but uh
Chris Murphy really ought to be shooting
his way I don't see he should be he
should be talked about on those lists
for this type of work alone he'd be a
good VP oh yeah I think he would be I
think he would be um
