you're calling from a 703 area code who
are you where you calling from
this means Nathan from Virginia
Nathan it's you from Virginia what's on
your minds well I first first and
foremost right off the top
got to be honest with you I'm a
Republican I know me a moment
I also voted for Boyce Co in the last
election we had here a couple days ago
because I like um of the mind that you
know Jesus Jesus H these are a bunch of
you know unrepentant morons that we
can't let anywhere near the levels of
power you know we're obviously seeing
the fallout from Neil douche bag than
that right now and you know I'd say
again off the top half of my foreign
policy is informed by Eisenhower and the
other half is informed by Frank Herbert
to some degree and you know I'm with you
man like it's I think issue number one
is the environment because we have to
protect the biosphere if we're ever
gonna carry this you know American
experiment forward and the second thing
we got to do is nuclear disarmament
because those weapons again pose an
existential threat to the species and
you know I don't want to take up too
much of your time I just I just want to
say for the record there are some of us
here with the are next to our names who
have been watching the last 15 to 20
years of you know it just egregious
mistake after egregious mistake and
we're building slowly a sort of I don't
want to say all right but you know a new
sort of right well I wouldn't say all
right you know because then we're
definitely we're very hot on that what
about what about a Republican DSA caucus
what about that yeah you know like I'm I
I got a to be honest i I've read marks -
you know I've in terms of philosophy I'm
more of a start guy
and you know I I think that the the the
guy I blame for all this the the patient
zero was that notion back in the
eighties you know what government is the
problem
and when you think about it for a moment
like that's what governments the problem
man why are you in government in fact
why do we have a government sam says I'm
really really resonated with me a couple
days ago it's like well if the the
smallest form of government is the best
well why don't we just govern at the
state well at the county at the house
you know like all right it did it's just
a lot of you don't sound like a
Republican for you man yeah run for
office
yeah you should run for office as a
Republican we will boost your signal
boost your campaign
I'm aside and I really could be I'm
being honest with you guys right now I'm
from New York originally New York City
Staten Island makes fun of me I'm there
but it you guys is really over the past
couple of years you know listen to you
listening to Sam and kind of broadening
my horizons I was a current and
Republican by the age of 13 and I just
over time you know thank you for you
know having a conversation that you guys
do and having the voices on I love the
discussion earlier today in American
foreign policy yeah like we're we're
working on it
hopefully real soon we'll be able to go
back to having more rational discussions
on 16 informs of air travel
why how well we'll see about that
feel good there let's see about that
what keeps you in the paper yeah well
yeah a question what why do you still
like what I mean unless you're about to
drop on us something really
abominable they usually go I'm with you
guys in other besides you know like
women should basically be enslaved
like what unless it's something like
that like what keeps you is it just like
a you is it like a Kevin Phillips like
it's like a thing where you never vote
for Republicans anymore you're the
political opponent of all these people
but you feel like you mentioned
Eisenhower I have huge problems at
Eisenhower
but you know fair enough it's not well
not I'll just put the I mean if somebody
says they admire Eisenhower that's not
the same as saying they admire Reagan or
even you know or Nixon for that matter
and certainly Trump but what keeps you
in this party is it just because of a
philosophical commitment to something
that doesn't exist anymore or is there
really something still in this party
that you actually resonate with because
it doesn't sound like it no it's a I'll
be honest it's a philosophical you know
commitment and way way back I had the
chance to expatriate and I didn't
because it's sappy I know put on the put
on the audio over this but I believe in
the and the military Eisenhower and the
reason I love Eisenhower you know his
farewell address the military-industrial
complex it like that is this is the guy
who was at the helm of you know probably
one of the greatest war machines ever
created right a concerted global effort
and at the end of all that coming back
home to you know democracy after washing
the world get ravaged as dude understood
that fully hell like we've got a real
you know three-headed beast on our hands
and it's that confluence of where
private industry coupled with you know
government oversight and can be
channeled to do great things and also
great destructive so I got a job I got a
jump real quick I hear you I wish
Eisenhower done something about that
earlier and also not supported like the
coos and Guatemala and things like that
which I would read up on Breda Steve
Kinser on the Dulles brothers that's
really good book but um but just give me
one name I'm assuming you're not you're
gonna vote against Trump in 2020 right
I'm assuming Cory so as a or as a
Republican will be voting for a Democrat
who would be your Democratic pick just
give me don't even explain it just give
me one word we won't even respond
already just okay Bernie Bernie Bernie
you've got my vote
all right thanks for the call brother
there you go more Republicans should be
like that guy yeah that's me people ask
me Republicans that I'm willing to work
and dialogue with there you go
anyone who claims this moment is the
start of the problem yeah here we go yep
this present crisis government is not
the solution to our problem government
is the problem there you go
