[Music]
all right lastly you know I guess it was
weeks ago maybe months ago again
somebody asked me well you got against
COS stefan molyneux why do you think
he's crazy why do you think he's not a
rational presenter of ideas sir and here
it is here he goes
stefan molyneux heads to poland this is
a there was an attempt to pass a law
that said you can't really talk about
the Holocaust or at least don't be so
negative about polling about it and here
he is talking about how nice it was to
be able to go to a country and have no
one lived there who doesn't look like
him you know I go to Poland what is it
99% white I don't need any security the
streets are incredibly clean crime is
almost non-existent
nobody gets called a racist there's no
talk of white privilege no identity
politics no endless diversity nagging
you know I spoken against white
nationalism but I'm an empiricist I'm an
empiricist
I went to the country I saw how it was
like we could put something out on
social media to have a social gathering
and we actually had the social gathering
without bomb threats without violence
without attacks with that things coming
through the window black people
I've spoken out against white
nationalism bottom i'm an empiricist
positive for one second
this guy has figured out that why snap
white nationalism means you should have
only white people and that it eliminates
the problem of having non-whites around
he's also an empiricist in terms of
where his audience is going right this
broader scheme well internet I have a
theory about it if you're constantly
talking about race and the only way we
go ahead it's just yeah I'm an
empiricist and I see that nature does
not like a vacuum and perhaps when Gavin
McInnes and the proud boys lose some of
their mojo maybe this guy fills the
vacuum and I think he's saying right now
just take a quick look at where we
stopped the video he's like yeah sounds
like someone's ringing the cash register
continue I'm listening I'm listening to
my experiences kind of argue with the
facts can I give it the reality I mean
you can but not the strongest winner mm
right
yeah he's not crazy at all no-nothing
culty you're crazy but I'm I'm just
overtaken by the validity of white
nationalism don't like it but
empirically I must be one he looks like
a very healthy well-adjusted person and
let me just say apropos of nothing God
pray for the woman of Poland
