anyways Taylor Swift she released a
endorsement of two Democratic candidates
I didn't know she's from Tennessee I'm
assuming Phil Bredesen who is a very
far-right Democrat but he is running
against the utterly loathsome Marsha
Blackburn she is she is a standout one
of the worst people and one of the worst
Congress's ever and then I think also
odd Jim Cooper who I don't know as much
about but I'm assume you know look this
is not her announcement that she's some
great political radical but this is her
announcement that I have basic human
decency and basic concern about human
well-being and I don't know if you're
are you getting the state okay so she
wrote this Instagram statement and she
said I'll just quote briefly from it
Taylor Swift I'm writing this post about
the upcoming midterms elections in
November 6th in which I'll be voting in
the state of Tennessee in the past I've
been reluctant to voice my political
opinions but due to several events in my
life in the world in the past two years
I feel very differently about that now I
have and will always cast my vote based
on which candidate will protect and
fight for human rights
I believe we deserve I even rights I
believe we all deserve in this country I
believe in the fight for LGBTQ rights
and that any form of discrimination
based on sexual on sexual orientation or
gender is wrong I believe that systemic
racism we see in this country towards
people of color is terrifying sickening
and prevalent I cannot vote for someone
who will not be fighting for the dignity
of all Americans no matter their skin
color or gender who they love running
for the Senate in the state of Tennessee
is a woman named Marsha Blackburn it's
actually pretty strong as much as I have
said in the past I'd like to continue
voting for woman in office I cannot
support Marsha Blackburn her voting in
Congress appalls and terrifies me this
is very strong she voted against equal
pay for women she voted against the
reauthorization of Violence Against
Women Act which attempts to protect
women from domestic violence stalking
date rape she believes businesses have a
right to refuse service to gay couples
she also believes they should have no
right to marry these are not my
Tennessee values I'll be voting for pill
Phil Bredesen and Jim Cooper for house
of representatives please educate
yourself some
on the candidates running in your state
and vote based on those who most closely
represent your values okay so yeah I
mean this is uh this is a as I say it's
a clear appeal to basic human decency
and who's gonna get triggered by an
appeal to basic human decency well if
you guessed a absolute lunkhead who Sam
will be debating soon at Politico on you
guessed correctly here is Charlie Kirk
I hope whoa I just also want to say I
hope that that one in good spirit joke
does not get turned into a reason to
cancel the debate with Sam I do not want
to hear the endless mishegoss from Sam
about that so Charlie sorry for the lunk
head comment I'll let you speak for
yourself I'm sure you'll look way better
than the comment I made about you this
is what I used to love about Taylor
Swift that she stayed away from politics
it's all about music all about you know
female empowerment the more I really was
about female empowerment she literally
said I have to speak out on these issues
because this woman has such a also LGBTQ
but such a nancy woman voting record
that I have to speak out it so within
ten seconds he's already completely
undermined the entire he's
peddling for this whole ridiculous clip
this is what I used to love about Taylor
Swift that she stayed away from politics
she's all about music all about you know
female empowerment look she says the
more I learn about martial Blackburn's
record in Congress I can't support her
well maybe she should actually learn
about her record in Congress being a
co-sponsor of bills that stopped human
trafficking sponsoring bills that was
stop the flow of drugs and opioids in
the state of Tennessee against domestic
abuse zone and so forth it's it's rather
evident and clear that I don't I don't
want to accuse her of this but I don't
think she was the only one that wrote
that post on Instagram she probably got
some very bad information and look as
part of this narrative where celebrities
that want to do good thank George Soros
wrote George Soros or to George Soros is
like let me that it's the grab a code in
the world I'll give her the benefit of
good intentions are being told that
people like Marsha Blackburn are
horrible people and nothing could be
further from the truth and the final
thing is she said Oh vote for bredesen
if you look at reticence record when he
was governor huge allegations of
covering up you know sexual misconduct
in his administration when he was
governor a reported by The Associated
Press so the last thing about bredesen
I've never heard before it's possible
I'd also add that Bredesen cut Medicaid
I'm not a fan of Bredesen I would in in
terms of how our elections work I would
vote for Bredesen in that state with
less than no enthusiasm he's a terrible
candidate running against one of the
absolute worst people in American
politics who not only voted in all the
ways the Taylor Swift or whoever
secretly wrote her posts very good way
of appealing to her Charlie that was
very non condescending I correctly
identified in terms of her broad-based
prejudiced vote she's also a bag woman
for the health care industry is one of
the main fighters against human beings
having health coverage in this country
in any way shape and form voting
literally to make people die in the
millions
and she's also a huge advocate and
supporter of the student loan industry
along with voting of course for every
other piece of Republican legislation
for wars for environmental gutting and
every single other way to make America
poorer sicker and dumber health escapes
she's a disgusting grotesque appalling
and terrifying person and taylor swift
owed an apology by super producer matt
luck yeah i thought she was a closeted
pei-pei i thought she was a crypto
crypto manga and i'm glad that she's not
I think just culturally this is a cleave
this is gonna go right through the heart
of a lot of Trump support in North
Dakota I can say over there with the
female the females that vote for Trump
you think she's just underlining like
the real like departure point of like
hey if you're any kind of even a
remotely decent human being you can't be
a Republican yeah cuz I did not think
this would happen especially something
worded like that right appalls and
terrifies me yeah that's that's that's
strong stuff like who would have thought
that her politics would
you should be significant to the left of
Kanye a brave new world that is really
literally a break like if you said when
they had that whole thing a couple years
ago where he like interrupted her at the
MTV Music Awards to say like Beyonce
deserved it or something and you were
just like hey do you know that like in
three or four years she's gonna be
speaking out against fascism he's gonna
be like looks like prominent black
advocate of fascism in the States yeah
if if the question was black fascist for
five hundred because I mean I think he
would be a respectable guess he would be
day yeah yeah I mean who else I don't
know I don't know who else I would name
you least you know notably you could do
maybe some actual reason well you can do
well who's that he that idiot on the
sports guy I wish for you Jason Whitlock
for a hundred grand Jason Whitlock like
mr. lay there is it racism I go from my
sports to do I go from the ESPN studios
to my doorman who likes me in my
apartment what are you talking about I
think he was on the bench Shapiro show
last week I bet he wasn't Jason went
like he's going on who Dave Rubin guy of
course Jason Whitlock I have some
incredibly stupid questions for you you
have a 402 calling for my 402 area code
who are you ready calling from yeah
