[Music]
all right let's take a look at this
Donald Trump budget because the in the
two years that the Trump administration
has put out his budge budget even the
Republicans ignored it largely and
certainly it's going to get even more
ignored this time however and it really
makes you wonder what the theory is here
as to why they're doing this but here is
Larry Kudlow going on Fox News Sunday to
sort of roll this budget out i cud load
does not look like he's been working out
in the whatever aptly put his regime he
was on before he joined the
administration I think that's and it
last time I said this he had to take a
health break yeah I am you know mister
joke about anything I don't worry about
it and I was all set for some great
Kudlow health regimen material and then
I saw him on screen I was like oh whoa
okay I have no comment after that
president Trump's top oh hold on for one
second I guess we want to play this in a
different order here let's do it this
way so Donald Trump one of the things he
ran on early on in his campaign now look
I think people who know anything about
politics knew that he was full of crap
but one of the things he ran on was this
idea that he was not like a Republican
that he had even said to the Republicans
like I don't know why you would ever go
after Medicare or Social Security people
love these things
and so he put himself out there is the
one guy particularly in the Republican
Party who was gonna save Social Security
was gonna save Medicare from the
Republicans here he is back here's this
is a montage of the times that he talked
about this I'll save Social Security
I'll save Medicare Ben Carson wants to
get rid of Medicare you can't get rid of
Medicare you know Medicare is a program
that worked
Green Republican wants to do a big
number on social security they want to
do it on Medicare they want to do it on
Medicaid and we can't do that and it's
not fair to the people that have been
paying in for years and now all of a
sudden they want to become don't get rid
of Medicare you can't do that people
love Medicare and it's unfair to them
I'm gonna fix it make it better but I'm
not gonna cut it now that's pretty
explicit he said that throughout at
least the Republican primary maybe
didn't harp on it as much during the
general he also seems significantly more
lucid at that time at a time when we
thought like this guy's a little bit off
so it just shows how sort of far we've
traveled he's not the only one in the
administration who claims that they're
not that well first off as a candidate
he was not going to cut it and now his
acting director of the Office of
Management and Budget or I should say
the White House budget director makes
this claim about Medicare and Medicaid
quick questions one to go back to to
drill down a little bit on what John
Karl asked if the deficit is such a
problem why not at least cut the rate of
increase to the defense and the defense
budget and secondly he has said promises
kept but we're cutting Medicare how does
that keep his promise to the American
people he's not cutting Medicare in this
budget what we are doing is putting
forward reforms that lower drug prices
that because Medicare pays is a very
large share of drug prices in this
country has the impact of finding
savings we're also finding waste fraud
and abuse but Medicare spending will go
up every single year by healthy margins
and there are no structural changes for
Medicare beneficiaries
that why not at least about the rate of
increase if the deficit is such concerns
in the trillions why not cut it in trees
because he's the commander in chief and
he thinks it's important to secure the
country it's one of his most basic
constitutional responsibilities the the
military put forward a five-year defense
plan it was done over a series of years
about the needs which gets back to
John's question we are going along with
that five-year defense plan in addition
we're putting additional dollars towards
the military construction funds that we
have tapped for so in other words let me
break that down for you one yeah he lied
about not cutting Medicare and Medicaid
we're going to be doing that in our
budget and - why are we increasing the
the rate in which we increase the
Pentagon budget because the president's
insane and thinks that there's a
national security threat particularly at
the the border and that's basically
where we're at
