the Trump administration is really
trying to set the table for some type of
either direct or sponsored military
action in Venezuela you heard the other
day what you know I hopefully you
listened on Thursday last Thursday
Michael gave sort of the broad outlines
what's happening in Venezuela the and
I've actually been reading just a little
bit of some some legal thinkers stuff
about people who were supportive of the
of the use of that constitutional
amendment in Venezuela but feel that
Guido I can't pronounce it quite well I
do grideau
went a step too far it's one thing to
use that constitutional amendment as a
way of saying we need to start a process
to find a new president it's another to
simply say like oh and I found one it's
me and it also feels like the u.s. is a
little bit rusty at this doesn't it
there's a view I think I mean I want to
be really clear that the US has
definitely been you know the 2009 coup
in Honduras was backed by the US what
we've done lawfare in Brazil so we've
been all over this but this specific
version of like 1980s like kind of like
let's say I have the military to post
somebody and set up death squads it does
seem like they're a little bit rusty he
tried it in finis whele
in 2002 right with Hugo Chavez but they
failed yeah but it was a half-hearted
thing there's a the pattern in Venezuela
that also is similar to now though 2002
there was way more grassroots support
for Chavez but it's just that the
opposition hypes the Republican
administration bush now Trump and it's
like we got we got
this is very hard the the administration
is just showing they're closing this now
those they're trying to intimidate the
military into defecting I think they're
really trying to say like look guys this
isn't just like we're gonna back a
couple of oligarchs and you can still
keep your patronage networks with a new
government which is obviously the case
this is like 50 this is like putting a
picture of him with his alright so
here's one of the ways oregan
involvements and miscalculation because
again I think I think you're right
though the Venezuelan military whatever
else you say about I think there is a
healthy normal human response of like
you don't get to dictate who my
government is by threatening me
and it's also I think one that has a
certain sophistication as to like you
know how supported this administration
is so Bolton gets up there with a piece
of paper that has one thing written on
it and has somebody like done a zero in
its supposedly says like what 5,000
troops to Colombia this is like written
like 5000 US troops to Colombia now look
the the the idea that he is that's the
way that they plan their Wars is just
one line on a yellow piece of paper
that's clearly a means of which to I
don't think this is for domestic
consumption I think it's for consumption
from you know with in in in in Venezuela
this idea that like we could be we could
be you know providing material military
support for some type of invasion and
look it's possible he didn't realize
what he was doing but I can tell you
that I did this with Charlie Kerkar on
his on the debate I went out there after
seeing Jake talked to him about his you
know I went out there and I wrote like
five oh I can't remember what it was but
the 5:03 see filings you know and four
and wrote that on the outside of my
notebook it kept flashing and item
during the debate I mean
is not sophisticated psyops here folks
and I imagine you know the the
Venezuelan military probably has a
little bit more sophistication than I do
when it comes to what you know what's
actually going on you know that I don't
think they're both trained by the same
people that's right that's right so here
is John Bolton on with Trish Reagan and
I'll tell you something
I'll make this announcement right now if
this new catchphrase of this
administration catches on I may have to
go away in some fashion I'm not sure
exactly how if it'll involve medication
or what or just like go to your happy
place put myself in a rocket and go to
carribean islands but it's not but if we
need to pose by the United States for
like another 10 years but if but if I
see anybody on the mainstream media say
the words troika of tyranny in a any
other way other than quoting what Bolton
says I honestly I don't know what I'm
gonna do with myself we want everybody
to know we're looking at all this very
seriously we don't want any American
businesses or investors caught by
surprise they can see what President
Trump did yesterday we're following
through on it so if you think of a
company like Cisco which is owned by pet
of asa which is the state-run oil
company there in Venezuela we have a lot
of those Cisco sicko assets right here
in the US is that something for example
sir that you're looking at yeah well
we're in conversation with major
American companies now that are either
in Venezuela we're in the case of Citgo
here in the United States I think we're
trying to get to the same end result
here you know
Venezuela is one of the three countries
I called the troika of tyranny it'll
make a big difference to the United
States economically if we could have
American oil companies really invest in
and produce the oil capabilities in
Venezuela it'd be good for the people of
Venezuela it'd be good for the people of
the United States we both have a lot at
stake here making this come out the
right way
well now aside from the
of tyranny and of course troika of
tyranny in the in its original
translation means they have our oil
under their ground and you know I mean I
use that phrase comunit states Colombia
and Brazil are forming a troika of
tyranny that are trying to foment a
disastrous coup and you know they're
already you've got to appreciate the
fact that Bolton's out there being very
explicit yeah that does feel new to me
didn't you say it out loud oh we're
doing this for oil money Alton said
publicly and granted it was before was
you an ambassador I mean he said like
you could blow off how many stories the
UN building your friends yeah no I know
Bolton has has been threatening people
you have Bolton's and ash Lord Bolton's
been publicly threatening people for
ages and so I this could be their you
know setting up the American public for
this but I also think it could be they
don't feel like they need to set up the
American public for this I think they
also feel like they can just do it you
know need to set people up for bringing
them together it's so you would say we
will all come together in a grand coup
it's it's so Trumpy like remember what
Trump was like yeah it's bad what they
did to Jamal Khashoggi but like we have
a lot of economic interest with Saudi
Arabia so oh one guy's life a lot of oil
it's not even close
the the only sort of the the positive
news and we're seeing this may be in the
context of Yemen
Roka Hana is has reintroduced a War
Powers Resolution or is about to to end
our involvement in the Yemen Civil War
and here is on Democracy Now I think it
was yesterday or the day before talking
about just broadly speaking the failures
of US intervention
regime change and criticizing that I
mean for all of our legitimate concerns
about shin interference in our elections
where we get concerned if a journalist
appears on Russian television and a
member of Congress talks to them imagine
if someone were calling the opposition
in our country we would be furious
justifiably furious and so it makes no
sense that our vice president would be
calling and interfering in politics in
Venezuela what we ought to be doing is
working through international
institutions and laws calling for human
rights but not getting involved in a
potential civil war and again this is no
defense of Madero everyone recognizes
that there have been extradition
killings there that his economic
policies have led to hyperinflation but
the reality is that when we have
intervened in places like Syria in
places like Libya what has the
consequence has been that things have
gotten worse and for some reason the
people who have led all these
interventions are still able to dictate
American foreign policy it's almost as
if failure is the qualification to be
part of dictating what we should be
doing in Venezuela and that's you know
in addition to him being absolutely
right about the repeated failures of our
intervention even ones that if there
have been any that we're done with the
best of intentions our record of success
is extremely low did pretty good in
World War two to a certain extent
obviously but when we get into when
we're talking about non World War
situations things have not worked out so
well
particularly when we're talking about
intra country conflicts and so but he
also I think does a good job there of
explaining like this is how you can be
critical of a leader and there are
mechanisms in which we have
- hopefully impact and push other
leaders to be better or to be gone in
some fashions or to strengthen the
ability of people to make to have some
form of self-determination but it has to
stop when it becomes some form of
intervention well and again I mean the
alternative to this coup and this
right-wing force that people like Mexico
are putting countries like Mexico
putting forward is diplomacy and also I
have to say I mean I'll get to this more
tomorrow potentially but Bernie Sanders
you know look a lot of people were
annoyed about his tweets because you
know he opposed the intervention but
still was quite critical of Maduro and I
had some annoyance with that too but
speaking I've you know I know someone
who's who's in contact with people in
the foreign ministry of the Bolivarian
government and they were like those
tweets were great like they're not
expecting Bernie Sanders to come out and
go look and Nicolas Maduro is should get
a medal like the people who are still
sincere inside that government which I
think there's definitely a lot of people
that are and that a government has
achieved some amazing things and
obviously also it failings they're not
blind to the problems and things that
need to be changed either in fact is
usually the case they're the ones that
are the most sincere about making those
change right yeah I mean if if a
president Bernie really wanted to undo
the damage back to zero that the US has
done to that country and other countries
in Latin America they'd be paying
reparations for all of the sanctions
that they've imposed on these
governments in order to make them fail
and or the death squads that they've
unleashed yeah I think they could
unkillable there - why not
