so Daniel this week Bernie Sanders was
at a did a town hall on Fox News he was
also at a town hall in Iowa he he was I
guess pressed in the Fox News debate or
I guess Town Hall it sounds like a
debate because Martha McCallum really
wanted to wanted to engage him which was
good but she was saying you know what
are you gonna do about these facilities
that are overflowing down at the border
and he his response was I'm gonna build
better facilities or bigger facilities
and then sort of you know parlayed that
into a comprehensive immigration reform
I guess pitch on some level he did
something somewhat similar in Iowa at a
town hall didn't he yeah well in terms
of the Fox News Town Hall I think we
need more clarity on what Bernie was
talking about in terms of building
proper facilities at the border as much
as I've been critical about towards
Bernie's immigration program and
rhetoric it doesn't sound like he was
actually arguing for any sort of like
statutory change that would extend
migrant detention so that's an important
an important caveat my problem with what
he said at the Fox News Town Hall is
basically well first what he did right
he emphasized the conditions of what he
said quote violence and misery that
Central American migrants are fleeing
and also very importantly that a failure
to confront climate change is definitely
going to force enormous numbers of
people to migrate and for those of us
who believe in in migrant rights a the
corollary to the freedom of movement is
the is the freedom to stay put if you
want and everything from war to
neoliberalism to very much climate
change violates people's right to stay
put if they choose so that was that was
good but his his proposed solutions were
were underwhelmed
they included a standard before before
we get to to Bernie's underwhelming
responses let's just talk about the sort
of the generic you know center left to
left I mean the you know Donald Trump it
seems to me is really bringing some real
clarity to the immigration debate from
the right and that is we don't like
immigrants we particularly don't like
immigrants of color we don't like asylum
seekers we don't like people who are
already here legally under an asylum
program we don't want these people here
were afraid of the loss of our culture
and whatnot so where is what is the
equivalent on the center left or left
well the center left liberal case for
immigration is what's known as
comprehensive immigration reform which
is why what Bernie said that he
supported in the fox news forum debate
whatever that was and what that means
historically is basically a bipartisan
compromise a trade-off between what
those of us on the immigrant white
rights left want which is the
legalization of undocumented immigrants
in this country combining that to try to
win over conservative and Republican
votes with increased enforcement border
militarization and a guest worker
program for business the thing is that
approach has been a devastating entire
failure from bush from george w bush
through obama they tried and tried and
tried and guess what the right wing of
the Republican Party is emphatically
and unchangeably hostile to any
legalization they most of them the the
right won't even support the DREAM Act
which would provide legal status to
young people immigrants who came to this
country as very small children which is
like the lowest hanging fruit imaginable
so
right these are people these are people
we should be clear that between many
many many the vast majority of these you
know some of them are now adults but
they have never been to their home
country they they don't speak the
language of their home country they are
they have grown up in some and many just
believing they're Americans and have you
know these are people with with with
more than spotless records as so of
achievement and so this is like you say
that's the the low-hanging fruit but let
me let me just stop you here before we
go like what the why has it been such a
failure I understand that it's because
the the conservatives are just adamant
about how much they hate immigrants but
there's also this sort of like quality
to it of like we're proposing our
proposal is a compromise but what yeah
that exactly that's problematic isn't it
because if you start with a compromise
there's nowhere for the people you're
compromising with to go it's emblematic
of everything that's the problem
that's the problem with the
establishment liberal approach to
governance just look at health care
where you compromise by Monisha
your compromise rather than your ideal
and so the only place to compromise is
to move further to the right and so all
of these comprehensive immigration
reform legislative efforts under Bush
and Obama already incorporated just
draconian enforcement measures and still
that didn't win ever anyway that didn't
win the Republican nativist right over
and so what did George W Bush a
Republican president and suppose it
immigration moderate do what did Barack
Obama a a supposed Liberal Democrat in
immigration liberal do they both all
when they're when their comprehensive
immigration reform efforts as those
failed they took independent executive
action to crack down on immigrants on
their own to try to
prove that we in credibility with a
nativist right to try to placate them
and say look we're serious about
enforcement
we're deporting the hell out of
immigrants were militarizing the border
and guess what the right the nativist
right was like great we're still not
legalizing a document immigrants because
we don't like undocumented immigrants we
don't really like immigrants who aren't
from you know northwestern Europe
basically right I mean they're that we
have seen a salt on perfectly legal
immigration we have seen a restriction
on those things that would allow for
legal immigration like a narrowing of
what the asylum laws are etc etc and as
you say every time there has been a
president that like you say imposes
draconian crackdowns on immigrants and
Barack Obama deported a record number at
certain points during his administration
the the right wing in this country just
says okay thank you for putting on the
table we're gonna put that in our pocket
and that will start negotiating again
now that we've pocketed all the stuff
that you want you thought was going to
bring you some type of goodwill all
right so with that said now that we've
established this notion and yeah and
we're still gonna run against you as
soft on border security amnesty loving
softy liberals even after you gave us
all these draconian border enforcement
and deportation measures but isn't that
part of the problem because Barack Obama
could not advertise you know like to the
extent that the left was aware and and I
mean the broad left right I mean
Democrats broadly speaking to the extent
that Democrats were aware of Barack
Obama's record on on immigration they're
they're far more aware of it now it
seems to me then during real-time
because the Obama administration was
trying to play this game where they were
hoping that the the right would see what
they were doing and appreciated but they
didn't want to advertise it too much you
know to the left and again
I'm using very sir broad swaths of the
population here they didn't want to
advertise it too much to the left
because they would get in trouble with
their base right I mean the you know jeh
Johnson went down to Latin America at
one point was you know sort of
advertising the idea that there's
detention up here and they didn't do
family separation but they did have
detention they were they were looking in
many respects wasn't till the last
couple years of the administration where
they sort of abandoned this idea of like
we're gonna be the toughest on
immigration as a way of building our
bona fides but they couldn't advertise
it so there was no sort of like
conventional wisdom that the Obama
administration was was so bad on
immigration or good from the rights
perspective and so they couldn't run on
it either
all right well listen we got to take a
quick break when we come back let's talk
about where Bernie Sanders should be and
frankly where the left should be because
you know the Democrats need a proposal
and they need some broad principles in
which to guide them and this is a way
that people can assess whether their
candidate is is positioned properly when
it comes to immigration we're going to
take a quick break I'll be right back
with Daniel Denver right after this Sam
cedar ring of fire radio
