[Music]
speaking of which speaking of ad hominem
let's play this now you got me in a mood
so the New York Times ran a piece I
don't know if they did a a hat tip to
Mehdi Hasan but I think he it hasn't had
done something very similar but whatever
this one was more about Fox News or
whatever I I'm glad to see it get far
and wide where the New York Times I
guess they did like you know a nexus
search of whatever it is how many times
Fox News they talked about the words
invasion in regards to the in regards to
immigrants and I mean it was so obvious
that we did this whatever
six months ago twelve months ago I don't
know we could find the tapes where we
talked about like at one point some
marginal element in society is going to
say hey wait a second invasion what do
you do when there's an invasion you you
pick up arms and you fight the invaders
some some dude out there is gonna think
it's you know Wolverines time what was
that that movie they remade it I can't
remember what it's called Red Dawn
they're coming
we got a we got a we got a repel we're
gonna be under you know we'll get we
gotta take from the inside and look if
words didn't have any influence or
people didn't think they had any
influence at all even marginal then why
would we be doing this or why would Ben
Shapiro sit there in front of a
microphone and a computer and stare down
at his keys as he talks again I don't
like the language of invasion and I
don't believe I've used it if I had I'm
sorry I
so I don't think that it is corrupted
I'm fairly certain I never did I never
considered it a quote-unquote invasion
when illegal immigrants crossed our
southern border but and and I certainly
don't believe in the idea of quote
unquote racial replacement because I
literally do not care about the races of
people who live in America I care about
their ideas in their ideology posit for
one second he's also got a problem with
Jews who are not real Jews far as I can
tell and he obviously doesn't care to
that that type of ideologies is one that
is actually embraced by by those
replacement folks that that talk about
that I'm glad that he feels bad that if
he used the word invasion he didn't mean
it because because but listen to why he
said that because I don't think it is an
invasion I just point out he did use it
about Palestinians before oh okay well
Palestinians all right because they're
subhuman but the point is why doesn't he
use that word invasion because that's
not what an invasion is what an invasion
is is something where you have hostile
forces coming into your country or to
your place your domicile wherever it is
and you must repel them so he has now
provided us with the predicates but the
New York Times decides that because
there is language that sounds similar to
stuff that Tucker Carlson has said they
are now going to attribute this shooter
to Tucker
quote an extensive New York Times review
of popular right-wing media platforms
found hundreds of examples of language
ideas and ideologies that overlapped at
the mass killers written statement a
shared vocabulary of intolerance that
Stokes fears centered on immigrants of
color again this is a conspiracy theory
posit there's no conspiracy theory
whatsoever that he's just articulated
wait a sec this is the guy who's
supposed to be the intellectual pillar
of the right the cocodes philosopher
first of all they're not attributing it
today he just read the summation of what
that piece was that there's a lot of
language that he has already said he
thinks is inappropriate it's inaccurate
and he must have a reason why he thinks
it's inaccurate because we all
what invasion means that overlaps now
presumably all of these opinion people
these pontificate errs like myself we do
this for a reason we may be deluding
ourselves maybe there's absolutely no
impact that these words that we talk
about that we say have on people that we
don't want people to adopt the same
rhetoric and the concepts that we're
trying to communicate with our words
maybe we're just all here for the cash
and the glory and the fame and the big
cars and the jewelry and whatever it is
but there's a reason why sitting by that
microphone and looking at his computer
and talking into it real or right-wing
media platforms found hundreds of
examples of language ideas and
ideologies that overlap that the mass
killers written statement a shared
vocabulary of intolerance that Stokes
fears centered on immigrants of color
again this is a conspiracy theory no it
is it and the conspiracy theory this one
is deliberately designed in order to
link together basic conservative tropes
about immigration with white supremacism
this is how you end up with the New York
with the Washington Post running a piece
today on their front page about how evil
the Trump administration is for cracking
down on welfare used by legal immigrant
now wait a second he doesn't refute any
of that it is not a conspiracy their New
York Times wasn't saying that everyone
got into a room and decided to use this
language the fact that these are basic
what he calls conservative tropes well
maybe you should start asking yourself
what is the relationship between
conservatism and white supremacy if the
basic conservative tropes are also the
complete tropes used by the white
supremacists who goes and murders people
that seems like the the question you
should be asking
he knows yeah this is a story on advice
why won't Twitter treat white supremacy
like Isis because they would mean
banning some Republican politicians
right of course of course and we also
have I mean we we'd say we you know we
could predict using that language of
invasion would lead somebody to an act
well the Bissonnette the quebec mosque
shooter in 2000 and genuine 2017 this is
his his you know the pages he visited
ben shapiro right at the top there I
don't know if we want to go over his
video of him talking about his I mean we
can just play the first few seconds here
one second damning I mean it's not a
conspiracy theory to say that we have
white supremacists in the highest levels
of our government well that's not that's
not even relevant I mean it's the the
idea that they're not self-identified a
white supremacist isn't is is is it
relevant the point is that their
rhetoric is inspirational to white
supremacists that is undeniable there is
no conspiracy by any definition of the
word that is involved there and
therefore there's no theory that there
is a conspiracy it is simply it is
correlation it's it's a correlation and
network and New York Times is not saying
it's causation and I don't know that I
could say with a hundred percent
assuredness that it's a that is there is
a causation but there has to be some
measure of belief in the people who
stand in front of a microphone and
broadcast on television or on the
internet or wherever it is that their
words are going to mean something to
people now I cannot prove that if an
entire network television network all
the people in primetime some of the
biggest ones who have audience of
millions or people who and people who
have online shows with audience of
hundreds of thousands or millions and
in this key demographic who consider
themselves to be influencers and
intellectual shapers of of minds if they
all were to say the earth is flat the
earth is flat the earth is flat the
earth is flat the earth is flat because
it was one of their tropes and someone
went out and wrote a screed the earth is
flat and those people who are trying to
convince us it's round are are people
who are trying to steal from us and
whatnot and shoots them I can't say that
there's a causal connection there maybe
this person just came to these ideas on
their own granted we're talking about
marginal elements of society but when
your rhetoric and your tropes start
bumping up against marginal elements of
society you got to start to ask yourself
a question or two and apparently he is
not going to yeah he's definitely not
going to here's one of his old from 2014
on Muslims so we're talking about 2.2
million radical Muslims in Great Britain
how about here in the United States well
we have a very moderate Muslim
population we do 2.6 million Muslims
live here according to Pew Research 13
percent said violence against civilians
can be justified 19 percent said they
were either favorable toward al-qaeda or
just didn't know you know who knows
really
that's almost 500,000 radical Muslims
here in the United States here is the
total of the countries that we've gone
through just now 680 million thirty
thousand six hundred eighty million
thirty thousand radical Muslims and
that's out of a total population in
those countries of 940 2.4 million
Muslims total and it seems fair to
assume that similar proportions of
people in countries like say like
Algeria seriously posit ok so what are
we supposed to do with this information
are we just supposed to sit here and go
oh my god we've got million
of radical Muslims who want to do us
harm we're supposed to say oh that's so
interesting yeah I mean what are we
supposed to do with this information
it's all about ideas I mean if I am
worried about my fellow man what am I
supposed to do well here's what one guy
did in Quebec City I wanted to say
people yes from terrorist attacks he's
going on I mean that's basically he's
just he's trying to defend them which is
exactly the same framework that this guy
who shot up killed 20 people in El Paso
used to right he was doing this because
he is he is a warrior he's in the war he
realizes like I may not make it to the
end but someone's got to fire the shots
someone's gonna fire the early shots in
this war and it I think been Shapiro's
lack of reflection about all this stuff
should continue to be noted in harped
upon if I said it I'm sorry it was
stupid I have a whole blog post of dumb
things I've said before but I defend
some of them unbelievable
