politically speaking the Republicans are
pretty happy they feel like they have
energized the you know the the lizard
brains of their of their followers by
showing the aggrievement that Cavanaugh
has suffered I don't know that we have
any more sound on that do we or we got a
rash Shaw saying like they didn't look
into the drinking stuff yeah let's take
a look at this because it's not just
that they didn't look into the drinking
stuff I mean there's no way to say that
they did any type of comprehensive never
mind investigation or even inquiry they
spoke to four people literally there are
people people who are clamoring to give
information about this and now I guess
we're going to find out what squeeze
says and squeeze a pretty important
person in this they spoke to mark judge
they spoke to PJ and my understandings
also spoke to Ramirez is that right how
that's my understanding yeah now I don't
know why you speak to Ramirez without
speaking to anybody who could
corroborate what Ramirez says like that
doesn't make sense to me that's that
sounds to me like they are well the only
thing she could give was uncorroborated
information that's true because you
didn't interview anybody who wanted to
co-op corroborate what she was saying
they probably put a Jack Bauer type of
guy on that could read a mind or
something
Jack I mean read mine that's a real
problem
well here is gonna be a huge problem if
they were to open up all of Yale because
people are coming out of the woodwork
there yeah I mean this is the time this
is the time parameters issue which is
like in order to actually do this you're
gonna actually need some take some time
to do it well I I definitely think they
could have done it they I mean it didn't
they didn't need four days to do four
interviews
right I mean I go to a conference and I
interview 1520 people and there's only
one of me there's a an unlimited supply
of FBI agents who could theoretically
there's probably 80 FBI agents that you
can send out on a Monday morning and by
Monday evening they could have
interviewed everybody how many can you
trust not to be deep state wow that's
true here is Raja on CNN he's just a
secretary
yeah saying that you know well whatever
they want to know about the memory
lapses the friends who have come forward
said that they know that he had memory
lapses and he said that he didn't and
that's relevant because Christine Blasi
Ford has a story of him being
staggeringly drunk and maybe he doesn't
remember it
well they're they're not actually
claiming direct evidence of memory
lapses they're saying they don't
necessarily believe his testimony no no
the real information they're saying they
were his roommate in college they knew
him in high school they were his
drinking buddy there are more than
you're talking about you're talking
about Jamie Rose Heaphy now chad
Ludington and i'm talking about a woman
at yale who drank with him all the time
who says that they know that he had
memory lapses because he couldn't
remember the time that he spent with him
three individuals I guess that you're
referring to have have claims about what
he said or didn't do while in college
that is not what the Senate is
interested in or asking about again he's
gone through six FBI background
investigations all these types of
questions get thoroughly investigated
throughout one's career he's been
entrusted with some of the most
important jobs in in government yeah
over the last 25 years with a very high
profile career and all the folks that
are demanding this type of an
investigation in the Senate are
Democrats who've already pledged to vote
no they don't want additional
information to make a decision they want
to delay this process all they do is
shift the goalposts it's amazing right
that's amazing I mean within the span of
seconds he's shifting goalposts there
first of all are gonna blow off all of
the
evidence in real time outside of the
investigation that the guy lied it
constantly about his drinking and then
it flips at the end to yeah but does all
old news anyways the stuff that he lied
about we don't want to fully investigate
as old anyways well the bit about how
he's been investigated multiple times
for his previous jobs why do we even
investigate them after those in the
first place then why why even go by that
first have one master investigation that
happens for your first well and let me
tell you something about the nature of
those investigations they are all
limited in their scope to speaking to
people that he has worked with
professionally at that time yeah maybe
like they look at some academic
transcripts and some tax returns or
something it's not like some big
forensic investigation and you know the
issue with someone sitting on the
Supreme Court
the stakes are obviously much larger and
you know there was no this is a guy who
harbors the belief that the Clintons are
out to get him and this is payback and
that just seems like not exactly the
temperament you want someone to have as
a judge on the Supreme Court but again
all this stuff that we're talking about
is there's just a certain amount of
kabuki about it right something that has
to do with the impending investigation
that's going to happen if Democrats take
the house that they're trying to be so
careful with what they the parameters of
this investigation as they've given it
to the FBI so that when more stuff comes
out they're like oh we didn't know about
this yeah I'm sure look the game the
game for for four columns and Murkowski
maybe flake to the extent that he wants
to I don't know ransom you know yeah
exactly I mean IIIi don't it's hard for
me to think the way that these people
think because it's just sort of demented
but the game for Makowski and collins is
plausible deniability right they like
they have to be able to say at one point
oh we
yeah we just had no idea we had no idea
that there was this stuff was there and
and that you know we the FBI gave him an
all-clear so we were good but I guess we
will see and if if Collins is saying
that she thinks it's complete that in
some respects that she has to abide by
it right that that is thorough and yeah
I mean I mean maybe the last move with
her is to just say you know this guy is
going to gut Rho V wave and we know we
all know this you know this and if you
know but I mean she's already closed the
door on that too she said yeah weeks ago
that you know what did he say it said
something that reassured her I forget
what the terminology was it's got to
come down to again that the FBI process
wasn't well if that's what it comes down
to she's look it looks terrible
from what she said and I cannot imagine
that mansion bucks flake and Collins
