[Music]
and Joe Biden can hearken back to I all
the days where he was you know hard hat
Joe or whatever it was stuff and I came
down and I said I remember when Bobby
Kennedy was killed in 1980 Strom
Thurmond and I took shots I said I said
I don't want them bussing but I don't
believe in full surgery he said I do but
he was great guy and we worked together
we said Bobby Kennedy shouldn't be shot
in the head that's what we got to do
here here it is folks here is your most
electable hashtag a moment of the day
here is the most electable candidate the
Democrats have to win the presidency the
most electable here he is right now
speaking at where is in Iowa fair Iowa
on Tuesday
just like in my generation when I got
out of school that when Bobby Kennedy
and dr. King had been assassinated in
70s late 1700s but a couple men may
remember that was a time in the early
late 60s and early sixties and 60s where
it was drop out go to Haight Ashbury
don't get engaged don't trust anybody
over 30 wait women weren't involved in
that yeah I don't know what that's the
news from
tromboner he was like why is it all you
hippie kids why weren't there any woman
in the free love booth it sounds to me
like he's saying like I gave up all that
I gave up all that so all the guys were
doing you gals wouldn't know about that
100% gay dudes in haight-ashbury fun
fact what's that back then that's what
he's implying
yeah that's try this plays again because
a lot of people are making a big deal
out of the 70s and he goes back and he
tries to cover his tracks by saying
cities over again it does it makes it he
says late seventies we says late 70s but
then he goes back around
and he's trying you could tell that he
catches himself a little bit but the way
that he papers over it it's like I just
got to say something that's vaguely
misogynist too so that people to pay
more attention to that my generation
when I got out of school that when Bobby
Kennedy and dr. King had been
assassinated in the 70s late 1700s but a
couple men may remember that was a time
in the early late 60s and early sixties
and 60s where it was drop out go to
Haight Ashbury don't get engaged don't
trust anybody over 30 yeah me and why we
brie all these freaky women or girls
because we no I don't think yes was when
they had their periods he reads the weed
harvest yeah I don't at that time that's
not what that was about
hey Jill why did you try to bring a girl
with you - haight-ashbury B if there was
no F dudes here beard you're thinking of
the Castro what are you saying that
don't that no women did this it's just
why he is saying no women did it but
it's not a gay thing he's just saying
that like this was what like it was
enticing young men had to go out there
he's just implying it without realized
you ever watch hair being that guy would
to Vietnam I'm just so he could get away
from his old lady was he just saying I
guess the real question is is Joe Biden
just saying that everybody who went to
San Francisco in in the 60s was gay or
that he just didn't believe that women
had that option I think that he doesn't
think like the option between whether
being politically active or dropping out
I don't think I think he thinks that
didn't apply to women because women
couldn't weren't political back then I
think James Maddox explained to him that
it was only homos in haight-ashbury I
mean women have been I remember Strom
Thurmond he said it's all a bunch of
gays as I said from Syracuse Joe what
he's trying to say is like hey fellas am
i right you went there to like do guy
stuff and like have sex with women I
think I think he was saying I think you
started pointing
the draft I think that's what he's
politically doesn't makes any sense
I think the draft or I think he's saying
that like it was very enticing to go and
be irresponsible but I was not that guy
yeah cuz he talks the same way yeah it's
it's about the being politically active
or just dropping out and doing drugs but
yeah yeah they were out there doing
drugs meanwhile I was studying for the
bar and getting engaged again I wasn't
going out and having a non-perfect sex
life by going out no women I was those
planning on thinking of practical ways
do we know what taught me grow do we
know what time that speech was given
during the day because the hill is
reporting and there's a quote Biden has
a tendency to make the blunders late in
the day is a lies say particularly after
a long swing on the road that doesn't
happen much when you're president or
when your campaigns interesting because
after a long day I like to play a pickup
basketball game how you like me now
plugs like he had last week in Iowa they
say something needs to be done to give
the candidate more downtime as the
campaign intensifies in the fall I have
a suggestion and that is to drop out
that will give him a lot of downtime it
will refresh him and he can come back
you can come back in and give you can
give a talk at the car at the convention
probably give a good convention stop it
all right I talked to two Strom Thurmond
why are we so divided he says because
they're forcing our lunch counters and I
said by golly I don't totally disagree
or agree but we're Americans and he was
a great guy all right I was upset when
Bobby was killed in 1979
