[Music]
all right let's let's talk about some of
the hearings that we saw this week
Kristin Nielsen was at the House
Homeland Security Committee and she was
being questioned by was it was it
Dianne Titus d dina Titus and the last
time Nielsen was in front of the
committee she was asked if she ever met
a daca potential recipient these are
these are not always children they're
now young adults because they've been in
this country for so long but these are
people who were who came to this country
as minors with their parents usually
under the age of 13 and often even
significantly younger than that they
were brought to this country they've
lived in this country for at least I
think it's 10 years they have had to
have gone to high school and graduated
high school and maybe even gone on to
college or served in the military to be
eligible for daca status and many of
these people have no familiarity
whatsoever with the country of their
origin many of them don't even speak
that you know the Spanish or and their
or Korean or wherever they they were
they were from and dina Titus is asking
Kristen Nielsen to what extent since
your organization more or less
terrorizes these folks to what extent
have you ever had the opportunity to
actually even have any interaction to
get a sense of who any of these people
are we know that we need comprehensive
immigration reform we'd like to see it
be bipartisan we've reached across the
aisle since I was first elected here and
got nothing in return
but it's more than just border control
we need to deal with the dreamers the
our recipients TPS they're all living in
the situation of uncertainty you
testified that you had never met a
dreamer
last year I wonder is that still true no
ma'am that is you know they have under
the court case right now they are
legally present and we continue to renew
those who are part of the original
application process so have you talked
to this dreamer do you know anything
about their story I mean I've got about
owed me thousands of dream 13,000
actually dreamers in my district I know
their life stories I know about their
families I'm not just sitting across the
courtroom from them have you met within
him I think that's why we agreed that
they deserve a legal status which is
what I've said every time I've testified
I support a legal status for the Dhokla
population but you don't think the
dreamers are a security threat to this
country when they commit a crime or the
otherwise fail a background check as you
know they no longer are covered under
the daca program do you feel that they
are security threat to this country some
of them have committed crimes they're no
longer part of daca so by definition if
you are a daca recipient you have not
committed a crime do you feel like they
are a threat to our economy ma'am I
support their legal status so that means
you would support a clean bill to give
daca recipients a pathway to citizenship
no I would not and the reason for that
is because we can't handle that
situation without handling the situation
that brought them here to begin with I
don't want to inadvertently create a new
poll factor I want to make sure that we
secure the border and that we are able
to give legal status to the daca
population this is somebody who's so
desperate to keep her job that she will
not answer these questions directly
because she knows that she'll get in
trouble with her boss and obviously
someone who also has not taken the time
is one of those moments where you can
just like hear her in the back of her
head going like god damn it I meant to
write down go meet a daca recipients
took in one afternoon just like a twenty
minutes and I could have answered that
question yes I have he was very nice her
she was very nice
well I actually did meet a daca
recipient when I was in Mexico City last
weekend he was brought to California
when he was little
his Spanish is not that much better than
mine which is to say basic he's like a
total Cali bro he got a DUI and he had
to self-deport to Mexico because they
revoked his status and it's a lot better
for you if you leave on your own than if
they have to round you up nuts and
there's a lot of I mean there's
obviously hundreds of thousands of of
daca recipients who are you know just
basically here still and living in a
constant state of insecurity waiting to
see how these court cases are ultimately
resolved and the same also with the TPS
folks who are folks who are here because
there was either some type of like a
natural catastrophe in their homeland or
some type of civil war that ended up
leading to the destruction of their
homes or making it completely unsafe or
in unviable I guess to to live there and
have come to this country and have been
here in some instances 5 10 15 years and
are now wondering if they're going to
have to leave their families that in
their friends that have you know
obviously they've accumulated in the
course of 10 to 15 years and the idea
that there was anybody walking around 3
or 4 years ago going like man there's
just the the the the Haitian population
here you know we're here after the
earthquake they're really just taking
all the opportunities for us there's a
real problem no this is just you know
part of the Trump administration trying
to clear house of folks primarily from
you know non-white countries I guess
it's ethnic cleansing that's white
supremacy as either you know genuine
deep bigotry or just simply electoral
strategy
