[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a real
pleasure to welcome singer-songwriter
and activists Billy Bragg to the program
Billy welcome to the program hi Sam has
things things are great I got to tell
you there's a huge honor for me I first
saw you over maybe close to 35 years ago
you performed at my college and it is I
was it was a back in the 80s and you
were a big important force in my my
musical development and my political
consciousness so I really appreciate
this opportunity to talk to you thanks
for sharing that Sam I appreciate - so
you've written a a pamphlet entitled the
three dimensions of freedom this is part
of a series is that right it is yes the
my publishers fiber they're called fiber
social they part of fiber and fiber and
I specialize in books about music or
books written by musicians they publish
my skiffle book in 2017 the roots
radicals and rockers and last year they
said they're going to start this this
program of putting out these they kind
of like polemical essence - about 17,000
words it's about a 90 minute read and
they were asking me if I had anything
I'd like to write about and the three
dimensions of freedom focuses on the
necessary - that equality and
accountability must be present in order
to have for us really to be free that
the Liberty alone free speech alone is
not enough to guarantee everybody's
freedom and it's something I've been
thinking about for a long time I've
written songs about it I've spoken about
it at events and this gave me an
opportunity to draw all of my thoughts
together particularly in the light of
the election of Donald Trump and the
brexit in the UK yeah and I should say I
mean the you
managed in that this brief essay to move
from Mount Palin to gamergate to Joe
Rogan gets a mention all the way to
practice yeah this you know I mean I'm
trying to work on a number of levels you
know the basic premise that freedom
demands supposed liberty the right to
express your opinion equality your
responsibility to respect other people's
opinions and then accountability that's
that they have absolute key one I'm
trying to bring that to bear not just on
the the politics of the day how we deal
with the rise of authoritarianism in
democratic societies but I'm also trying
to give people some parameters with
which to monitor their social media
discourse to be able to to try and work
out if the person they're dealing with
online is acting in good faith whether
they are willing to give equal space to
your opinion that you're expressing and
more importantly whether they're are
willing to be accountable for what they
have said and what their actions are and
I think this is a lack of accountability
the lack of respect for quality online
undermine so much of our the
deliberation that goes on online and
that's why I'm trying to I'm trying to
offer some parameters for that as well
as talking about the major politics that
are going on in the world yeah and I I
thought you did a great job of that
frankly and that's you know a beat that
we spend a lot of time on but let me
let's just start I want to just start to
just talk a little bit about the the
concept of Liberty because I mean I I
couldn't help but be reminded in the in
this you know just sort of I guess in
may I imagine this was was you did this
consciously the three dimensions of
freedom sort of in some respects echoing
FDR's Four Freedoms speech yeah he was
you know read him but not not redefining
but I guess more specifically defining
what this concept means
essentially taking it away from the
right and allowing people to get a
better perspective on it and and like
you say the accountability runs the need
for accountability runs through all
three of these sectors but let's just
talk a little bit more about this notion
about about economic liberty like
so-called economic Liberty because that
is ostensibly
what the the right would have us believe
this is about but in fact their their
notion of economic Liberty really clouds
the actual notion of Liberty itself I
think it does because their idea of
Liberty is there at least the right to
exploit it and I mean that's a obviously
that's a key aspect of capitalism but
when you get to a situation where that
is not regulated in any way that's when
it becomes dangerous capitalism
ultimately I believe is like fire you
know if you tend it if you if you keep
folk you know keep looking on it it will
give you heat and it will give you light
if you leave it unattended it will
destroy everything in its path and I'm
afraid for the last 40 years since
Reagan and Thatcher we've lived in a
time where capitalism neoliberal
capitalism has been deregulated
constantly and politicians have argued
that the market has the answer to all of
our problems now when a politician says
that they are shirking the
accountability that goes along with
democracy you know people think that
democracy and accountability are
synonymous but I'm afraid they're not
always synonymous their relationship is
more like a Venn diagram and there's
some times when when there's consensus
in a society that that Venn diagram is
overlaps you know most of it overlaps
but at the moment under Donald Trump
from with bricks it in my country I'm
afraid of accountability and democracy
of going in different directions you
know you live in a country where the
person who gets the most votes in the
election doesn't win I'll in a country
where a tiny majority vote for a huge
constitutional change and we're not
allowed to question it or challenge it
so these are these are difficult times
for those of us who who believe that you
know democracy is absolutely crucial
but unfortunately
it's it's become untethered from its its
ability to hold those in power to
account whether they're politicians or
more difficult whether within buried
deep within corporations well what do
you think about the notion and maybe
this is just on my mind we we
interviewed Bosch Carson car yesterday
who's the editor of the Jacobin and on
his socialist manifesto and what do you
think I mean to extend that metaphor
about fire what do you think about the
notion that I mean the the argument that
I think that he was making on this
program was that the you can control the
fire and you can make sure that it's
being used for its proper purposes and
and if you don't obviously it'll consume
everything but his argument I think
would be that the existence of that much
flame is inherently problematic and will
always get out of control and you know
you'll have periods of time where you
can control it but at other times you
won't and you get what we've had over
the past 40 years and and Counting
and that from his perspective the idea
is that maybe we need to snuff out much
of that fire you know maybe some members
are okay but you got to keep away
everything that is dry from it um you
know people have been talking about that
for a long time and I've been involved
in movements that have been focused on
that but before we snap it out we're
going to make sure we're not snuff in
our into darkness we need to see what
the light will be once we've snuffed out
the fire and and until we've got we're
able to show people what the light will
be when we snuff out the fire of
capitalism they're going to be
understandably rather sort of doubtful
about the validity of that so we have a
little bit of a way to go I'd like to
think of it more in the sense that the
accountability is over the other way
around maybe socialism is another name
for accountability and if what I mean by
that is what the UIW are currently doing
you know they're organizing they're
going on strike for Greater agency in
the workplace to have some say over
there their wages and their conditions
in the workplace you know when when
ordinary working people have organized
it's always been for a greater
accountability
the workplace and in my country the the
Labour Party grew out of the union
movement so I think that's it's really
accountability that we bring to bear on
capitalism that then actually ensures
that it works for the benefit of the
people and stops that exploitative edge
that the Socialists we're always trying
to combat I've never been a
revolutionary I've always been someone
who's who's try to you know reconcile
the contradictions within the within the
the system and within human nature and
what I'm trying to do with this book is
identify accountability and equality but
specifically accountability as the key
component that we need for individual
agency because I think both the election
of Donald Trump and brexit are
manifestations of the of ordinary
working people feeling they no longer
have agency over their lives and and and
I have to say too that that end I mean I
really appreciated the this part - when
you talk about equality and you're
specifically in some respects talking
about the freedom in in addressing the
the rights sort of ongoing project of
essentially saying that if you criticize
us you are stifling our our free speech
while at the same time you know you know
in attacking what they call political
correctness at one point you talk about
Eric Weinstein who is the guy who coined
the phrase IDW is someone I've actually
spoken to briefly at least and in you
right in his refusal to recognize the
reciprocal nature of freedom that you
must respect and others the rights that
you claim for yourself Weinstein revile
reveals that the intellectual dark web
to be a party to the strain of ir8
exceptionalism that runs through the new
generation of free speech warriors what
do you mean by that the strain of a rate
exceptionalism well they believe that
they should be able to say whatever they
want to say whenever they want to say it
to whomever they want to say
with no comeback and that's not that's
not free speech that they're they're
trying to get their their that's free
rain that they want you know and when
people do come back them they complain
terribly you know and they they say
something outrageous and then they say
oh I'm not allowed to say this you've
already said it mate thank you you know
this is ridiculous stop clutching your
pearls you you're already there and they
do have the right to say that I respect
Eric's right to say whatever he wants to
say but equally I he has to respect my
account
my right to hold him to account for what
he says because free speech without
equality is nothing more than privilege
if you don't respect the right of others
to criticize what you've got what you're
saying and then and this is important
respect their view when you go back to
them and when you speak to them you know
in the in the in the book I take a quote
by Eric where he talks about how open to
debate they are and then immediately
says except people who believe this
we're not going to talk to them at all
because they don't you know they don't
work on the same level as we do you Kai
that's not our free speech works you
know he's trying to narrow that down and
and that's what concerns me about the
new generation of free speech warriors
it's not free speech they want its free
reign that they want and I'm afraid
that's not how freedom works and I mean
it's I I guess I appreciate your
addressing this because I think this is
something that particularly young people
and who who come online I think you know
specifically when you talk about folks
like Jordan Peterson and this crew and
Joe Rogan you're talking about young men
largely and or older boys and they there
is very there are very few voices out
there who are making the point you are
making to those people who come and and
and you know you sit down there you
watch these guys are all sitting there
they're all nodding their heads to each
other and you presume what they must be
right because they're all in agreement
and it's important to have this I guess
intervention well meaning that we're all
capable of doing that Sam even on the
left okay
doing that to get out of our bubble well
I'm trying to give young people is
whether left or right our parameters in
which to be able to have a discourse
that you learn something from that is
beneficial that doesn't descend to you
know a unit 100 percent universal
agreement or anger or bullying abuse you
know that you have the right to offend
but you don't have the right to abuse
and I'm afraid the modern concepts of
free speech doesn't really take the the
idea that they are parameters on board
let's take for example some actually
quote this in the book it's something
that George Orwell said and it is that
if Liberty means anything at all
it means the right to tell people what
they don't want to hear now the problem
with that is that by saying that all
will he's saying actually it's ok to say
two plus two equals five which is the
examples that he gives in 1984 about how
the system is so bad you know because if
everybody is allowed to say anything
they want to say you know if you've only
got a liberty and equality but anyone
could say wherever they like then you
still aren't able to focus in on on the
fundamental truth of any particular
matter that's why you need a counter
Billy that's why accountability is the
is the line we have to draw in the sand
whatever our politics and say this is
where we're going to make our stand
we're going to hold you to account if
you are lying to us we're going to hold
you to account for your lies and we've
got to keep focused on on that idea of
accountability whether we're talking to
the president United States the European
Commission or some toe rag who's having
a go at you on Twitter I mean this that
lack of accountability feels to me to be
the sort of the and and and I and I
think you expressed this in in your
essay in the in the years running up to
to Donald Trump
I mean and and you know these are
obviously problems that have that that
well pre-existed Donald Trump
but in the in the years running up there
was a greater awareness it seems to me I
mean I have hosted many people over the
past ten years prior to Trump talking
about to tears of justice talking about
the failure to hold the the banks
accountable for what happened in 2008
the idea that you know I mean just
Jeffrey Epstein
I mean just you can find examples across
you know frankly Donald Trump Steve
minuchin half the people in the
administration they are they exist
because there has been a failure for
society in in a myriad of ways to hold
people accountable there's been two or
multiple systems of of Justice that have
not been applied equally I mean this is
what I'm trying to get out with the book
you know this is this is the thing that
over a long period of me looking at the
situation I've identified as the hole in
the donut if you will the lack of
accountability because the big the great
struggle it seems to me in in in a in a
modern democratic society and and this
is what underpins what you Americans
referred to as the culture wars and that
is the struggle that that answers the
question of one who gets to write the
rules and to this most important of all
who gets to break them and get away of
it and that backlash right there
underpins the whole narrative of
political correctness when Donald Trump
identified in the Democratic nomination
process and one of the debates the
greatest problem that America faces
political correctness I mean political
correctness you know it doesn't even
exist there's no such thing as political
correctness it is a trope that is used
by reactionaries to police the limits of
social change to stop things happening
that they don't feel comfortable with
this no you know there's no set of
intellectuals writing theses on the the
ideology of political correctness
there's no people marching the streets
demanding more of it there's no party
trying to get elected on a platform of
political correctness it is a complete
Chimere doesn't exist whatsoever and yet
Trump is able to say it's the greatest
challenge that America faces today I
mean this is how ridiculous we've got in
the discourse and of course the the the
idea that he's doing that in it was in
answer to a question where he's asked
about his behavior towards women so he
was literally using that trope to avoid
accountability and that's where the
problem lies I think wherever you hear
that that phrase being used political
correctness virtually in any of these
tropes you have to ask what the person
using them is trying to deflect you away
from right I mean this is simply a
reaction to the idea that a certain
person or a certain group is essentially
saying like hey wait a second I'm
drawing boundaries here and these are
boundaries that the people who are
complaining about political correctness
have never had to observe in the past
yeah I mean look older like all the
dynamic campaigns that have arisen over
the past five years me too
black lives matter the what we coin
England extinction rebellion the the
protests against the climate change I
mean these are all accountability
movements these are all movements that
are seeking to hold people to account
for their sexism for their misogyny for
their racism for their disrespect for
the environment accountability is the is
the the cutting edge these days of about
politics and unfortunately the way that
your politics is set up with such a
polarized Congress and Senate it's
impossible for for those accountability
to to work because there's that
rejection of any kind of being you know
being held to account within the within
the system itself that's where the
problem is
well it to the extent that I mean there
is some addressing of that
accountability you see movements like
like you say a black lives matter or me
to movement or you know at one point
like the Occupy movement I think was
with a similar moment of accountability
what
are there is it what else what else can
we create as vehicles for accountability
beyond that or is that simply just we
need to reinvent those same movements
you know continually well we you know it
works on a lot of different levels Sam
it's not it's not a one-size-fits-all
simple answer and I'm not offering
answers in my book I'm offering
parameters with which to judge the
person that you're encountering the
politics your can in the 20th century we
had ideology to do this whatever your
ideology was left or right you could use
that ideology to look at a debate and
work out whether you're in favor of it
or against it because you could get your
bearings if you'd like on the debate
we've kind of lost that with the decline
of ideology and what I'm trying to offer
with the book is a little I said
dimensions is because I do want to try
and create a space where the two sides
can talk to each other where we can
overcome polarization with deliberation
with respect for one another
because I think that's the one of the
things that really is lacking in the
debate any respect that the person who
is arguing with you might be coming from
a position which is justified but just
happens to be different to yours so what
I'm looking at in the book is a
recognition of accountability and
equality as being these these two key
principles that we bring to our personal
discourse with one another but also to
the way that we see the world and so
that we recognize that that the debate
we're going to have is going to happen
within this space because you know you
there's a lot of talk with free speech
worries about the idea of safe spaces
now safe space is set up to ensure that
there is a debate not to close down the
debate but to ensure that there is a
debate it's just that if you come into
that safe space you have to respect the
person you're arguing with you have to
listen to them you have to let them
speak and you have to accept if they're
holding you to account for something
that you're saying is outrageous and
unfortunately your average free speech
warrior doesn't want that they want to
go in there and
want to offend as many people as
possible to the limits of I would argue
abusive behavior and then they you know
they want a reaction they get one and
then they you know they make themselves
into the victim and it's almost always I
hate to say this it's almost always
white men who do this because they're
desperate for a bit of victimhood
because they you know they realize that
they're privileged position in society
as left them at the moment in a
situation where they happen to respond
rightly so to black lives matter to me
to to the you know the driving gas
guzzlers with the climate school
strikers so this is a you know the the
respect that you need to come into a
safe space is I prefer that much more to
Weinstein's idea of debate in which he's
not going to talk to the people who
doesn't agree with I mean how does that
help bring anything for what else help
Eric widen the scope of his ideas even
never mind me arguing with him but in
his innocence it's no good for him if he
only talks to people he agrees with if
if in fact he is interested in widening
those ideas which I gotta think that
you've got I mean you know I'm I'm int
I've written a book because I want a
platform to talk about these things with
people like yourself and I'll be happy
to go and dissipate this with Eric I'd
be happy to go and talk about this on
Joe Rogan because I'd be you know that's
a terrible thing to say Sam but I might
learn something right they might they
might have a perspective on free speech
that I haven't picked up because of
where I'm coming from and they might say
something that allows me then to go away
and sharpen my idea that's how you
that's it that's what this course is
about mate right that's how you love
stuff you don't learn it by sticking
your fingers in you in saying lalalalala
when someone is trying to give you a
different perspective of your position
nowadays this you know these guys want
the license to say whatever they like
they're not interested in the Liberty
that allows us that that fabulous
you know riot that people have struggled
through the years just to express your
opinion and then to put it into the
marketplace of opinions they're not
interested in the marketplace of
opinions like the neoliberal
they are Thanks they want to dominate
the marketplace and they don't want any
competition for for capitalists they're
very very bad example I could say yes
well indeed although I guess like you
write in the book those guys at Bob
Halloran would have been proud so
they're arguing they're gonna be more
pamphlets to find this in people
obviously this this is out there now and
also I should just tell the people just
as a as a public service that you're
gonna be your your to on tour right now
I know you're in Virginia and soon
you're gonna be up here in New York next
weekend Berea and then up in Cambridge
Mass I I'm actually people who interest
I am doing some book related events I'll
be at the Brooklyn Public Library in in
New York City talking about the book
next week and I'll also be in in the
Cambridge Public Library if you get in
touch with them the Cambridge event is
on the 1st of October and the Free
Library of Philadelphia on the 23rd so
that's next Monday and then I mean in
New York City at the book in public
barber and the 25th of October talking
about this and that's again as I say the
25th year the 25th of September at the
at the Brooklyn Public Library Amy
Goodman from Democracy Now is going to
be talking to me about about the book
and it's interesting because in the Q&A
afterwards I pick up because obviously I
you know I'm sure you're you know that
there's a different perspective on free
speech in the US as there is in in
Europe right we have slightly different
perspectives on hate speech and other
and other issues so it's always
interesting to come as a European and to
talk to this about talk to Americans
about this to get that get that other
perspective that allows me then to to
see if I can then articulate what I'm
trying to say in a way that makes sense
with the American definition of free
speech different noise well I will be
there I'm gonna be there if that's
Wednesday night at the Brooklyn library
I will be there
and looking forward to it Billy thank
you so much it's real I can't tell you a
real honor and a pleasure for me to have
this opportunity to talk to you well
thing I really appreciate you given the
opportunity to speak to your listeners
and your viewers I hope it made sense to
him I'm hope so all right I appreciate
it thanks again well the best time
bye-bye bye-bye
[Music]
that was fun
it is weird to have a conversation with
the guy that you saw and admired for the
first time 35 years ago yeah and they
talked about Eric Weinstein and then
they'd be like yeah spend that much time
talking about Eric wise
