[Music]
so John Delaney got up and it's almost
like there was some a be testing on
messages at the California Democratic
primary John Delaney I got up and said
medicare-for-all is bad policy you got a
love when someone sort of speaks with
the condensate condescension of like you
guys it may sound good to you but you're
not looking at this with any type of
depth medicare-for-all is bad policy
because all these people get kicked off
of their health care and we want
universal access well it doesn't even
realize that it sounds good to them cuz
he calls it bad politics as well
well I mean he says it may sound good he
said it may sound good to you which does
balai that notion that it's bad politics
cuz if it sounds good why would it be
politically bad but the way he's that he
was that condescending about it like you
don't understand the details of this now
let me just give you really one of the
most moronic quarter-inch deep reasons
why we shouldn't do medicare for all so
that's the a test it didn't work out so
well that was the poo let's go to a B
test of another message this one
delivered by Bernie Sanders at that same
California Democratic convention
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
people
when it comes to abortion there is no
middle ground
now I know that all sounds good
I know that all sounds good but it's bad
politics folks there's a bunch of
enraged grassroots delaney supporters
holding middle ground right and policy
signs one of the smart policy smart
policy side in Bernie's face what about
the smart phone what about the smart
policy outpouring of the grassroots this
is bad policy but policy slowly bad
policy it's bad politics and I drove out
here in my used Honda to say that as a
grassroots normal person who's in no way
behold it to the health insurance
industry and by the way it is great that
he said that about abortion and I would
like to see people hold up Bernie's
policies and his stances on abortion
against biden's and then try to call
Bernie supporters Bernie bros but you
don't hear that as much this time around
do you I'm not hearing the Bernie bro
stuff that much if you follow their Lena
Maxwell on Twitter you might I I have
not I have not why I do I think I do
follow her but I don't I don't see it as
much I just don't think that's gonna be
the theme I think the it's Biden is the
one that people you know it's not like I
mean a part of the problem is that a
Biden support is almost explicitly Biden
bros I mean that is almost the one of
the big selling points
