[Music]
speaking of unbelievable we mentioned
this Missouri bill that was passed we
Coutu ago in Missouri the band's most
abortions at eight weeks of pregnancy
except in medical emergencies it was
signed by Governor Mike parson on Friday
on the same time this morning the
Supreme Court basically punted on
another abortion question I don't have
it right but I can't remember what state
it was from now Indiana and they got rid
of all of it they said it was okay to
apparently bury fetal fetal tissue if
that's what you want to do but the the
Maine law which largely banned abortion
was was rejected at least or just not it
was a punt is basically what it is
because they know there's a bunch of
other cases that are coming this one and
I think the idea behind this was we're
not gonna take this question up right
now but with all that said Missouri has
one clinic in which you can get abortion
in the entire state and it's in st.
Louis and it is a Planned Parenthood
clinic and today Planned Parenthood
released a statement that said
Missouri's Health Department is refusing
to a new renew its annual license to
provide abortion in the state if the
license is not renewed by May 31st
Missouri would become the first state
without a functioning abortion at clinic
since 1973 so in many places around the
country there is abortion is out of the
reach of many women who live there
because of
material difficulties I can't travel
three or four hours to get there
etc etc in Missouri we could have the
first state that has no abortion clinic
and on May 20th the Missouri Department
of Health and services notify Planned
Parenthood of three issues that could
impact license renewal you know they're
doing this for ideological reasons right
here is a CBS clip that outlines this so
there's a counter-argument in that the
people of Missouri elected these
lawmakers right to and they pass these
laws and it's not like you can't have an
abortion somewhere else in the country
you could just drive to another state
who's affected by this that's I think
what's so heartbreaking about this story
is that the people who are affected by
this are the women who can't take
another day off of work they can't
afford to drive four hours to the one
clinic that's in their state and they
really can't afford to travel five hours
to go to Illinois and you know one thing
we spoke about in that package was
there's the 72-hour waiting period so
you have to do that two times and so
really who gets impacted by this are
low-income minority women who don't have
the means not only to have an abortion
but to have a child so this that's not
even the this is the three things that
Planned Parenthood have been requests
one of them is adjusting who at the
clinic provided the state mandated
counseling they added an additional
pelvic exam for abortion patients right
one of the other hoops that people are
have to jump through you know what's the
grand total now the third request though
according to Planned Parenthood is
something that they cannot comply with
the Health Department said it was
investigating quote deficient practices
and needed to interview seven physicians
who provide care at the clinic Planned
Parenthood said it could offer
interviews only with two who are its
employees
the remaining physicians provide
services at the facility but are not
employed by Planned Parenthood and have
not agreed to be interviewed the Planned
Parenthood has no control over that
the the clinic will remain open but will
stop providing abortions as of three
days from now and so this is what it's
like this is what its gonna be like and
of course like the commentator said
there on that clip women without means
to go to different states are forced to
be pregnant and give birth to a child
and that's that's the new normal that is
the new normal in this country and it's
gonna get it's gonna get worse people
got to start to be conscious of this
yeah I mean it's been pretty bad for a
while like we've been talking about you
know abortion rights are suffering a
just by a thousand cuts
so maybe my hope is anyway at least with
these laws being so extreme and getting
so much attention maybe this will be a
breaking point where more and more
people prioritize the fight for
reproductive justice which of course by
the way needs to be part and parcel of
the fight for healthcare in general
right because it's not just abortion
care that poor people can't afford it's
any kind of health care whatsoever it's
it's it's getting dire I just I hope I
hope we gets the attention that it needs
