[Music]
laura ingraham apparently does not want
migrants does not understand why
migrants leave their homes to apply for
political asylum in this country just
the other day we had a story of police
officers these are police officers who
are trained carried guns in El Salvador
who have fled the country because of the
violence now of course as a police
officer you are in one of these
countries you are obviously more in the
line of fire
but the reason we know that tens of
thousands of these people annually try
and cross the border in the into the
United States is because they are
fleeing their countries and anybody who
has even the slightest relationship with
the history of US intervention in these
countries understands that at the very
least maybe the United States is not the
exclusive reason but is a major reason
why these countries are so destabilized
and have become so violent as they have
become so here's Laura Ingraham
completely showing the the empathy and
compassion that it makes America great
girls are being abused raped and in some
cases trafficked as part of these
caravans and it is despicable what is
happening to these young people Congress
needs to get its head out of the sand
and stop this madness once and for all
if someone crosses the border illegally
with rare exception they should be
turned back immediately family units or
people posing his family units would not
make this dangerous trek once word
spread in their home country pause this
narrative has been proven false over and
over again this past month we've seen a
record number I don't know if it's a
record number but certainly a major
uptick right because the actual numbers
are much lower the
they have been in past years and in past
decades but this past month has been I
think the highest number of migrants
coming to the border maybe in a year or
two this is on the heels of the stories
that supposedly were to filter back home
that they are separating children and
parents and there are some people
actually think that that the reason why
there's been a an increase is because of
the word of the wall and that coyotes
and smugglers are telling people you
better go now you won't have a chance to
go which of course is exactly the same
thing that you've experienced if you
went to go buy a house over the past
couple of years where you're a broker
says I would do it now because rates are
gonna go up and which really has no
bearing on the reality of the situation
so we know that the the reason why
people are trying to cross the border is
because no matter how dangerous that
Trek is where people die no matter how
much they realize they're putting
themselves in the hands of smugglers who
are not nice people no matter how much
they've heard of the the dangers that
their daughters their sons their mothers
their fathers may be subjected to in
making that trek to the border their
situation as it exists now in their home
country is worse so there is no
dissuading these people by saying it's
bad in the United States it's just not
possible it has been a failed policy
including under the Obama administration
which tried to do the same thing they
weren't they didn't use the same harsh
tactics but they tried to do that same
thing you can google jeh Johnson going
down to Central America and trying to
spread the word that you're not going to
get in they spent money on an ad
campaign down there that does not change
the material experience of people in
their home countries and there
for is not going to change their
behavior but laura ingraham completely
disingenuously
makes this case because instead of
saying there are rape in these caravans
there are there's danger in these
caravans
and so what we should do is when they
cross the border we should put them
right back in that dangerous situation
as a lesson to teach everybody that it's
gonna be dangerous this is just absurd
this is an absurd if we use this policy
okay with things like hey Christmas
trees are dangerous those lights they're
dangerous so what we're gonna do is
we're going to let houses burn down and
if enough people but lose their houses
and maybe some people die word will
spread around that you're gonna be
really cautious with Christmas tree
lights that's the idea that we would
have a policy like that is so inhumane
that it would be laughable yet here she
is on national television echoing the
Republican line that that's the policy
we should have we need to show these
people the horrors that they're going to
instead of alleviating the horrors we
need to make these horrors even more
widely publicized and explicit so that
they don't try so that the horror
they're escaping from is considered less
of a horror than the one that we could
offer them make this dangerous trek once
word spread in their home country
Congress should pass this law if you
want to apply for asylum that's fine but
you should do so in the safety of your
home country or as is beginning to
happen now once you're in the United
States and you declare you should be
sent to Mexico until your case comes up
for hearing okay why would you seek
asylum from a place where you have
safety definitionally to take over the
US and wreck it like this is some Steve
Bannon camp of the Saints about
these like invading brown
hoards people like tricking us with
their sob stories people seek asylum
from places where they're not safe that
is definitional yeah actually in fact if
you didn't interfere with and cause so
many problems in these places most
people in general would like to live
relatively close by where their families
are and where they grew up they don't
come here pretty amazing culture we're
gonna prove it we're going to we're
gonna put them in cages and see it's not
cages it's really just like steel boxes
that's an incredible formulation though
go to the safety of where you're fleeing
for your life right it's it's
unbelievable and incidentally the
Republicans controlled the entire
government for two years if they wanted
to change the asylum laws that have
existed in this country for decades they
could have
