story before we go into the fun half
here apparently and this is sort of
funny no I'm sorry
this is totally funny so preyas guide
Jack Burkman and if I remember correctly
I think I've done some TV with this guy
about ten years ago he was on like CNBC
and he was arguing something to the
effect of like there was no deep deep
throat something - there was it was fake
or said this guy is a little bit off the
wall
he had an alternative theory about mark
felt yeah like right before mark felt
like actually was revealed like it was
or something I that it was a lie that
that Woodward and Bernstein had said all
along that it wasn't Mark felt so it
couldn't be Mark felt but he had an
announcement that he posted what was
this when did he post this the other day
this is a couple of days ago and this is
pretty pretty big stuff you can
understand why he is not in his studio
he probably does a show not unlike this
one but with probably far more big
dollar backing than we get and far less
viewers but here he is he's out and
about it's got a Starbucks coffee and
it's North Face Parker on and here we go
hey guys Jack Burkman here as you can
see I'm not in the behind-the-curtain
studio rather I'm here at my face at our
budget the name of his show is behind
the curtain I think I argued with this
guy on on that I 24 channel very
possible he says around here my favorite
Starbucks in Arlington Virginia right
near Arlington National Cemetery where
we often broadcast remember if you like
us on Facebook like us on Facebook
subscribe to our podcast on iTunes or
wherever you get your podcast Thursday
will be a sad but hopefully very hopeful
day on Thursday high noon and the
holiday end right here in Arlington
Virginia right behind me only about a
thousand yards that way we will unveil
the first of the sex assault victims of
Robert Miller it turns out as many of
you know Robert Miller is a bad guy not
just because of what he does in the
courtroom but because of what he does
outside of the courtroom Robert Miller
has done bad things the number of women
first of the first of whom is coming out
this Thursday high noon
she will unveil a very bad sexual
assault and and more to come be positive
when she's gonna unveil a very bad
sexual assault and high noon it's gonna
be like Warhol she will unveil a very
bad sexual assault and and more to come
we've interviewed many the investigation
is ongoing this isn't something I take
any delight in it's something I wish I
didn't have to do but my viewers and the
American people need the truth remember
if you like us like us on Facebook the
Graduate our podcast on iTunes or
wherever you get your podcast thanks
we'll see you next time on behind the
curtain so the funny thing about this
story and don't forget you can get the
majority report on iTunes or any where
you get your podcast the so it turns out
that this story about women who are
coming out to charge robert muller with
some type of sexual assault has been
pitched to a lot of reporters and
somebody got word that one of the women
had been paid a significant amount of
money to claim that she was sexually
assaulted by robert muller and it turns
out that and now you gotta fall here
this is a little bit tricky apparently
this guy Jack Burkman got this
information from a an intelligence
agency one of the private intelligence
agencies that are out there I'm sure
you're all aware of these one of them is
entitled surefire intelligence now you
know that they get their their
intelligence is always correct because
their surefire sounds like an agency
we're like kids spies that you would
find when you're like 11 surefire we can
call it surefire call surefire I watch
Top Gun now let's go figure out who
stole the milk
and so it turns out that they went to a
couple reporters I guess one of these
guys krasin Steen who has a has a like
uh some type of like a blog apparently
called Hiller reporter Hill reporter so
he's not a reporter for the hill but
it's always written as Hills reporter
Robert Christine loss so brilliant
anyways
- this guy's credit to this guy's credit
he looked into this sure fie
intelligence and when he did afterwards
he according to NBC News craz enstein
said he reached out to the special
counsels office on Tuesday telling them
what he knew about the scheme now
Berkman you should also know was one of
those guys who who was involved in
pitching conspiracy theories about
Democratic staffer Seth rich that could
happen that of course is a trans
partisan endeavor but leaving that aside
for a moment so Christine told NBC News
that they that day he told the special
counsel the special counsel has now
referred this to the FBI Christine also
gay it gave NBC News the phone numbers
used by the woman alleging she was
offered money to make the allegations
both of them were disconnected the woman
allegedly worked at the law firm
Pillsbury Madison and Sutro at the same
time as Muller in 1974 reporters say and
their multiple reporters who receive
this said that she was supposed to claim
the misconduct took place during that
period now a couple of things one the
date in which that misconduct supposedly
took place was a date that it just so
happens that Robert Muller was serving
on a grand jury
NBC News gave the woman's name to a
spokesperson for the Law Firm which is
now called Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw at
Pittman and the spokesperson we have no
record of this individual working for
our firm so it's unclear what was going
on here whether they were trying to both
get mileage out of the accusation
five days before the election and then
discredit the news outlets that reported
on it by making the whole thing fall
apart like a twofer
these guys are top-notch but let's look
into this surefire intelligence it turns
out that Jacob wall who is a who is a
disgraced hedge-fund manager it's a bit
redundant turned pro Trump conspiracy
theorist turns out is the main impetus
behind surefire intelligence this is
what what Berkman Jacob burglar Jack
Burkman said when Krasny called
Berkman and wall tweeted that day
several media sources tell me that a
scandalous story about Muller is
breaking tomorrow should be interesting
stay tuned
so somebody reached a wall by direct
message on Twitter
well denied having a hand in any plot to
pay women making false allegations
against Muller I don't have any
involvement in investigations of any
kind I'm not quite that cool that's a
surefire intelligence sounds pretty cool
now wall is just a writer he writes for
Gateway pundit which is a right-wing
blog that also is a huge conspiracy
theory trafficker and in fact that
gateway pundit they had access to
according to them exclusive documents
about a very credible witness which they
were going to release in this Muller
scandal are people being able to follow
what I'm saying here so this surefire
intelligence provided this information
to Jack Burkman and this guy Jacob wall
supposedly was involved with surefire
intelligence claims he wasn't he is a
writer for Gateway pundit they were
gonna have these exclusive documents
then NBC did a little investigation his
email is listed Jacob balls in the
domain records for surefire intelligence
website that's weird to be completely
uninvolved with an outfit and have
registered their website particularly
when you're not like man Soros is good a
website it's so good
here's the here's the other part wall
stopped responding to NBC News after
being told that NBC News found that sure
fires official phone number redirects to
Jacob walls mother's voicemail so then
what happens is somebody starts to
investigate not only does it find that
the online presence is redirects to
Jacob walls email address they looked at
the the the pictures of Matthew Cohen
who's a managing partner at your file
intelligence it's a beautiful name yeah
now his image is is like just a
silhouette you could see that on top so
standard spy language but apparently
Jacob wall does not realize that there
are things called reverse image look-up
on the web and it brought up a picture
of Jacob wall which looks almost
identical to the picture of Matthew
Cohen except for it looks like there
were two pictures one where the light
was turned on and one was the light was
turned off but you could see the
silhouette there but it's not only that
Jacob walls pictures on there let's look
at some of the other the other officials
at surefire intelligence oh we don't
have that well it turns out like they're
a managing partner has a striking
resemblance to a and Israeli sir
supermodel it turns out that their their
chief of operations has a striking
resemblance to a wave photographer and
other male model in fact all of the
pictures on the website of surefire are
fake ones the actor Christoph Waltz
that's right he is their chief
investigator in Zurich
apparently multi-talented yeah here we
go here is the Surefire intelligence
tel-aviv station cheese she happens to
be a yeah she just happens to be now
these are now to be fair these are great
covers for intelligence private
intelligence officials it's just that
you don't want to show blow their cover
on your LinkedIn profile these are very
high placed assets yeah we'll just
burned all of the burned Bar Refaeli so
how's she gonna make a living is only a
model now Berkman is apparently still
holding his press conference as of today
but the gateway pundit has decided
they're not going to release these
exclusive documents quite yet they're
going to check out the situation in fact
I think what they said at the end was
let's see Gateway pundit has now posted
a message on its site that says earlier
today we were given information on
accusations against former director
former FBI Director Robert Muller we
took the documents down and are
currently investigating these
accusations there are also serious
allegations against Jacob wall we're
also looking into this
looking into it gonna figure out what
the hell's going figured out figure it
out it's been a hard it's been tough
stuff I put the cover up Wow
you don't we love Bar Refaeli she is so
good and such an one of our best
intelligence people that we have one of
our best private intelligence people
it's amazing Christopher while he's so
good pretending he's intelligence in the
movie and then the worst cover-up ever
stopped is at the deal standpoint what
they thought about it that's right
that's probably true
