[Music]
we talked yesterday apparently a couple
of like just weirdos disturbed
right-wing media fringe personalities or
in Minnesota there wanna be James
O'Keefe want to be James O'Keefe there
there there harass Allen Omar we're
playing this for comedic effect but this
should be a really good reminder to
everybody who equivocated I'm backing
Allen Omar this is a comic version but
these are the types of trolls and you
know sick personalities that are
harassing her
but this is quite anticlimactic so
basically Laura Loomer is trying to find
you know ill on Omar and what we
discover from this exchange is that you
know even the most intense soundtrack
will not pack that much of a punch if
nothing actually happens and also that L
on Omar is clearly at least in her
Minnesota house I mean this is as like
campaign commercial middle-class woman
of the people is exactly it's also we
should note that this was clipped by a
Nick burger but he did not add the music
this is actually this is native to the
original documentaries oh here we go all
right guys well we're here we are here
it I like that they didn't cut out that
we're rolling
we won hi guys Laura Loomer here we are
here in Minneapolis Minnesota
that's congresswoman Johanna Mars home
about to serve her with a sworn
affidavit swearing under penalty of
perjury that she has never married any
of her biological siblings that's a
racist claptrap with absolutely no
evidence that was entirely fabricated by
right-wing media let's go
[Music]
now at this point because L on Omar is
so awesome I was actually hoping she
would open the door and like you can
please get the out of my house this
is a napping property this is private
property which is something that you
freaks and weirdos are supposed to
terrible so please get the away no
answer I guess we're just gonna have to
go try off this right Wow
riveting well it's like wow it's like
the Laura Poitras of the right oh my god
these people need help
