[Music]
wait for someone to say something
the Judiciary Committee will come to
order
without objection the chair is
authorized to declare recesses of the
committee at any time we welcome
everyone to today's hearing on oversight
of the report on the investigation into
Russian interference in the 2016
presidential election I will now
recognize myself for a brief opening
statement director Muller thank you for
being here
I want to say just a few words about our
themes today responsibility integrity
and accountability your career for
example is a model of responsibility you
are a decorated marine officer you are
awarded a Purple Heart and the Bronze
Star for valor in Vietnam you served the
senior roles at the Department of
Justice and the immediate aftermath of
9/11 you served as director of the FBI
two years ago
you returned to public service to lead
the investigation into Russian
interference in the 2016 elections you
conducted that investigation with
remarkable integrity for 22 months you
never commented in public about your
work even when you were subjected to
repeated and grossly unfair personal
attacks instead your indictments spoke
for you and then astonishing detail over
the course of your investigation you
obtained criminal indictments against 37
people and entities you secured the
conviction of President Trump's campaign
chairman his deputy campaign manager his
national security advisor and his
personal lawyer among others in the Paul
Manafort case alone you recovered as
much as 42 million dollars so that the
cost of your investigation to the
taxpayers approaches zero and in your
report you offer the country
accountability as well in volume one you
find that the Russian government
attacked our 2016 elections quote in a
sweeping and systematic fashion and that
the attacks were designed to benefit the
Trump campaign volume two walks us
through ten separate incidents
obstruction of justice we're in your
words President Trump
attempted to exert undue influence over
your investigation
the president's behavior concluded and I
quote from your report quote public
attacks on the investigation non-public
its efforts to control it and efforts in
both public and private to encourage
witnesses not to cooperate close quote
among the most shocking of these
incidents President Trump
ordered his White House Council to have
you fired and then to dennou lie and
deny that it had happened he ordered his
former campaign manager to convince the
recused Attorney General to step in and
limit your work and he attempted to
prevent witnesses from cooperating with
your investigation although department
policy barred you from in dining the
president for this conduct you made
clear that he is not exonerated any
other person who acted in this way would
have been charged with crimes and in
this nation not even the president is
above the law which brings me to this
committees work responsibility integrity
and accountability these are the marks
by which we you serve on this committee
will be measured as well director Muller
we have a responsibility to address the
evidence that you have uncovered you
recognize as much when you said quote
the Constitution requires a process
other than the criminal justice system
to formally accuse a sitting president
of wrongdoing close quote
that process begins with the work of
this committee we will follow your
example director Muller we will act with
integrity we will follow the facts where
they lead we will consider all
appropriate remedies we will make our
recommendation to the house when our
work concludes we will do this work
because there must be accountability for
the conduct described in your report
especially as it relates to the
president thank you again director
Muller we look forward to your testimony
it is now my pleasure to recognize the
ranking member the Judiciary Committee
that
gentleman from Georgia mr. Collins for
his opening statement
Thank You mr. chairman and thank you mr.
Muller for being here for two years
leading up to the release of the Muller
report and in the three months since
Americans were first told what to expect
and then what to believe
collusion we were told was in plain
sight even if the special counsels team
didn't find it
when mr. Muller produces report an
attorney general bar provided to every
American we read no American conspired
with Russia to interfere in our
elections but learned the depths of
Russia's malice toward America we are
here to ask serious questions about mr.
Miller's work and we will do that after
an extended unhampered investigation
today marks an end to mr. molars
involvement in an investigation that
closed in April the burden of proof for
accusations that remain unproven is
extremely high and especially in light
of the special counsels thoroughness we
are told this investigation began as an
inquiry into whether Russia meddled in
our 2016 election mr. Muller you
concluded they did Russian success
Democrat servers and disseminated
sensitive information by tricking
campaign insiders into revealing
protected information the investigation
also reviewed whether Donald Trump the
president sought Russian assistance as a
candidate to win the presidency mr.
Muller concluded he did not his family
or advisors did not in fact the report
concludes no one in the president's
campaign colluded collaborated or
conspired with the Russians the
president watched the public narrative
surrounding this investigation assumes
he is training the others to assume his
guilt while he knew the extent of his
innocence vol.2 am Ultimo's report
details the president's reaction to
frustrating investigation where his
innocence was established early on the
president's attitude toward the
investigation was understandably
negative yet the president did not use
his authority to close the investigation
he asked his lawyer mr. Muller had
conflicts and disqualified mr. Muller
from the job but he did not shut down
the investigation the president knew he
was innocent those are the facts of the
Moller report Russia meddled in the 2016
election the president did not conspire
with the Russian and nothing we hear
today will change those facts but one
element of this story remains the
beginnings of the FBI investigation into
the present I look forward to mr.
mullahs testimony about what he found
during his review of the origins of the
investigation in addition the Inspector
General continues to review how baseless
gossip can be used to launch an FBI
investigation against a private citizen
and eventually a president those results
will be released and we will need to
learn from them to ensure government
intelligence and law enforcement powers
are never again used and turned on a
private citizen or a potential or
political candidate as a result of the
political leanings of a handful of FBI
agents the origins and conclusion of the
Moller investigation of the same things
what it means to be American every
American has a voice in our democracy we
must protect the sanctity of their voice
by combating election interference every
American enjoys the presumption of
innocence and guarantee of due process
if we carry nothing anything away today
it must be that we increase our
vigilance against foreign election
interference while we ensure our
government officials don't weaponize
their power against the constitutional
rights guaranteed to every US citizen
finally we must agree that the
opportunity cost here is too high the
months we have spent investigating from
this dice failed to end the border
crisis or contribute to the growing job
market instead we have gotten stuck and
it's paralyzed this committee in this
house and as a side note every week I
leave my family and kids the most
important things to me to come to this
place because I believe this place is a
place where we can actually do things
and help people six and a half years ago
I came here to work on behalf of the
people of the ninth district in this
country and we accomplished a lot in
those first six years on a bipartisan
basis with many of my friends across the
aisle sitting on this dice with me today
however this year because the majority's
dislike of this president and the
endless hearing into a closed
investigation have caused us to
accomplish nothing except talk about the
problems of our country while our border
is on fire in crisis and everything else
is stopped this hearing is long overdue
we've had truth for months no American
conspired to throw our election what we
need today is to let that truth bring us
confidence and I hope mr. chairman
closure with that
Thank You mr. Collins I will now
introduce today's witness
Robert Muller served as director of the
FBI from 2001 to 2013 and most recently
served a special counsel in the
Department of Justice overseeing the
investigation into Russian interference
in the 2016 special election he received
his BA from Princeton University and MA
from New York University in my district
and his JD from the University of
Virginia mr. Muller is accompanied by
his by counsel Aaron Zeb Lee who served
as deputy special counsel on the
investigation we welcome our
distinguished witness and we thank you
for participating in today's hearing now
if we would please rise I will begin by
swearing you in would you raise your
right hand please let them you swear
affirm under penalty of perjury that the
testimony you're about to give is true
and correct to the best of your
knowledge information and belief so help
you God let the record show the witness
sense of the affirmative thank you and
please be seated please note that your
written statement will be entered into
the record in its entirety accordingly I
ask that you summarize your testimony in
five minutes director Muller you may
begin good morning chairman antler the
and ranking member Collins and the
members of the committee liar as you
know in May 2017 the acting Attorney
General asked me to serve as special
counsel I undertook undertook that role
because I believe that it was a
paramount interest to the nation to
determine whether a foreign adversary
had interfered in the presidential
election as the acting Attorney General
said at the time the appointment was
necessary in order for the American
people to have full covens confidence in
the outcome my staff and I carried out
this assignment with that critical
objective in mind to work quietly
thoroughly and with integrity so that
the public would have full confidence in
the outcome
the order appointing me as Special
Counsel directed our office to
investigate Russian interference in the
2016 presidential election
this included investigating any links or
coordination between the Russian
government and individuals associated
with the Trump campaign
it also included investigating efforts
to interfere with or obstruct our
investigation throughout the
investigation I continually stressed two
things to the team that we had assembled
first we needed to do our work as
thoroughly as possible and as
expeditiously as possible it was in the
public interest for our investigation to
be complete but not to last a day longer
than was necessary
second the investigation needed to be
conducted fairly and with absolute
integrity our team would not leak or
take other actions that could compromise
the integrity of our work all decisions
were made based on the facts and the law
during the course of our investigation
we charged more than 30 defendants with
committing federal crimes including 12
officers of the Russian military seven
defendants have been convicted or pled
guilty certain of the charges we brought
remain pending today and for those
matters I stress that the indictments
contain allegations and every defendant
is presumed innocent unless and until
proven guilty in addition to the
criminal charges
we brought as required by Justice
Department regulations we submitted a
confidential report to the Attorney
General at the conclusion of our
investigation the report set forth the
results of our work and the reasons for
our charging and declination decisions
the Attorney General later made to the
purport largely public as you know I
made a few limited remarks limited
remarks about our report when we closed
the special counsel's office
in May of this year but there are
certain points that bear emphasis first
our investigation found that the Russian
government interfered in our election in
sweeping and systematic fashion
second the investigation did not
establish that members of the Trump
campaign conspired with the Russian
government in its election interference
activities we did not address collusion
which is not a legal term rather we
focused on whether the evidence was
sufficient to charge any member of the
campaign with taking part in a criminal
conspiracy and it was not third our
investigation of efforts to obstruct the
investigation and lie to investigators
was of critical importance obstruction
of justice strikes at the core of the
government's effort to find the truth
and to hold wrongdoers accountable
finally as described in volume 2 of our
report we investigated a series of
actions by the president towards the
investigation based on Justice
Department policy and principles of
fairness we decided we would not make a
determination as to whether the
president committed a crime now is our
decision then and it remains our
decision today let me say a further word
about my appearance today it is unusual
for a prosecutor to testify about a
criminal investigation and given my role
as a prosecutor there are reasons why my
testimony lost a mutual well necessarily
get you the resident in this manner
first public testimony could affect
several ongoing matters in some of these
matters court rules or judicial orders
limit the disclosure of information to
protect to protect the fairness of the
proceedings and consistent with
long-standing Justice Department policy
it would be inappropriate for me to
comment in any way that could affect an
ongoing matter
second the Justice Department has
asserted privileges concerning
investigative information and decisions
ongoing matters within the Justice
Department and deliberations within our
office these are Justice Department
privileges that I will respect the
department has released the letter
discussing the restrictions on my
testimony I therefore will not be able
to answer questions about certain areas
that I know are of public interest for
example I am unable to address questions
about the initial opening of the FBI's
Russia investigation which occurred
months before my appointment or matters
related to the so called steeled dossier
these matters are subject of ongoing
review by the department any questions
on these topics should therefore be
directed to the FBI or the Justice
Department as I explained when we closed
the special counsel's office in May a
rapport all of these finds by Donald
Trump for him analysis questions and the
reasoning and decisions we made how did
this start we can what within accessory
is writing computers his own gay or not
allowed to answer that he stated the
results of our and he could with
precision
we scrutinized every word I do not
intend to summarize or describe the
results of our work in a different way
in the course of my testimony today as I
said on May 29th the report is my
testimony and I will stay within that
text and as I stated in May I will not
comment on the actions of the Attorney
General or of Congress I was appointed
as a prosecutor and I intend and tend to
adhere to that role and to the
department standards that govern it I'll
be joined today by deputy Special
Counsel Erin sembly mr. Sibley has
extensive experience as a federal
prosecutor and at the FBI where he
served as my chief of staff and mr. mr.
Sibley was responsible for the
day-to-day oversight
of the investigations conducted by our
office now I also want to again say
thank you to the attorneys the FBI
agents the analysts the professional
staff who helped us conduct this
investigation in a fair and independent
manner these individuals who spent
nearly two years of working on this
manner were of the highest integrity let
me say one more thing over the course of
my career I have seen a number of
challenges to our democracy the Russian
government's effort to interfere in our
election is among the most serious as I
said on May 29th this deserves the
attention of every American Thank You
mr. chairman thank you we will now
proceed under the five-minute rule with
questions I would begin by recognizing
myself for five minutes
director Muller the president has
repeatedly claimed that your report
found there was no obstruction and that
it completely and totally exonerated him
but that is not what your report said is
it correct that is not what the report
said and our reading from page two of
volume two of your report that's on the
screen you wrote quote if we had
confidence after a thorough
investigation of the facts that the
president clearly did not commit
obstruction of justice we would so state
based on the facts and the applicable
legal standards however we are unable to
reach that judgment close quote
now does that say there was no
obstruction no in fact you were actually
unable to conclude the president did not
commit obstruction of justice is that
correct
well we at the outset determined that we
when it came to the the president's
culpability we needed to we mean it we
needed to go forward only after taking
into account the OLC opinion that
indicated that a press
a sitting president cannot be indicted
so the report did not conclude that he
did not commit obstruction of justice is
that correct that is correct
and what about total exoneration did you
actually totally exonerate the president
no now in fact your reports expressly
states that it does not exonerate the
president that does and your
investigation actually found quote
multiple acts by the president that were
capable of exerting undue influence over
law enforcement investigations including
the Russian interference and obstruction
investigations is that correct correct
now director Muller can you explain in
plain terms what that finding means so
the American people can understand it
well the finding indicates that the
president was not that the president was
not as scoping exculpated for the accent
he allegedly committed a merit plain
terms right in fact oh thank you quote
in which the president sought to use his
official power outside of usual channels
unquote to exert undue influence over
your investigations yeah I have a
criminal correct huh now my correct that
on page 7 of volume 2 of your report you
wrote quote the president became aware
that his own conduct was being
investigated in an obstruction of
justice inquiry at that point the
president engaged in the second phase of
conduct involving public attacks on the
investigation non public efforts to
control it and efforts in both public
and private to encourage witnesses not
to cooperate with the investigation
close quote
so president Trump's efforts to exert
undue influence over your investigation
intensified after the president became
aware that he personally was being
investigated I stick with the language
that you have in front of you which
which came from page 7 volume 2 now is
it correct that if you concluded that
the president committed the crime of
obstruction you could not publicly state
that in your report or here today
can you repeat the question sir is it
correct that if you had concluded that
the president committed the crime of
obstruction you could not publicly state
that in your report or here today well I
would say you I could the statement
would be that you would not indict and
you would not indict because under the
OLC opinion a sitting president excuse
me cannot be indicted be
unconstitutional so you could not state
that because of the LC opinion if that
would have been your conclusion OLC
opinion was some guide yes but under do
just some guy justice policy he's being
a basic hoodie he's not saying what he's
saying in the report he's being evasive
he doesn't want to say this thank
you he's a phrase senior White House
official refused a request to be
interviewed by a Vito Spatafore from The
Sopranos
mm so David Feldman that back I I would
have to look at it but I'm not certain
that that was the case the president
refused a request to be interviewed by
you and your team yes
yes and is it true that you tried for
more than a year to secure an interview
with the president yes and is it true
that you and your team advised the
president's lawyer that quote an
interview with the president is vital to
our investigation close yes and is it
true that you also state quote stated
that it is in the interest of the
presidency in the public for an
interview to take place close quote
yes but the president still refused to
sit for an interview by you or your team
true true and did you also ask him to
provide written answers to questions on
the ten possible episodes of obstruction
of justice crimes involving him yes did
he provide any answers to a single
question about whether he engaged in
obstruction of justice crimes I would
have to check on that I'm not certain
director Muller we are grateful that you
were here to explain your investigation
and findings having reviewed your work I
believe anyone else would engage in the
conduct described in your report would
have been criminally prosecuted your
work is vitally important to this
committee and the American people
because no one is above the law and that
and now recognize the gentleman from
Georgia mr. Collins Thank You mr.
ballroom truth there's a lot of black
people oh I have several questions
meaning of which that you just answer
will be kinda questioned here in a
moment but I want to lay some foundation
so we'll go through these fairly quickly
I'll talk I said that I taught fast I
will talk slowly thank you in your press
conference you stated any testimony from
your office would not go beyond our
report we chose these words carefully
the work speaks for itself I would not
provide information beyond that which is
already public in any appearance before
Congress do you stand by that statement
yes this is closing special counsel's
office in May of 2019 have you conducted
any additional interviews or obtained
any new information in your role as
Special Counsel in the wake of the
reports since the since the closing of
the office in May of 2019 and the
question was have you conducted any new
interviews and any new witnesses I'm
starting to understand why it and you
can't confirm you're no longer special
sorry never extend how mentally Frank
you at any time with the investigation
was your investigation controlled or
curtailed or stopped or hindered no were
you or your team provided any questions
by members of Congress or the majority
ahead of your hearing today your report
states that your investigative team
included 19 lawyers and approximately 40
FBI agents and analysts in from County
so those numbers accurate could you
repeat that place 40 FBI agents 19
lawyers intelligence analysts and
forensic accountants so those numbers
accurate this was including a report
generally yes is it also true that you
issued over 220 800 subpoenas executed
in really 500 search warrants obtained
more than 230 orders for communication
records and 50 pen registers that went a
little fast for me okay in your report I
made this very simple you did a lot of
work correct yes that I agree lot of
subpoenas a lot of pen read on its
appearance okay we'll walk this really
slow but now search warrants all right
so you're very thorough you want your
opinion very thorough you listed this
out in York really yes thank you
is it true the evidence gathered during
your investigation given the questions
that you've just answered is it true the
evidence gathered during your
investigation did not establish that the
president was involved in the Under
in crime related to Russian election
interference and stated in volume 1 page
7
we found insufficient evidence of the
president's called culpability so that
will be yes without that be yes yes
thank you
isn't it true the evidence did not
establish that the president or those
close to him were involved in the charge
Russian computer hacking or active
measure conspiracies or that the
president otherwise that unlawful
relationships with any Russian official
volume 2 page 76 correct I believe the
answer to the report so what is a yes is
that the any true your investigation did
not establish that members of the Trump
campaign conspired are coordinated with
Russian government in the election
interference activity volume 1 page 2
volume 1 page 173 thank you yes yes
thank you
although your report states collusion is
not so specific offense and you said
that this morning or a term of art in
federal criminal law of conspiracy is in
the colloquial context are collusion and
conspiracy essentially synonymous terms
you're gonna have to repeat that for me
good afternoon clues is not a specific
offense or a term of art in the federal
government conspiracy is yes in the
colloquial context known public context
collusion collusion and conspiracy are
essentially synonymous terms correct no
if no on page 181 of your report you
wrote as defined in legal dictionaries
collusion is largely synonymous with
conspiracy as that crime is set forth in
the general federal conspiracy statute
18 USC 371 and you said at your May 29th
press conference and here today you
choose your words carefully are you
sitting here today testifying something
different than what your report states
well what I'm asking is if you can give
me the citation I can look at the
citation and evaluate whether it is okay
let me just be clarified you say did
that you would say within the report I
just stated your report back to you and
you said the collusion the collusion and
conspiracy were not synonymous terms
that was your answer was no in that page
180 of volume 1 of your report
it says as defined in legal dictionaries
collusion is largely synonymous with
conspiracy as that crime is set forth in
general conspiracy statute 18 USC 371
now you said you chose your words
carefully are you contradicting your
report right now
not when I read it so you change your
answer to yes then no if you look at the
language I'm reading your report sir
it's a yes or no answer page 180 page
180 volume one this is from your report
correct and I leave it with the report
so the report says yes they are
synonymous hopefully for finally out of
your own report we can put to bed the
class a problem we're going through did
you ever look into other countries
investigated in the Russians
interference into our election while
other countries investigated that's a
big deal found knowledge that they had
in Ference our election I'm not going to
discuss other matters better Yoba
gentleman is back the gentlelady from
California director Muller as you've
heard from the Chairman were mostly
going to talk about obstruction of
justice today but the investigation of
Russia's attack that started your
investigation is why evidence of
possible obstruction is serious to what
extent did the Russian government
interfere in the 2016 presidential
election I could repeat that ma'am to
what extent did the Russian government
interfere in the 2016 presidential
election well it particularly what I
came to computer crimes and the like the
government was implicated so you wrote
on in volume one that the Russian
government interfered in the 2016
presidential election and sweeping and
systematic fashion you also described in
your report that the then Trump campaign
chairman Paul Manafort shared with a
Russian operative clinic the campaign
strategy for winning Democratic votes in
Midwestern states in internal polling
data of the campaign isn't that correct
correct they they also discussed the
status of the Trump campaign a man
afford strategy for winning Democratic
votes in Midwest
States months before that meeting mana
Ford had caused internal data to be
shared with clinic and the sharing
continued for some period of time after
their August meeting isn't that correct
after it in fact your investigation
found that mana for brief clinic on the
state of the Trump campaign and mana
forts plan to win the election and that
briefing encompass the campaign's
messaging it's internal polling data it
also include discussion of battleground
states which mana Ford identified as
Michigan Wisconsin Pennsylvania and
Minnesota isn't that correct that's
right did your investigation determine
who requested the polling data to be
shared with clinic well I would direct
you to the report doctor what we have in
the report and with regard to that
particular lesion we don't have the
redacted version that's maybe another
reason why we should get that for vol 1
based on your investigation how could
the Russian government have used this
campaign polling data to further its
sweeping and systematic interference in
the 2016
path fair enough
did your investigation find that the
Russian government perceived it would
benefit from one of the candidates
winning yes and which candidate would
that be well it would be trimmed by a
trump it was trimmed truncated it locked
in to take Russian help you wrote it
expected it would benefit formerly from
information as normal as dress through
Russian efforts isn't that correct
correct now was the investigations
determination what was the
investigations determination regarding
the frequency with which the Trump
campaign made contact with the Russian
government well I would have to refer
you to the report on that well we went
through and we counted 126 contacts
between Russians or their agents and
Trump campaign
officials or their associates so would
that sound about right I can't say I
understand this statistic and I believe
it yeah I understand the statistic well
mr. Miller I appreciate your being here
and your report from your testimony and
the report I think the American people
have learned several things first the
Russians wanted Trump to win a second
the Russians went on a sweeping side
everybody was in anyway because I was
the best
the Russians hacked the DNC and they got
the Democratic game plan for the
election the Russian campaign go to all
this in attack polling and messaging in
the battleground states so while the
Russians were buying ads and creating
propaganda to influence the outcome of
the election they were armed with inside
information that they had stolen through
hacking from the DNC and that they had
been given by the Trump campaign
chairman mr. Mann afford my colleagues
will probe the efforts undertaken to
keep this information from becoming
public but I think it's important for
the American people to understand the
gravity of the underlying problem that
your report uncovered and with that mr.
Chairman I would yield back
generally good morning director if
you'll let me quickly summarize your
opening statement this morning you said
in volume 1 on the issue of conspiracy
the special counsel determined that the
investigation did not establish that
members of the Trump campaign conspired
or coordinated with the Russian
government in its election interference
activities and then in volume 2 for
reasons that you explained the special
counsel did not make a determination on
whether there was an obstruction of
justice crime committed by the president
is that fair yes sir all right now in
explaining that special counsel did not
make what you called a traditional
prosecution or declination decision the
report on the bottom of page 2 of volume
2 reads as follows the evidence we
obtained about the president's
actions and intent presents difficult
issues that prevent us from conclusively
determining that no criminal conduct
occurred accordingly while this report
does not conclude that the president
committed a crime it also does not
exonerate him now I read that correctly
yes all right now your report and today
you said at all times the Special
Counsel team operated under was guided
by and followed Justice Department
policies and principles so which DOJ
policy or principle sets forth a legal
standard that an investigated person is
not exonerated if their innocence from
critical criminal conduct is not
conclusively determined can you repeat
the last part of that question yeah
which DOJ policy or principle set forth
a legal standard that an investigated
person is not exonerated if their
innocence from critical criminal conduct
is not conclusively determined or does
that language come from director where
is the DOJ policy that says that can you
let me make it easier just right there
yes go ahead
can you give me the example other than
Donald Trump where the Justice
Department determined that an
investigated person was not exonerated
because their innocence was not
conclusively determined I cannot but
this is unique okay well you can't
time is short I've got five minutes
let's just leave it it you can't find it
because I'll tell you why it doesn't
exist the special counsels job nowhere
does it say that you were to
conclusively determine Donald Trump's
innocence or that the special counsel
report should determine whether or not
to exonerate them it's not in any of the
documents it's not in your appointment
order it's not in the special counsel
regulations it's not in the OLC opinions
it's not in the justice manual and it's
not in the principles of federal
prosecution no where do those words
appear together because respectfully
respectfully director it was not the
special counsels job to conclusively
determine Donald Trump's innocence or to
exonerate him because the bedrock
principle of our justice system is a
presumption of innocence it exists for
everyone everyone is entitled to it
including sitting presidents and because
there is a presumption of innocence
prosecutors never ever need to
conclusively determine it now director
Council applied this inverted burden of
proof that I can't find and you said
doesn't exist anywhere in the department
policies and you used it to write a
report and the very first line of your
report the very first line of your
report says and you as you read this
morning it authorizes the Special
Counsel to provide the Attorney General
with a confidential report explaining
the prosecution or declination decisions
reached by the special counsel that's
the very first word of your report right
that's correct
here's the problem director the special
counsel didn't do that on volume one you
did on bomb vol 2 with respect to
potential obstruction of justice the
special counsel made neither a
prosecution decision or a declination
decision you made no decision you told
us this morning and in your report that
you made no determination so
respectfully director you didn't follow
the special counsel regulations it
clearly says write a confidential report
about decisions reached nowhere in here
does it say write a report about
decisions that weren't reached you wrote
one hundred and eighty pages a hundred
and eighty pages about decisions that
weren't reached about potential crimes
that weren't charged or decided and
respectfully respectfully by doing that
you managed to violate every principle
and the most sacred of traditions about
prosecutors not offering extra
prosecutorial analysis about potential
crimes that aren't charged so Americans
need to know this as they listen to the
Democrats and socialists on the other
side of the aisle as they do dramatic
readings from this work given that
volume two of this report was not
authorized under the law to be written
it was written to a legal standard that
does not exist at the Justice Department
and it was written in violation of every
DOJ principle about extra prosecutorial
commentary I agree with the chairman
this morning when he said Donald Trump
is not above the law he's not but he
damn sure shouldn't be below the law
which is where volume two of this report
puts him
Thank You mr. chairman
director Muller good morning your
exchange with the gentlelady from
California demonstrates what is at stake
the Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort
was passing sensitive voter information
in Pollard data to a Russian operative
and there were so many other ways that
Russia subverted our democracy together
with the evidence in Volume one I cannot
think of a more serious need to
investigate so now I'm going to ask you
some questions about obstruction of
justice as it relates to volume 2 on
page 12a volume 2 you state we
determined that there were sufficient
factual and legal basis to further
investigate potential obstruction of
justice issues involving the president
is that correct page 12 volume 2 and
which portion of that page that is we
determined that there was a sufficient
factual and legal basis to further
investigate potential obstruction of
justice issues involving the president
is that correct yes your report also
describes at least 10 separate instances
of possible obstruction of justice that
were investigated by you and your team
is that correct
in fact the table of contents serves as
a very good guide of some of the acts of
that obstruction of justice that you
investigate it and I've put it up on the
screen on page 157 of volume 2 you
describe those acts and they range from
the president's effort to curtail the
special counsels investigation
the president's further emphasis to have
the Attorney General take over the
investigation
the president's orders dime again to
deny that the president tried to fire
the Special Counsel and many others is
that correct yes I direct you now to
what you roped director Muller the
president's pattern of conduct as a
whole sheds light on the nature of the
president's acts and the inferences that
can be drawn about his intent does that
mean you have to investigate all of his
conduct to ask
nein true motive no and when you talk
about the president's pattern of conduct
that includes the ten possible acts of
obstruction that you investigated is
that correct when you talk about the
president's pattern of conduct that
would include the ten possible acts of
obstruction that you investigate it
correct I direct you to the report for
how that is characterized thank you let
me go to the screen again and for each
of those ten potential instances of
obstruction of justice you analyze three
elements of the crime of obstruction of
justice and obstructive act a nexus
between the act and an official
proceeding and corrupt intent is that
correct yes you wrote on page 178 volume
2 in your report about corrupt intent
actions by the President to end a
criminal investigation into his own
conduct to protect against personal
embarrassment or legal liability would
constitute a core example of corruptly
motivated conduct is that correct yes to
the screen again even with the evidence
you did find is it true as you note on
page 76 of volume 2 that the evidence
does indicate that a thorough FBI
investigation would uncover facts about
the campaign and the president
personally that the president could have
understood to be crime so that would
give rise to legal personal and
political concerns I rely on the
language of the report is that relevant
to potential obstruction of justice is
that relevant to potential obstruction
of justice yes you further elaborate on
page 157 obstruction of justice can be
motivated by a desire to protect non
criminal personal interest to protect
against investigations where underlying
criminal liability falls into a gray
area or to avoid personal embarrassment
is that correct yes I have on the screen
is that correct on the screen can you
repeat the question
and then the worst-ever language on the
screen is it correct as you further
elaborate obstruction of justice can be
motivated by a direct desire to protect
non criminal personal interests to
protect against investigations where
underlying criminal liability falls into
a gray area what to avoid is that true
and is it true that the impact Martin
thinking investigations wrong doesn't
decline rate you can most rest on the
screen asking you if that's correct I
didn't want them to investigate me
that's why I did it I was trying to save
everybody time the conviction of result
potentially in a lot of years of a lot
of years of set of time in jail not a
test
well again can you repeat the question
just to make certain I have it accurate
guys Columbo there's always yes like
without the mistakes built up like whose
Carter page it's like Robert rollers are
really serious guys right here that to
enjoy it reads at the conclusion of the
special counsels work he or she shall
provide the Attorney General with a
confidential report explaining the
prosecution or declinations decisions
reached by the special counsel that
correct yes okay now on a regulation he
literally say shall why does it mean
that the individual is in fact obligated
to provide what's being demanded by the
regulation or statute meaning you don't
have any wiggle room right
I have to look more closely at the
statute I just read it to you okay oh
well I am to page one it report boldly
states we didn't Republicans on this
committee so much better than the ones
on the Coens and correct that's
interesting trying to find out all a
bunch of chances mr. Cohen is a true
year reality TV star and an
director could you speak directly into
the microphone please yes thank you well
it's volume 2 page 7 I'm sorry if I am
to page one and said we determined that
to make a traditional prosecutorial
judgment
yes that's right the beginning now since
you decided under the OLC opinion that
you couldn't prosecute a sitting
president meaning president Trump why do
we have all of this investigation of
President Trump that the other side is
talking about when you knew that you
weren't going to prosecute him you don't
know where the investigation is going to
lie and OLC opinion itself says that you
can continue the investigation even
though you are not going to indict the
president okay well sorry continue
fishing and that's you know that's my
optic my observation sure you sure you
might I'm is limited sure you can indict
other people that you can't indict the
sitting president right that's true okay
now there are a hundred and eighty two
pages in draw evidentiary material
including hundreds of references to 302
which are interviews by the FBI for
individuals who've never been
cross-examined and which did not comply
with the special counsels governing
regulation to explain the prosecution or
declination decisions reached correct
and where are you reading from what I'm
reading from my question then could you
repeat it okay you have a hundred and
eighty two pages of Robin injury
material with hundreds of references the
302s who were never been cross-examined
and which didn't comply with the
governing regulation to explain the
prosecution or declaration declination
decisions reached this is one of those
areas which I declined to discuss
cocaine and what and would direct you to
the report itself 182 pages of it you
know let me switch gears mr. Chabot and
I were on this committee during the
Clinton impeachment now while I
recognize that the Independent Counsel
statute under which Kenneth Starr
operated is different
from the special council statute he in a
number of occasions in his report stated
that the president clinton's actions may
have risen to impeachable conduct
recognizing that it is up to the House
of Representatives to determine what
conduct is impeachable you never use the
term raising to impeachable conduct for
any of the ten instances that the
gentlewoman from Texas right right did
is it true that there's nothing in
volume two of the report that she's is
that the President may have engaged in
impeachable conduct well seriously kept
in the center of our investigation the
our mandate and our mandate does not go
to other ways of addressing conduct our
mandate goes to what developing the
report and heard the report into the
attorney general respect you know it's
it seems to me you know that there are a
couple of statements that you made you
know that said that this is not for me
to decide and the implication is that
this is for this committee to decide now
you didn't use the word impeachable
conduct like star did there was no
statute to prevent you from using the
word impeachable conduct and I go back
to what mr. Radcliffe said and that is
is that even the president is innocent
until proven guilty my time is up
his time has expired the you gotta let
Muller answer his these these dangling
questions as to why he didn't address it
and frankly smaller's got in answer this
he's gonna come out of this looking like
 because I think he thought that he
could get away with being this - in that
report president you cannot create a
vacuum special because they will the
Republicans will fill it it will be
filled well there is a quote from page
78 of your report volume 2 which reads
when sessions told the president that a
special counsel had been appointed the
president slumped back in his chair
and said well oh my god this is terrible
this is the end of my presidency
I'm effed unquote oh good did it die
General Sessions tell you about that
little talk I'm not right good please
speak into the microphone Oh surely my
apologies I am NOT certain of the person
who originally copied that quote
okay well sessions apparently said in
one of his aides had it in his notes to
which I think you had but but that's
become record he wasn't pleased he
probably wasn't pleased with a special
counsel and particularly you because of
your outstanding reputation for a
priority appointment the Attorney
General recused himself from the
investigation because of his role in the
2016 campaign is that not correct
correct
refusal means the Attorney General could
not be involved in the investigation is
that correct that's the effect of
recusal yes and so instead another Trump
appointee as you know mr. sessions was
mr. Rosen Stein became in charge of it
is that correct yes wasn't Attorney
General Sessions following the rules and
professional advice of the department of
justice ethics folks when he refused
himself from the investigation yes and
yet the president repeatedly expressed
his displeasure at sessions decision to
follow those ethics rules to recuse
himself from oversight of that
investigation is that not correct that's
accurate based on what is written in the
report and the president's reaction to
the recusal is noted in the report mr.
bannon recalled that the president was
mad as mad as Banat had ever seen him
and he screamed at McGann about how week
sessions was do you recall that from the
report that's in the report yes despite
knowing the Attorney General Sessions
was supposed to be in was not supposed
to be involved investigation the
president still tried to get the
Attorney General to unrep use himself
after you were appointed special counsel
is that correct
yes in fact your investigation found
that at some point after your
appointment quote the president called
sessions at his home and asked if he
would unruhe fuse himself is that not
true it's true now that wasn't the first
time the president asked sessions to
Unruh fuse himself was it
I know there are at least two occasions
and one of them was with Flynn and one
of them was concessions and McGann flew
tomorrow Lago to meet with the president
sessions recall that the president
pulled him aside to speak alone and
suggest that he should do this unruhe
fusil act correct correct
and then when Michael Flynn a few days
after Flint entered a guilty plea for
lying to federal agents and indicated
his intent to cooperate with that
investigation Trump asked to speak two
sessions alone again in the Oval Office
and again as sessions to Unruh Cuse
himself true I refer you to the report
for that page 109 volume 2 thank you sir
do you know of any point when the
president personally expressed anger or
frustrations at sessions I'd have to
pass on that do you call and I think
this at page 78 of volume 2 the
president told sessions you were
supposed to protect me you were supposed
to protect me or worse to that effect
correct and as the Attorney General
supposed to be the Attorney General of
the United States of America or the
consiglio re for the president United
States of America thank you sir Healy
sought to convince sessions to Unruh
fuse himself so sessions could supervise
the quite investigation in a way that
was restrict its scope is that correct
rely on the report how could sessions
have restricted the scope of your
investigation well I'm not going to
speculate if he quite obviously if he
took over or was a Attorney General he
would have greater latitude and his
actions that would enable him to do
things that otherwise he could not on
page 113 you said the president believed
that an unreduced attorney general play
a protective role it could shield the
president from the ongoing investigation
regardless of all that I want to thank
you director Muller for your life of
rectitude and service to our country
it's clear from your report and the
evidence that the president wanted
former attorney general sessions to
violate the Justice Department ethics
rules by taking over your investigation
and improperly interfering with it to
protect himself and his campaign your
findings are so important because in
America nobody is a
the law that seemed you back to
obviously true dating a gentleman
feeling better shoehorning io after he
does Democratic colleagues were very
disappointed in your report they were
expecting you to say something along the
lines of here's why President Trump
deserves to be impeached much as Ken
Starr did relative to President Clinton
back about twenty years ago well you
didn't so their strategy had to change
now they allege that there's plenty of
evidence in your report to impeach the
president but the American people just
didn't read it and this hearing today is
their last best hope to build up some
sort of groundswell across America to
impeach President Trump that's what this
is really all about today now a few
questions on page 103 of volume two of
your report when discussing the June
2016
Trump Tower meeting you reference quote
the firm that produced steel reporting
unquote the name of that firm was fusion
GPS is that correct
and you're on page 103 103 that's
correct volume 2 can you repeat that
when you talk about the the firm that
produced the steel reporting you may
know the name of the firm that produced
that was fusion GPS as I just signed up
it's not a trick question
it was fusion GPS now fusion GPS not a
question that's coming that document
widened widely known as the steel
dossier and the owner of fusion GPA was
someone named Glenn Simpson are you
familiar with that's outside my purview
okay Glenn Simpson was never mentioned
in the 448 page report was he well as I
say it's outside my purview and it's
being handled in the department by
others okay well he was not 448 pages
amazing owner of the fusion GPIO and
press they did the steel dossier that
started all this in there to move on
that
at the same time fusion GPS was working
to collect opposition research on Donald
Trump from foreign sources on behalf of
the Clinton campaign and the Democratic
National Committee it also was
representing a Russian based company /
Abbas on which had been sanctioned by
the US government are you aware of that
it's outside my purview okay thank you
one of the key players in the I'll go to
something different when the key players
in the June 2016
Trump Tower meeting was Natalia vision
Jessica who you described in your report
is a Russian attorney who advocated for
the repeal of the Magnitsky Act vision
yet skia had been working with none
other than Glenn Simpson and fusion GPS
since at least early 2014
are you aware of that outside my purview
thank you but you didn't mention that or
her connections to Glenn Simpson at
fusion GPS this is them just going on
their conspiracy theories and saying it
literally you could get up there and
talk about pizza gate Russian or do the
exact same yeah says she first received
the supposedly incriminating information
she brought to Trump Tower describing
alleged tax evasion and donation to
Democrats from none other than Glenn
Simpson the fusion GPS owner you didn't
include that in the report and I assume
we aware that John Podesta was ordering
pizza spending the June 9th 2016 Trump
Tower meeting did you know John you
would guess clicks and metabolize cheese
yet he's asking for cheese pizza what
what do you make of that outside of my
president contrast to the actions of the
Trump are you familiar with the Bill
Clinton campaign did Pacers Bell devoted
work on the Trump campaign that's
outside of I
are you familiar with the weather
machine that you rock Obama hatch and
apparently and GPS yeah wasn't it my bad
so let me repeat that can you see what
it's like using GPS is related to
ongoing well this is the with the DOJ
inspector guessing meeting according to
you know that Bill Maher is
investigating the Clinton camp is
investigating all ties to see if they
can come up with some type is your
report is a pretty one-sided attack on
the president I'll tell you is still
outside my purview
alright and I would just note finally
that I guess it is by chance by
coincidence that the things left out of
the report tended to be favorable to the
president my times expired
actually I read the mother yeah your
investigation found that President Trump
directed White House Counsel done magan
to fire you in that correct true and the
president claimed that he wanted to fire
you because you had supposed conflicts
of interest in that correct row they you
had no conflicts of interest that
required your removal in that of fact
are correct and in fact Don Magan
advised the president that the asserted
conflicts were in his word silly and not
real conflicts in that truth I've ever
referred to the report on that episode
well page 85 of volume 2 speaks to that
and also director Muller DOJ ethics
officials confirmed that you had no
conflicts that would prevent you from
serving as special counsel it meant
correct
but despite Don McGann and the
Department of Justice guidance around
May 23rd 2017 the president quote
prodded began to complain to Deputy
Attorney General Rosenstein about these
supposed conflicts of interest correct
correct can you repeat that and Magan
declined to
Rosenstein or Rosenstein I'm sorry
telling the president that it would look
like still trying to meddle in the
investigation and knocking out mullah
would be another fact used to claim
obstruction of justice in that correct
generally so yes and in other words
director mullah the White House Counsel
told the president that if he tried to
remove you that that could be another
basis to allege that the president was
obstructing justice correct that is
generally correct yes now I'd like to
review what happened after the president
was warned about obstructing justice
on Tuesday yeah I'm sorry all right so
do you have a citation for that
on yes
volume 2 page 81 thank you in 82
I'd like to review what happened after
the president was warned about
obstructing justice it's true that on
Tuesday June 13th 2017 the president
dictated a press statement stating he
had quote no intention of firing you
correct correct but the following day
June 14th the media reported for the
first time that you were investigating
the president for obstructing of justice
correct
correct and then after learning for the
first time that he was under
investigation the very next day the
president quote issued a series of
tweets acknowledging the existence of
the obstruction investigation and
criticizing it in that correct generally
so and then on Saturday June 17th two
days later the president called Dan
McGann at home from Camp David on a
Saturday to talk about you in that
correct correct
what was the significant what was
significant about that first weekend
phone call that done McGann took from
President Trump I asked you to rely on
what we wrote
you wrote in your report that on page 85
volume 2 that on Saturday June 17 2017
the president called McGann at home to
have the special counsel removed now did
the president call don McGann more than
once that day well I gave I think it was
two calls I'm sorry about that on page
85 of your report you wrote quote on the
first call McGann recalled that the
president said something like quote you
gotta do this you gotta call Rudd
correct right and your investigation
what found that don McGann was perturbed
to use your words by the President's
request to call rot Rosenstein to fire
him isn't that correct well there was a
continuous colicky there was a
continuous involvement of Don McCain on
he responding to the president's
entreaties and he did not want to put
himself in the middle of that he did not
want to have a role in asking the
Attorney General to fire the special
counsel correct well I would again refer
you to the report and the way it is
characterized in the report thank you at
volume 2 page 85 it states that he
didn't want to have the Attorney General
he didn't want to have a role in trying
to fire the Attorney General so at this
point I will you bet Thank You mr.
chairman mr. Muller well first let me
ask a unanimous consent mr. chairman to
submit this article robert mower
unmasked for the record without
objection now mr. mower who wrote the
nine-minute comments you read at your
May 29th press conference I'm not
getting into that okay so that's what I
thought you didn't write it
a 2013 puff piece in The Washington Tony
in about cone
he said basically when Comey called you
drop everything you were doing it gave
examples you having dinner with your
wife and daughter Comey calls you drop
everything and go it the article quoted
Comey is saying if a train were coming
down the track and I quote at least Bob
Moore will be standing on the tracks
with me yeah you and James Comey have
been good friends or good friends for
eight for many years correct
oh we were business associates we both
started off in the Justice Department
about you were good friends you can work
together and not be friends but you were
home we were friends we were friends we
loved my question thank you for love
that was hard for us counsel or
appointed a special night sold had you
talked to James Comey in the preceding
six months when you were appointed as
special counsel was president Trump's
firing of Comey something you
anticipated investigating potentially
obstruction to just get into that at the
internal deliberations of the Justice
Department actually it goes to your
credibility and maybe you've been away
from the courtroom for a while
credibility is always relevant it's
always material and that goes for you
too
your witness before us let me ask you
when you talk to President Trump the day
before he appointed you or you were
appointed as special counsel you were
talking to him about FBI Director
position again did he mention the firing
of James I don't not as a candidate I
was asked did he mentioned the firing of
James Comey in your discussion with him
cannot remember pardon cannot remember
it don't believe so not gonna be don't
remember but if he did you could been a
fact witness as to the president's
comments and state of mind on firing
James Comey I suppose that's possible
yeah so most prosecutors would want to
make sure there was no appearance of
impropriety but in your case you hired a
bunch of people that did not like the
president let me ask you when did you
first learn to Peter Struck's animus
toward Donald
in the summer of 2017 you didn't know
before he was hired I'm sorry what you
didn't know before he was hired for your
team you know what Peter struck hated
Trump okay you didn't know that before
he was made part of your team that what
yes I did not know that all right
when did you never learn when they did
find out I acted swiftly to have him
reassigned elsewhere in the FL there's
some discussion about how Swift that was
but when did you learn of the ongoing
affair he was having with Lisa Paige
about the same time okay
answers he'll find out he was banging
these up or tottering old paths that the
deletion of all of their checks offered
their government phones once we found
that Peter struck was an author of did
you ever what exploring a sexuality and
questions America or who did not
investigations ooh laughs James called
me like brought back about their
government phones no there was an IG
investigation ongoing listen now
regarding collusion or conspiracy
you didn't find evidence of any
agreement I'm quoting you among the
Trump campaign officials and any Russian
linked individuals to add fear with our
US election correct correctly so you
also note in the report that an element
of any of those obstructions you
referenced requires a corrupt state of
mind correct corrupt intent correct
right and if somebody not state of mind
not conspire with anybody from Russia to
embed the election and they see the big
Justice Department with people that hate
that person coming after him and then a
special counsel appointed who hires
dozen or more people that hate that
person and he knows he's innocent he's
not corruptly acting in order to
see that justice is done what he's doing
is not obstructing justice he is
pursuing justice and the fact that you
ran it up you non killing on it it
slowly go away as time has expired the
witness may answer the question I take
your question but you gentleman from
Florida director Muller what does that
mean I take your questionnaire tomorrow
I'd like to get back to the linings
covering June of 2017 there was a duly
noted that reported that the President
of the United States was personally
under investigation for obstruction of
justice and you said in your report on
device to and I quote news of the
obstruction investigation prompted the
President to calm again and seek to have
the special counsel removed
that's not module 5 the president to
White House Counsel done again and
regarding the second call you wrote and
I quote McGann recalled that the
president was more direct saying
something like call rod tell rod that
Muller has conflicts and can't be
special can't be the special counsel
again recall the president telling him
Muller has to go and call me back when
you do it director Muller didn't McGann
understand what the president was
ordering him to do I direct you to do
what we have written in the report in
terms of characterizing and his feelings
and in the report it says quote McGann
understood the president to be saying
that the special counsel had to be
removed
you also said on page 86 that quote
McGann consider the President's request
to be an inflection point and he wanted
to hit the brakes and he felt trapped
and McGann decided he had to resign
McGann took action to prepare to resign
isn't that correct
I direct you again to the report and in
fact Robert you said quote he then drove
to the office to pack his belongings and
submit his resignation letter close
quote
that is directly from the report it is
and
for he resigned however he called the
president's chief of staff
Reince Priebus and he called the
president's senior advisor Steve Bannon
do you recall what began told them yeah
whatever hey what what said well I will
appear in the report it is it is and it
says on page 87 quote Priebus recall
that McGann said that the president
asked him to do crazy expletive in other
words crazy stuff the White House
account I don't think it thought that
the president's request was completely
out of bounds
you guys said something crazy it was
wrong and he was prepared to resign over
it now these are extraordinarily
troubling events but you found White
House Counsel McGann to be a credible
witness isn't that correct correct
director Muller the most important
question I have for you today is why
director Muller why did the President of
the United States want you fired I can't
answer that question well I'm on page 89
as he's a senior gamma communist you
said and I quote substantial evidence
not on the case ain't that the
president's evident that the president's
attempts to remove the special counsel
were linked to the special counsels
oversight of investigations that involve
the president's conduct and most
immediately two reports that the
president was being investigated for
potential obstruction of justice
close quote director Muller you found
evidence as you lay out in your report
that the president wanted to fire you
because you were investigating him for
obstruction of justice isn't that
correct that's what it says in the
report yes and I go I stand by the
report dr. Muller that shouldn't happen
in America no president should be able
to
scape investigation by abusing his power
but that's what you testified to in your
report the President ordered you fired
the White House Counsel knew it was
wrong the president knew it was wrong in
your report it says there's also
evidence the president we should not
have made those calls to him again but
the president did it anyway he did it
anyway
anyone else who blatantly interfered
with a criminal investigation like yours
would be arrested and indicted on
charges of obstruction of justice
director Muller you determined that you
were barred from indicted a sitting
president we've already talked about
that today that is exactly why this
committee must hold the president
accountable I yield back
the gentleman yields back the gentlelady
from Alabama direct enroller you just
said two different lines of questions
that you would refer but as it relates
to this firing discussion that I would
refer you to the report in the way it
was characterized in the report
importantly the president never said
fire mulher or in the investigation and
one doesn't necessitate the other and
Magan in fact did not resign he stuck
around for a year and a half on March
24th attorney general bar informed the
committee that he had received the
special counsels report and it was not
until April 18th that the Attorney
General released the report to Congress
in the public when you submitted your
report to the Attorney General did you
deliver a redacted version of the report
so that he would be able to release it
to Congress and the public without delay
pursuant to his announcement of his
intention to do so during his
confirmation hearing I'm not getting
engaged in the discussion about what
happened after the production of our
report had the Attorney General asked
you to provide a redacted version of the
report we worked on a redacted versions
together did he ask you for a version
where the grand jury material was
separated now can you get into details
is it your belief that an unredacted
version of the report could be released
to Congress or the public that's not in
my purview did we just lose sound I
think they're think it was its defeat
yeah there's something that are on
c-span well we had a process that we
were operating on with the attorney
general's office are you aware of any
attorney general going to court to
receive similar permission to unredacted
see material I'm not aware of that being
done the Attorney General released the
special counsels report with minimal
reactions to the public and any even
lesser redacted version to Congress did
you write the report with the
expectation that it would be released
publicly no we did not have an
expectation we raped a report
understanding that it was demanded by
the statute and would go to the Attorney
General for further problem further
review and pursuant to the special
council regulations who is the only
party that must receive the charging
decision resulting from the special
counsels investigation with regard to
the President or generally know
generally Attorney General at Attorney
General bars and confirmation hearing he
made it clear that he intended to
release your reports to the public do
you remember how much of your report had
been written at that point do not were
there significant changes in tone or
substance of the report made after the
announcement that the report would be
made available to Congress in the public
I can't get into that during the Senate
testimony of Attorney General William
bar Senate senator Camacho here and
asked mr. Barr if he had looked at all
the underlying evidence that the special
counsels team had gathered he stated
that he had not so I'm gonna ask you did
you personally review all of the
underlying evidence gathered in your
investigation well to the extent that it
came through the special counsel's
office yes
did anything single me member of your
team review all the underlying evidence
gathered during the course of your
have been recited here today substantial
amount of work was done whether it be
search warrant er or my point is is
there was no one member of the team that
looked at everything that's what I'm
trying to get it okay it's fair to say
that in an investigation is
comprehensive is yours it's normal that
different members of the team would have
reviewed different sets of documents and
few if anyone would have reviewed all of
the underlying thank you yes how many of
the approximately 500 interviews
conducted by the special conference did
you attend personally very few on March
27 2009 teen you wrote a letter to the
Attorney General
essentially complaining about the media
coverage of your report you wrote not
quite the summary letter the department
sent to Congress and released to the
public late in the afternoon of March 24
did not fully capture the context nature
and substance of this office work in
conclusions we communicated that concern
to the department on the morning of
March 23rd there's now public confusion
about critical aspects of the result of
our investigation who wrote that March
27th letter I can't get into who wrote
it the internal deliberations you signed
it what I will say is a letter Stanford
cell okay why did you write a formal
letter since you had already called the
Attorney General to express those
concerns I can't get into that internal
deliberations did you authorize the
letters release to the media or was it
leaked well you went nearly two years
without a leak why was this letter
leaked I can't get into it was this
letter written and late for the express
purpose of attempting to change the
narrative about the conclusions of your
report and was anything in attorney
general bars letter referred to as
principled conclusions answer the
question please
and the question is yes you may answer
the question was anything in attorney
general bars letter referred to as the
principal conclusions letter dated March
24th inaccurate well I am NOT going to
get into that time of the gentlelady has
expired the gentlelady from California
Thank You mr. chair director Muller as
you know we are focusing on five
obstruction episodes to
I would like to ask you about the second
of those five obstruction episodes it is
in the section of your report beginning
on page 113 of volume 2 entitled quote
the president orders Magan to deny that
the president tried to fire the Special
Counsel in quote on January 25th 2018
the New York Times reported that quote
the president had ordered Magan to have
the Department of Justice fire you is
that correct correct and that story
related to the events you already
testified about here today the
president's calls to McCann to have you
removed correct correct
after the news broke did the president
go on TV and denied a story do not know
in fact the president said quote fake
news boats make news a typical New York
Times fake story in quote correct
correct but your investigation actually
found substantial evidence that Magan
was ordered by the President to fire you
correct yes did the president's personal
lawyer do something the following day in
response to that news report I'd refer
you to the coverage of this in the
report on page 114 quote On January 26
2018 the president's personal counsel
called McGann's attorney and said that
the president wanted Magan to put out a
statement denying that he had been asked
to fire the Special Counsel in quote did
McCann do what the president asked I
refer you to the report communicating
through his personal attorney McCann
refused because he said quote that the
time story was accurate in reporting
that the president wanted the special
counsel removed isn't that right I
believe it is but I refer you again to
the report okay so mr. McCann through
his personal attorney told the president
that he is was not going to lie is that
right true
did the president drop the issue I refer
to the write-up of this in the report
okay next the president told the White
House staff secretary Rob Porter to try
to pressure McCann to make a false tan
is that correct that's correct what did
he actually direct Porter to do and I
would send you back to the report okay
well on page 113 it says quote the
president been directed Porter to tell
him again to create a record to make it
clear that the president never directed
McCann to fire you in quote is that
correct that is as a statement it stated
in the report and you found quote the
president said he wanted Magan to write
a letter to the file for our records
correct correct
and to be clear the president is asking
his White House Counsel Don McCann to
create a record that McCann believed to
be untrue while you were in the midst of
investigating the president for
obstruction of justice correct
generally correct and mr. McCann was an
important witness in that investigation
wasn't he I'd have to say yes did the
president tell Porter to threaten the
can if he didn't create the written
denial aggravated a write-up of it in
the report in fact didn't the president
say quote and this is on page 116 if he
doesn't write a letter then maybe I'll
have to get rid of him in quote yes did
Porter deliver that threat I again refer
you to the discussion it's found on a
2015 one fifteen okay but the president
still didn't give up did he so the
president told McGann directly to deny
that the president told him to have you
fired can you tell me exactly what
happened I can't be open to the report
well on page 116 it says the president
met him in the Oval Office quote the
president began the oval office meeting
by telling McCann that the New York
Times story didn't look good and McCann
needed to correct it is that correct
all right so as it's written in the
report yes the president asked McCann
whether he would do a correction and
McCann said
No correct that's accurate
well mr. Muller thank you for your
investigation uncovering this very
disturbing evidence my friend mr.
Richmond will have additional questions
on the subject however it is clear to me
if anyone else had ordered a witness to
create a false record and cover up acts
that are subject of a law enforcement
investigation that person would be
facing criminal charges I yield back my
time
the gentlelady yields back the gentleman
from Ohio director of the FBI
interviewed Joseph Smith sued on
February 10th 2017 in that interview of
mr. Mifsud lied you point this out on
page 193 volume 1 MIPS had denied nipson
also falsely stated in addition nipson
omitted three times he lied to the FBI
yet you didn't charge him with the crime
excuse me what's going on oh no guess we
all have to go home and go back to bed
say let's remember this let's remember
this in 2016 the FBI did something they
probably haven't done before they spied
on two American citizens associated with
a presidential campaign George
papadopolis and Carter Paige with Carter
Paige they went to the FISA Court
they used the now-famous dossier as part
of the reason they were able to get the
warrant and spy on Carter page for a
better part of a year with mr.
Papadopoulos they didn't go to the court
they use human sources all kinds of from
about that moment pappa da police joins
the Trump campaign you got all these
people all around the world starting to
swirl around him names like Halper
downer Mifsud Thompson meeting in Rome
London all kinds of places the FBI even
sent even sent a lady posing as somebody
else went by the name as returned even
dispatched her to London I am here your
question but I would prosecute you
wrestling talking to a foreign diplomat
and he tells the diplomat Russians have
dirt on Clinton that diplomat then
contacts the FBI and the FBI opens an
investigation based on that fact he
point this out on page one of the report
July 31st 2016 they opened the
investigation based on that piece of
information diplomat tells Papadopoulos
Russians have dirt excuse me
pap innopolis tells the diplomat
Russians have dirt on Clinton diplomat
tells the FBI what I'm wondering is who
told Papadopoulos how did he find out I
can't get into the evidentiary file yes
you can because you talked about it you
gave us the answer page 192 of the
report you tell us who told him
Joseph nipson Joseph NIF's is a guy who
told Papadopoulos the mysterious
professor who lives in Rome in London
works at teach in two different
universities this is the guy who told
Papadopoulos he's the guy who starts at
all and when the FBI interviews him he
lies three times and yet you don't
charge him with a crime he charged rick
gates for false statements she charged
Paul Manafort for false statements he
charged Michael Cullen with false
statements he charged Michael Flynn a
three-star general with false statements
but the guy who puts the country through
this whole saga starts it all for three
years we've lived this now he lies and
you guys don't charge him and I'm
curious as to why well I can't get into
it and and it's obvious I think that we
can't get into charging decisions when
the FBI interviewed him in February FBI
interviews him in February when the
special counsel's office interviewed
Mifsud did he lie to you guys - can't
get into that did you interview Mifsud
get into that his Mifsud Western
intelligence and Russian intelligence
can't get into that a lot of things you
can't get into what's interesting you
can charge 13 Russians no one's ever
heard of no one's ever seen no one's
ever gonna hear of him no one's ever
gonna see him you can charge them you
can charge all kinds of people who are
around the president with false
statements but the guy who launches
every the guy who puts this whole story
in motion you can't charge him
I think that's amazing sure tonight I'm
not sure Mifsud told Papadopoulos
Papadopoulos tells the diplomat the
diplomat tells the FBI the FBI opens the
investigation July 31st 2016 and here we
are three years later July of 2019 the
country's been put through this and the
central figure who launches it all lies
to us and you guys don't hunt him down
and interview him again and you don't
charge him with a crime now here's the
good news here's the good news
the president was falsely accused of
conspiracy the FBI does a 10-month
investigation and James Comey when we
deposed him a year ago told us at that
point they had nothing you do a 22-month
investigation being that 22 months you
find no conspiracy and what's the
Democrats want to do they want to keep
investigating they want to keep going
maybe a better course of action maybe a
better course of action is to figure out
how the false accusation started maybe
it's to go back and actually figure out
why Joseph nipson was lying to the FBI
and here's the good news here's the good
news that's exactly what bill bars doing
and thank goodness for that that's
exactly what the Attorney General and
John Durham are doing they're gonna find
out why we went through this three years
time you lose your saga and get to the
bottom of Speyer theory that a moment
will take a very brief
counterintelligence operation everyone
in a room to see the witness exit I
don't discount room I also want to
announce to those in the audience that
you may not be guaranteed your seat if
you leave the hearing room at this time
there's so much redacted from the report
that's what I found frustrating about
Rihanna it's so annoying especially when
you're listening to it I tried to start
listening to more of it and every other
I thought Nadler 'z exchange was the
most effective politically in terms of
like all this so far that they will use
use that upfront I mean you know we can
go through these sort of minutiae of the
obstruction when he's talking about
firing talking about firing mcgann and
whatnot but they should continue for
some reason they've been avoiding the
first chapter on in terms of the
question of collusion and I think
there's still plenty for them to just
reading in the report talking about the
actions of the president while not
specifically coordinated as to getting
involved in the hacking etc etc
[Music]
certainly the idea of like we'll do this
knowing you like it you continue to do
stuff that you know we like and the
report specifically says that is not
chargeable there is no crime committed
there in terms of the statute but I
would imagine it's certainly behavior
that is that warrants impeachment but
the problem the Democrats have is that
the leadership of the Democratic Party
does not want to impeach and so there
are narrow constraints on Nadler and the
Democrats more broadly as to what they
can pursue at this point and we now have
a challenger to Jerry Nadler who is
running at least in part
on pushing Nadler to impeachment and
that's going to force Nadler to get to
basically go to Nancy Pelosi and say you
know if he perceives this challenge to
be valid I've got a challenger now I've
got to move forward more so we'll see
what happens with that well we should
also say that this guy here is a nut
Gates but the other one who right who is
that Ratcliffe yeah Radcliffe Radcliffe
just met with the president as a
possible replacements for Dan Coates at
the Director of National Intelligence so
how to say looking pretty good you did a
job we need to abolish the intelligence
services I agree they're incompatible
with democracy but I don't know I I'm I
am increasingly interested in the idea
of this stuff originating as some type
of intelligence operation against Trump
and again that's not exculpatory of
Trump right like you could still have
the same conclusions about Trump but the
origins of where it came from and how
this is played out are significant I
just I don't know I I think if they want
to get a trumpet just the CIA at that
point in in you know when they
supposedly write the so if if miss foot
was a CIA s which has been what's it's
not inconceivable that this is a guy who
works for both and precisely most of
these people a lot of people like this
do it right why would he know from the
CIA that the Russians had this material
that was damaging on Hillary Clinton I
don't know I mean isn't it more likely
that the Russians knew that the Russians
had the material I'm still I guess I'm
and what end that we're talking when we
say the Russians material that's that
means WikiLeaks was that what the
assumption oh the the hack was done by
by by a gusoff er well yeah GRU right so
I mean why why what why is it more
likely that the CIA
I have no idea I'm glorious I'm very I'm
interested in how this would know that
it is a trump well I mean they've been
saying they've been the Intelligence
Estimates of like Russian interference
in this election have gone back to
during the election that's definitely
not inconceivable they would know that
at all well so it but I understand what
you mean about the straightest path but
saying it's it's unlikely or
inconceivable anyone have a sense would
the theory then be that Jim Jordan is
for instance bluffing and saying that
we're gonna cheat we're gonna figure out
what this is knowing full well that
ultimately you're just gonna get like of
course were you aware of the Benghazi
hearings it's just gonna be the national
response ago we can't go in right of
course of course
yeah of course I mean it's it's
conceivable but the fact is that miss
food may be I mean if myths food is
either a Russian asset or a Russian
asset and a CIA asset or a CIA asset one
of those three things right but in any
scenario what is the most likely way
that he would know that the Russians
were the ones who were behind the hack
at that point no idea I don't know well
I get I understand it's just the most
obvious answer it's conceivable the CIA
knew that the Russians had done the hack
within one week Trump administrating
sweets lady we can exactly but there is
a reason that all this stuff has been
constantly fed by these people which
would kind of correlate with that I
don't know I I just think in terms of
taking shots at Trump it needs to be
like I just don't think the average
person is interested in like and when
did and when did he say that about
sessions and then he called sessions
that's what I'm saying about the
obstruction a little bit too we ice just
get look if the democratic party had
integrity and even just strategic
tenacity they would just come out and
basically say like we're either starting
the imaan Youmans clause and here's a
super simple example of it or he or this
guy is mentally incompetent and racist
and or your website a big long list you
just started I mean all that it's like
the idea that in in 2019 with everything
swirling around
like this is part of them being in a
very tiny sub pocket of people that are
actually like gonna go to shut down you
know early open bars in DC to be like oh
whoa that that was when Trump sent that
to McCain the day before well I I think
I think they're getting too legalistic
and in there when I'm looking at it say
the way um it's worst of both worlds
because they're not going through with
just like what they could do is just
like we're just gonna impeach
him because F him there's no magic words
that are gonna come out of this where
the Democrats are gonna lock into
impeachment and so and then all they do
is just well so the idea is your minutia
yes the idea should be that they're
getting into this there that they that
they're basically making people
understand the broad scope of of the
broad scope of the report I think we can
take that's not like I say Nadler I
think is the only one so far I've got it
and the problem is all this reduction
and intelligence stuff because
ultimately they're probably can just
kick it into that area and people get
confused by I also think just on a
political level truck another big
advantage that Trump has is I think that
everybody from the people who absolutely
loathe him and will vote against him no
matter what so the people who love him
and even I would say to the people who
are like weirdly undecided I don't I
think the idea that Trump is some sort
of criminal is maybe news to Jesse Lee
Petersen like I just it's like yeah
Trump obstructed justice and I gotta
tell you I think a lot of people would
assume that especially as it gets less
and less like elaborate and sexy but
just like the idea that like oh maybe
there's dirty dealings in campaigns and
people try to cover that up I don't
think that that brings out the smelling
salts for most people no hasn't he like
bragged in the past about knowing guys
in the Mafia and stuff like that like
balls it was ran a guy was mafia
associated at one of his first public
Jerry no socks baby no socks was
chilling with him open the champagne
showing president I mean I almost feel
like I mean I just think you could go in
one or two directions
one is a monuments and he's an unhinged
racist so we're just gonna take it to
him or two Democrats should start saying
like okay ah you know European Union if
you're listening and you have a P tape
we would like very much to see that like
let's just do this the the the committee
is also failing I think in in terms of
like they just don't have a grasp on
this stuff enough so for instance why
wouldn't you charge miss foot in this
report if for lying to the to the to the
FBI maybe it's because he's not in the
purview of the investigation because
he's not in any way associated with an
American television sassette it's
possible but it also could be that he's
not a a person who's associated with the
Trump campaign or the Palio is though
right no miss foot is not I think I mean
Moeller has been pretty willing to throw
charges at people who are well I mean
even Papadopoulos at the end of
Papadopoulos was my understanding as a
part of the Trump campaign essentially
he's a coffee boy
there's also a concurrent intelligence
investigation and miss food may have
more relevance to that investigation
than the criminal investigation of of
either obstruction or this is kind of
the problem where they can even find him
I mean this guy is actually now they
can't find him well I mean this whole
intelligence thing this is the original
problem with when Hillary was on stage
saying 16 different agencies has said
Trump is associated with the road like
colluded with Russia or whatever she
actually said is people like what so
what 16 agencies that I don't have any
sort of accountability to me and I
shouldn't trust the way they've lied
about the most or good very least gotten
wrong the most significant things of our
time and clearly have their own agendas
and so if there's all these other
investigations impinging on this one
that allow us to not really see the
juiciest bits about this are we ever
going to hear about those investigations
- probably not if they're intelligent
fit right it just seems like it just
always goes back to what we've been
saying from the beginning was like yeah
there's sure they were sketchy some
stuff there
and I agree that your nether is the only
person that has gotten him to say
anything that is clippable frankly it
determines the degree of redaction
that's uh that's bill Barr good luck
with that
the gentleman from Louisiana mr.
Richmond where I get pissed off on the
other side of this equation oh yeah you
really think bill bore with why mr.
mother congressman Dutch addressed
Trump's requests to Magan to fire you
representative bass talked about the
President's request of Magan to deny the
fact that the president made that
request I want to pick up where they
left off and I want to pick up with the
president personal lawyer in fact there
was evidence that the president's
personal lawyer was alarmed at the
prospect of the president meeting with
mr. McGann to discuss mr. McCain's
refusal to deny the New York Times
report about the president trying to
fire you correct right in fact the
president's counsel was so along by the
prospect of the president's meeting with
McGann that he called mr. McCain's
counsel and said that McGann could not
resign no matter what happened in the
Oval Office that day correct correct
so it's accurate to say that the
president knew that he was asking McGann
to deny facts that McGann quote had
repeatedly said were accurate
unquote isn't that right correct your
investigation also found quote by the
time of the oval office meeting with the
president the president was aware one
that McGann did not think the story was
false two did not want to issue a
statement or create a written record
denying facts that McGann believed to be
true the president nevertheless
persisted and acts McGann to repudiate
facts that McGann have repeatedly said
were accurate isn't that correct
generally too
I believe that's on page 119 thank you
in other words the president was trying
to force him again to say something that
McGann did not believe to be true at
accurate I want to reference you to a
slide in its own page 120 and it says
substantial evidence indicates that in
repeatedly urging McGann to dispute that
he was ordered to have the special
counsel terminated the president acted
for the purpose of influencing McGann's
account in order to deflect or prevent
further scrutiny of the president's
conduct towards the investigation Sakura
can you explain what you meant there I
just got a believe it and as it appears
in the report so it's fair to say the
president tried to protect himself
now Mahler has realized all he has to
say every time going investigation I
would say that's a generally a summary I
mean I understand why they can't say
what why they can't get it this is
really frustrating like you they're
literally the Democrats are literally
making this completely undramatic as
they possibly can
thank you also the president's attempt
unbelieva mr. Trump's concerns focus on
inquiry correct is it fair to say based
upon your report the president's me told
Don McGann his lawyer to lie lie to you
lie to everybody yes that's what the
report says so if that is what it says
the president's told people to lie in
front of an investigation unquote and
here we are and you're defending this I
mean that's what's got to be going on
instead of like these and then 15
minutes later didn't Donna can say that
the coffee is warm and that's all and if
the coffee was warm therefore it had to
have been 20 minutes later in which case
the coffee was actually tepid can you
repeat that the Democrats are sort of
empty posturing or
style of assumptions but let's be fair
they don't have style either it's not
just we don't think you look tomorrow
legit they're traumatized what I mean is
the only thing I was the ball about fire
here's the ideological global economic
patterns that cheney's centrist parties
there's all these big picture things
there's awesome insulation how did this
culture like Tony Blair's not almost bad
during the meeting about it was bad is
that correct not when he was campaigning
that's what the report says to give
credit where credit do Hillary Clinton
not a win in fact is completely
appropriate for the president staff
especially his counsels to take notes
during a meeting correct I rely on the
wording of the report well thank you
director Muller for your investigation
into whether the president attempted to
have struck justice by order in his
White House Counsel dime again to lie to
protect the president and then to create
a false record about it it is clear that
any other person old lady would be
charged Carson right now being a
continuing oh the president I don't know
who doesn't know but I'm sure you're
very upset thank you yeah gentleman from
Florida I gotta go dr. Mohler can you
state with confidence that the steel
dossier was not part of Russia's
disinformation campaign no I said it my
opening statement I'm that part of the
building of the case was predated me and
by at least 10 months Paul manna forts
alleged crimes regarding tax evasion
predated you you had no problem charged
in them and matter of fact it's hurt
this Steel dossier predated the Attorney
General and he didn't have any problem
answering the question when senator
Cornyn asked the Attorney General the
exact question I asked you director the
Attorney General said and I'm quoting no
I can't state that with confidence and
that's one of the areas I'm reviewing
I'm concerned about it and I don't think
it's entirely speculative now if
something is not entirely speculative
then it must have some factual basis but
you identify no factual basis regarding
the
CA or the possibility that it was part
of the Russia disinformation campaign
now Christopher Steele's reporting is
referenced in your report Steele
reported to the FBI that senior Russian
Foreign Ministry figures among with
other along with other Russians told him
that there was an I'm quoting from the
steel dossier extensive evidence of
conspiracy between the Trump campaign
team and the Kremlin so here's my
question
did Russians really tell that to
Christopher Steele or did he just make
it all up and was he lying to the FBI
let me back up a second if I could and
say as I said earlier with regard to the
steal that's beyond my purview no it is
exactly your purview director Muller and
here's why only one of two things is
possible right either Steele made this
whole thing up and there were never any
Russians telling him of this vast
criminal conspiracy that you didn't find
or Russians lied to steal now if
Russians were lying to steal to
undermine our confidence in our duly
elected president that would seem to be
precisely your purview because you
stated in your opening that the
organizing principle was to fully and
thoroughly investigate Russia's
interference but you weren't interested
in whether or not Russians were
interfere and through Christopher steel
and if Steele was lying then you should
have charged him with lying like you
charged a variety of other people but
you say nothing about this in your
report well sir
meanwhile director you're quite
loquacious on other topics you write
3,500 words about the June 9 meeting
between the Trump campaign and Russian
lawyer vessel nets kya you write on page
103 of your report that the president's
legal team suggested and I'm quoting
from your report that the meeting might
have been a setup by individuals working
with the firm that produced the steel
reporting so I'm going to ask you a very
easy question director Muller on the
week of June 9 who did Russian lawyer
vessel Mnet's Chaya meet with more
frequently the Trump campaign or Glenn
Simpson who is functionally acting as an
operative for the Democratic National
Committee well what I think is missing
here is the fact that this is under
investigation other and elsewhere in the
Justice Department and if I can finish
her and if I could finish her and
consequently it's not within my purview
Department of Justice and FBI should be
responsive to questions on this
particular issue it is absurd to suggest
that a operative for the Democrats was
meeting with this Russian lawyer the day
before and the day after the Trump Tower
meeting and yet that's not something you
reference now Glenn Simpson testified
under oath he had dinner with vessel
Mets kiyah
the day before and the day after this
meeting with the Trump team do you have
any basis as you sit here today to
believe that Steele was lying as I said
before I say again it's not my purview
others are investigating what you so
it's not arrest you to look into whether
or not Steele's lying it's not your
purview to look into whether or not
anti-trump Russians are lying to steal
and it's not your purview to look at
whether or not Glenn Simpson was meeting
with the Russians the day before in the
day after you write 3500 words about the
Trump campaign meeting so I'm wondering
how these decisions are guided I look at
the inspector general's report I'm
citing from page 404 of the inspector
general's report it states page stated
Trump's not ever going to be President
right right struck replied no he's not
we'll stop it also in the inspector
general's report there's someone
identified as attorney number two
attorney number two this is page 419
replied hell no and then added viva la
resistance attorney number two in the
inspector general's report and struck
both worked on your team didn't a pardon
me yes I know I heard struck who else
were you talking about attorney number
two identified and I'm going to start
answering questions like this and the
question was do you work for you the guy
who said viva la here and Peter struck
Wolcott worked for me for a period of
time yes yeah but so did the other guy
that said viva la resistance and here's
where I'm kind of noticing director
Muller when people associated with Trump
why'd you threw the book at him when
Christopher Steele lied nothing and so
it seems to be that when Glenn Simpson
met with Russians nothing when the Trump
campaign met with Russians 3500 words
and maybe the reason why there are this
discrepancies in what you focused on
strikes at the core of an investigators
effort to find the truth correct correct
the crime of obstruction of justice has
three elements true
the first element is an obstructive act
correct correct an obstructive act could
include taking an action that would
delay or interfere with an ongoing
investigation as set forth in volume 2
page 87 and 88 of your report true I'm
sorry could you again repeat the
question an obstructive act could
include taking an action that would
delay or interfere with an ongoing
investigation that's true your
investigation found evidence that
President Trump took steps to terminate
the special counsel correct correct mr.
Muller does ordering determination of
the head of a criminal investigation
constitute an obstructive act that would
be let me refer you to page 87 and 88 of
volume 2 where you conclude the attempt
to remove the special counsel would
qualify as an obstructive act if it
would naturally obstruct the
investigation in any grand jury
proceedings that might flow from the
inquiry correct yes I've got that now
thank you thank you
the second element of obstruction of
justice is the presence of an
obstructive act and connection with an
official proceeding
true-true does the special council's
criminal investigation into the
potential wrongdoing of donald trump
constitute an official proceeding and
that's an area which i cannot get into
what okay president Trump tweeted on
116th 2017 quote I am being investigated
for firing the FBI director by the man
who told me to fire the FBI director
witch-hunt the June 16th tweet just read
was cited on page 89 in volume 2
constitutes a public acknowledgement by
President Trump that he was under
criminal investigation correct I think
generally correct one day later on
Saturday June 17th President Trump
called White House Counsel Don Magan
at home and directed him to fire the
special counsel true I believe to be
true I think we've been I may have
stated in response to questions some
that is correct
president Trump told Don McGann quote
Muller has to go close quote
correct correct your report found on
page 89 volume 2 that substantial
evidence indicates that by June 17th the
president knew his conduct was under
investigation by a federal prosecutor
who could present any evidence of
federal crimes to a grand jury true true
the third element second element having
just been satisfied the third element of
the crime of obstruction of justice is
corrupt intent true true corrupt intent
exists if the president acted to
obstruct an official proceeding for the
improper purpose of protecting his own
interests correct and that's generally
correct thank you know what the only
thing I would say is we are going
through the three elements of the proof
of the obstruction of justice charges
when the fact that matter is we got
excuse me just one second well thank you
mr. muth let me let me move on in the
interest of time upon learning about the
appointment of the special counsel your
investigation found that Donald Trump
stated to the then Attorney General
quote oh my god this is terrible this is
the end of my presidency arm left is
that correct correct is it fair to say
that Donald Trump viewed a special
counsels investigation into his conduct
as adverse to his own interests I think
a general eight is true the
investigation found evidence quote that
the president knew that he should not
have directed down McGann to fired a
special counsel correct and where do you
have that quote page 90 volume 2 there
is evidence that the president knew he
should not have made those calls to
McGann close quote I see that yes that's
accurate the investigation also found
substantial evidence that President
Trump repeatedly urged McGann to dispute
that he was ordered to have the special
counsel terminated correct correct
the investigation found substantial
evidence guys even taught when each
other before him
I was just thinking how they say like
let's all do exact same line a question
and see which one of us does it more
clearly subbed reading with Quran Omar I
don't have time it's really prep for
this so no one else East a factual right
no I would say 99% of times these things
I'd say it really just doesn't matter
that game I'm not supportive of that
analytical charge thank you
Thank You mr. chairman mr. melih over
here hi hi I want to start by thanking
you for your service
you joined the Marines and let a rifle
platoon in Vietnam where you earned a
Bronze Star Purple Heart and other
accommodations you served as an
assistant United States attorney leading
the Homicide Unit here in DC US Attorney
for the District of Massachusetts and
later Northern District of California
assistant attorney general for DOJ is
Criminal Division and the FBI director
so thank you I appreciate that but
having reviewed your biography it
puzzles me why you handled your duties
in this case the way you did the report
contradicts what you taught young
attorneys at the Department of Justice
including to ensure that every defendant
is treated fairly or as justice
Sutherland said in the Berger case a
prosecutor is not the representative of
an ordinary party to a controversy but
of a sovereignty whose interest in a
criminal prosecution is not that it
shall win a case but that justice shall
be done and that the prosecutor may
strike hard blows but he is not at
liberty to strike foul ones by listing
the ten factual situations and not
reaching a conclusion about the merits
of the case you unfairly shifted the
burden of proof to the president forcing
him to prove his innocence
while denying him a legal form to do so
and I've never heard of a prosecutor
declining a case and then holding a
press conference to talk about the
defendant you noted eight times in your
report that you had a legal duty under
the regulations to either prosecute or
do
lying charges despite this you
disregarded that duty as a former
prosecutor I'm also troubled with your
legal analysis you discuss 10 separate
factual patterns involving alleged
obstruction and then you fail to
separately apply the elements of the
applicable statutes I looked at the the
10 factual situations and I read the
case law and I have to tell you just
looking at the Flint matter for example
the the four statutes that you cited for
a possible obstruction 1503 1505 1512 B
3 and 1512 C 2 when I look at those
concerning the Flint matter 1503 is
inapplicable because it wasn't a grand
jury or trial jury impaneled and
director Comey was not an officer of the
court as defined by the statute
section 1505 criminalizes acts that
would obstruct or impede administrative
proceedings at those before Congress an
administrative agency the Department of
Justice criminal resource manual states
that the FBI investigation is not a
pending proceeding 1512 B 3 talks about
intimidation threats of force to tamper
with a witness
general Flynn at the time was not a
witness and and certainly director Comey
was not a witness and 1512 C 2 talks
about tampering with the record of an as
Joe Biden described the statute as being
debated on the Senate floor he called
this a statute criminalizing document
shredding and there's nothing in the in
your report that alleges that the
president destroyed any any evidence so
what I have to ask you and what I think
people are working around in this
hearing is let me lay a little
foundation for the ethical rules require
that a prosecutor have a reasonable
probability of conviction to bring a
charge is that correct
sounds generally accurate okay and the
regulations concerning your your job as
Special Counsel state that your job is
to provide the Attorney General with a
confidential report explaining the
prosecution or declination decisions
reached by your office you recommend a
declining prosecution of President Trump
and
one associated with his campaign because
there was insufficient evidence to
convict for a charge of conspiracy with
Russian and Ferris in the 2016 election
is that fair fair was there sufficient
evidence to convict president Trump or
anyone else with obstruction of justice
we did not make that calculation how
could you not have made the calculations
regular Elsi opinion the OLC opinion
Office of Legal Counsel indicates that
we cannot indict a sitting president one
of the tools that a prosecutor would use
is not there okay but but let me just
stop you made the decision on the
Russian interference you you couldn't
have ignited the President on that and
you made the decision on that but when
it came to obstruction you threw a bunch
of stuff up against the wall to see what
would stick and that is I would not
agree to that characterization at all
what we did is provide to the Attorney
General in the form of a confidential
memorandum our understanding of the case
those cases that were brought those
cases order declined and the one case
where the president cannot be charged
with a crime okay
but the could you charge the president
with a trim' after he left office yes
you believe that he committed you could
charge the president United States with
obstruction of justice after he left
office yes ethically under the ethical
standards well I'm not certain examined
looked at the ethical standards but OLC
offend opinion says that the prosecutor
why cannot bring a charge against a
sitting president nonetheless again to
continue the investigation to see if
there any other persons who might be
drawn into the conspiracy time of the
gentleman has expired the gentleman from
Rhode Island director director as you
know we are specifically focusing
exactly I'd like to ask you I probably
should stop the president's efforts to
curtail the Special Counsel
investigation beginning at page 19 again
limit correct these guys only read three
pages of the report I would like to go
back to page I am
the president has others to help limit
your investigation is that correct
correct and was corey lewandowski one
such individual again or can you remind
me Corey lewandowski's a dim-witted
fella from Hampshire do you have any
official position the Trump
administration I don't believe so your
report describes an incident in the Oval
Office involving mr. Lewandowski on June
19 2017 at volume 2 page 91 is that
correct I'm sorry what's the citation
sir page 91 of the second volume yes and
a meeting in the Oval Office between mr.
Lewandowski and the president okay and
that was just two days after the
president called on McGann at home and
ordered him to fire you is that correct
apparently so so right after his White
House Council mr. McGann refused to
follow the president's order to fire you
the president came up with a new plan
and that was to go around all of his
senior advisors and government aides to
have a private citizen try to limit your
investigation what did the president
tell mr. Lewandowski to do do you recall
he told him he dictated a message to mr.
Lewandowski for Train General Sessions
and asked him to write it down is that
correct true and do you or did you and
your team see this handwritten message
I'm not gonna get into what we may or
may not have included in our investigate
the message directed sessions to give
and I'm quoting from your report to give
a public speech saying that he planned
to meet with the special prosecutor to
explain this is very unfair and let the
special prosecutor move forward with
investigating election meddling for
future elections that's a page 91 is
that correct yes I see that thank you
yes it is
in other words mr. Lewandowski a private
citizen was instructed by the President
of the United States to deliver a
message from the President to the
Attorney General that directed him to
limit your investigation correct correct
and at this time mr. sessions was still
recused from oversight of your
investigation correct I'm sorry could
you see Jerry Joe was recused from over
the Attorney General would have had to
violate his own department's rules in
order to comply with the president's
order correct well I'm not I get into
the subsidiary details I just refer you
again to
eh 91-92 of the report if the Attorney
General had followed through with the
president's press mr. Malla
it would have effectively ended your
investigation into the president and his
campaign as you note on page 97 correct
thank you
ooh page 97 you write and I quote taken
together the president's directives
indicate that sessions was being
instructed to tell the special counsel
to end the existing investigation into
the president and his campaign with the
special counsel being permitted to move
forward with investigating election
meddling for future elections is that
correct
generally true yes sir and it's an
unsuccessful attempt to obstruct justice
is still a crime is that correct that is
correct
and mr. Lewandowski tried to meet with
the Attorney General is that right true
and he tried to meet with them in his
office so he would be sure certain there
wasn't a public log of the visit
according to what we gathered for the
report and the meeting never happened
and the president raised the issue again
with mr. Lewandowski and this time he
said and I quote if sessions does not
meet with you
Lewandowski should tell sessions he was
fired correct correct
so immediately following the meeting
with the president Lewandowski then
asked mr. Dearborne to deliver the
message who's the former chief of staff
to mr. sessions and mr. Dearborne
refuses deliberate because he doesn't
feel comfortable isn't that correct
generally correct yes Oh two days after
the White House Counsel gonnigan refused
to carry out the president's order to
fire you the president directed a
private citizen to tell the Attorney
General of the United States who was
recused at the time to limit your
investigation to future elections
effectively ending your investigation
into the 2016 Trump campaign is that
correct I'm not gay adopt your
characterization say that the taxes laid
out in the report are accurate well mr.
melih in your report you in fact write a
page ninety nine ninety seven
substantial evidence indicates that the
president's effort to have sessions
limit the scope of the special counsels
investigation to future elections
interference was intended to prevent
further investigative scrutiny of the
president and his campaign conduct is
that correct
generally and so mr. Maurer you have
the letter we're a thousand former
Republican and Democratic federal
prosecutors have read your report and
said anyone but the president committed
those acts would be charged with
obstruction of justice
do you agree with those former
colleagues a thousand prosecutors came
to that conclusion those prosecutor what
Thank You mr. chairman over here you're
not gonna let a man for that question
you guys you're T laughing kidding a
court quote on this is the top of page
two volume one also on page one said we
did you said hey come to the conclusion
that quote the investigation did not
establish that members of the tribe
having conspired or coordinated with the
Russian government in Africa - close
quote a woman is running some use that
when did you know I was really focused
today on reminding you reminded Robyn
smaller lie about the people in my
opinion but now I just feel like he
deserves some chicken noodle soup
investigation did not establish of
course I see yes what was your question
my question now is when did you
personally reach that conclusion well we
were ongoing for two years right you
aren't going he wrote it at some point
during that two-year period but at some
point you had to come to conclusion that
that I don't think there's a clue that
there's not a conspiracy going on here
there was no conspiracy between this
president and not talking about the rest
of the president's team time at this
president and the Russians as you
understand
developing a criminal case you get
pieces of information pieces of
information witnesses and like as you
make your case right and when you make a
decision on that particular case depends
on a number of factors right I mean I
cannot say specifically that we reached
a decision on a particular defendant at
a particular point in time but it was
sometime well before you wrote the
report fair enough
I mean you wrote the report dealing with
a whole myriad of issues certainly at
some time prior to that report is when
you reach the decision that okay with
with regard
the President himself I don't find
anything here fair enough
well I'm not certain I do agree with
that you waited to the last minute when
you were actually right in port city
okay nobody there there are various
aspects of a development of a and sure
and that's my point
there are various aspects that are that
happen but somewhere along the pike you
will come to a conclusion
there's no there's no there there for
this defendant and that right so I can't
speak you can't so you can't say win
fair enough
so so you know I'm not done I'm I'm
asking the the sworn witness mr. mr.
Muller evidence suggests that on May
10th 2017 at approximately 7:45 a.m. six
days before the dag the Deputy Attorney
General appointed you special counsel
mr. Rosen Stein called you and mentioned
the appointment of a special counsel not
not necessarily that you'd be appointed
but that you had a discussion of that is
that is that true
may 10 27 I don't have no I don't have
any knowledge of that occurring you
don't have any knowledge or you don't
recall I don't have any knowledge
evidence also just given that what I saw
you do are you questioning that I well I
just find it intriguing let me just tell
you that there's evidence that suggests
that that phone call took place and that
that is what was said so let's move to
the next question evidence suggests that
also on May 12 2017 five days before the
dag appointed you special counsel you
met with mr. Rosen Stein in person did
you discuss the appointment of a special
counsel then not necessarily that you
but that there would be a special
counsel I've gone into waters that don't
allow me to give you an answer to that
particular question it relates to the
internal discussions he would have in
terms of indicted an individual is none
do the indictment has to do with special
counsel and whether you discussed that
with mr. Rosen Stein evidence also
suggested May 13 4 days before you were
playing special counsel you met with
attorney former attorney General
Sessions and Rosen Stein and you spoke
about special counsel do you remember
that no okay and on May 16th the day
before you were point so you met with
the President and rod Rosenstein do
remember having that meeting yes and
discussion of the position of FBI
director took place do you remember that
yes and did you discuss at any time in
that meeting mr. commis termination no
did you discuss at any time in that
meeting the potential appointment of a
special counsel not necessarily you but
just in general terms I can't get into
the discussions on that how many times
did you speak to mr. Rosen five before
May 17th was the day you got appointed
regarding an appointment of special
counsel how many times prior to that did
you did you discuss how many times you
said because you don't recall her or you
or you just I do not recall okay thank
you
how many times did you speak with mr.
Comey about any investigations
pertaining to Rusted prior to in May 17
2017 did you have any at all zero zero
okay now at times my time is expired so
all right when the gentleman has expired
the gentleman from California
director Muller going back to the
president's obstruction via Corey
Lewandowski it was referenced that a
thousand former prosecutors who served
under Republican and Democratic
administrations with 12,000 years of
federal service wrote a letter regarding
the president's conduct are you familiar
with that letter I've read about that
letter yes and some of the individuals
who signed that letter the statement of
former prosecutors are people you worked
with is that right quite probably yes
people that you respect quite probably
yes and in that letter they said all of
this conduct trying to control and
impede the investigation against the
president by leveraging his authority
over others is similar to conduct we
have seen charged against other public
officials and people in powerful
positions are they wrong they have a
different case do you want to sign that
letter director mode they have a
different case director Muller thank you
for your service going all the way back
to the 60s when you courageously served
in Vietnam because I have a seat on the
Intelligence Committee I'll have
questions later and because of our
limited time I will ask to enter this
letter into the record under unanimous
consent that a joke my colleague from
California mr. Luthor Thank You director
Muller for your long history of service
to our country including your server is
a submarine where you earn a Bronze Star
with a V device I'd like to now turn to
the elements of obstruction justice as
applied to the president's attempts to
curtail your investigation first element
of state obviously all agree to focus on
this exact one like to join you to page
97 of volume 2 of your report and you
wrote there on page 97 quote sessions
was being instructed to tell the special
counsel to end the existing
investigation into the president and his
campaign unquote that's in the report
correct correct
that would be evidence of an obstructive
act because it would naturally obstruct
their investigation correct correct okay
let's turn now to the second element of
the crime of social injustice which
requires a nexus to an official
proceeding again I'm going to direct you
to page 97 the same page of volume 2 and
you wrote quote by the time of the
president's initial one-on-one meeting
with Lewandowski on June 19 2017 the
existence of a grand jury investigation
supervised by the special counsel was
public knowledge that's in a report
correct correctly that will constitute
evidence of a nexus turn official
proceeding because a grand jury
investigation is an official proceeding
correct
well yes okay I'd like to now turn to
the final element of the crime of
obstruction of justice on that same page
page 97 do you see where there's the
intent section on that page I see all
right would you be willing to read the
first sentence and that was starting
with substantial evidence indicates that
the president if you could read that
first sentence would you believe that
I'm happy to have you written okay I
were reading that you wrote quote
substantial evidence indicates that the
president's effort to have sessions
limit the scope of the special counsels
investigation to future election
appearance was intended to prevent
further investigative scrutiny of the
president's and his campaigns conduct
unquote that's in the report correct
is in the report and I rely what's in
the report to indicate what's happening
in the paragraphs that we've been
discussing thank you so to recap what
we've heard we have heard today that the
President ordered former White House
Counsel Tom Organa to fire you the
President ordered our McGowan to then
cover that up and create a false paper
trail and now we've heard that President
ordered Corey Lewandowski to tell jeff
sessions to limit your investigation so
that he you stop investigating the
president I believe your weasel person
looking at these facts could conclude
that all three elements of the crime of
assumption justice have been met and I'd
like to ask you the reason again that
you did not indict Donald Trump is
because of OLC opinion stating that you
cannot indict a sitting president
correct that is correct
the fact that that their orders by the
president were not carried out that is
not a defense to absorption justice
because a statute itself is quite broad
it says that as long as you endeavor or
attempt to obstruct justice that would
also constitute a crime I'm back get
into that at this juncture well thank
you and based on the already answered
that with chicolini did me the
reasonable person could conclude that at
least three crimes of social justice by
the president occurred we're gonna hear
about two additional crimes and that
would be the witness tampering zuv
michael cohen and paul manna for it
although the only thing i want to add is
that i'm going through the elements with
you do not mean or does not mean that I
subscribe to the what you're trying to
prove through those elements the timing
the gentleman has expired the gentlelady
from Arizona I'm sorry gentleman from
California Thank You mr. chairman over
here thanks for joining us today you had
three discussions with rod Rosenstein
about your appointment of special
counsel may 10th may 12th in May 13th
correct if you say so I have no reason
to dispute that
then you met with the president on the
16th with rod
and staying present and then on the 17th
you were formally appointed his special
counsel were you meeting with the
president on the 16th with knowledge
that you were under consideration for
appointment of special counsel I did not
believe I was under consideration for
counsel the I had served two terms as
FBI director
the answer's no auditors no Gregg
Jarrett describes your office as the
team of partisans and as additional
informations coming to light there's a
growing concern that political bias
caused important facts to be omitted
from your report in order to cast the
president unfairly in a negative light
for example a John Dowd the president's
lawyer leaves a message with Michael
Flynn's lawyer on November 17th of 2017
November 2017 the edited version in your
report makes it appear that he was
improperly asking for confidential
information and that's all we know from
your report except that the judge in the
Flynn case ordered the entire transcript
released in which Dowd makes it crystal
clear that's not what he was suggesting
so my questions why did you edit the
transcript to hide the exculpatory part
of the message I'm an attorney I agree
with your characterization to say we did
anything to hide well you will admit you
omitted it you quoted the part where he
says we need some kind of heads-up just
for the sake protecting all of our
interests if we can but you will mitad
the portion where he says without giving
up any confidential information well I'm
not gonna go further in terms of
discussing let's go on you extensively
discussed Constantine Clements
activities with Paul Mann afford you
described in his quote a Russian
Ukrainian political consultant and
longtime employee of Paul Mann afford
assessed by the FBI to have ties to
Russian intelligence and again that's
all we know from your report except
we've since learned from news articles
that clinic was actually a US State
Department intelligence source yet
nowhere in your report is he so
identified why was that fact I don't I
don't necessarily credit what you're
saying occurred were you aware that
clinic was a guy going to need
apartments now I'm not going the ins and
outs of what we had in the court region
or in the course you are
Constantin columbic or did you interview
Constantin Clinic I can't go into the
discussion of our investigative moves
and yet that is the basis so much that
we apparently are not allowed to know
about
teamers incredibly the evidence that's
not true for example and then you and
then what it does is it opens it up
Rocha this type of Russian government
conspiracy theory mongering management
IRA prosecution that you initiated the
judge excoriated both you and mr. Barr
for producing no evidence to support
this claim why did you suggest Russia
was responsible for the 12 farms when in
court you've been unable to produce any
evidence to support it well I'm not
gonna get into that any further than I
already have
but you have left the clear impression
throughout the country through your
report that it was the Russian
government behind the troll farms and
yet when you're called upon to provide
actual evidence in court you fail to do
so well I would again dispute your
characterization of what occurred in
that preset in that proceeding in fact
the judge considering considered holding
prosecutors in criminal contempt she
backed off only after your hastily
called press conference the next day in
which you retro actively made the
distinction between the Russian
government and the Russia troll farms
did your press conference of May 29th
have anything to do with the threat to
hold your prosecutors in contempt the
previous day for publicly
misrepresenting the evidence what was
the question the question is did your
May 29th press conference have anything
to do with the fact that the previous
day the judge threatened to hold your
prosecutors in contempt for
misrepresenting evidence no no the the
fundamental problem is as I said we've
got to take your word your team
faithfully accurately impartially and
completely described all of the
underlying evidence in the malla report
and we're finding more and more
instances where this just isn't the case
and it's starting to look like you know
having desperately tried and failed to
make a legal case against the president
you made a political case instead you
put it in a paper sack lit it on fire
drop it on our porch rang the doorbell
and ran I don't think you Adam Sandler
reviewed a report that has ever watched
happy gilmore director Muller let's go
to a fourth episode of obstruction of
justice in the form of a witness
tampering which is urging witnesses not
to cooperate with law enforcement either
by persuading them or intimidating them
witness tampering is a felony punishable
by 20 years in prison you found evidence
that the president engaged in efforts
and I quote to encourage witnesses not
to cooperate with the investigation is
that right that's correct do you have a
citation
I'm page 7 on volume 2 now one of these
witnesses was Michael Cohen the
president's personal lawyer who
ultimately pled guilty to campaign
violations based on secret hush money
payments to two women the president knew
and also to lie in Congress lying to
Congress about the hope for 1 billion
dollar trumped our deal after the FBI
searched Cohen's home the president
called him up personally he said to
check in and told him to quote hang in
there and stay strong is that right do
you remember finding that if it's in the
report as stated yes it is right yes
also in the report actually are a series
of calls made by other friends of the
president one reached out to say he was
with the boss in mar-a-lago and the
president said he loves you his name is
redacted another redacted friend called
to say the boss loves you and a third
redacted friend called to say everyone
knows the boss has your back
do you remember finding that sequence of
course is when the news and in fact
Cohen said that following the receipt of
these messages I'm quoting here page 147
volume 2 he believed he had the support
of the White House if he continued to
toe the party line and he determined to
stay on message and be part of the team
that's it page 147 remember generally
finding Everly yes well Jen and Robert
Costello a lawyer close to the
president's legal team email Cohen to
say quote you are loved they are in our
corner sleep well tonight and you have
friends in high places and that's up on
the screen page 147 you remember I
supporting that okay now when the news
first broke that Cohen had arranged
payoff to stormy Daniels Cohen
faithfully stuck to this party line
he said that publicly that neither the
Trump Organization nor the Trump
campaign was a party to the transaction
and neither reimbursed him Trump's
personal attorney at that point quickly
texted Cohen to say quote client says
thank you for what you do mr. Muller who
is the capital C client thanking Cohen
for what he does can't speak to that
okay the assumption in the context
suggests very strongly it's President
Trump I can't speak to that okay Cohen
later broke and pled guilty to campaign
finance offenses and admitted fully they
were made quote at the direction of
candidate Trump do you remember that yes
after Cohen's guilty plea the president
suddenly changed his tune towards mr.
Cohen didn't he I would say I rely on
what's in the report well he made the
suggestion that Cohen family members had
committed crimes he targeted for example
Cohen's father-in-law and repeatedly
suggested that he was guilty of
committing crimes right I generally
accurate okay on page 154 you give a
powerful summary of these changing
dynamics and you said I'm happy to have
you read it but I'm happy to do it if
not I've in front of me thank you
what would you like to read it I would
can you read it out loud to everybody I
would be happy to have you read it up
okay at the same time the evidence some
ginger Ale's of events could support an
inference that the president used it's
unbelievable form that they will not
force him to read it Cohen not to
cooperate and then their posture towards
mole
as in far the protune referendum
undermine Cohen's credibility once Cohen
your your your a witness before the
hearing in mind you want to argue that
your report speaks for itself reports
don't speak we must read it principal in
Congress that you emphasize so well in
the very last sentence of your report
which is they didn't read that
so one person is so high as to be above
the law I yield back mr. German then if
he says if he wants to he can read it
okay well thanks for being nice Janice
and mr. Luce right exactly I quote the
reason you didn't indict the president
is because of the OLC opinion and you
answered that is correct but that is not
what you said in the report an
international attorney general bar that
you released with DOJ on may 29 after
your press conference you're offered
your office issued a joint statement
with the Department of Justice that said
the Attorney General has previously
stated that the Special Counsel
repeatedly affirmed that he was not
saying that but for the OLC opinion he
would have found the president
obstructed justice the special counsels
report in his statement today made clear
that the office concluded it would not
reach a determination one way or the
other whether the president committed a
crime there is no conflict between these
statements so mr. Miller do you stand by
your joint statement with DOJ that you
issued on May 29th as you sit here today
I would have to look at it more closely
before I want I said I agree with it
well so inclusion is that what you told
mr. Leu really contradicts what you said
in the report and specifically what you
said
apparently repeatedly to Attorney
General bar that and then you issued a
joint statement on May 29th saying that
the Attorney General has previously
stated
the special counsel repeatedly affirmed
that he was not saying but for the oil
SIA port that we would have found the
president of detective justice so I just
say there's a conflict I do have some
more questions mr. Miller there's been a
lot of talk today about firing the
Special Counsel and curtailing the
investigation were you ever fired mr.
Muller
were you ever fired as special counsel
mr. no no I bite a bit soup yes and in
fact resigned as special counsel when
you closed up the office in late May 20
20 19 is that correct correct Thank You
mr. Muller are you
president Trump ready to radios race to
John Podesta child rape tape I think
that's my summarizing the principal
conclusions of your report then can we
finally bring JFK jr. we sent on March
only wanted him in hiding anymore to mr.
Barr that raised some issues and that
letter speaks for itself but then I I
don't see how you could could that could
be since AG bars letter detailed the
principal conclusions of your report and
you have said before that that there
wasn't anything in an inaccurate in fact
you had this joint statement but let me
let me go on to another question mr.
Millar rather than purely relying on the
evidence provided by witnesses and
documents I think you relied a lot on
media I'd like to know how many times
you cited the Washington Post in your
report how many times I what I did the
Washington Post in your report do not
have more than a year but I think I
don't have knowledge of that figure I
counted about 60 times how
times did you say the New York Times I
counted oh here we go
how many times you do us cite the
freebie
any times your reference educated press
stories honestly there's almost nothing
in volume to that I couldn't already
hear or know simply by having a fifty
dollar cable news subscription however
your investigation cost the American
taxpayers twenty five million dollars
mr. Bailey two hundred times in your
report then in a footnote a small
footnote number seven page 15 a volume
two of your report you wrote I quote
this section summarizes incites various
news stories knows Rachel whether the
information contained in the stories but
rather to place candidate Trump's
response to those stories in context
since nobody but lawyers reads footnotes
are you concerned that the American
public took the embedded news stories
and I mean the gentlelady has expired
the gentlelady from Washington mr.
Molloy the question now now
I'm getting very agitated I wanna
connect the gentleman thank you director
Muller let's turn to the fifth of the
obstruction episodes in your vol Trump
engaged in witness tampering guise of
junior chairman Paul Manafort whose
foreign ties were critical I've got a
great idea let's turn your loose
sections Rises start since you and then
me jammer the hell out of it your office
got indictments against manna for and
Trump deputy campaign manager Rick gates
in two different jurisdictions correct
and your office found that after a grand
jury and here's the point is that like
yes these are all residents personal and
you're going through all the different
examples in which the president could be
indicted and might be and be indicted
when he leaves off
on obstructed justice flipping by detail
in advance but impeachment is a
political process this is all about
politics at this point and how they're
failing at the politics they're just not
efforts to combat crime I'm not gonna go
beyond that characterizing course there
in your report you concluded the
president Trump and his personal counsel
Rudy Giuliani quote made repeated
statements suggesting that a pardon was
a possibility for Manta fort while also
making it clear that the president did
not want mana fort to flip and cooperate
with the government end quote is that
correct correct and as you see earlier
which ring can be shown where someone
with an improper motive encourages
another person not to cooperate with law
enforcement is that correct
correct now on page 123 of volume 2 you
also discuss the president's motive and
you say that as court proceedings move
forward against mana for president Trump
quote discussed with aides
whether and in what way manna fort might
be cooperating and weatherman affort
knew any information that would be
harmful to the president end quote
is that correct and that was a quote
from from page 123 volume 2 I have it
thank you yes
and when someone tries to stop another
person from working with law enforcement
and they do it because they're worried
about what that person will say it seems
clear from what you wrote that this is a
classic definition of witness tampering
now mr. manna Ford did eventually decide
to cooperate with your office and he
entered into a plea agreement but then
he broke that agreement can you describe
what he did that caused you to tell the
court that the agreement was off I'd
refer you to the court proceedings on
that issue so in page 1 on page 127 of
volume 2 you told the court that mr.
manna fort lied about a number of
matters that were material to the
investigation and you said that the mana
forts lawyers also quote regularly
briefed the president's lawyers on
topics discussed and the information
that manna Ford had provided in
interviews with the special counsels
office does that sound right and the
source of that is that's page 127 volume
2 that's a director on the report
yes I support it and two days after you
told the court that Manafort broke his
plea agreement by lying repeatedly did
President Trump tell the press that mr.
mana fort was quote very brave because
he did not flip this is page 128 of
volume 2 if it's in the report I support
it as it is as it is set forth Thank You
director Muller in your report you may
be your last
conclusion about the evidence regarding
the president's involvement with the
mana fort criminal proceedings let me
read to you from your report evidence
concerning the president's conduct
toward mana 4 indicates that the
president intended to encourage man
afford to not cooperate with the
government it is clear that the
president both publicly and privately
discouraged mr. mana Ford's cooperation
are flippin while also dangling the
promise of a pardon if he stayed loyal
and did not share what he knew about the
president anyone else who did these
things would be prosecuted for them we
must ensure that no one is above the law
and I thank you for being here director
Muller yield back gentleman from
Pennsylvania Thank You mr. chairman mr.
Muller mr. melih I'm over here I'm sorry
mr. Muller are you familiar with the now
expired Independent Counsel statute it's
the statute under which Ken Starr was
appointed that Ken Starr did what I'm
sorry are you familiar with the
Independent Counsel statute are you
talking about the one we operating under
now or a premium under which Ken Starr
was appointed I am not that familiar
with that but I'd be happy to take your
question
well the Clinton administration allowed
the Independent Counsel statute to
expire after ken starr's investigation
the final report requirement was a major
reason why the statute was allowed to
expire even President Clinton's AG Janet
Reno expressed concerns about the final
report requirement and I'll quote AG
Reno she said on one hand the American
people have an interest in knowing the
outcome of an investigation their
highest officials on the other hand the
report requirement cuts against many of
the most basic traditions and practices
of American law enforcement under our
system we presume innocence
and we value privacy we believe that
information obtained during a criminal
investigation should in most cases be
made public only if there is an
indictment and prosecution not in a
lengthy and detailed report filed after
decision had has been made not to
prosecute the final report provides a
forum for unfairly airing a targets
dirty laundry and it also creates yet
another incentive for an independent
counsel to over investigate in order to
justify his or her tenure and to avoid
criticism of the independent count and
as such this again mr. Muller those are
AG Reno's words didn't you do exactly
what AG Reno feared didn't you publish a
lengthy report unfairly airing I'm not a
council recommending charge I'm not
dirty job disagree with that chance to
be cross-examined can I just finish my
answer on that quickly I operate under
the current statute not right originally
I am most familiar with a current
statute not the older stuff did any of
the witnesses have a chance to be
cross-examined did any of the witnesses
in our investigation yes okay did you
allow the people mentioning your report
to challenge how they were characterized
I'm not going to get into okay given
that AG bar stated multiple times during
his confirmation hearing that he would
make as much of your report public as
possible did you write your report
knowing they would likely be shared with
the public
no did knowing that the report could
unlikely would be made public did that
alter the contents would you included I
can't speak to that
despite the expectations that your
report would be released to the public
you left out significant exculpatory
evidence in other words evidence
favorable to the president composite it
would disagree with you I think he said
he said but he didn't know was going to
be released to the public
was a few said there was Evans you left
out well yeah you make a choice as to
what goes into a
mr. Muller isn't it true that on page 1
a volume 2 you stay when you're quoting
the statute you had an obligation to
either prosecute or not prosecuted well
generally that is the case
although most cases are not done in the
context of the president in this case
you made a decision not to prosecute
correct no we made a decision not to
decide whether to prosecute or not so
so essentially what your report did was
everything that AG Reno warned against I
can't like Will Ferrel but yeah there's
information you got me it's the target
of your investigation laughs does he
view the president the United States
it's guys should break it ladies no
wives would be made public
not true mr. mr. Muller as a former
officer in the United States Jag Corps I
prosecuted nearly a hundred terrorists
in a Baghdad courtroom across examine
the bushes illusia in defense of our
Navy SEALs as a civilian district judge
in Pennsylvania so I'm very well-versed
the American legal system eg Reno said
drafting the publication of some of the
information in his report without an
indictment for a man without prosecution
frankly flies in the face of American
justice and I find those facts in this
entire process on American you the
remainder of my time mr. director Mahler
the third FISA renewal happens a month
after your name special counsel doesn't
clean renewable drinks a Metamucil
director mother a couple of my
colleagues right here wanted to talk to
you or ask you about lies so let's talk
about lies according to your report page
9 volume 1 witnesses lied to your office
and to Congress those lives materially
impaired the investigation of Russia
interference according to your report
other than the individuals who pled
guilty to crimes based on their lying to
you and your team did other witnesses
lied
I think and they're probably a spectrum
of witnesses in terms of those who are
not telling the full truth and those are
outright liars
thank you very much outright liars it is
fair to say then that there were limits
on what evidence was available to your
investigation of both Russia election
interference and obstruction of justice
that's true it is usually the case and
that lies by Trump campaign officials
and administration officials impede at
your investigation I would generally
agree with that thank you so much
director Muller you will be hearing more
from me in the next hearing so I yield
the balance of my time to mr. Correa
thank you I would welcome you thank you
for your service to our country you're a
hero
Vietnam War vet wounded war vet we won't
forget to service to our country
thank you sir I may begin because of
time limits we have gone in depth on
only five possible episodes of
obstruction there's there's so much more
and I want to focus and another section
of obstruction which is the president's
conduct concerning Michael Flynn the
president's national security moral
instruction in early twenty seven the
White House Counsel and the president
were informed that mr. Flint had lied to
government authorities about his
communications with the Russian
ambassador during the Trump campaign in
transition is this correct correct if a
hostile nation knows that a US official
has lied publicly that can that can be
used to blackmail that government
official correct I'm not going to speak
to that I don't disagree with it
necessarily but I'm not going to speak
to any more to that issue thank you very
much sir Flynn resigned on February 13
2016 and the very next day when the
president was having lunch with New
Jersey Governor Chris Christie did the
president say open quotes now that we
fired Flynn the Russia thing is over
close quote is that correct correct and
is it true that Christy responded by
saying open quotes no way and this
Russia thing is far from over
close quote that's the way we have it in
the report thank you and after president
met with Christie later that some day at
the same day the president arranged to
meet with an FBI director James Comey
alone in the Oval Office correct correct
particularly if you have the citation to
the page 39 40 volume 2 thank you very
much and according to Comey the
president told him I hope open quote I
hope you can see your way to clear to
letting this thing go to letting Flynn
go he's a good guy and I hope you can
let it go close quote
page 40 volume 2 accurate what did Comey
understand the president to be asking
I'm not gonna get into what was enough
mr. Comey is mind Comey understood is to
be a direction because of the
president's position and the
circumstances of the one-to-one meeting
page 40 volume 2 well I understand it's
in the report and I support it as being
in there as being in the report thank
you sir
even though the pub the president
publicly denied telling call me to drop
the investigation you've found open
quote substantial evidence corroborating
commis account over the president's is
this correct correct the president fired
Comey on May 9th is that correct sir
I believe that's the accurate date
that's paid 77 volume 2 you found
substantial evidence that the catalyst
for the president's firing of Comey was
commis open quote on news to publicly
state that the president was not
personally under investigation
I'm not going to delve more into the
details of what happened if it's in the
report
then I'm supportive because it's already
been reviewed appropriately appears in
the report and that's page 75 volume
thank you thank you and in fact the very
next day the president told the rush
foreign minister open quote I just fired
the head of the FBI he was crazy a real
nutjob I faced great pressure because of
Russia that's their nutjob that guy
under and head of our FBI that's
incorrect that's what we've written in
court yes time of the gentleman has
expired thank you sir gentleman from
Virginia Thank You mr. chairman mr. Co
mr. Muller we've heard a lot about what
you're not going to talk about today so
let's talk about something that you
should be able to talk about the law
itself the underlying obstruction
statute and your creative legal analysis
of the statutes in volume 2 particularly
an interpretation of 18 USC 1512 C
section 1512 C is an obstruction of
justice statute created as part of
auditing and financial regulations for
public companies and as you write on
page 164 of volume 2 this provision was
added as a floor amendment in the Senate
and explained as closing a certain
loophole with respect to document
shredding and to read the statute
whoever corruptly alters destroys
mutilates or conceals a record document
or other object or attempts to do so
with the intent to impair the object's
integrity or availability for use in a
fit and an official proceeding or
otherwise obstructs influences or
impedes any official proceeding or
attempts to do so so we find under the
statute or imprisoned not more than 20
years or both your analysis and
application of the statute proposes to
give Clause C to a much broader
interpretation and commonly used first
your analysis proposes to read closely
to an isolation reading it as a
free-standing all-encompassing provision
prohibiting any act influencing a
proceeding if done with an improper
motive and second your analysis of the
statute to apply this week being
proposes to apply the sweeping
prohibition to lawful acts taken by
public officials exercising their
discretionary powers
if those acts influence a proceeding so
mr. mowett asked you in analyzing the
obstruction you state that you recognize
that the Department of Justice and the
courts have not definitively resolved
these issues correct correct you'd agree
that not everyone in the Justice
Department agreed with your legal theory
of the
obstruction of justice statutes correct
I'm not going to be involved in a
discussion on on that at this juncture
in fact the Attorney General himself
disagrees with your interpretation of
the law correct I leave that to the
Attorney General to identify and you
would agree that prosecutors sometimes
incorrectly apply the law
correct I would have to agree with that
one and members of your legal team in
fact have had convictions overturned
because they were based on an incorrect
legal theory correct I don't know to
what you advert we've all well in time
and when a trenches trying cases have
not won every one of those cases well
let me ask you about one in particular
one of your top prosecutors Andrew
Weissman obtain a conviction against
auditing firm Arthur Andersen lower
court which was subsequently overturned
in a unanimous Supreme Court decision
that rejected the legal theory advanced
by Weissman correct well I'm not gonna
get into let me read from that maybe I
just remember I just finished yes answer
to say that I'm not going to be get
involved in a discussion on that I will
refer you to that citation that you gave
me at the outset for the lengthy
discussion on just what you're talking
about and to the extent that I have say
anything to say about it it is what we
have already put into the report on that
and I am reading from your report when
discussing this section now I'll read
from the decision of the Supreme Court
unanimously reversing mr. Weissman when
he said indeed it it's striking how
little culpability the instructions
required for example the jury was told
that even if petitioner honestly and
sincerely believed his conduct was
lawful the jury could convict the
instructions also diluted the meaning of
corruptly such that it covered innocent
conduct let me just say I've limited
time your report takes the broadest
possible reading of this provision in
applying it to the president's official
acts and I'm concerned about the
implications of your theory for over
criminalizing conduct by public
officials and private citizens alike so
to emphasize how broad your theory of
liability is I want to ask you about a
few examples on October 11 2015
during the FBI investigation in the
Hillary Clinton's used to a private
email server
President Obama said I don't think it
posed a national security problem and he
later said I can tell you that this is
not a situation in which America's
national security was endangered
assuming for a moment that his comments
did influence the investigation couldn't
President Obama be charged under your
interpretation with obstruction of
justice
well again I'd refer you to the report
but let me say with Andrew Weissman is
one of the more talented attorneys that
we haven't have on board and well I'll
take that over a period of time he is
run a number units I have very little
time what just happened
go back on this sorry about this folks
give us one second
seems to be a clear example of somebody
within the executive branch attempting
to influence an S V I'd this
investigation so under your theory
couldn't that person be charged with
obstruction as long as a prosecutor
could come up with a potentially corrupt
corrupt motive I refer you to our
lengthy dissertation on exactly those
issues and fears in the at the end of
the report mr. Muller I'd argue that it
says above the Supreme Court equal
justice under Larry the gentleman has
expired not stretch or intent was our
intent was to conclude this hearing in
three hours given the break that would
bring us to approximately 1140 with
director Muller's indulgence we will be
asking our remaining Democratic members
to voluntarily limit their time below
the five minutes so that we can complete
our work as close to that time frame as
possible
good job guys running sure thank you
um I want to ask you some questions
about the president's statements
regarding advanced knowledge of the
WikiLeaks stumps so the President
refused to sit down with your
investigators for an in-person interview
correct correct so the only answers we
have to questions from the president are
contained in Appendix C to your report
correct okay so looking at Appendix C on
page 5 you ask the president over a
dozen questions about whether he had
knowledge that WikiLeaks possessed or
might possess the emails that were
stolen by the Russians I apologize
could you start it again okay sure so
we're looking at Appendix C right um
andddd Appendix C page 5 you asked the
president about a dozen questions about
whether he had knowledge that WikiLeaks
possessed the stolen emails that might
be released in a way helpful to his
campaign or harmful to the Clinton
campaign is that correct to ask those
questions okay in February of this year
mr. Trump's personal attorney Michael
Cohen testified to Congress under oath
that quote mr. Trump knew from Rogers
stone in advance about the WikiLeaks
drop of emails and quote that's a matter
of public record isn't it well are you
referring to the report or some other
public crisis was testimony before
Congress by mr. Cohen do you know if he
told you no I'm not familiar with it
it's explicitly familiar with what he
testified to before Congress okay
let's look in an event described on page
18 of volume 2 of your report
now according and we're gonna put it up
in a slide I think according to deputy
campaign manager Rick Gates in the
summer of 2016
he and candidate Trump were on the way
to an airport shortly after WikiLeaks
released its first set of stolen emails
and Gates told your investigators that
candidate Trump was on a phone call and
when the call ended Trump told gates
that more releases of damaging
information would be coming and quote do
you recall that from the report if it's
in the report I've supported it okay and
that's on page 18 of volume now on page
77 of volume 2 your report also stated
quote in addition some witnesses said
that Trump privately sought information
about future WikiLeaks releases end
quote is that correct correct now in
Appendix II where the president did
answer some written questions he said
quote I do not recall discussing
WikiLeaks with him nor do I recall being
aware of mr. stone having discussed
WikiLeaks with individuals associated
with my campaign
end quote is that correct if it's from
the report it is correct okay so is it
fair to say the president denied ever
discussing WikiLeaks with mr. stone and
denied being aware that anyone
associated with his campaign discussed
WikiLeaks was stoned I'm sorry could you
repeat that one is it fair then that the
president denied knowledge of himself or
anyone else discussing WikiLeaks dumps
with mr. jetson yes okay
and with that I would yield back thank
you ma'am
Thank You mr. chair mr. Muller over here
mr. maybe I directed a special counsel
my understanding I was not applying for
the job I was asked to give my input on
what it would take to do the job which
triggered the interview you're talking
about so you don't recall on May 16th
2017 that you interviewed with the
president regarding the FBI director job
I interviewed with the president and our
new directors you knows about the job
and not about me applying for the job
so so your statement here today is that
you didn't interview to apply for the
FBI director job that's correct so it
did you tell the vice-president at the
FBI director position would be the one
job that you would come back to for
don't recall that one you don't recall
that
no okay giving you 22 months of
investigation tens of million dollars
spent and millions of documents reviewed
did you obtain any evidence at all that
any American voter changed their vote as
a result of Russians election
interference I can't speak to that you
can't speak to that after 22 months of
investigation there's not any evidence
in that document before us that any
voter changed their vote because of
their interference and I'm asking you
based on all the documents that you
thought was outside our purview Russian
meddling was outside your purview but
the the impact of that meddling was
undertaken by other agencies okay you
stated in your opening statement that
you would not get into the details of
the steal dossier however multiple times
in volume 2 on page 23 27 and 28
you mentioned the unverified allegations
how long did it take you to reach the
conclusion that it was unverified I'm
not gonna speak to that it's in it's
actually in your report multiple times
that it's unverified and you're telling
me that you're not willing to tell us
how you came to the conclusion that it
was unverified application to spy on
Carter page I'm sorry what was he I'm
not as aware that the unverified steel
dossier was in
and it was included in the FISA
applications spiral Carter page I'm not
gonna speak to that your team
interviewed Christopher Steele is that
correct
not gonna get into that you can tell
this committee as to whether or not you
interview Christmas do a 22-month
investigation with 18 lawyers as I said
at the outset that is one of those one
of the investigations that is is being
handled by others in the Department of
Justice but you're here testifying about
this investigation today and I am asking
you directly did any members of your
team or did you interview Christopher
Steele in the course of your
investigation and I am NOT going to
answer that question sir you had two
years to investigate not once did you
consider it worthy to investigate how an
unverified document it was paid for by a
political opponent was used to obtain a
warrant to spy on the opposition
political campaign did you do any
investigation and that was to not accept
your characterization of what occurred
what would you what would be your target
speech anymore to it so you can't speak
anymore to it but you're not gonna agree
with my characterization correct is that
correct
I like this yeah yeah check the source
one who was Christopher Steele the
author of the Steele dossier the FISA
application says nothing sources ones
reason for conducting the research into
candidate one's ties Russia based on
sources one previous reporting history
with FBI whereby source one provided
related there's an interesting dynamic
here where it's almost like you're more
sympathetic Muller yeah when you hear
the Republicans talks because they're
basically trying to get on Fox being a
jerk to respond to any of the questions
regarding Christopher Steele or your
interviews with them well I said at the
outset this morning that was one of the
investigations that I could not speak to
well I don't understand how if you
interviewed an individual in the purview
of this investigation that you're
testifying to us today that you've
closed that investigation how that's not
within your purview to tell us about
that investigation and who you
interviewed
I have nothing dad okay well the I can
guarantee that the American people want
to know and I'm and I'm very hopeful and
glad that AG Barr is looking into this
and the Inspector General is looking
into this because you're unwilling to
answer the questions of the American
people as it relates to the very
basis of this investigation into the
president and a very basis of this
individual who you did interview you're
just refusing to answer those questions
how about this blow me the president not
die soon without the Constitution yes
article two yes that's correct can't he
also fire you as Special Counsel at any
time without any reason I believe that
to be the case under Article two well
you said without any reason I know that
Special Counsel can be fired but I'm not
certain an extend to for whatever reason
well and you've testified that you
weren't fired you were able to complete
your investigation in full is that
correct I'm not gay
add to what I've stated before my time
is expired gentleman's time has expired
the gentleman from well that's
make sure you look dissatisfied I will
mr. Muller for being with us
not close to the afternoon now director
Muller now would like to ask you about
the president's answers relating to
Roger stone Roger stone was indicted for
multiple federal crimes and indictment
alleges that mr. stone
discussed a future wikileaks email
releases with a trump campaign
understanding there's a gag order on the
stone case I will keep my questions
restricted to publicly available
information mr. soulsand I would just
say at the outside I don't mean to
disrupt you but I'm not I would like
some demarcation and that which is
applicable to this but also in such a
way that it does not hinder the other
prosecution is taking place in DC I
understand that I'm only going to be
talking about the questions that you
asked in writing to the president you
ma'am we're late to mr. stone mr. stones
indictment states among other things the
following quote stone was contacted by
senior Trump officials to inquire about
future releases of organization one
organization went being wikileaks the
indictment continues quote stone
thereafter told the Trump campaign about
potential future releases of damaging
material
by WikiLeaks so in short the indictment
alleges that stone was asked by the
Trump campaign to get information about
more WikiLeaks releases and that stone
in fact did tell the can't Trump
campaign about potential future releases
correct yes ma'am but I see you're
quoting from the indictment and even
though the indictment is a public
document I feel uncomfortable discussing
anything having to do with the stone
prosecution right D yep and diamond is
is a record in a poll we pulled it off
of the yeah well well turning back to
the president's answers to your
questions in on this very subject the
president denied ever discussing future
week week he leaks releases with stone
and tonight knowing whether anyone else
on his campaign had those discussions
with stone if you had learned that other
witnesses put us putting aside the
president if other witnesses had lied to
you investigators in response to
Pacific's questions whether he whether
in writing or in an interview could they
be charged with false statement crimes
well I'm I'm not going to speculate I
think you're asking for me to speculate
given a set of circumstance no let's put
it more specific what if I had made a
false statement to an investigator on
your team could I go to jail for up to
five years yes yes although it's
Congress oh well that's the point though
isn't it that no one is above the law
not you not the Congress it's certainly
not the President and I think it's just
troubling to have to hear some of these
things and that's why the American
people deserve to learn the full facts
of the misconduct described in your
report for which any other person would
have been charged with crimes so thank
you for being here and again this point
has been underscored many times but I'll
repeat it no one is above the law
thank you thank you ma'am the time the
mr. Muller how many people did you fire
how many people on your staff
as we all know we have a couple years
fire justice system discuss that you
fired it - according to inspector
general's report attorney number two was
let go and we know Peter Strock was let
go correct yes and there may have been
other persons on other issues that have
been either transfer or fired Peter
struck testified before this committee
on July 12 2018 that he was fired
because you were concerned about
preserving the appearance of
Independence you agreed this testimony I
say that again if you could he said he
was fired at least partially because you
were you were worried about a concern
about preserving the appearance of
independence with the special counsels
investigation you agree with that
statement
this statement was by home heater struck
at this hearing and I have not familiar
with that did you fire him because you
were worried about the appearance of
independence of the end of the
investigation no he was a transferred as
a result of instances involving Tex do
you agree that do you agree that your
office did not only have an obligation
to operate with him independence but to
operate with the appearance of
independence as well absolutely we
strove to do that over the two years
Andrew writes that part of that was
making certain that Andrew Weissman's
one of your top attorneys yes did
Wiseman have a role in selecting other
members of your team he had some role
but not a major role Andrew Weissman
attended Hillary Clinton's election
night party did you know that before
after he came on to the team
don't know what I found that out on
January 30th 2017 Weissman wrote an
email to Deputy Attorney General Yates
stating I am so proud and in awe
regarding her disobeying a direct order
from the president did Weissman disclose
that email to you before he joined the
team yeah I'm not going to talk about
that is that not a conflict of interest
another guy and not going to talk about
that are you aware that misrepresented
Hillary Clinton in litigation regarding
personal emails originated originating
from Clinton's time as Secretary of
State
yes did you know that before she came on
the tow Aaron's elderly the guy sitting
next to you represented Justin Cooper a
Clinton aide who destroyed one of
Clinton's mobile devices and you must be
aware by now that six of your lawyers
donated $12,000 directly to Hillary
Clinton
I'm not even talking about the 49,000
they donated other Democrats just the
donations to the opponent who is the
target of your investigation can I speak
for a second to the hiring practices
sure we strove to hire those individuals
that could do the job okay I've been in
this business for almost 25 years and in
those 25 years I have not had occasion
once to ask somebody about their
political affiliation it is not done
what I care about is the capability of
the individual to do the job and do the
job quickly and seriously and with
integrity but that's what I'm saying mr.
Miller this isn't just about you being
able to vote your team this is about
knowing that the day you accepted this
role you had to be aware no matter what
this report concluded half of the
country was going to be scheduled
skeptical of your team's findings and
that's why we have recusal laws that
define bias and perceived bias for this
very reason 28 United States Code 528
specifically lists not just political
conflict of interest but the appearance
of political contracts at the conflict
of interest it's just simply not enough
that you vouch for your team the
intrested does demand that no perceived
bias exists I can't imagine a single
prosecutor or judge that I have ever
appeared in front of would be
comfortable with these circumstances
Attorney General the prosecute a 16-page
memorisation ship to the opponent of the
person that there was no such thing as
obstruction of justice and the decisions
once he became Attorney General of those
19 lawyers 14 of them were transferred
from elsewhere the Department of Justice
ld5 came from outside and had a direct
relationship political or personal with
the opponent of the person you were
investigating and that's my point
I wonder if not a single word and this
entire report was changed but rather the
only difference was we switched Hillary
Clinton and President Trump if Peter
struck had texted those terrible things
about Hillary Clinton instead of
president Truong if a team of lawyers
worked for donated thousands of dollars
to and went to Trump's Trump's parties
instead of Clinton's I don't think we'd
be here trying to prop up an obstruction
allegation my colleagues would have
spent the last four months accusing your
team of being bought and paid for by the
Trump campaign and we couldn't trust a
single word of this report they would
still be accusing the
president of conspiracy with Russia and
they would be accusing your team of
aiding and embedding in that with that
conspiracy and with that I yield back
gentleman yields back the gentleman from
Colorado dr. Mohler thank you for your
service to our country I'd like to talk
to you about one of the other incidents
of obstruction and that's the evidence
in your report showing the president
directing his son and his communications
director tissue a false public statement
in June of 2017 about a meeting between
his campaign and Russian individuals at
Trump Tower in June of 2016 according to
your report mr. Trump jr. was the only
Trump associate who participated in that
meeting and who declined to be
voluntarily interviewed by your office
is that correct did mr. Trump jr. or his
counsel ever communicate to your office
any intent to invoke his Fifth Amendment
right against self-incrimination
you did post written questions to the
president about his knowledge of the
Trump Tower meeting you included also
asked him about whether or not he had
directed a false press statement the
president did not answer at all that
question correct
I can represent to you that Appendix C
specifically c-13 states as much
according to page 100 of volume 2 of
your report your investigation found
that hope Hicks the president's
communications director in June of 2017
was shown emails that set up the Trump
Tower meeting and she told your office
that she was quote shocked by the emails
because they looked quote really bad
true do you have a citation sure it's
page 100 of volume 2 whether they start
with this this sounds better while
you're flipping to that page director
molar I will also tell you that
according to page 99 of volume 2 those
emails in question stated according to
your report that the crown prosecutor of
Russia had offered to provide the Trump
campaign with some official documents
and information that would incriminate
Hillary and her dealings with Russia as
part of Russia and its governments
support for mr. Trump Trump jr.
responded if it's what you say I love it
and he pushed and mana for met with the
Russian attorneys and several other
Russian individuals at Trump Tower on
June 9th 2016 and quote correct
generally accurate
isn't it true that Miss Hicks told your
office that she went multiple times to
the president to quote urge him that
they should be fully transparent about
the June 9th meeting and quote but the
president each time said no correct
accurate and the reason was because of
those emails president well believed
would not leak correct well I'm not
certain I know it's characterized but
generally correct
did the president direct miss Hicks to
say quote only that Trump jr. took a
brief meeting and it was about Russian
adoption end quote
because Trump juniors statement to the
New York Times quote said too much we're
gonna wanna page 102 of volume 2 okay
correct let me just check one thing yes
and according to miss Hicks the
president still directed her to say the
meeting was only about Russian adoption
correct yes despite knowing that to be
untrue Thank You director Muller I yield
back the balance of my on time mr.
Muller you've been asked over here on
the on the far right sir you've been
asked a lot of questions here today to
be frank you performed as most of us
expected you've stuck closely to your
report and you have declined to answer
many of our questions on both sides as
the closer for the Republican side I
know you're glad to get to the close I
want to summarize the highlights of what
we have heard and what we know you spent
two years and nearly 30 million taxpayer
dollars and unlimited resources to
prepare a nearly 450 page report which
you described today as very thorough
millions of Americans today maintain
genuine concerns about your work in
large part because of the infamous and
widely publicized bias of your
investigating team members which we now
know included 14 Democrats and 0
Republicans campaign finance reports
later showed that team excuse me it's my
time that team of Democrat investigators
you hired donated more than 60,000
dollars to the Hillary Clinton campaign
and other Democratic candidates your
team also included Peter struck and Lisa
Paige which had been dust discussed
today and they had the lowest tech lurid
text messages that confirmed they openly
ma
showed her head and his supporters and
they vowed to take him out mr. Ratcliffe
asked you earlier this morning quote can
you give me an example other than Donald
Trump where the Justice Department
determined that an investigated person
was not exonerated because their
innocence was not conclusively
determined unquote you answered I cannot
sir that is unprecedented the president
believed from the very beginning that
you and your special counsel team had
serious conflicts this is stated in the
report and acknowledged by everybody and
yet President Trump cooperated fully
with the investigation he knew he had
done nothing wrong and he encouraged all
witnesses to cooperate with the
investigation and produced more than 1.4
million pages of information and allowed
over 40 witnesses who were directly
affiliated with the White House or his
campaign your report acknowledges on
page 61 volume 2 that a volume of
evidence exists of the president telling
many people privately quote the
president was concerned about the impact
of the Russian investigation on his
ability to govern and to address
important foreign relations issues and
even matters of national security and on
page 174 volume 2 your report also
acknowledges that the Supreme Court has
held quote the president's removal
powers are at their Zenith with respect
to principle officers that is officers
who must be appointed by the President
and who report to him directly
the president's exclusive and
illimitable power of removal of those
principal officers furthers the
president's ability to ensure that the
laws are faithfully executed unquote and
that would even include the Attorney
General look in spite of all of that
nothing ever happened to stop or impede
your special counsels investigation
nobody was fired by the president
nothing was curtailed and the
investigation unencumbered for twenty
two long months as you finally concluded
in volume one the evidence quote did not
establish that the president was
involved in an underlying crime related
to Russian election interference unquote
and the evidence quote did not establish
that the president are those close to
him were involved in any Russian
conspiracies or had an unlawful
relationship with any Russian official
unquote over those 22 long months that
your investigation dragged along the
president became increasingly frustrated
as many the American people did with its
effects on our country and in his
ability to govern he vented about this
to his lawyer in his closest
yes and he even shared his frustrations
as we all know how can we round up motor
in the water more children in this video
or the opinion of some of the American
people
none of those audiences were targets or
witnesses in your investigation the
president never cast Monique near a
condition in the investigation or
demanded the levy terminated he never
misled Congress named Jackson or the
Special Counsel not be able to grow at
agility speeds hear about the origins of
this whole charade which was the
infamous Christopher Steele dossier now
proven to be totally bogus even though
it is listed and specifically referenced
in your report but as our hearing is
concluding we apparently will get no
comment on that from you mr. Muller
there's one primary reason why you were
called here today and by the by the
Democrat majority of our committee our
colleagues on the other side of the
aisle just want political cover they
desperately wanted you today to tell
them they should impeach the president
but the one thing you have said very
clearly today is that your report is
complete and thorough and you completely
agree with and stand by its
recommendations and all of its content
is that right true mr. Muller one last
important question your report does not
recommend impeachment does it I'm not
gay talked about recommendations it does
not conclude that impeach would be
appropriate here I'm not going to talk
about that interest that issue that's
one of the many things you wouldn't talk
about today but I think we can all draw
our own conclusions I do thank you for
your service to the country and I'm glad
this raid will come to an end soon and
we can get back to the important
business of this committee with its
broad jurisdiction of so many important
issues for the country without I yield
back
that our intent was to conclude this
hearing at around 11:45 all of the
Republican members have now asked their
questions but we have a few remaining
Democratic members they would be
limiting their questions so with
director Moe's indulgence we have
everything ready to be done Georgia is
recognized Thank You mr. chairman and
thank you director Muller your
investigations of the Russian attack on
our democracy and of obstruction of
justice justice were extraordinarily
productive and under
two years you charged at least 37 people
or entities with crimes you convicted
seven individuals five of whom were top
Trump campaign or White House aides
charges remain pending against more than
two dozen Russian persons or entities
and against others now let me start with
those five Trump campaign or
administration aids that you convicted
would you agree with me that they are
pom Anna for president Trump's campaign
man have to remind me Gates president
Trump's deputy campaign manager it's
sort of fascinating that Muller has now
twice he will not comment on whether the
report calls for impeachment he doesn't
even say Stan I stand by the report
interesting right right thank you I'm
not talking what you said by stolen but
he is in another court system is I
indicated before exactly he said you
don't want to discuss correct thank you
and there are many other charges as well
correct
right so sir I just want to thank you so
much of my limited time today for your
team the work that you did in your
dedication in less than two years your
team was able to uncover an incredible
amount of information related to
Russia's attack on our elections and to
obstruction of justice and there's still
more that we have to learn despite
facing unfair attacks by the President
and even here today your work has been
substantive and fair the work has laid
the critical foundation for our
investigation and for that I thank you I
thank you with that I yield back the
balance of my 10 lady in Arizona Thank
You director Muller I'm disappointed
that some have questioned your motives
throughout this process and I want to
take a moment to remind the American
people of who you are your exemplary
service to our country you are a marine
you served in Vietnam and earned a
Bronze Star early drinking game no
kidding
which President appointed you to become
the United States Attorney for
Massachusetts
which senator which president which
president oh my god I think that was
President Bush according to my notes it
was President Ronald Reagan had the
honor to do so under who under whose
administration did you serve as the
assess not gonna help
general in charge of the do J's creme
good job buddy
which president yeah that would be one
monitor Iraq President George HW is he
is he actually meaning to do like a quiz
and he's trying to say he's trying to
establish that another spreadable my
credible which is just stunning like
that they think that this is necessary
at this point which president system
first appointed you Bush you're
extremely well-endowed correct 98 to
zero correct surprising and you were
sworn in as director you lied about WMDs
for the president at a correct you go
together when the remedy to voice your
time didn't you infiltrate some student
groups in college well that's how
suction you Monica me POTUS all dinners
at colleges across northeastern seaboard
that's right if they're really looking
to convince Republicans turmoil you must
have known there would be an
extraordinary challenge why did you
accept can we speed this up yeah like
literally is there a even caller wants
to speed it up some people have attacked
the political motivations of your tub
even suggested your investigation I say
I don't hunt when you consider people I
get the sense that they think they're
doesn't about their political
affiliation never once in your entire
career as a law enforcement official
have you ever met her e rejoined my
dream based upon your things that there
are multiple genders and that Donald
Trump should be sent back to Russia
answers yes to punch out the puck out a
record that's been discussed here today
as a result of a team of agents and
lawyers who were absolutely exemplary
and questioned the value they could
contribute to getting the job done and
getting it done you guys are really bad
at this here to me and reading your
report and listen to your testimony
today
you acted fairly with three strange
circumstances where you could have filed
charges against them call java forum but
you declined the president proceed oh
and you certainly don't want I will show
my team Jack's made against you and your
team intensified because your report is
damning and I believe you did uncover
substantial evidence of high crimes and
misdemeanors let me also say something
else that you are right about the only
remedy for this situation is for
Congress to take action I yield back
good morning director mother Muller
Madelene Dean Oh got you sorry thank you
thank you I wanted to ask you about
public confusion connected with Attorney
General bars release of your report I
will be quoting your March 27th letter
sir in that letter and at several other
times did you convey to the Attorney
General that the quote introductions and
executive summaries of our two-volume
report accurately summarized this
offices work and conclusions and quote I
have to say that the letter itself
speaks for itself and those were your
words in that letter continuing with
your letter you wrote to the Attorney
General that quote the summary letter
letter that the department sent to
Congress and released to the public late
in the afternoon of March 24th did not
fully capture the context nature and
substance of this office's work and
conclusions end quote is that correct
again I rely on the letter itself for
its terms thank you what was it about
the reports context nature substance
that the Attorney General's letter did
not capture I think we captured that in
the March 27th
responsive letter and this is from the
27th letter
what were some of the specifics that you
thought direct you to the letter itself
okay you finished that letter by saying
there is now public confusion about
critical aspects as a result of our
investigation
could you tell us specifically some of
the public confusion you identified
generally again I go back to the letter
and let her speak for itself and could
attorney general bar have avoided public
confusion if he had released your
summaries an executive introduction in
summaries I don't feel comfortable
speculating on that shifting to May 30th
the Attorney General in an interview
with CBS News said that you could have
reached quote you could have reached a
decision as to whether it was criminal
activity and quote on the part of the
president did the Attorney General or
his staff ever tell you that he thought
you should make a decision on whether
the president engaged in criminal
activity I'm not going to speak to what
the Attorney General was thinking or
saying if the Attorney General had
directed you or ordered you to make a
decision on whether the president
engaged in criminal activity would you
have so done I can't answer that
question in the vacuum what director
Muller again I thank you for being here
I agree with you March 27th letter there
was public confusion and the president
took full advantage of that confusion by
falsely claiming your report found no
obstruction let us be clear your report
did not exonerate the president instead
it provided substantial evidence of
obstruction of justice leaving Congress
to do its duty we shall shall not shrink
from that duty I yield back the
gentlelady yields back mr. chairman mr.
Chairman I have a point of inquiry over
on your left was the point of this
hearing to get mr. Muller to recommend
impeachment that is not a fair point of
inquiry the gentlelady from Florida is
recognized to your point the gentlelady
is recognized
we're coming here you're a patriot I
want to refer you now to volume 2 page
158 you wrote that quote the president's
efforts to influence
the investigation were mostly
unsuccessful but that is largely because
the persons who surrounded the president
declined to carry out orders or accede
to his request is that right that is
accurate and that is what we found and
you're basically referring to senior
advisors who disobeyed the president's
orders like white House Counsel Don
Magan former Trump campaign manager
Corey Lewandowski is that right well we
have not specified person fetchin day
well in in page 158 White House Counsel
Dunham again quote did not tell the
acting Attorney General that the special
counsel must be removed but was instead
prepared to resign over the president's
orders you also explained that an
attempt to obstruct justice does not
have to succeed to be a crime right true
simply attempting to obstruct justice
can be a crime correct yes so even
though the president's aides refused to
carry out his orders to interfere with
your investigation that is not a defense
to obstruction of justice by this
president is it I'm not gonna speculate
so to reiterate simply trying to
obstruct justice can be a crime correct
yes and you say that the president's
efforts to influence the investigation
were quote mostly unsuccessful and
that's because not all of his efforts
were unsuccessful right are you reading
into what what we have written in the
report I was gonna ask you if you could
just tell me which ones you had in mind
as successful when you wrote that
sentence yeah
director molar today we've talked a lot
about the separate acts by this
president what you also wrote in your
report that quote the overall pattern of
he said there are things that are
successful and the inferences can be
drawn about his intent correct accurate
recitation from the
report it's stunning that right we don't
have that again I think it's important
for everyone to note that the
president's conduct had a significant
change when he realized that it was the
investigations were conducted to
investigate his obstruction acts so in
other words when the American people are
deciding whether the president committed
obstruction of justice they need to look
at all of the president's conduct and
overall pattern of behaviors that
correct I don't disagree
thank you dr. Mohler director Muller
doctor also I'll designate that too I
have certainly made up my mind about
whether we what we have reviewed today
meets the elements of obstruction
including whether there was corrupt
intent and what is clear is that anyone
else including some members of Congress
would have been charged with crimes for
these acts this we would 44 questions
you should not allow it now or for the
future to protect our democracy and yes
we will continue to investigate because
as you clearly say it at the end of your
report no one is above the law I yield
back my time
the gentlelady yields back the
gentlelady from Texas director Muller
you wrote in your report that you quote
determined not to make a traditional
prosecutorial judgment end quote
was that in part because of an opinion
by the Department of Justice Office of
Legal Counsel that a sitting president
can't be charged with a crime yes
director Muller at your May 29th 2019
press conference you explained that
quote the opinion says that the
Constitution requires a process other
than the criminal justice system to
formally accuse a sitting president of
wrongdoing
end quote that process other than the
criminal justice system for accusing a
president of wrongdoing is that
impeachment
kind of comment on that what in your
report it was alluding to Missy's
misconduct for the non lawyers in the
room what did you mean by quote
potentially preempt constitutional
processes I'm not going to try to
explain that that actually is coming
from page one of volume two another
footnote is the the reference to this
what are those constitutional processes
I think I heard you mention at least one
impeachment look at correct I
okay that is one of the processes listed
in the report in the footnote how about
white I mean always the president sought
to interfere with your investigation and
you in your report on page ten volume
two that with a in interfering with a
congressional inquiry or investigation
with corrupt intent can also constitute
obstructed obstruction of justice true
well the president has told us that he
intends to fight all the subpoenas
basically like continued efforts to
interfere with investigations of his
potential misconduct but certainly
didn't pass notes it was a sitting
president of wrongdoing as you cited in
the report in this case and this hearing
has been very helpful to this committee
as it exercises its constitutional duty
to determine whether to recommend
articles of impeachment against the
president I agree with you director
Muller that we all have a vital role in
holding this president accountable for
his actions you say so we enjoy the role
demand accountability is over we got we
have four hours but no one is above the
law
we will come everything that
I have heard you say here today it's
clear anyone else would have been
prosecuted based on the evidence
available in your report it now falls on
us to hold president Trump accountable
thank you for being here
chairman I so am I even citizen
gentlelady yields back
just born poor flows you and I great
personal privilege I just want to thank
the chairman we did get in our time
after this was first developed us we did
bill to get in time our side got our
five minutes in okay I got it for that
time but I got time being here and I'll
join the chairman and thank you for
being here thank you director Muller we
thank you for attending today's hearing
we're done before we so uh folks well
let's just hear what he's saying here
it's easy well the witness exits the
room oh he's just talking about he's
just doing the once again if you also
back after we're done here please
everyone meet across the hall we have
some refreshments yes and a little bit
of nosh oh gosh
so here's the deal folks we're gonna
sign off we'll be back on for the Intel
hearing and but before that we're gonna
come back on in five minutes we're going
to run down the highlights of this
basically cliff notes probably thirty
minutes of it all right we'll be back in
five minutes in that
to get to where I want but I know son
I'm gonna get
