but let's turn our attention for the
moment to the Democrats this was to be
the week where HR 1 the House Resolution
1 that would be the first bill offered
in the new Congress by the Democrats
which in my estimation is one of those
rare bills that is both sort of like
huge political winner and also huge
winner for democracy this is a bill that
talked about ethics reform that talked
about lobbying reform talked about real
tangible changes in the way that we vote
giving federal workers a holiday to vote
on Election Day doing motor voter
registration
Riaan franchising X of felons the list
goes on and on providing matching funds
for campaign finance purposes fixing
parts of the Voting Rights Act and this
was supposed to be a big sort of roll
out for the Democrats however and they
were gonna hammer Mitch McConnell for
not bringing it up in the Senate however
they seem to have shot themselves in the
foot at the beginning of the week in
response to ironically in many respects
what was sr1 Senate resolution one which
was to create a federal codification for
the laws that exist in 27 states around
the country and this is going to come as
a shock I think to a lot of people
Senate resolution one was going to
codify the fact that in 27 states across
the country you as a private contractor
as a small company in Texas it was
someone who does speech pathology for
public schools needed to sign a pledge
in order to get an
appointment from state programs that you
would not participate in a protest
against the State of Israel this sounds
bizarre to people it is bizarre it is
fundamentally anti-democratic and
contrary to the First Amendment it is
yet to be challenged I think I don't
know if it will be but the an in
response to that democratic
representative Alon Omar had a couple of
things to say over the course of a
couple of weeks but one of which was I
should not be forced to pledge
allegiance to another country which was
then interpreted and frankly I think
disingenuously as her saying that Jews
had dual allegiances to do two different
countries which is also a bizarre leap
to take but she is a rising star in the
Democratic Party she is a Muslim woman
of color and she has taken on the
foreign policy establishment in this
country by criticizing the incredibly
odious Elliott Abrams
and so she was under siege certainly by
Republicans but then by the Democratic
leadership I mean the this is so
disturbing in a multitude of ways that
it is shocking to see the Democrats
shoot themselves in the foot this way it
I you take it from here for a moment
because I it is so appalling in in in in
in a myriad of ways and reflective of
the problem that she was talking about
in the first in the first part and it
politically it's devastating it seems
well I think so too and I you know I'm
not quite sure I honestly don't
understand it I mean I really find this
very bizarre now I guess if you wanted
if you take it down to just simply I
mean what what what Omar and I mean this
part can't be left out her main
criticism and and she was criticizing
that particular you know that ridiculous
you know passage of that
build codifying the you know the assault
on free speech in my view of twenty
seven states and it is absurd as you
point out and I yeah I hadn't known that
until recently I mean I was shocked and
I think most people would be shocked you
know if they if they knew and when they
find out they're going what yeah what's
that about we wouldn't do that here but
we do but what Oh Mars real critique has
been from the beginning is against the
lobbying group and they can don't call
themselves lobbyists but that's what
they are of a pack and a pack you know
which lobbies on behalf of Israel you
know and they're sort of in a love it or
leave it way they exercise a lot of
influence in American politics and it's
not just it on behalf of American Jews
or Israel they also lobby on behalf of
the you know far-right white evangelical
community which is I think is one of the
big organizations cuf I I can't remember
what it stands for now but it's a
Christian evangelical organization and
we should say in terms of AIPAC Thomas
Friedman has very explicitly in the
context of some interview said and this
is not a direct quote but it's pretty
darn close talking to his interviewer if
you and I were in a congressional race
and I supported AIPAC I would be able to
out raise you in about thirty minutes
because I could make three phone calls
and blow you away is is essentially what
he said
far more explicit and it seems to me
suggestive of some type of anti-semitic
trope I mean in this instance she she
mentions AIPAC in one instance but in
other instances she resents the fact
that she as a congresswoman who is not a
Jew or and not a Christian for that
matter is required to and you know she
cites the you know taking this this
pledge and she is complaining that she
is a congresswoman do does not have the
room to criticize our farm policy in
regards to Israel or Israel
domestic policy and this is it's absurd
I mean it's absurd both I think because
and I say this as a supporter of Israel
they are deserving of critique but it's
just all so absurd that there would be
this type of sensitivity to a any
country I mean I realize that were an
ally but you and I remember this well
Heather during the first three or four
years of this century France was so
mocked and derided in the house that
they renamed the French fries at the the
Republican colleague you know they at
the Congressional commissary I mean you
know like this is not this is not normal
and I want to take a break here and talk
about what why this is I mean I get it
why Steve Scalise is out there
criticizing her because she's a Muslim
and he wants to get her off of this
committee but why are Democrats taking
the bait here we got to take quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
