[Music]
Trump's of fascist Trump Stefan
absolutely let's all right let's do one
more gross thing and then we'll go to
the opposite Jeffrey Epstein was denied
bail today which is obviously the
correct decision this is somebody who
should have already been put away to
just protect human beings a long time
ago he's a child rapist and a human
trafficker
so it's innately important now hugely
important now I am curious though I want
to know what what comes out of this
that's bigger than him I mean this is
somebody that there's been accusations
against Dershowitz which he denies but
an accusation then there's just the
broader climate of hey this is a human
trafficker pedophile and Steve Pinker
was on his plane and Bill Clinton was
honest Steve drinker uh doing a favor
for Alan Dershowitz helped part of the
legal defense of Epstein indeed I said
he doesn't know much about him and
perhaps that's true but it's weird to
head this is just the thing right this
is what we're talking bout the milieu
yeah I'll just help him out I'll write
something I'm a linguist I got my buddy
Alan Dershowitz here we all like fly to
Harvard events we all apply to the
Caribbean together we all go you know we
all get maybe even more to the point we
all yeah we get funding for our centers
at Harvard from the likes of Jeffrey
Epsilon
so and obviously he had a relationship
obviously with Donald Trump this is just
kind of I mean look it's disgusting and
disturbing because just the seeing
Epstein but this is just you know it's
just a Victor gur it's one of those
moments I mean you know Trump is a
 weirdo I mean he looks weird
even just like kind of partying I don't
even know what he's doing but
[Music]
now I should probably point out that all
those women look appear at least to be
of age in that video so we don't yeah
anything yeah no I mean you know that's
that's Donald Trump with the guy that he
says I don't like that guy never like
that took her you guys if you girls
heard of 2 Corinthians as reading that
Jesus Christ these people are
freaks um
