[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday April 24th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today it's
one of our famous vacation days where
we're on vacation but you don't have to
be we bring you all new interview never
heard before pristine still in the
shrink-wrap full warranty involved
untouched minted in mint condition
chloÃ« thirsty author of at the
boundaries of homeownership credit
discrimination and the American state
yes ladies and gentlemen very important
for you to understand that when we talk
about discrimination we talk about
racism we're not talking about just the
legacy of slavery in this country or
we're talking about or just the
allowance of discrimination by the
government we're talking about active
measures taken by the government in
support of white supremacy white
dominance that's just a fact
and it's important to understand the
role that government has played in this
in the past because when we look at the
context in which people are living in
our society today understand that it is
a function of decisions our government
has made in the past I mean it's pretty
straight forward but it's a history that
people don't seem to be terribly aware
of people don't understand why they have
certain benefits that other people don't
have and a big part of that is just uh
they were given certain benefits so I'm
on vacation right now
Matt where do you think you are right
now it's Wednesday I am back in Brooklyn
actually from being in Los Angeles
hopefully tan oh really yep oh how did
the show go excellent seriously yep
weeds not what is Angeles by story I did
hold it out sorry about the property
damage but and so how long were you out
there from Friday to Tuesday where'd you
stay I don't want to it's a hotel
downtown a downtown hotel well I don't
know if it's technically
town it looks downtown to me the ace no
well you're back now so you don't have
to worry about people coming and crash
in your place oh that's true it was not
I still do I still don't wanna are you
nervous but um the hotel ooh the Omni
that's going out on Twitter mmm in the
future people are gonna be there
wait a second is that Brendan is that
where we stayed the Omni when we went
out there for politican I know all right
I don't know why you're staying in the
Omni that is a completely squaresville
hotel expedia.com I think okay or one of
those types of things
folks I should tell you one of today's
sponsors is Skillshare anyone who goes
to SK LSH majority report slash majority
report to is going to get two whole
months of totally free access the scale
shares entire library of super quality
online courses and tutorials Skillshare
is a vibrant online learning community
offers courses on everything for
designed a video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
and everything in between
there's Skillshare courses for everyone
you can have no problem finding any
courses are going to be useful for you
both in your personal life and your
professional life if you want to sharpen
skills that you already have or you want
to look into stuff that you don't know
how to do Skillshare has you covered
they of courses for entrepreneurs they
have courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages Photoshop branding
marketing I know I mean I don't think
you can become a dentist but probably
learn how to manage small businesses i I
to be honest with you I don't know what
I've been looking at cuz every time
because I'm on vacation right now and
every time I'm on vacation or I have a
couple loads I go on to scale share and
I just check out stuff because I always
walk away with like one piece of
knowledge that makes it worth it and
then I piece it together into a large
array of knowledge that I do not then
employ I've got a that's probably good
it's do the one with procrastination
figure that out of course it's for
entrepreneurs of course is like I say
good photo
you can get two entire months of free
access to every single course offered by
Skillshare by going to SK l dot s H
slash majority report to just think of
everything you'll have at your
fingertips for two whole months
again that's sk l dot s H slash majority
report - I put a link underneath this
video if you're watching on YouTube or
if you're listening the link will be
there check it out so Matt just got back
from LA it's probably recovering
probably didn't sleep at all went out
and partied every night when you go to
LA Matt is this your not your first time
in LA is it it actually is my first time
are you kidding you have never been
there how did you do oh it's gonna be
interesting rooftop parties yeah rooftop
party I'm going to the beach
I know really yeah my girlfriend's gonna
drag me out there do the police going
out with your girlfriend yeah wait a
second wait a second wait whoa whoa whoa
hold on for one second wait a second
breaking a lot of news I mean oh my god
yeah I didn't even know this does she in
she's from New York right yeah so you
guys went out together right still
fighting still fighting from the trip
are you going on no I don't think so
probably not fighting alright yeah so
she dragged you out to the beach you
didn't have a fight about that because
you know it's gonna take you an hour and
a half to get there right I'm resigned
to that I feel like traffic is a
nightmare
yeah well I'm gonna be nursing a lot of
probably expensive uber rides but let's
see oh you guys yeah you know that's
right it's all over now
yeah well I'm glad you had fun or I'm
sorry that it turned out to such a
disaster but that's the that's the
tricky part about not knowing today's
show is being supported by simple habit
simple habit is a mobile app that
provides a massive and diverse library
of five-minute guided meditations and
the majority party audience can try
simple habit totally free for an entire
week when you go to simple habit calm
slash majority look everybody knows the
benefits of meditation the hard part is
just getting into a regime of doing it
simple habit has over 2,000 guided
meditations specifically designed for
different parts of your day and for just
about anything you might be dealing with
that's why they got the 2018 Google Play
award for best well-being app because
they have guided meditations for
mindfulness for anxiety for depression
when you're having trouble falling
asleep for procrastination stuff for
parents so they can figure out how to
just not blow your top at your kids
because they're driving me crazy not
your kids mine they're meditations made
specifically for when you're waking up
or your lunch break or when you've just
gotten home from work or when you go to
bed different people try to do different
things with meditation simple habit can
cater to just about anyone it doesn't
matter what your goals are doesn't
matter if you are an experienced
meditator or first-timer the variety of
guided meditations on simple habit is
what sets it apart simple habit is
available on iOS on Android and web
browser and the majority report audience
can try it for free by going to simple
habit comm slash majority if you're
watching on YouTube check out the link
there if you're watching if you're
listening check out the link in the
podcasts description all right we're
gonna take a quick break when we come
back we're gonna be talking to Chloe
Thurston about the boundaries of
homeownership credit discrimination and
the American State
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program assistant
professor in the political science
department at Northwestern University
and faculty fellow at the Institute for
Policy Research at Northwestern
University and author of at the
boundaries of home ownership credit
discrimination and the American State
Chloe Thurston welcome to the program
thank you for having me okay so
basically we're we're looking at the the
the mechanisms I guess or the the
politics that have been beyond
essentially the development of of credit
and and in specifically in in one
setting in terms of of housing but then
just general credit over the course of
the history of the country inlets so
let's start back in the development of
the of homeownership and of loans we
have in the past interviewed Richard
Rothstein on the color lines but your
research delves a little bit more into
the sort of the development of some of
what he discusses that's right so
service pressure drop student talks a
lot about the development of the color
line that's the idea the use of racial
criteria in mortgage lending I step back
a little bit beyond that and ask the
question how did they come up with the
criteria to determine safe lending from
risky lending historically sort of wydad
race and I actually talk about gender
and things like class income and the
type of job you have why do those ever
factor into one's credit evaluation and
then how does those change over time
yeah and so let's go back and and in in
and look at that development because the
United States I guess in terms of like
the industrialized world went in its
when it followed a different path in
this regard particularly in the context
of housing but-but-but-but so start back
like when when did this process start I
guess as it were yeah okay okay so you
really need to go back to the 1920s and
to think about so it started in the
1930s but I think it's actually really
useful to go back to the 1920s and to
think about how sort of type of mortgage
we have right now in a 30-year
fixed-rate low down payment how it's
actually kind of absurd and its
absurdity is clearer when you look back
historically so just think about this
imagine that you want to buy a house it
cost so many times your income and so
you go to a lender a total stranger and
you say you know I want to buy this
house I don't actually have the money to
pay for it but I will just give you some
I'll give you you know 20% of what it
costs and I promise I'll repay you in 30
years a lot could happen in 30 years of
course and I would also like to pay the
same interest rate despite the fact that
economic circumstances should change too
so this absurdly risky for most lenders
to agree to let's delve into that just a
little bit because yeah I mean you know
yeah it's such it's so it's been so
normalized on some level that the
absurdity doesn't quite jump out at you
unless you sort of like sit for a moment
with it and realize like wait a second
30 years that's yeah particularly in
1922 we're talking or in 1930s we're
talking that's half a lifetime it's
certainly you know probably close to
half in a dull lifetime right sorry
well no but you go ahead there's a lot
of different things that could go
sideways right before that the normal
time that you would have to repay a loan
would be like 2 to 12 years and on
average of its five so to go from five
years to 30 years almost overnight is is
pretty it's pretty remarkable and I
think you sort of hit the nail on the
head there and what it's a what was it
that what was the what was the impetus I
mean I understand what was the impetus
to changing that in the or and when
exactly did that change in if I could
choose any year I would say 1934 which
was the year that Congress passed the
National Housing Act and was created the
Federal Housing Administration which
created a loan insurance so basically
private lenders now could apply for
insurance from the federal government
against the default of a loan that they
were to give out provided that loan had
really long loan terms required a low
downpayment and had a low interest rate
and so that actually came about because
of the Great Depression because there
was massive construction unemployment
and FDR and his advisors thought that
one way to solve that unemployment
crisis would be to make it easier for
people to buy houses and to rehabilitate
houses they already had again you know
we're in the midst of this this massive
economic crisis and so there's just not
a lot of lending that's going on there
are a lot of homes that are in need of
repairs but people unable to finance
that so there was not there was not a
decision to say we want to create this
product a 30-year mortgage there was no
there was I so we had a couple of sort
of like there was a context here we have
massive unemployment particularly in the
construction trade we were convinced
that homeownership will will drive and
spur the economy and we know that banks
are not are afraid to loan so we're
basically just an insurer and backstop
those those bank loans and that's the
development of the FHA and Fannie Mae
tell us I guess Fannie Mae comes in in
38 but tell us what what you know uh be
more explicit as to like what Fannie Mae
is and what was the anticipation was
just that there's gonna be a bunch of
different mortgage products or what good
idea with some that's a first was that
there would be one and so it's now
sort of what we have and most people
actually don't apply for an FHA loan but
the type of loan we have is modeled
after that and you know now we have a
thirty-year 20% down payment mortgage
but at the time it was closer to 20
years it's gradually the amount of time
people had to repay increased until it
became 30 years and it started off as 30
percent down payment so the idea what's
yes has this one standardized mortgage
and so the reason for that was that you
know the federal government was going to
ensure everyone's mortgages it would be
much easier to do that if they all
conformed to the same criteria otherwise
it's really difficult for the government
to make sure that the Treasury isn't on
the hook because how do they appraise
you know whether or not the lenders are
acting in a safe or risky way the other
issue and you asked about Fannie Mae so
I'll answer that is so it's not enough
and they realized it wasn't enough at
the time to just say well in lenders
will insure you we the federal
government will insure you against the
default of your mortgages because this
again was a big change in the sense that
lenders were accustomed to getting their
loans repaid in maybe five years and so
if you're a lender and you give someone
a loan that they are going to repay over
30 years that's a very long period of
time that you're waiting for that money
to get repaid to you you know that's
that's 30 years before it's fully paid
off and so lenders might be reluctant to
do that because it ties up their money
in in ways that make it difficult for
them to act in the future so the idea of
Fannie Mae then was to create this sort
of facility where that would buy off all
of the outstanding loan debt that
lenders Lantau and then that would free
up more money so lenders could keep
extending these loans to more and more
people so this is I mean essentially
it's a derivative right I mean on some
level or is this like a I guess in early
derivative I think that's I think that's
a fair way of looking at it yeah yeah I
mean it's a secondary market it's an
early one because it's a really really
standardized one all of the loans look
the same
if you think about the way that
derivatives you know the way that
derivatives were described in the wake
of the financial crisis you know you had
sort of pools of assets that had varying
degrees of risk associated with them
lots of different types of loan terms
and in this case the product itself was
very standardized but yeah that's
exactly right
okay and so so we set this up and and
then where does so this seems a fairly
you know straightforward I guess to a
certain extent we have relieved the
banks of the launder lenders of the
risks associated with a 30 year time
horizon and we have made it housing more
attainable I guess for the average
citizen and the let's just stop I guess
maybe here is a good time to sort of
look at the other potential paths we
could have followed right in terms of
like what we see in Europe and in the
way that housing is supported there or
the the government might have driven
economic activity within you know even
as housing is a catalyst so um you know
I think Europe's a good comparison and a
lot of the housing reformers in the
early 20th century and sort of the years
before the Great Depression visited
different European capitals and cities
and countries to try to get a sense of
other paths and yeah so you know I think
the one one sort of obvious path is to
promote public housing or social housing
in the US the public housing program was
very small and it was means-tested so it
was always intended for sort of the the
poorest of citizens who couldn't buy
housing on the market there were caps
placed in the legislation at the time
also sort of cutting or seal there are
costs ceilings on the cost of the
housing and the types of construction
and building materials that would end up
being available but you know some
countries have public or social housing
that's not means-tested so you could be
middle class
could be a professional and you could
also live in in social housing so that's
one path though it's to promote sort of
public rentals you can also promote
private rentals and you know I think
that I I really think that the road not
taken' though in the u.s. what's the
cooperative housing model so to have
sort of limited dividend cooperations
that cooperatives that sort of don't
have the same opportunities for profit
maximization that the single-family home
ownership model that the u.s. ultimately
pursued had tell us i mean it tease that
out for us cuz i don't think most people
have an understanding of what that would
be would look like in you know in
reality well so you know you can have
for example a medium-sized set of condos
where everyone who lives in the condos
own the condos and some sort of common
common stake in in the common areas but
where that was not financed sort of
through a sort of like market
speculation in the same way that sort of
developers build single-family houses
you know in a single development with
the idea that they'll be able to sell
all of those maximize profits right okay
so in this so there's restrictions on
its on its transfer and I mean it's
probably back to two different than
coops that exist today in New York
except for ours there's a there's more
limitations on the liquidity of it in
fact there there are there are forms of
housing in New York City that exist that
are for purchase but you cannot they're
capped in terms of what you can sell
them in terms of return like the others
like 7% maybe increase in value or
something like that so they're not
investments as much as they are
relatively inexpensive place yeah that's
for
and New York was sort of the model of
what sort of like the center of this
cooperative model that just never took
off it was something that organized
labor was actually in favor of in the
1940s but again it just didn't take off
some sort of policy in the history of
public policy all right and just so that
people know when we talk about
socialized housing you know that is that
is universal in the sense that it's not
means-tested if I what does that mean
the government owns buildings and rents
them out at some type of like I know
maybe doesn't make sense to say market
rate but it's some play a rate that is
more affordable for to two people is
that basically that's pretty much what
it means that's basically it and you
know in the u.s. by government it
doesn't necessarily mean the federal
government and in practice it means
local housing authorities but yeah it's
the government a government owns the
housing and fronts it out at a rate that
is you know considered affordable which
usually means below market rate okay so
we set up that we head down this path
and then what what happens that the
ideas of race and particular in the
context of housing enters in and this
system becomes a mechanism to in which
to discriminate as I mentioned before
the adoption of a long-term fixed-rate
mortgages is very different than what
lenders were traditionally used to and
so this was its earthly risky for them
to get involved in and now the federal
government's involved too because it's
saying well we're going to insure those
loans against default and so it puts the
government in this position of suddenly
having to figure out what types of loans
would be too safe to it would be safe
enough to insure and which ones would be
too risky that they you know they
shouldn't they should try to avoid these
at all costs because what's going to put
the Treasury and ultimately the
taxpayers on the hook if something goes
wrong and so they set out to develop a
set of standardized
writing criteria and so several of the
criteria that emerge end up being
related to race so for example the
Federal Housing Administration
underwriting manual had very explicit
instructions that the underwriter make
sure that the neighborhood of the house
was at the neighborhood was protected
from quote in harmonious racial elements
and so that meant that things were sort
of in place to make sure that the
neighborhood was not diverse and that it
would not be at any risk of becoming
diverse in the future on the belief that
this would affect the value of the house
in the future and it's the value of the
house were to go down because the
neighborhood were to change composition
that the government would be exposed to
that risk and so it was basically just
this was not an unintended consequence
right this was we have racist society
and if we're going to subsidize
essentially the construction of homes
albeit as a you know backstop on loans
we don't want to increase risk and so we
we've we need to I guess reinforce that
racism as a way of making sure we don't
lose money right and you know they don't
really see it as racist you know as we
do at the time they see it as well this
is just what the housing market requires
you know it's sort of explanation is
that well house the sort of studied
neighborhood neighborhoods that have
more diversity or more racial minorities
tend to have lower housing values there
was with correlation and so therefore in
order to protect sort of all real estate
going forward we need to take you know
we need to sort of embed that
understanding into the way that we
evaluate mortgage application how much
how much consciousness was there about I
mean I mean we you know obviously you
know we look back on it it sounds
horribly racist to us but how much of
that awareness do you think was there at
that time because you know we can see a
on some level an analogue
in Social Security right and that was
right and that seemingly seems to have
been a much more I mean in both these
instances we're not talking about
unintended consequences but in Social
Security at least at least my
understanding of it was that that was
basically a horse trade like you know
we're gonna get this as long as as long
as we exclude jobs that are that tend to
be filled more by by people of color and
by women and by you know you know recent
immigrants on some level right I mean
that was almost an explicit horse trade
at that time was that an element in this
instance or was it just simply like this
is the way we mitigate risk we just
don't you know people don't you know
white people don't want to buy houses in
black neighborhoods hello hello hello hi
sorry I don't know I some hi sorry I
don't know what happened did you sorry I
like I don't have no idea what just
happened I think that I call just
dropped oh it's okay did you what was
the last thing you heard me say social
security and comparison and you know
that's a great question and you know
because the outcome is the same right
you have a policy with Social Security
that excludes domestic workers and
agricultural workers essentially
african-americans and women and in
housing you have a again a program that
excludes african-americans from
homeownership actually a very different
history though so this wasn't something
that was traded during hearings there's
no mention of race or anything that
would even be sort of considered
racially coded at the time during
hearings for during congressional
discussions of of housing it's all this
is all stuff that comes in rather
dispassionately when bureaucrats set out
to write all of the rules to administer
the program and
it's just kind of you know a foregone
conclusions that of course neighborhoods
are going to need to be sort of racially
homogeneous in order for for houses to
be considered safe that said I mean I
think that should be contrasted with
very explosive issues that housing and
any sort of effort desegregating
neighborhoods
face at that time - we're still talking
about periods where you know would be
black homeowners are intimidated
including violently from moving into
neighborhoods that are all white so
there's a total dispassionate yes right
racial discrimination ends up in housing
in a very sort of closed way it's
dispassionate but you know
discrimination at the time and still in
many ways today if you depending on how
you think about how the issue is covered
now can be very explosive when you're
actually talking about how homeowners
react to neighborhood diversity right
and I know on some level when we talk
about today we're getting into the topic
I think of your next book but so and I
want to sort of stay here with this in
the the implications of course of this
dynamic that started there have massive
implications that get our exponential in
terms of what it means for the the
growth of of wealth amongst people of
color right I mean because this is the
way that this is the biggest driver of
the accumulation of wealth across you
know across income spectrums is value in
home ownership that's right particularly
it's crossing some spectrums but
particularly for the middle class its
family's largest asset is their house
and this is a way to pass down job well
through generations and I think that's
one of the areas where you see the
racial wealth gap compound is that you
know if your grandparents were able to
own a house
then they can pass down that housing
laws to their kids and then they can
pass that down to their kids it makes it
easier if you have wealth to draw on to
purchase a house in a in a quote unquote
more desirable neighborhood where you
might be able to build equity faster and
so you see this today and for example
the Boston Fed did a study of racial
wealth gaps in US cities a couple of
years ago and found that the average
african-american family in Boston had $8
and net worth while the average white
family had 250,000 and so I think that's
a pretty stark example of sort of the
difference in in wealth that can happen
when you are that can occur when you're
one group of people was excluded from
access to homeownership for generations
and so what do when does this dynamic
change or does this dynamic change yeah
good question yeah so you know I start
to see there's almost two questions in a
way so the practice of using race to
determine whether or not houses or the
race of neighborhood or the buyer
whether or not to insure these houses
starts to get challenged almost as soon
as the FHA is operational the
n-double-a-cp
detects this just a few years after this
Ajay's is in operation and starts to
chip away at it they point out one that
there's actually not any evidence to say
that neighborhood diversity causes
houses to decline in value this is all
correlation and there's a lot of reasons
for why that correlations that exist
that are social are not economic and so
they they get the FHA's to remove that
criteria
they also prevail in sort of a broader
issue which is restrictive covenants I
know we study at Richard Rothstein on
your program and he talks a lot about
those in his book but
basically language in your mortgage deed
that said that you agreed and future
buyers agreed not to sell the house to
members of undesired races in perpetuity
and so on the n-double-a-cp launched
legal campaign that was ruled
unconstitutional with Shelley versus
Kramer in the late 1940s there are all
of these different things that happen to
remove race as an explicit criteria that
federal lenders and also private lenders
can use culminates in the Fair Housing
Act in 1968 the problem though is that
we are still living with the legacy of
of these earlier policies and we still
find a lot of evidence to that even
though it's illegal to discriminate on
the basis of race race still factors in
often and into sort of the terms of
people blown even today and we saw
certainly in the in the wake of the
financial crisis that african-americans
were put into subprime loan conditions
when in fact they qualified for four
perfectly typical I should say loans at
you know what the folks were we're
driven into these loans that had much
more onerous conditions all right well
so let's let's just jump over to the
other story that you tell about the
about about women's guess how mortgage
laws and credit were applied to gender
differences I mean I am old enough to
have been alive at a time where my mom
couldn't even own a credit card I think
in her own name which is just I just
completely bat-crap crazy as far as I'm
concerned but but that was the case as I
guess as late as the early seventies yes
that's right
yep so you know in a way this was kind
of similar is this part of the same
story that I was telling before where
you know the federal government gets
involved in making it easier for people
to become homeowners but then they have
to figure out what would make one say
they've won risky and so gender and
inscribed into these rules and the the
main belief is that you know so if
you're lending to someone for 30 years
you better make sure they can repay it
over 30 years and you want to make sure
that their income is stable and so the
issue here was that women's income was
considered suspect it was something that
was considered to be temporary maybe she
would have a baby and leaves the
workforce and it was supplemental sort
of you know for her to buy her own
personal enjoyments it wasn't for
families incomes uh and so this ended up
inscribed into the lending criteria
though so one thing that lenders would
do and that those the veteran a at a
time the FHA suggested or required was
discount a woman's income so you know
she's working well can we really
consider this income to be an actual
income maybe we should just count fifty
percent of the income on the mortgage
application since it's just not it's
inherently less stable and reliable than
a man's income another thing that that
lenders would do is so say that a woman
said well no my income does need to be
counted you know I I plan on working
that's you know the whole time that this
mortgage is in effect what the lender
could say okay well in that case we're
going to need a letter from your
gynecologist saying that you're on the
birth control tool and like that was
considered this was considered good
business practice it wasn't
discrimination or if it was
discrimination it was in the sense that
you know all lenders have to
discriminate in the sense they can't
make that's right that will
eventually put them out of business and
so this one things that are good
discrimination they did this openly this
was a completely legal and good business
practice up until the mid 70 this one it
was outlawed okay in this instance there
was no government sort of backing of
this situation this was just simply
private lending institutions
being able to use criteria that was
really I mean in some respects more
superstition than anything else but also
horribly discriminatory yeah so we have
to know in terms of government backing
so by this point the Federal Housing
Administration it sort of it's both in
the past it had criteria about sort of
how to treat a wife's income or sort of
what you couldn't couldn't do with it
and so by the seventies they'd sort of
stepped away from this they didn't
really mention very much they said
actually that it's either an
all-or-nothing thing so a lender
shouldn't discount a wife's income but
you could decide to choose to count none
of it or all of it the VA the Veterans
Administration or Veterans
Administration which ran the GI Bill
housing programs was a lot more strict
about a working wife's income and so
actually did have sort of requirements
about how to count it and sort of
directive about not counting a wife's
income one of the other issues was that
Fannie Mae was at the time developing
new criteria for it loans for the loans
that it was willing to back on the
secondary market and there they were
starting to come up with criteria that
while they didn't mention gender
explicitly would definitely or would
most likely have affected women
disproportionately so income that was
received from part-time work would be
counted differently from income that was
received from full-time work alimony
wouldn't count as income even if it's
something that was guaranteed there's a
question of sort of whether like a
social security type payment might count
or might not count so there was some
some there was some government
involvement in in these terms but I
would say most of it really was
happening in the private sector at this
point and the lack of any sort of
explicit instruction not to discriminate
on the basis of sex was what what
allowed that to persist along with like
you mentioned the sort of superstition
surrounding woman's income it wasn't it
wasn't actually the case that they were
less likely to repay at this time and in
the to the extent that activists in
National Organization for Women were
able to push back on this sort of in in
a similar fashion as you know activists
were working behind the scenes you know
to to roll back some of these FHA
problems with that more successful in
terms of its durability like for
instance our women broadly speaking are
they less subject to these
discriminatory practices in terms of
credit today and then let's say people
of color generally or is that too tough
to disaggregate because the legacy of
the of the prior discrimination impacts
current discrimination more that's a
great question
you know what I haven't been asked in
quite those terms before if you look at
so they're sort of as a legacy of fun of
discrimination that follows women and
trying to get access to credit but if
you look at sort of the extra price that
women pay sort of on average for for
mortgage credit it pales in comparison
to sort of like a loss in wealth that
African American and other families of
color faced after the financial crisis
and it as sort of that's the cost of
taking getting a subprime loan even if
you were qualified for a prime loan so
so it's not the case that there are
cases still of women having sort of
difficulty getting access to mortgages
on the same terms as men there's some
some research that's suggested that they
get slightly worse loan terms but when
they've actually sort of calculated out
what that means it could mean 82
800 dollars over the course of a loan
which I'm that's that's not no money
obviously but that's a much smaller
amount of of sort of possible wealth
that foregone then many many families of
color have faced over over the same time
so so there's a legacy but I think that
you know one the policy the policy
movement was much more successful with
women I think you know we don't we don't
even really talk about the time when uh
when women couldn't have some you know
credit cards as you mentioned before
whereas this sort of the history of
redlining and discrimination is
something we're talking more and more
about and I think you know it's not just
because the policies themselves didn't
work as well as activists had hoped but
that there's just this longer legacy
that's been much more insurmountable
than than the gender gap ended up being
alright so lastly let me ask you this is
this a story of of of government coming
into a market and creating
discrimination or was it is the story is
the scandal here to the extent that you
know I mean you know to for a lack of a
better term and maybe I just don't have
the academic terms for this but is is
the story more about that these type of
discriminatory actions they existed in
the private market and then they were
edified in the in by by government and
that that was a reflection of what was
happening in the private market
adjusting or is the story that
government came in and basically this
discrimination existed but government
came in and sort of allowed for greater
inequality because it allowed access to
some segments of the population and not
others can I say all of the above
hard to say the government created
discrimination you know for the reasons
that you point out this was something
that was prevalent in the private sector
before you know but one of the things
that I argue in the book is that there's
something different about putting the
government's in premature on this right
so now this is a practice that was
reasonably widespread but not codified
in the way it said the government
policies he made it so that I argue gave
it a sort of staying power beyond what
might have happened if the government
hadn't gotten involved in quite that way
so you could think of a few things one
of that yeah so there was a lot of
racial discrimination in housing markets
but there were also lots of people who
were happy to live in diverse
neighborhoods and actually wanted to and
so it was very difficult for those
people to get any sort of credit for
building housing developments that were
determinate I was mixed race and so you
know in that sense the government made
it impossible for for people who
actually you know envisioned living in
diverse neighborhoods to do that so it
sort of closed off those options and
then it also made it difficult to
respond to changing ideas about about
the role of diversity in in house values
so one of the things that I talk about
in the book is the development of that
idea that this idea that diversity
undermine future house prices this was
something that appraisers at the time
were sort of playing around with but
they also recognized that sort of
appraisal itself was an imperfect
science it was a young one they weren't
actually sure what the nature of value
was when the government got involved in
this way though it sort of ossified some
of these ideas that were still in a
Mason I mean that's possible that
came to fight in some way it became it
became the default and it persisted for
a long time because of that I mean it's
possible that the private sector might
have actually become even more racist
and it's thinking about real estate
without without the government's
involvement I'm not saying that that
that outcome might not have been
possible either but but the government
made it sort of you know last for a very
long time and it made it hard for people
who didn't actually want to live in
these types of neighborhoods to to
pursue housing through these means so I
do think that it had a legacy in those
two different ways the the book is at
the boundaries of homeownership credit
discrimination in the American state we
will put a link to this at majority dot
F M Chloe
Thurston thank you so much for your time
today fascinating stuff thank you so
much
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was I just got cut
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
well the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
Jeter takes yeah
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
