[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of an ele
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday March 18th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
anthropologist and author fellow of the
Royal Society of Arts
Jason Hickel on the divide a brief guide
to global inequality and its solutions
also on the program today bid O'Rourke
breaks the record raises 6.1 million
dollars nine eight 24-hour period his
platform may take just a little bit
longer to develop in this country just
to put that in context Barack Obama made
a fraction of that and of course Bernie
came pretty close as well report reveals
that a GOP front row was raided by
federal investigators in a possible
Republican money laundering probe
dealing with the Trump administration
meanwhile the University of Tennessee
offers free tuition for students of
families with income of less than
$50,000 Colorado gets us to 181 out of
270 in the national popular vote
interstate pact Bernie Sanders campaign
staff unionize Trump administration
assaulting the Affordable Care Act via
the state's Ohio now the latest to add
Medicaid work requirements meanwhile
it's as easy as that New Zealand likely
to ban semi-automatic weapons and the
fascist ball bowl in the Naro will burn
the roux greeted by Donald Trump at
White House to the boon of comedians
going on college campuses us to leave a
thousand troops in Syria is mad dog mad
about that and a thousand reportedly
killed in a Mozambique cyclone all this
and more on today's program and you'll
recall that bad dog
I can't even remember his last name
House mattis was fired resigned because
we were not leaving a thousand troops in
Syria turns out we are and now we have
no Secretary of Defense so there's that
if I thought there was actually I mean I
could I I can definitely imagine a world
where I would be happy that we don't
have a Secretary of Defense but I don't
think that this is that world we're
living in a different world than that
one another story I wanted to just
highlight just because you know we talk
about antitrust people ask how would you
break up various entities you know this
is
this is another example of where
antitrust falls down in the United
States Spotify is suing Apple in the in
the EU over the way that Apple treats
its apps in the App Store right you have
a huge percentage of the market in in
terms of apps goes through the Apple App
Store and you cannot introduce an app
that doesn't give Apple cut of every
sale that you make and now of course
it's not an issue with Apple music right
which is a competitor to Spotify but I
can tell you that part of the reason why
it's taken us so long to get our app up
there is because even though we were not
selling memberships we couldn't even
link back to our website with the
majority FM so you know without giving
Apple a cut we may end up just doing it
because they they seem to like know that
we're selling membership somewhere and
so we may end up giving them a cut but
that's I mean that's like extortion sort
of no I guess we could put our Apple app
on a different platform if we could but
we can't so they have created this
closed system they've gotten big enough
now where some 50% maybe more of our
audience uses an iPhone or an iPad so
this is an example of what a rigorous
antitrust would do this is
anti-competitive I don't know how you
would compute whether this is cheaper
for the consumer or not but that's not
at the point it is anti-competitive it
undermines innovation and and broadening
the economy and and of course it
consolidates political power as you
increase the economic power as well
meanwhile on the campaign trail as you
know
bado raised a 6.1 million dollars he is
still sort of rolling out some of his
key proposals and it's on the other end
of I don't know if there's really the
other end of the spectrum maybe on the
other end of the age spectrum but very
much aligned I think when we talk about
sort of the political lanes that exist
betos positions have changed quite
dramatically in really just like the the
last term of the the Obama
administration frankly and here is
another guy who's apparently his
politics have also radically changed we
just haven't been able to see them in
the exact same that change as carried
out here is Joe Biden trying to argue
that he is more progressive or as
progressive as every candidate in the
race the presidential race this part
that part of the claim is getting less
attention it seems then his inability to
hide the fact that he's running whatever
I mean he he had a gaffe like this that
supposedly led to marriage equality
frankly and so so I'm not too concerned
about his his his him being gaffe prone
but and maybe he made that gaffe so that
he could get the other claim in without
scrutiny but let's face it folks this is
not a guy he should run on what he's
running on which is that he talks like
he you're I guess your old Irish uncle
if you have one but here he is making a
speech claiming that the the new left is
really they don't know what they're
talking about I know I get criticized
and tolling it's criticized by the new
left I'm the most progressive record of
anybody running for the unit
if anybody who would run
[Applause]
but anybody who would run now okay now
they're all cheering because they want
them to run and now that Lincoln I just
want to ask this question I am NOT a
Catholic and I've seen I have seen you
know sports figures across themselves I
don't know exactly how to do it I don't
mean to do I'm not being facetious about
that and I've seen sports figures do it
as a way of thanking God but what is Joe
Biden do in these situations like you
know he did this he also had a similar
joke with and every time he brings up
the fact that he's being criticized from
the new left I guess that means
feminists I guess that means folks who
are concerned about you know people of
color who are concerned about is past
their positions on race I need a hill
Anita Hill
I think feminists I mean a lot of people
don't realize a lot of people don't
realize there were three women who would
have corroborated at least if not the
specific story that Nita Hill had
aspects of the behavior of Clarence
Thomas that he would not allow testify
and people could be talking about you
know social security advocates isn't
that but I don't know who he's talking
about his new left but he's done this
before where when he was talking about
when he promoted a Republican in the
2018 election and he said I got
criticized and you know forgive me
father I've sinned and he and he crosses
himself again like our Catholics are our
Catholics okay with him using that
symbol for God as a way of like because
he's being sarcastic right like he's not
actually asking God or his priests for
forgiveness he's basically joking like
oh I've committed a really bad sin
that's called the Emma DT O'Day psychic
but he's the joke he's making is I've
created I've committed a really bad sin
and so I'm gonna pretend I'm asking God
for forgiveness because that's how bad
this in is like our cow
I'm just asking I'm not a Catholic I
don't think as a Jew if we had anything
like that I wouldn't wouldn't bother me
but I wonder our Catholics really think
it's that funny that he's pretending
that not that God I think it's funny
I think Catholics just would like to see
the sign of the Cross up there right
yeah yeah that's my they don't care that
it's that it's like being done in vain
okay because he's clearly just doing it
it's like I'm making a joke and so I can
a Catholics leaning ironing price so
just just checking that out
I don't know cuz it occurred to me I was
like I don't know I said like he's
really I get it I get the joke
hey do five fake Hail Marys and get out
of here right there's a little bit of
that anyways there's Joe Biden he has
yet to announce he will soon somebody
suggests that he was waiting until we
get past the so they doesn't have to
report his fundraising until three
months later you know you got a report
at the end of every quarter he's not a
very bright individuals because I'm
smart well could be a smart thing to do
it's very fitting for him to announce
his candidacy in a gaffe so yes one
branch oh I'm on brand folks as your
company outgrown QuickBooks our shared
spreadsheets manual processes and legacy
systems costing you time and money
introducing NetSuite by Oracle the
business management software that
handles every aspect of your business in
an easy-to-use cloud platform with
NetSuite you can save time money and
unneeded headaches by managing sales HR
and Finance and Accounting instantly
right from your desk or even your phone
thousands of the best known and fastest
growing companies use NetSuite to manage
their businesses and now it's available
to you better yet it's more affordable
than you think cuz right now NetSuite is
offering you valuable insights to help
you overcome the obstacles that are
holding you back free don't miss out on
unleashing your business's full
potential with this free guide crushing
the five barriers to growth row say no
more Mike cuz already on that you'll
learn how to acquire new customers
increase profits finally get real
visibility to cash flow get net Suites
guide crushing the five berries to
growth comma Michel NetSuite NetSuite
dot-com / majority now that's NetSuite
comm / majority to download their free
crushing the five barriers to growth
guide today
NetSuite comm slash majority folks want
to know you want you to know that today
the majority report is supported by
pitchfork economics with Nick Hanauer a
weekly podcast that explores why
everything you learned in econ 101 was
wrong and why if we don't get economics
right the pitchforks are coming every
week on pitchfork economics zillionaire
Investor Nick Hanauer I don't know if
he's a zillionaire but he is a Multi
multi millionaire we've had him on this
program a couple of times maybe he's a
billionaire he's joined by some of the
world's most original economic thinkers
in a convention busting exploration who
gets what and why in the American
economy pitchfork economics explains why
a fifteen dollar minimum wage is
actually good for business by taxing the
rich Spurs economic growth and why a
thriving middle class is the primary
cause of prosperity Senate senator Cory
Booker explains why curbing corporate
greed would actually be good for
corporations and the economy historian
you've all Hari explains how those
empower you storytelling to shrink your
paycheck an economist stephanie kelton
scolds democrats for worrying too much
about how we're gonna pay for things and
not enough about what we need to do good
first saw her at the Bernie rally mr.
Daly hung out spoke to her for a while
cool in Brooklyn if you want to learn
how to make the economy work for all
Americans and not just the wealthy few
subscribe to pitchfork economics at
pitchfork economics dot-com or wherever
you get your podcasts sometimes I quote
Nick Hanauer he was the one who said you
know a rich man has only one loaf of
bread a day Harry's founders were tired
of paying up for razors that were
overpriced and over designed and that's
why Harry's introduced Harry's razors
and that's why when I shave which I try
and do as little as possible
I also need a haircut badly
I use happen comments yet have different
comments on the YouTube yeah I need a
haircut I think your job a little bit
boss seriously I know it I know it but
Harry's knows that a great shave doesn't
come from gimmicks like vibrating heads
flex balls or handles that look like
spaceships I'm so glad that they they
write that because honestly it's like it
looks like Rambo designed half these uh
these these shavers so they first blood
that's good actually so they bought a
world-class Blade Factory in Germany and
started making razors that combine a
simple clean design with quality durable
blades at a fair price Harry's
replacement cartridges are just 2 bucks
each and all of Harry's blades come with
a hundred percent quality guarantee it's
no surprise that they've received over
twenty thousand five star reviews on
Trustpilot and Google we're gonna check
out that Trustpilot have you ever like
gone there it's like a review site no I
haven't seen that nevertheless if I were
to go on there and set up an account
they'd have 21,000 five-star reviews
because I would give them one get a $13
value trial set that comes with
everything you need for a close
comfortable shave you get the way to do
economic handle you get the five blade
razor with a lubricating strip and the I
like to thank Sam cedar design trimmer
blade to fit in his asymmetric nostrils
the rich lathering shave gel the travel
blade cover listeners of my show can
redeem their trial set at harrys.com
slash majority report make sure you go
to harrys.com slash majority report to
redeem your offer let them know that I
sent you to help support the show
alright folks we're gonna take quick
break when we come back we're gonna talk
to a doctor Jason Hickel author
anthropologist and fellow at the Royal
Society of Arts who wrote a book in I
think it was 2017-2018 on the divide a
brief guide to global inequality and
it's solutions we'll be right back after
this
you
we are back
you
go where there was not this type of
disparity right I mean we were the the
global north and the global South did
not have this type of disparity what
started to develop that disparity yeah
we go back 500 even only you know two or
three hundred years what we see is that
that you know the sincerity didn't exist
and also be that we see in crucial areas
in the global south we see that people
are actually better off in many ways
then people in the global north are okay
with longer life expectancies better
nutrition better income and so on and so
that's really interesting so it's what
we see over the period of the dramatic
reversal of fortunes and and that
effectively happens through the colonial
process whereby people across the globe
the global South their dispossessed from
their lands you know effectively
rendered a source of cheap labor for
ended up for for industries of the north
basically and also source of the raw
material for the Industrial Revolution
and so what you know what's also
interesting is with the Industrial
Revolution and the economic concerns are
clear about this could not have happened
without that colonial process it
couldn't have happened without the slave
trade without you know enclosure and
dispossession across ourselves without
cotton and sugar you know growing in the
south and so on so so this relationship
between the north and south was really
essential for this kind of enrichment of
the north
but the consequence of that was of
course the South was prevented from
advancing the same way and we should be
clear here right because it's not just a
question of that the the the resources
were were it was the the means in which
the resources were taken from this
wasn't a trade right I mean when we talk
about at this level we're talking about
things like slavery we're talking about
intense violence we're talking about
occupation and subjugating of indigenous
people and and we're just talking about
Empire
really
yeah exactly and there's some key
elements I think that people are not
normally aware of you know one of the
fact that that the global South wood
used as a kind of captive market for the
overproduction of manufactured goods in
the global North right so so with the
rise of industrialization in the North
what we see is that there's this immense
overproduction of goods that have to
find a market somewhere and you can't
have continues growth until they see
otherwise you have a kind of financial
crisis and so a global South was sort of
roped into being a captive market for
those goods but the only way to make
that work was for colonizers to actively
dismantle domestic industries in this
house right textile industries you know
etc in order to make sure there was no
competition for their for their kids and
this will often done you know very
forcibly like the opium wars are a great
example of this where you know where
Britain ones and France ones access to
China markets China said no we have all
that we need thank you very much your
goods are kind of shoddy anyway we'd go
ahead and Britain and France you know
responded by by invading China and
forcing their markets open to D sort of
this this pressure valve for their
over-policed goods so so in every way
you know I mean the extraction of
resources on the one hand also on the
other hand the sale of manufactured
goods those two elements of the
Industrial Revolution depended on this
violence relationship it levels out so
it's it's wealth extraction or resource
extraction and then it's also I guess
undercutting undermining of any capacity
to use their own resources to refine
their own resources to make finished
goods because they they needed to be
markets for those resources that have
been extracted and then refined and then
sold back to them you know how did the
Industrial Revolution come about well it
happens because you know you have these
brilliant scientific minds in England's
here invented things like you know
you know the steam engine and so on
and it's only because of scientific you
know expertise of Englishman and also
there are good institutions and and so
on that that industrialization will
happen but in fact that's just you know
that completely erases the relationships
that England the rest of the global
North had with this house which again as
written it's very clear in that relation
to put in essence for the possibility of
industrialization first most and a lot
of a lot of people died in that process
right and you know the British
intervention in India itself led to tens
of millions of people who were killed
needlessly due to the famine because of
the way that colonizers organized their
agricultural policy in order to extract
cash crops from India and I mean let's
talk about that a little bit more
because I've actually just done an
interview that if we're gonna run I
think during vacation about that very
dynamic where where the the the nature
of of of that type of approach on you
know a resource extraction ends up
creating in this case it was it was the
Dust Bowl in the United States but we've
had sort of Dust Bowl events around the
country but but just if you could get a
little bit more granular when we talk
about how that resource extraction sort
of functions not only to be taken
violently out of there but also to leave
the country
fundamentally sort of I guess arrested
in some way because of the of the trauma
of the way that that was extracted yeah
talking about that so so when the
British colonizers arriving their main
intervention was to try to transform the
agricultural system from one that was
organized around subsistence right to
one of the organized around exporting
cash crops okay so anyway that did that
basically was destroy it was you know
the you know the problem they faced was
that with the local people were
unwilling to make this transition
voluntarily because there
quite content with their existing
economic arrangements right and so
somehow they had to be coerced into
making the transition and the way that
the British did that would by
dispossessing them from that from their
lands so that would have no choice you
know but to work on these kind of
agribusiness farms for export or
otherwise face starvation or improving
some of these debt relationship problems
that required them to acquire you know
foreign currency in order to pay the
debts back right or by you know by
destroying you know key social wealth on
that they had to make sure they were
vulnerable to drought in all of these
cases you know the objective was to sort
of create scarcity to sort of induce the
threat of hunger and that would drive
people into the capitalist labor market
and that same process you know unfolded
not only in India but across most of the
global south and that's what we call
enclosure and that was a key actually
dynamic for for that process of
extraction no does that I mean is that
how like sort of calculated is that or
is it simply like we go in we have a
narrow agenda we find that it leads to x
y&z or how much of it is is that sort of
like a calculated idea when the colonial
powers enter a country the colonial
incomes are actually right so and
interesting Lee the idea was first
developed in England during the
enclosure period in the medieval years
and the idea there was again we can sort
of we can force peasants to be sort of
compete with each other and be
productive on enclosed farms for rich
people by putting them at the mercy
bunker right so taking away the access
to the Commons to you know to land and
so forests and to fish and game and so
on and for the exact same process is
used in Ireland which is the first
British colony but then also in India
and across across southern Africa and
not just by the British to buy by other
color values as well and the consequence
of the deficit
fortunes because we have a again there's
mud and there's another that colonialism
was in some way kind of an economic
benefits to the colonized
but exactly the opposite is true and
again if we take India Jason I'm sorry
can you just speak a little bit a little
bit more directly into the phone we're
just losing you a little bit okay so
again if we take India receive that you
know there's zero increase in real per
capita income during the colonial period
the entire 200 year period of British
rule right and there's actually a
decline in life expectancy in the latter
part of British rule etcetera so we
really see that colonisation depleted
the lives of the colonized and crucial
wings but for the sake of this kind of
the development of the north and again
that process played out all over the
world and we should say that to to be
subjected to this over the course of 200
years you are fundamentally altering the
culture right you're all do
fundamentally altering the trajectory of
the life of that country oh yeah and one
of the clearly see that is the sheer
mass of extracted well that was drained
from the global south right so with
India alone and to use this example
again Britain drained in the region of
45 trillion US dollars from from India
during the colonial period
now that is money that they couldn't use
not only for their own well-being but
for reinvestment in development right
and the same way that Japan was able to
use their own foreign exchange or a
means to to build up a robust rich
economy so to India could have done the
same thing but they prevented some
duties over so over hundreds of years
you know for the sake of extraction to
the north okay so so that and that story
is one I mean that's the story of India
but that story is essentially one that
plays out across the the global South as
it were that's why we see the same story
happening happening across Africa
happening across Latin America and again
it's not just you know Britain but also
other colonizers use the same tactics
effectively okay
no please I'm gonna say what's
interesting is what happens after the
end of colonization that's because the
story really does change quite
canonically right well that's what I
want to go then we then we get to this
this era in I guess presumably in the
like the the 1950s which we start to
recognize as a post colonization era and
theoretically right this is all ended
but no oh well what's interesting as we
as we have a couple of decades in the
wake of decolonization that are actually
pretty extraordinary
so Yogi's you know these nearly
[Music]
independent nations with democratically
elected governments that were on the
whole quite progressives right there
were more or less you know leftist
progressive governments and they're
ruling out what we call developments
with reforms they were reversing all of
the all the structures that has existed
under colonialism but they're
redistributing lands to make sure that
peasants had access to the land they
needed to grow food
they were improving labor rights and
improving wages they were they were
increasing capital controls to prevent
capital flights from multinational
companies they're investing in publics
and public services like health care and
education they're in nationalizing key
resources like oil and gold and and
things like that and it was working
really really well during the 50s 60s
and 70s per capita income grew at an
astonishing rate 3.2 percent per year
you know they succeeded in beginning to
reduce poverty they were closing a gap
between the global south and global
North it was really an extraordinary era
and I think that you know we've
forgotten about that too easily and not
only that but global South countries
were uniting with one another to build
bonds of solidarity to argue for a fair
global economy in the UN and in 1973
managed to pass this extraordinary
document called the new international
economic order which demanded
effectively they be allowed to to
control their own economic policy and
their own national interests without
fear being invaded and recolonized by
global North countries there's an
extraordinary time
what's interesting about this is that
global North countries the former color
you know colonizers were not at all
happy about it as we can imagine because
they're suddenly losing their access to
the cheap labor and cheap raw materials
and open markets that they had secured
during the colonial period and so they
reacted by you know many cases violently
to posing progressive government's one
after the other on on many occasions
through the fifties sixties and
seventies trying to reverse their
progressive policies and restore their
access to - you know the cheap labor and
raw materials they enjoyed under under
colonialism okay in many many cases go
ahead I'm sorry good in many cases the
US was actually instrumental with us
actually this was where the US was rule
or the kind of neo-colonial power
becomes really crucial like the US was
behind the coup that deposed the
progressive leader of Iran the first
democratically elected progressive
leaders were wrong they were behind a
number of clears across Latin America
including in Guatemala in Brazil you
know they were behind the coup that
suppose Sukarno in Indonesia and
Salvador Allende and she late 1973 over
and over again the u.s. joined forces
with other former colonial nations to
deposed regressive leaders and roll back
their and we should do we should say
that often this is in like in
conjunction with very specific corporate
interests in the various regions right
like when we talk about Central America
you had you know the United Fruit
Company or ITT and oil companies in in
Iran and these were all they were all
basically they were all corporate
interests that drove this because
presumably they're the ones who are on
the front lines of getting these natural
resources extract you know extracting
these natural resources and then
theoretically I guess selling it back to
these places talking about you know
often directly negatively affected
American companies so land reform you
know affected American fruit companies I
had these enormous land holdings what's
the return on even used but they held
them nonetheless and said when those
were redistributed back to the peasants
come who they were taken you know
the fruit companies were obviously
extremely upset the same is true of you
know telecommunications companies that
had been controlled by US companies you
know oil etc so when these companies and
resources were nationalized then the
American companies that used to hold
those resources those assets were
obviously because the US and so they
went to the CIA and they said look we
need your help and opposing progressive
leaders and honestly I think that it's a
real shame that Americans have forgotten
about this this era this incredibly
destructive legacy of cumin great all
right because it's important to remember
one of the reasons why people in the
global South you know do you have
anti-american sentiments right because
because you know they're democratically
elected leaders who promise you no
justice for their people in the wake of
colonialism you know we're over
overthrown and replaced by vicious
dictators that were backed by by the US
and former colonial powers right
like when Patrice Lumumba the first
elected leader of the Congo was
assassinated in 1961 by the US he was
replaced by by Mobutu a cartoonishly
violent dictator who controlled the
country in American interests for the
next thirty years and just drove a
completely and we grabbed I mean that
makes people you know embittered and
angry I mean the amazing thing too about
this this part of the story is that if I
mean we go around the world and look at
places that are you know a problematic
in some look everywhere is problematic
but but but you know sort of like in in
sort of arguably crisis right we we we
throat we overthrow Mosaddegh 6070 years
ago and we're still talking about Iran
today as you know it Brett perhaps
invading them we talk about
would the destabilization in Central
America and everything in the news today
is about you know kids families even
cops trying to get out of these
countries because of the level of
violence the destabilization we have
this ongoing thing in Venezuela that is
eerily similar as guido announces that
he's getting ready to somehow he's going
to be privatized the the oil companies I
mean so this is a this is a playlet that
that we you know that that has long-term
repercussions so what happens after
after that era where we attempt to sort
of like recolonize sort of a soft
recolonization I guess we get to just
another even softer recolonization than
that right in 1980 there's basically a
global debt crisis it's triggered by the
fact that the chairman of the US Federal
Reserve Paul Volcker dramatically raises
interest rates on the US dollar and
because most global science loans at the
time were denominated in dollars
this makes their deaths basically unable
and so you know I mean we're talking
about interest rates of like 20 percent
and so they slid to the brink of the
falls and Western banks which were
overexposed to these toxic deaths we're
like look they default then we're gonna
collapse and we can't let that happen so
when to the US government and said you
know look what you need to help us and
you have several bail them out okay by
forcing global South countries to to to
cut public spending to privatize the
resources and use all of that money to
pay back debts
okay so global South countries were
basically plundered to the sake of debt
repayments of these overexposed bankrupt
banks on Wall Street this is very
similar to what happens in 2008 and it's
important you know it's important to
understand that this this tactic was
first tried in the 1980s very
effectively and what this did is that in
one fell swoop
allowed creditor countries like the US
through the World Bank of the IMF to
control economic policy in global
without countries forcing them to roll
back their development reforms that had
been so successful for them
okay denying them the very policies they
needed for real developments in poverty
reduction and as a consequence what we
saw during the 80s and 90s was was you
know a massive contraction economies
across the global South they were
subjected to structural adjustment and
that caused poverty rates to go up
really dramatically I mean it was a
devastating devastating time where we
see poverty and hunger rising during a
structural investment period and this
and this again something that Americans
have really unfortunately forgotten
about the role that their government
played through the World Bank in the IMF
along with other rich nations in in
reversing the progress that those
countries have made in previous decades
and again it is very much like the like
the housing crisis you you you lead
these countries into a situation where
they become overextended as a and the
the the bailout could have happened
directly to them but instead it happens
to the banks under the requirements that
they sell off all their assets you know
do a short sale on their homes I guess
you know would be the analogy on some
level and in some instances also are
forced to sort of basically build these
big infrastructure boondoggles that
promise to use American financed
companies right like these banks turn
around they're like we're gonna make
another loan for you to build this dam
that we're gonna pay off of we're gonna
you're gonna get paid for for monies
that we're giving to these countries in
response with them cutting services
essentially primatology here is really
apt actually um and it's important to
realize that that you know the US and
Western Europe took this opportunity to
impose you know Washington Consensus
neoliberal policy across the global
south right which they were unable to do
before because democracies would always
rejected and so this is how global
they came about it was forcibly imposed
on the world through structural
adjustments okay
so there are some parts of the world
that were not structurally adjusted like
East Asia and and China
we're allowed to retain their earlier
policies of basically state-led
developments with remarkable success
right the countries that have actually
succeeded in dramatically reducing
poverty you know like Taiwan much like
China like South Korea I thought was a
completely different path a past that
was actively denied to the rest of the
global South I think that's really
important so you understand all right
and one of the things that you tackle is
the the idea that in fact we have
lowered glower that that that we have
lowered global poverty and you're you
you basically argue that this is we've
lowered the number but not the actual
the actuality of poverty explain that
yeah so it's a bit different than that
so but but let me start with the
dominant narrative out there that we
hear from people like Bill Gates and
Steve Pinker who are all over the place
saying that you know basically poverty
is being being eradicated just really
quickly and it's all thanks to
neoliberal globalization like yes maybe
it's causing a bit more inequality but
at least we know that it's working
against poverty and so therefore it
justifies the global economy as it is
and you should carry on in the status
quo now the only way that that narrative
works if by relying on an extremely low
poverty line of a dollar ninety four
that okay it's so low that it's actually
impossible to have any kind of
meaningful existence on that amount of
money at all I mean imagine you know
yourself that's literally what it is
it's what a dollar I need a prize in the
US so what we know from piles of
research is that people need you know at
minimum about seven dollars and forty
cents a day to sort of achieve basic
nutrition normal human life expectancy a
decent shot at surviving their fifth
birthday etc and now if we measure
poverty at that level around the world
did not receive is that the story
changes completely in fact the number of
people in poverty below that line has
increased dramatically since the 1980s
and now stands at four
4.2 billion people or about 60% of the
human population which is six times
higher than what people like gates and
Pinker would have us believe and with
figures like this on the table it
becomes abundantly clear that the global
economy is in fact not working for the
majority of humanity and is deeply
unfair needs to be changed but nothing
that has got people like Pinter and
gates cannot abide it
sorry so how is that the case I mean how
how is it that there we don't hear more
of this I mean what how is it that what
constitutes poverty is really is just
simply an absurd figure to to assess
yeah that's a completely even the World
Bank that produces but dollar ninety a
day line itself warns over and over that
it is not adequate to inform policy
right that we shouldn't really take it
seriously for most countries in the
world maybe only for the very poorest
and yet we do because you know it's
powerful and journalists keep repeating
it because it's tell us what's a
powerful you know happy story a rosy
narrative about what happening to the
economy when in fact the reality is much
darker it's sure that people's incomes
have been increasing but only by you
know pennies and not nearly enough to
actually this is not of poverty
according to any meaningful definition
okay now what's interesting is that
during the same period the income
captured by the global 1% has absolutely
skyrocketed to the point where the 1%
now controls in the region of 18 and 19
trillion US dollars themselves now even
just one third of that would be enough
and the global poverty at a high poverty
line forever right one third and it
would still leave the global 1% with
nearly two hundred thousand dollars on
average in income per year right so
effectively all of the new income
generated by global growth over the past
few decades has been captured by the
richest of the world and the poorest
have received literally no pennies on
the dollar in terms of trickle-down it
truly is an injustice especially when
you consider the fact that it's the
global
from which the world gets most of its
resources and most of its labor the
people that are contributing to a little
economy most are the ones are being paid
by far the least and living in poverty
so so basically the story is that we
have been sold if we if we have global
growth that the pie is going to expand
it's true that on a in a I guess a
uneven amount will be distributed to the
those at the top but that those at the
bottom will get stuff and what they
basically did was lowered the threshold
enough so that every small penny that
came in looked that much of a larger of
a percentage of increase as to the
bottom line I mean it's as if like
basically saying like you know we want
to raise the the age of everybody in the
country and so what we're going to do is
you know we're gonna let time go and
we're just going to measure kids years
in months and so look at they're getting
so much older and we're gonna keep we're
gonna measure adults years and years and
they're just getting they're getting so
much older these kids and they're really
picking it up the speed or and then we
define you know being a teenager as
being you know 36 months and we have all
these teenagers now because they enter
teenage you know in year three or four I
mean that's just the the way for that's
just an analogy for people to sort of
just see the the way that this income is
desert wealth is distributed here so
okay so with this what would be and you
have a significant portion of the book
dedicated towards fixing this but it
seems to me that like one of the first
things you would need to do is actually
present the real numbers for people I
mean to widely disseminate that but but
after that what's next yeah good
question
um so in the book I go through a number
of different policy proposals that are
completely feasible and and and you know
easy to implement if we just have the
political will which is
basically the real problem but but but
but one of the main things that point
out here the fact that right now the
institutions that control the rules of
the global economy like the World Bank
and the IMF
okay the International Monetary Fund are
deeply anti-democratic institutions
where the u.s. holds veto-power over all
major decisions and the global South
which has 85 percent of the world's
population has less than 50 percent of
opposed so even so and this is kind of a
global apartheid at the very center of
you know macroeconomic institutions
between it never accepts if it was in
any normal country okay so so the first
step is to democratize the institutions
that control the global economy to make
sure that poor countries have a fair
voice and then on top of that I think we
need to stop talking about what a global
minimum wage would look like right I
mean if capitalism is globalized and it
starts the reason that we need to
globalize this you know the rules that
protects people from it and so I
proposed what a global minimum wage
might look like then we'll be pegged at
each country's at 50 percent of each
country's minimum income sorry median
income so fluctuate depending on each
country's level of developments and
therefore not costing much disruption
and also massively increase the share of
the global economy that poor people in
poor countries are able to capture for
the work they put into it okay other
ideas included we need to clamp down on
on tax evasion and a list of financial
flows which you know by which
multinational companies most of them
headquartered in the West extract in the
region of 1 trillion plus US dollars per
year from the global south
a massive outflow of wealth from south
to north that vastly outstrips any
meager amount of aid that trickles in
the direction so and then also you know
crucially I guess the last thing I would
say was the importance of canceling you
know some of these old unpayable debt
these old odious debts and thereby
releasing poor countries from policy
control by rich creditors and allowing
them to use their own budgets you know
for health care and education you know
improving the quoting the quality of
life of the population so so you know
these solutions are fundamentally
different when we normally think about
normally we think oh they just you know
poor countries needs a bit more aid here
in there a few technological
maybe what I argue and said is that what
they need is not charity the rather
justice we have to fundamentally change
the rules of the global economy to make
it fair for the world's majority so
lastly let me ask you this if it is
simply ultimately a question of
political will and presumably the
countries like the United States have
more than their share of the the
political will that is distributed right
because they want to maintain it's like
what is what what is the pitch manok
what do we tell the American public in
terms of like in a why to the extent
that and presumably the American public
has a disproportionate share of the
responsibility for that political will
right on how that political will gets
manifested what do we tell the American
public is it simply a case of like this
is justice or is it is there a material
argument to be made as well I think that
people on some level are very deeply
uncomfortable with the fact that that we
all know that the goods that we consume
have you know I have a devastating
impact on people's lives in the sense of
our clothes are made by you know by
people in shops our smartphones you know
including minerals produced by
effectively slaves in the Congo etcetera
I mean this makes us feel horrible about
ourselves I'm some people overlooking it
depresses us and dehumanizes us I think
that we have a lot to gain
you know I guess spiritually if you will
from living in an economy a global
economy that is fundamentally fair I
think that we'd be happier and have a
better sense of like you know we're in
solidarity with our fellow humans I
think there's a lot to gain from that in
the terms of like recovering our
humanity after 500 years of plunder so
and you know I think it's crucial that
we pay close attention to the foreign
policy platforms of the presidents and
other representatives that we elect
right I mean we can elect people that
will change these rules we can let
people that will bring about not just a
fair economy in the US but
but also in the world system itself the
US has an incredible amount of
bargaining power you know you know on
the stage of the world system and and
can change things and if we manage to
elect people that that has a will to do
that then that would be very powerful
and I think people like you know Bernie
Sanders and AOC are are people who are
in that camp
Jason Hickel the book is the divide a
brief guide to global inequality and its
solutions thanks so much for your time
today we'll put a link to the divide at
a majority radio.com thanks again for
your time there you have folks take that
steven pinker
and it really is stunning the the amount
of what we perceive as foreign policy
problems in this country that we discuss
on a near-daily basis that our function
of our foreign policy like you know
these as if these things just sort of
you know popped up out of nowhere it is
and the analogy between our relationship
with the global south and frankly and
it's it may not even be an analogy as
much as it's an extension or it's in a
different it's a different facet of our
relationship with the global south
relative to our relationship in this
country between people of color and you
know the white power structure and the
notion of white supremacy I mean these
things probably are not as much
analogous as they are of the same
species
and just simply a different sort of part
of the problem yeah and if you go back
even further to the kind of primitive
accumulation that he was talking about
you see very explicitly how these things
are connected to early capitalist
development indeed all right well let's
take
a quick break and head into the fun half
before we do as you remember I mentioned
earlier the majority report is this
episode is supported by pitchfork
economics with Nick Hanauer weekly
podcast that explores why rising income
inequality will lead to pitchforks and
what we can do about it every week an
hour is joined by some of the world's
most original economic thinkers in a
convention busting exploration of who
gets what and why in the American
economy if you want to learn how to make
the economy work for all Americans
subscribe to pitchfork economics at
pitchfork economics dot-com or wherever
you get your podcasts and speaking of
podcasts you can become a member of this
podcast and you can support this show by
going to join the majority report com
every day we try and bring you either a
in-depth interview that will have you
understand have a greater understanding
of a narrow part of our political
landscape and so at the end of a year or
month or years you will have a far
greater understanding of how these
things connect I sort of feel like you
know I mean having spoken to we have a
pre-recorded interview that we did for
that's we're gonna run I think in April
on the Dust Bowl and and sort of the the
the capitalist practices that bring
about sort of the economic devastation
in a place like the Dust Bowl and how we
see that same dynamic play out in as as
Jason Hickel was explaining in India and
see this all throughout the the world I
almost feel like we need like one day
year we do 24-hour podcast where we just
sort of like show the the connections
between these these shows rather than
having to sort of like
who's got the time to put it all
together do you know I'm saying I trust
the audience to do that well you get a
take I guess that's what the weekends
are for right
and so people rock for it that's with
Brendan so that's a good idea yeah it's
a big black boy it's gonna be a big
black board get a huge there's also
probably you could probably do something
with like a TV where you could have like
a rolling black board so as you pretend
like you're stepping to the right the TV
is actually the thing that's moving yes
so tell Glenn Beck about this right
anyways folks that was a little bit of a
detour am I saying that you can support
this program which attempts to provide
that rolling blackboard every day by
going to join the majority report com
also don't forget to support just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
coupon code majority get 10% off I want
to thank those guys for sending me a
poster of our majority report blend
coffee we're gonna frame that bad boy
and hang it in the office proudly but
you go over there you can get the
majority port plan to get any other type
of coffee and it's all Fairtrade it's a
great company
co-op owned and today is Monday Michaels
here that's weird and tomorrow's Tuesday
Ling here's two in a row ste two in a
row it is two in a row
excuse me guys full-on streak yeah I
don't really feel so great though so no
I'm exhausted I'm exhausted I had a
horrible about of heartburn last night
it kept me up for three or four hours
that is a very high school somatic trait
that Sam has I wasn't at the I wasn't a
walk-in so he doing man how you doing
good morning yeah that was good I'll
tell you who I met my weekend was I had
heartburn and I couldn't sleep and my
kids and you're just like oh my God
Jesus Christ I think about kids there
was no I wasn't with the kids cuz that's
two Harper and week in next week we'll
be kidding right it's no sleep either
way right
did you see ace that's what he says so
you sound he's excited about
that's the behind-the-scenes way to get
we should really meet again you should
really be saving that for the fun half
[Music]
for the fun half way to get tomorrow on
the Michael Brooks show
Harvey JK and Daniel bessner are joining
us both in studio
there's gonna be a internal left debate
on American exceptionalism and a
discussion of how the right-wing
suppresses American progressive history
as well as democracy and foreign policy
and of course a whole bunch of other
stuff you can stream it live on our
YouTube channel Michael Brooks show on
YouTube thanks to our first 34 thousand
subscribers there and get the whole
thing at patreon.com slash TPMS see you
tomorrow around seven ish we should get
Harvey Kayne into maggiore report these
days too
definitely Jamie the Intifada so we
actually released this on Friday it was
going to be a bonus for patrons but good
episode thank you in light of recent
events we decided to release it without
the paywall
in this edition of history is a weapon
Sean and Matt Crispin from chapo Trap
House go deep into French history to
explain where nationalism and right-wing
populism and white nationalism all come
from France was first in a lot of things
and they were first in that
unfortunately and they do this through
the lens of a book called the camp of
the saints which it was written in the
1970s as sort of an immigrant panic and
it's still very relevant because it
provides a lot of the ideological
framework for people like marine lepen
and Steve banners so they kind of
connect the dots if anyone wants to know
more about how how
Buju our society crumbles into fascism
please please listen to this episode
Matt King Philip's War or medicaments
rebellion as we call it and the
captivity narrative of Mary Ellen Mary
rowlandson released this weekend
also you on it Sam the King Philip's War
has two elements you're interested in
generational conflict because Metacomet
realized that and some zero somnus so
Metacomet gali realizes that the older
Sachems were basically not fighting like
the settler and suddenly all the land
that the younger generation wanted to
like have sort of control over and
they're like well we're the younger
Sachems are like now we're gonna fight
these guys
now so actual generation or actual well
they didn't fight they're the older
generation they just decided to fight
the colonists exactly how the staff jobs
at NBC were all this wait what was the
zero-sum part the land alright folks a
quick break headed up see you there
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich I have
an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't maybe you
should rethink your defense of that you
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you alright
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes do you feel
like you are a dinosaur
good exactly I'm happy now so
win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me
two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven two thirty-eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9
billion
Wow don't you see everybody's taking
their dumb juice dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my first post-coital seat
with I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars use me you
[Music]
all right take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lassic I'm feeling more chill
already hood Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to do some evil Shitler with such
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them we'll be with you
shortly
all right folks fun half a little a
little tense around here this is the day
that my la finds out what high school
she's going to don't know yet what you
don't are you guessing she's she's she
auditioned for LaGuardia but who knows
there's a bunch of schools that you'd be
happy to go to they're completely
disparate they're all over the place oh
I don't know if I can deal with this guy
first
in all honesty like I the idea of like
watching Rahm Emanuel is you could just
get right to the main event which is egg
boy yeah let's well let's start with
Mick Mulvaney shall we and then we'll go
to egg boy he's never been a main event
of anything well Mick Mulvaney I love
the idea that they brought him on on st.
Patrick's Day I think that's pretty good
but I also sold to the Irish people Mick
Mulvaney did not bring his well he may
have brought his AGame
but he did not bring a a game to face
the nation this is pretty stunning how
the how he is defending the President of
the United States from being an
influence on white nationalism across
the globe
you know when the the killer in New
Zealand specifically cited I am saying
enough to realize that Trump is a
but I also appreciate the work he's
doing for white nationalism essentially
what he said
and here's Mick Mulvaney trying to make
the argument that this is it's so unfair
like even the numbers even this keeping
tallies of things is a problem bring to
what happened here broadly speaking the
number of attacks and support for white
supremacy is up according to the
Southern Poverty Law Center and even a
trump appointed attorney in the state of
Virginia Thomas Cullen was recently
quoted as saying white supremacy and
far-right extremism are among the
greatest domestic security threats
facing the United States has the
president been briefed on this I don't
know who that gentleman is certainly the
president's briefed on all over the
Southern Poverty Law Center I do I do
the president's absolutely briefed on
all of the threats both domestic and
international but I want to push back
against this idea that every time
something bad happens everywhere around
the world folks who don't like Donald
Trump seem to blame it on Donald Trump
I'm hoping we get on the president's
characterization I didn't say you I'm
saying that that's clearly what some
folks want to do I've heard other
members of the Democrat Party trying to
do it folks at the Southern Poverty Law
Center here trying to do it this is a
tragic thing that had her just a number
of white nationalist groups has surged
by 50% since Trump has become office
right well in the past year there you go
so here's the point excuse me well there
you go you're just deciding normal
timeframes like the past year Cystic
that'll happen oh well there you go it
happened the same time but I mean what
if you were to look at for instance has
the number of white uh you know national
scoops gone up over the course of like
200 years how could you possibly blame
that on Trump you couldn't write so
let's look at that that's basically his
argument here to be of Littlefair here
that's his argument basically is at this
point like you know it is unfair to use
the period of time that Donald Trump is
been in office or any part of that time
his office to make that measurement is
what his argument is go back it's sort
of astonishing like oh there you go one
year of course
going back a year well have you gone
back and blame me for a deficit number
how about you start before I became
president come on well be a little fair
Mick but the increase in the deficit is
what would be the analogy there is
nothing so I'm saying there is no it's
this is just bizarre that's clearly what
some folks want to do I've heard other
members of the Democrat Party trying to
do it folks at the Southern Poverty Law
Center here trying to do it this is a
tragic thing that had just a number of
white nationalist groups has surged by
50% since Trump has become office right
well in the past year there you go you
just agree that it's a rising threat I
disagree that there's a causal link
between Donald Trump being president and
something like this happening in New
Zealand that's not the argument or the
suggestion there by the judge or by that
statistic is the president aware that
this is a rising threat again a rising
threat I think the president you saw it
you saw him asked the other day does he
think it's a rising threat he says no I
think there's information that would
back that up the issue is how do you
stop these crazy people whether or not
there's one of them or positon so let me
be clear first he says it's unfair to
blame this rising threat on Donald Trump
and then he says and of course there is
no rising threat as the president has
said there's no rising threat so it's
not just that it's unfair to blame the
President on this rising threat it's
that it's there is no rising threat and
on top of that it's just not you're
saying there's a causal connection
between the rising threat and the
presidency and I'm saying that's not a
causal connection and it is for the next
question I'm going to say it doesn't
exist anyways issue is how do you stop
these crazy people whether or not
there's one of them or four of them
doesn't make a difference if they're
willing to go on live TV and stream the
murder of people so I think that's where
the time is better spent instead of
worrying about well who's to who's to
blame how do we stop from doing this
Donald Trump is no more to blame for
what happened in New Zealand then then
Mark Zuckerberg is because he invented
Facebook there are some terrible people
in the world we need to work with our
partners of which New Zealand is one of
them to try and figure a way to find
them expose them and bring them to
justice well
well isn't it I'll also say that there
is a decent argument out there that
Facebook is adding to and these type of
social media platforms is adding to the
virulence and the spread of this
ideology and that they have some type of
responsibility to sit on it in fact I
mean there's a reason why gap is that
what it is exists right because a lot of
these white nationals have been kicked
off at Twitter so that didn't work out
so well for Mick Mulvaney yeah we're
fine with blaming Facebook work with our
partners of which New Zealand is one of
them to try and figure a way to find
them expose them and bring them to
justice well President Trump and
certainly during the campaign talked
quite a lot about the need to be
specific to name a threat in order to
counter it so why minimize it
why not directly address white supremacy
and specifically Islamophobia yeah I get
a lot of questions about world leaders
did and the president didn't I get a lot
of questions from people saying what you
need to tell the President to do X you
need to tell the President to go and
give it an oval office address on this
or on that that's not how the system
works the president communicates in his
way different president I believe that
he medicated in their way I don't think
anybody can claim that Donald Trump
hasn't done exactly what we would want
him to do in this circumstance
we've immediately reached out to our
allies we've expressed that the absolute
disgust at the tragic at the tragic
events we're doing the presidents are
supposed to do that doesn't mean it's
gonna make everybody happy because of
the hyper parson times we live in but
again I really it's it frustrates me
just as a citizen I don't want to hear
this anymore honestly he moved in and
you know I don't I don't maybe maybe
would Margaret Brennan his hearing is
different from what I'm hearing but he
just said oh I'm not gonna I'm not
responsible I've been here as a
spokesperson for the president until
this moment where you ask me why he's
the only one who's not talking about
white nationalism that's not the process
of what the presidency is if we ask the
president I'm just the I'm just the
acting second acting chief of staff or
whatever it is to my title this week I'm
just the guy who's in the office who's
not his
son-in-law so I don't I'm not gonna take
any responsibility for that but I can
tell you these suggestions of causal
connections and the idea that there's
anything to be causal connected by is
also ridiculous this is like a parody I
don't know why they bring that guy back
on no he's running out the clock in a
calm tone saying basically nothing
that's his job and he if they don't even
have to make all of their excuses make
sense put together because they have the
power yeah I like the tone the tone
bluffing which is like I'm gonna ask for
a clarification on that number you gave
and then act like it absolves trump of
everything even though it's just like Oh
what time frame do you got that's right
that's the expert level I think ya know
you're both right here and really on
some level it's like they got to pick up
the game a little bit on Face the Nation
or wherever it is you got to just like
almost get meta as to what is going on
like wait a second
first you argue there's no causal
connection then you argue that there
that the there is no rising threat which
is it is there no rising threat or is
there no causal connection because you
can't make the case there's no causal
connection to something that doesn't
exist oh you don't have to make that
argument because it doesn't exist I also
don't particularly care for the like I
get what she's doing with the president
said you need to be really specific
about Muslim terrorism but like it's
totally I totally meant that yes
specific that's actually that's right
and that's actually kind of the point
right neither of those things are
specific with Muslims they universalize
an entire group of people an act of
bigotry discrimination and bans and then
when it's white nationalist terrorism
it's nonspecific to the point of totally
opaque doesn't matter where is there's
actually you know it's there's there's a
happy middle here where we could say you
know al-qaeda did that a white
nationalist terrorist did that it's
really actually not that hard and in
either case are you being specific it's
just one you're obscuring and
distracting and the other you're doing
bigotry just a reminder here is Donald
Trump back in 2016 at the
New Hampshire rally and somebody yells
out to him or I guess ask them a
question about the problem we have in
this country it's called Muslims okay
it's called Muslims we know our current
president is one I know he's not even an
American we need this but anyway we have
training camps growing when they want to
kill us
mm-hmm that's my question when can we
get for it we're gonna be looking at a
lot of different things and you know a
lot of people are saying that a lot of
people are saying that bad things are
happening out there we're gonna be
looking at that and plenty of other
things um and so you could see it's sort
of the evolution of like in his mind
he's going like hey wait a second can I
get away with this this is just gonna
fly I guess it will I guess I can go a
little further and there we have it I
mean that you know this the we all look
at like this guy like lunatic but there
are he does have over fifty percent
support in multiple states across the
country he does have forty some odd
percent forty five percent approval
rating his approval rating in the
Republican Party is over 90% so when
someone you approve of someone who has
the authority of the president United
States which you know look we don't have
a monarchy in this country but to the
extent that we have anything that comes
close it would be the presidency
wouldn't it and you know I don't want to
get too esoteric here but the way that
Kings became Kings was because God
placed them there so even if we have a
sort of a monarchy substitute which just
captures the imagination of a let's say
close to half of the population let's
say it's only like a third of the
population right just
a third of the 300 million people in
this country more or less when they hear
him validate what a lunatic like that
says president's Muslim we got a problem
we have we up we have a problem in this
country it's called Muslims when can we
get rid of them when can we get rid of
them I mean rid of them and then you
combine that so you've got this sort of
like you know I don't know what
percentage of the the American
population or the white population
around the world perceives Donald Trump
is sort of somewhat like you know God
like because he's the president adage
but it's not an absurd assertion that
there are millions of those people
there's some people who think he's in
shape and and to basically say like you
know we've got one problem I mean yeah
the people who commit these type of
crimes are mentally unbalanced but
that's also on a sliding scale and
you're giving more oxygen to these sort
of embers that are out there and this is
what you get this is why there is a rise
maybe it's just a total coincidence that
there's been a rise of hate attacks and
hate groups and violence in this way but
maybe and maybe it's not what hand
culture doesn't understand is that
there's a cultural permission it's not
just the by the same yeah so a lot of
neo-nazis appreciate me being here I'm
sure said in the manifesto right Trump's
not gonna give us everything we want I
don't like him as a policymaker he's
getting the message out there exactly
white nationalism exactly so we're in a
war with these people and we need to get
our message out there of anti racism
anti hierarchy in general and speaking
of getting the message out there you
know
the the think like the importance of
acts like this cannot be overstated to
show that these fascists and fascistic
bullies regardless of where they are
that they are touchable that they are
not omnipotent that their scare tactics
are not scaring everybody that people
can stand up to them I think it's hugely
important hugely important I think far
more important than we can sort of like
even rationally assess because so much
of the horrors that have happened in the
world have happened because people were
just a little bit embarrassed or cowed
or didn't know if they should speak up
or you know there's you know there's
sort of like a dynamic like you know
they say like most people die when they
drown of its embarrassment that they're
embarrassed to yell for help and and and
before they and then it before it's too
late and I I think you know if you read
back in in in times of genocide and and
whatnot particularly in the context of
the Holocaust or at least I've done most
of the reading that I've done on this
topic has been in that context it's as
people a lot of people just like looking
around looking for social cues and
saying like I guess it's not that bad I
mean nobody else seems to be doing
anything about it and maybe they were
afraid to do about but they're also
looking around no one's taking that
first step so little acts of
disobedience little acts of basically
saying but we're just not going to be
silent like you're not going to get away
with this and we know you're doing it is
hugely important and so when this kid
and I don't know how old egg boy is but
in Australia is that a press conference
with a a senator an Australian
senator and I don't know if he was
France Fraser Anning and this egg boy
William Connelly where they were I think
they must have been in they were in
Melbourne and this is a day after Fraser
Anning issued a statement suggesting
that New Zealand's decision to admit
Muslim immigrants was to blame for the
devastating attack on the two mosques
that left a 50 dead I guess
Connolly's 17 years old now known as egg
boy stares stands they were the cell
phone and the I'll tell you the amazing
thing that I thought was really sort of
like just showed a tremendous amount of
coverage not only did he stand there
with his cell phone when he goes and
eggs this guy but the guy punches him in
the face and it guy and the kid whole
continues to hold up the cell phone like
knowing like this is important and so
here's Frazier Anning giving his news
conference and and right behind them is
Connolly and then this ensues other
things happen when when people are
getting attacked in their own
you know I think it's like sort of
logistic little crew of guys around the
goon squad whose God wets the get the
those bogans trying to rip his head off
yep so they grab this guy and they're
trying to cause them a considerable
amount of pain here and and then this
jumps to another angle here oh wait
human crazy
getting the cut get the cop
no one's told you Mike trying to break
his neck you are nothing but a waste
human today yep good for that
guy absolute hero really important to
show zero and then in front of her
panting is like the Steve King of
Australia only he's worse than that like
he used taxpayer money to go hang out
with Nazis and crazy things like that
and then we have another clip do we have
this other clip of somebody else at a an
airport this is a crate because it they
don't do anything like throw an egg on
him but they're clearly uh you know
fully grown and he doesn't have any
detail with him and he get our yes and
and look these guys do this because of
egg boy I'm convinced right like like
this this it it works both ways you can
empower people in both ways and so
here's some guys who apparently catch up
with with this guy in the I think this
must be the Melbourne Airport but they
catch up with a Fraser anning and don't
know who the guys are and though this
isn't yeah the Melbourne Australia
Airport and it's a guy named Ali mederi
who who approaches anning and gives them
a piece of his mind they have new
 moves
don't touch me I am near whom was to the
families huh
I have any remorse I'm straight
up yeah oh I'm not touching her I'm
leave me all night Diane you're lost all
the people that died and everything
contained in katana hey you now you
know how to split I got your ass in it
out your sit up straight okay yak your
sin about no more you gotta do something
guys do something you're presenting
Australia God do something do something
Diane go guys she can't go go
yes senator of Australia you're a
 you're a that's
why y'all got yourself you
little
they've got a slightly different they
have a slightly different set of squares
that than we do or at least they
juxtapose them in a different fashion
and here is a remix of egg boy just to
follow out but kudos to all those
Australians who are making this guy's
life miserable and understand that in
Australia there's a very different
dynamic than in at least the states when
it comes to celebrities and politicians
there's not huge entourage ha's there's
not people aren't terribly impressed in
the way that they are in this country
and stop and like oh there it is
and so this guy is going to feel pretty
exposed I think and good he should let's
see what this is there you go we don't
want to play too much and get dinged but
of it I've also a fan of the Death Grips
remix that somebody made they have a lot
of smashy sounds and their music so
really you could do with any death group
song feels like the Richard Spencer day
yeah it really does it was nice talking
about this or the nice thing about the
eggs mush in my mind is that you don't
have people saying like you shouldn't
you know resort to violence like it's
just an egg like you know people did
this and uh in people did this in you
know at Halloween
no one's gonna get hurt but it is
basically a way of saying we don't have
respect for you
you are touchable you are not going to
intimidate us and so I am very much of
the pro egging you know I think that's
that's huge
this is also similar to the pieing that
we used to see except for eggs are more
easily concealed and carried in many
respects and you know there
I think egg is a super effective thing
plus an egg will smell after time and I
feel like the pie makes people too
sympathetic to because I got all the pie
on their face yes egg is a little bit
smaller and the thing is visual
egg will then they'll get in your
fingernails and it'll smell later
it's egg is I think super effective and
so um this is hopefully this is becoming
a thing where fascists all around the
world will have to wear anti egg
clothing because here is a bolson are oh
is this in Brazil or is this in Isis but
he's already in the States no no no I
think this is in Brazil oh I'm sorry I'm
not sure he's coming though so your hair
is here now in coming to New York he's
coming to New York and to any is a
meeting at the White House on all
Brazilian uh you know friends have
requested please show up there with Lula
we've Ray signs and your middle finger
and everything else done cars those
that's the nice thing about that there's
eggs are very hungry that's right I
don't know like you know can you be
arrested for throwing an egg it's more
like you dropped an egg right like I was
coming from the market with my eggs and
I dropped the eggs look someone knocked
my hand and the egg went so but here is
a an anonymous woman who he's also going
directly to visit by day that's slightly
in you that's very very foreign head of
state yes
here is a woman who introduces her egg
to bolson ro
[Music]
yep heroes we've got a girl I hope she's
okay
I am I've been looking I'm worried about
that yes incredible courage because
these people are literal gangsters I
mean arts held up I mean hopefully it
was before you had all his brown shirts
or whatever so she was okay I was just
now this was an this was not recent no
it was it was a few years ago oh that oh
that aching low but it just started
going around again no no's reason my
mistake all right well let's go point
still stands
somehow my phone hung up on me all right
give me a second we'll go to the phone's
ladies and gentlemen appreciate your
patience majority all of you folks then
we'll be with you shortly holding on the
phones very patiently with you shortly
it should be customized uh yeah I read
that when the cops come bothering me
Ike boy said here comes the bacon for
the egg and the cops thought it was
funny and the brown shirts did not
Australia has a different folks that
have much more sophisticated since humor
frankly I'm not being facetious about
that you're calling from a 509 area code
who's this where you calling from you
are the first caller on today's edition
of the majority report hello hello good
thing it is you hey this is Ron Reagan
Ronald Reagan
how are you sir I hope you're getting
sleep yes Reagan I turned on so I saw a
link to the Pakman show which I've never
I make fun of it but I've never actually
really watched it yeah it seems like a
kind of a do seems like kind of a dorky
guy right well
you know ya likes to wear a sport jacket
so I turn it on and he is reading
questions like comments and questions
but they're these YouTube super chats
that you have to pay for right and these
questions are just pouring in like 10
dollars a pop people are asking him like
what do you think about Cory Booker and
somebody paid like ten dollars to get
them to answer that right okay that's
correct
well we have a super we have some at
2:00 and people do that I mean I we have
the option of saying that if you pay we
will answer your question but we prefer
a lottery based system that involves the
phones where we you know I mean if
people want to tip us on super chat more
than appreciated believe me and you know
we see those figures every week and some
people really come in and they they dump
a big chunk of change for you know once
a month and you know what not but so
Megan how much like pay me to respond to
what you're saying getting to the good
part
okay sorry so he's he says that he has a
phone number that he's going to take
calls but that he won't do it until he
gets 10 new subscribers 10 new patrons
or whatever
remember this is this is interesting if
he's holding he's got a gun to the
phone's well and he's holding them
hostage right thing and guess what he
got there very quickly and it just seems
like you're leaving a lot of money on
the table my guy I'm kind of thing well
I mean I mean so what should i do I
could say like we're gonna have we if we
get 10 members I'm going to start
answering the phones today we should do
that every day like boo I haven't got we
haven't got dead new members
so Kelly Carey agrees with you riggan
she's trying to push this oh yeah back
in the day what the the that we do super
chats I think we super Talia yeah that
would do super chats yeah yeah
but no
I'm not against it I just did not for it
if it seems like you are a boss and a
capitalist wage you should be all
about just putting all the money getting
all the money well I mean you can be a a
boss in a capitalist wage cut with not
necessarily being good at it I mean
that's sort of like where I packaging
myself I'm just like you know so plus my
also my feeling is like yeah good well I
also I submitted a super check because I
wanted to ask him about how he copied
your sense
oh right and so yeah so I said well I
said is it true that you literally asked
Sam cedar how to build his scent and
then copied it exactly and he said yes
that's a true story
and and then he got a little
self-conscious about he said wait damn
like saying something about it well I'll
tell you what I'll do I tell you what I
do I will answer the question that David
has if I am saying anything about it if
he pays me if he has the highest super
chat if he if he if he doubles his super
chat a revenue of any given week and
then puts it into my super chat to ask
me and then I will take me I will answer
that question so it sounds like we're
gonna have super chat but only for David
Pakman super chat well know everybody
can super chat but the but I guess yeah
I guess the only Dave Beck yeah so super
Pakman yeah I don't know really what
just happened right there I'm not sure
what you just said but it doesn't seem
like a good solution but I do
why why I mean he asked me and I told
him I could have said I'm not telling
you well he was did you anticipate when
you answer the question you thought he
was asking like
handyman questions and cirle let me tell
you about my table-saw right I can
totally see this yes that's happening um
so I ripped the two by floors and
whatever so don't rip a two by but you
weren't that's thinking you do that with
we didn't reply whoo you wouldn't do
that with a 2x4 but good you weren't
thinking he was gonna literally copy
your Fett right I thought he was he
wasn't like he was looking for a happier
that exactly telling me how to do it you
were thought it was like another startup
and you were like oh let's exchange
ideas you didn't realize that he it was
a it was like the it's like the
sometimes in business espionage when you
go in and go hey what is your plan here
and then you and before you know it
you're actually giving them the whole
algorithm on a white board yeah that
means you did in a way Sam deserves it
when you say Reagan for being some naive
very naive I just thought I did I did it
did not occur to me that he was gonna
build the exact same thing I thought he
would like like take inspiration from
what I did
well maybe literally not think some cory
booker without monkey even if it was I
would feel bad doing that a different a
different paneling yeah it's the exact
same panels now I mean there but you
know what I know he said well mine mines
different cuz I've got the TV over here
well that's what he said when he
answered the question but I mean give me
a white rap please come on back can you
hear the wide shot no the wide shot here
the wide shot is not zoomed out so one
of the one other thing one other thing
that we're in the TV antenna zone you
know and then I got a jump yeah when you
call when you call Pakman he does the
robot voice like thank you for calling
the David Pakman it's exact same he's
using the same services yeah yeah but
his robot voice says please do not use
speakerphone and respond when he reads
your areas like there's some
instructions oh hell yeah and I feel
like I feel like your robot voice could
be a little bit more
solicit about what's expected from the
college okay alright I appreciate that I
strongly support the majority report
please get to the point and don't
mention modern monetary theory right
Ronald Reagan all of your all of your
suggestions will be taken under
consideration and I appreciate the phone
call everybody dropping the ball and we
got you we got you a question is it true
that you literally asked Sam cedar how
to build a set before you copied it
never said that
Steven Robbins says is it true that you
literally asked Sam cedar how to build
his set before you copied it yes I did I
mean the difference is I've set it up
I've combined our old set which has this
screen behind me with similar paneling
I mean basically what what I copied was
I asked him how did he build the panels
and he told me and I'm curious did i
I've said that Sam helped me backwards
gonna cut this segment and comment on
this segment and then what we're gonna
do is we're gonna cut the segment that
he comments on this segment and that's
basically going to be our business our
business perhaps the plans yeah yeah I
was gonna say this is this is grist for
the progressive voices mill oh yeah back
when was building is set and did he
steal the intellectual property of Sam
Seder
because what Sam cedar seemed to be
joking but I don't know guys maybe he's
not joking by the way I love progressive
voices it's all generous of voices
outside of my show and majority report
is my favorite left commentator on
YouTube ads battling going from a 978
area code who's this where you calling
from - painting Remy yeah I Ken who's
this this is Madi from Massachusetts
hello Maddy what's on your mind um I am
first I want to do a shout out to Matt I
love you math the patron of your podcast
oh thank you very much but I am calling
today to talk about my personal
experience with pharmaceutical price
gouging uh-huh
so it's a bit of an older story but I
wasn't listening to you guys in 2016
when this was all going on and I think
that it's still relevant today
oh essentially do you guys remember the
aliens pharmaceuticals that company was
involved along with Martin shkreli at
all yes value valiant was was that his
company or is that the company that he
bought the the drug from oh no volumes a
separate company Martin shkreli um
became really notable for what he did to
the drug daraprim but Valeant
Pharmaceuticals was found to have really
been like the biggest culprit who did
pharmaceutical price gouging as part of
their like explicit corporate strategy
um the story of valiant or the rise and
fall of valiant was really big and like
the business and financial press
essentially the stock peaked at like 250
dollars a share and then there was a
huge scandal about this financial about
the price gouging and their stock price
fell below $10 a share um
I'm calling because my but I have
something called Wilson's disease and I
take a drug citrine um that Valeant
Pharmaceuticals produces that they that
is cited as like the most egregious
example of pharmaceutical price gouging
in the industry so in the 2016 report
from the Senate Committee on Aging the
Martin shkreli SteriPEN was like the
number one example and ciphering which
is what I take was like the next most
egregious example of pharmaceutical
price gouging in 2000 a throughout the
90s and up to about 2005 Merck was
producing the drug for $1
he'll I started in on it in about 2010
and it was at the time four dollars a
pill shortly after I started on it
Valeant Pharmaceuticals acquired the
company that was producing the job
specifically so that it could have
active so that it could own Cyprian the
drug that I take by 2015 so only ten
years later they were charging over $200
of pills for something that in 2005 was
$1 pills yes and just to clarify as well
this is a medication that the standard
one since four pills a day I'm on a
little bit above the standard dose I'm
on six pills a day so and everybody who
takes this job if it needs it like to
stay alive and this needs to take it
every day
so the actual end will fill in 2015 and
relevant still today is over $300,000
pills for the average patients to get
their medication that's nuts
that's nuts and something and it's when
was this pill developed and it has been
off mountains throughout the whole time
that variant own to it it acquired
balance with zeros always into on for
this drug nor did valiant any money into
army for any of the drugs that they sell
you know it's a corporate strategy with
to acquire smaller drug companies
mergers and acquisitions strip out their
research and development arms and then
price hike on everything
wow that's that's I mean that's it's
just absurd I mean it's just totally
absurd in this instance I think you know
Elizabeth Warren has a proposal where
the the US government would produce
because at this point it's it's probably
like it could be a generic in form right
I mean it's off patent great so it's
so promising or dog industry part of the
reason why this medication cost so much
and why Valiants specifically targeted
is because there probably no more than
5,000 reasons on the or miss medication
throughout the whole United States
oh so and dizzy it also doesn't affect
us it's serious but it's manageable as
long as we're medicated and so there's
no organizing operation or awareness
there's a small organization called the
Wilkinson what are you gonna change your
phone because whatever your the way
you're talking right now makes it hard
to hear oh good oh I'm so sorry can you
hear me better yeah that's much better
patient advocacy and organization for
the disease and he comes in really
effective it has been good all drinks it
doesn't really has many operations and
valiant knew this when they sought out
this drug because they knew that there
wasn't going to be collective action um
already as for itself into the patient
its so the the amount of evil involved
in every step of this process it's just
it's stunning I mean I don't use it as a
market logic but it is it logic yes it
is it's the market logic but it is due
to to actually sit there and come up
with like oh look all we got to do is
find a group of people that we can
exploit who don't have the political
power I mean to like do to have this
level of intelligence but that lack lack
of humanity is pretty stunning but my
understanding is in these situations I
mean under Warren's proposal anyways it
would you would create some type of
agency that would be akin to the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
that wouldn't necessarily need a large
political constituency to point this out
and then you set in basically certain
parameters and then the government
starts to manufacture a drug like this
right yeah
that would be real progress I mean
obviously medicare-for-all would also
make confederal progress towards making
this better and that there would be a
single buyer and so the government would
be able to set prices that are less
outrageous and what we're currently
paying I mean frankly from my
perspective there is something better
than setting the prices for a drug when
a drug is off patent in particular I
mean patents you know obviously a
function of the Constitution we have to
have it done to some degree but I mean
we don't have to have them as long as
they are a and B once it's off patent I
say when when you pass a threshold like
this you could set it up like the like
the Voting Rights Act basically like
when there is a past record of abuse on
a drug like this boom automatically
becomes a a product that the government
has authorization to produce and they
just start producing it and so not only
you don't have to have you know the cost
the the price set the price is exactly
what it cost to produce it period end of
story
and then the drug is out there C
Sabine's of production
absolutely absolutely
um one one more thing that I I just
wanted to say about this the reason I
decided to call in you can have that
guest on last week we talked about
public-private partnerships in the
public health field um and so with
Valiant specifically after the scandal
and their stock price tanks and they
were called pharmaceutical Enron but
they decided that the best way to buy
good PR would be to make a donation to
the listen disease Association so they
made a donation to the association of
$100,000 and then went on quarterly
earnings call and bragged about their
partnership to be like very clear a
$100,000 is less than the profit they
make on alone in six months
Wow appreciate the story that's just
unbelievable
like the wealthy drug companies because
they donate to charity medical profit
ears are the worst people thanks again
for the call yeah it's a bit tangential
but um I I actually interviewed jameelah
missioner on my show as well and she was
on this show a couple months ago people
should listen to both interviews she's
in that book on the history of Medicaid
and federalism is one of the think one
of the best books that one can read on
health care and race and also the states
rights scam but we after working like we
you know we worked through this history
and then she said you know even on the
other end of it some of the people in
her ethnography are people who are you
know they're outliers but they actually
made like a million dollars a year and
went bankrupt because they had a kid who
you know it was like kids born and the
doctor is basically like to keep this
child alive it's gonna be a couple
hundred thousand dollars a year right
so she was saying like in our health
care system unless we have like a
Medicare for All system unless you're
Jeff Bezos you're not safe period come
from a a to one for area code who's this
where he come from
good afternoon saying it's John from San
Antonio no Matt it's Bradley from Austin
forget about that for a second I
understand I understand temptation is
sometimes the temptation is just far too
great but Thank You Brad the salmon
salmon press yeah Bradley
salmon Preston yeah I don't I don't have
a serum impression I don't understand it
brushing all right no no what do you got
Bradley look let's go yeah I didn't go
no so I'm actually calling to talk about
impeachment and it's not impeachment of
Trump actually you know one of the
things that I think is is difficult
about impeachment that you would have
had to have laid the groundwork
you know I'm kind of done constant you
know procedural war you know public
relations laying the groundwork for a
long time in order to get to a point
where where impeachment was feasible so
I don't necessarily disagree with
Colossians you know position on this but
I don't understand why we're now looking
at impeachment for lower-level officials
like Nielson and potentially you know if
Cavanaugh lied to the supreme court
during his confirmation hearing I don't
know why we're not looking into that
really closely and that's my my question
for you guys I mean I think that's a I
think it's a good I think it's a good
question I think that you know my guess
is from a political standpoint I mean
look my feeling on impeachment in terms
of Donald Trump is all like political
questions aside about that the bottom
line is if this guy wins re-election
you're gonna want the opportunity to
impeach him then and if you impeach him
now you will not get a conviction in the
Senate and if he gets reelected which is
you know a if he runs possibility
greater than zero you're gonna want to
retain that ability to impeach him in
2021 because otherwise the guy functions
with a total sense of impunity and that
I suspect would be pretty dangerous why
I think they don't impeach you no sir
you know Nielson is I think it's like
it's gonna be super hard to get evidence
out of the White House you're gonna have
to go and subpoena stuff from the
executive branch and I think the idea is
probably some semblance of you know the
return on investment is not there
that you're not I mean I think look
there's there is plenty to be sniffing
around in terms of Supreme Court
justices not just Cavanaugh frankly but
the I think the frankly Thomas and in
the relationship between you know cases
that he sat on and where his wife works
is a huge conflict now there is no
technically a conflict statute that
affects the Supreme Court but I just
think the return on investment is not
there that would be the calculus I guess
but I agree with you I think that
broadly speaking you got to hold these
people to account we didn't do with the
Bush administration it came back to bite
us in the ass
it is you know like this whole day and
some respects has just been like a
litany of things that we've done that
have come back to bite us in the ass and
and then just add to it things that we
haven't done in terms of holding people
to account come back to bite us in the
ass but there is a there's also a common
theme and I appreciate the phone call
and that is that you know when I say we
look there were very narrow interests
whose interest we're probably perfectly
satiated by the moves that we did in the
1950s you know the so-called
post-colonial era or stuff that we did
in the 80s and in Central America
and there things didn't work out so well
for maybe the United States didn't work
out so well maybe for the inhabitants of
certain countries and didn't work out so
well for people who were sent to fight
in wars but it probably did work out
pretty well for those people who had
financial interests because you know
that's the way this this goes who is
this is this um Betsy makai Oh Makka Hey
look I oh I think she if I'm not
something helps Inc Clinton yes she's no
long-term ante yes their propaganda oh
yes she really doesn't like people to
have health care and it was and she was
very disingenuous too if I remember
correctly
but here is here is Betsy McCaughey
talking about fake asylum seekers now
let me tell you what happens to fake
asylum seekers they go through the
process their asylum claim is
adjudicated and if I mean I don't know
what fake asylum seeker is but if their
claim is not significant enough to get
asylum guess what happens to them they
don't get asylum this is like I don't
know this is like saying people who go
to a job interview like I'm going to
apply for a job well you're a fake job
interview ewwww because you didn't get
the job and very few people get asylum
very few it by the way and this
administration has narrowed the number
of things that can qualify as legitimate
claims like let's say you're being
beaten domestically and there is no
judicial infrastructure in your home
country to deal with it that is no
longer a valid claim let's say you are
being threatened by gangs remember that
threatened by gangs that is no longer a
valid claim for asylum but here is Betsy
McCaughey just so I mean god I don't
even know how she handles it all they
fake asylum seekers it must be just
horrible for her politicians are not
leveling with us about what we're
already being forced to spend to shelter
the illegal immigrants coming across the
southern border
most of them falsely claiming to be
asylum seekers the numbers are
staggering in fact so staggering that
deterring this this crossing this Asylum
scam would more than pay for the wall in
less than two years no other public
infrastructure project will get paid
back so fast in two years let's look at
some of the know there you go
the fake asylum I mean just the the
absurdity of these of these claims
they're just stunning
and the inhumanity of them is really the
only thing that sort of puts them in any
type of relief
yeah and the government doesn't have to
pay to house people in freezing-cold
detention centers right they could let
them out on parole they could not treat
people like criminals who are going
through a legal process a producer Andy
spoke with someone at an NGO who helps
people seeking asylum and it's it's just
insane like the number of hoops they
make you jump through that are
absolutely intended to make you give up
every step of the way like they don't
get a court-appointed lawyer they don't
get any help with translation services
they have to fill out all the forms in
English and do the interview in English
and these are all things meant to
dissuade people and often they do yeah
it's nuts it's nuts let's go to the
phones take come from a five seven zero
area code who's this where you come from
hey Sam this is Joe calling from
Scranton Pennsylvania Joe yes Joe from
scran what's on your mind Joe hey um
real quick I'm a fairly new uh I I've
been listening to you guys I guess for
about two years but finally I I
subscribed to bullet to you and Michael
and I know you're interested to listen
to the show you know what plenty enough
um let's see I'm about 39 years old so I
was looking for um I'm YouTube want one
day for a Janeane Garofalo I've had a
little bit of a crush on her and wonder
what she was up to these days and I
didn't even know about the whole air
America cuz that kind of I don't know I
must miss miss me but I don't think we
didn't get Air America where I was going
to college I really wasn't paying
attention to politics at that time
uh-huh
so um that's when I started to and I
found your show and ever since then I
mean I've been well well educated more
so than in in college in many ways oh
and then for the subscription you know
Here I am listening for two years and
I'll tell you what's in it for me one
day I'm not my cable bill is probably
about 150 hundred and sixty dollars
every month and the one day I will you
know my middle child wants to watch I
think it was Mary Poppins I went over
and you know tried to get it up for him
to on the movie and all of a sudden it
said like 1999 with an extra $19.99 then
I thickened mom's into dollars they want
an extra $20 I'm like you know what I
got money for this garbage and I don't
have money for these guys that I listen
to every single day come on come on
appreciate the attitude I almost want to
clip that actually have you don't mind
maybe we'll use that as an ad feel free
feel free but um deal I just wanted to
say call me from US France in
Pennsylvania I'm afraid that maybe
people might be under estimating Joe
Biden and his uh I know it was said
before at you know that sometimes
there's nobody really running that has
the same kind of uh with any charisma
Joe Biden has a very special brand of
charisma that people definitely in
Scranton this is one of the Scranton is
in Lackawanna County in Pennsylvania and
it was one of the the counties that did
manage to remain Democratic I think it's
because we have a paper ballot but many
many many people around here did switch
that they voted for Obama
and then they switch parties completely
to go for Trump that phenomenon happened
around here big time
yeah I have a feeling that Joe Biden is
definitely going to recapture those
people though those are those strange
people that you say like how in the
world is it that they voted for Obama
but then they voted for Trump Biden will
snatch them back up in a second and like
it's just going to be people view him
around here like he's being Crosby in
the bells of st. Mary's they respond to
that kind of oh honey how are you I just
said a mess for your mother let me touch
you on the back and caress your cheek
and people have been beaten down
emotionally so bad by Trump that there's
a lot of people that I know will respond
to that kind of emotional connection
right like I were trying to say that for
a long time like Joe Biden it doesn't
speak to us on a number of levels but he
has a lot of charisma and I think like
again I've never been naive if he was
the general election candidate he would
destroy Donald if you can abstract away
from the policies he has a lot we're
talking about so I think yeah that's a
super valid concern yeah but I guess the
question would be or those guys would be
effective in the primary well I think I
mean I think that's the thing with Biden
is I think the primaries of Al and mind
for him and then I think and I think the
general would be super easy but I think
the real question is is you know how
does it play out in the primary because
I again I think even the primary a
Bernie when the primary their last time
around
am I mistaken sylvania no yeah
now so well no let me give me your sense
of like what people would think about
like Kamala Harris or Beto or or Bernie
I think it's going to be a Bernie
Elizabeth Warren I would have to say
would probably be Joe Biden Elizabeth
Warren and then Bernie Sanders hysteria
unfortunate why don't why am i over
Bernie's that's just a lot of people
don't know why how does Warren connect
with people
that Bernie doesn't in that respect I
mean I'm interested because you know
Boren doesn't always strike me as you
know but is it just sort of like their
look like the Midwestern quality that
she has they're looking for well again I
mean sometimes listening to you guys I
mean it really is that and nobody knows
anything about it I think right of
course they were just getting European
you know in your mouth curious so you're
gonna get like the let's say I mean I
don't want a stereotype but a lot of
like the retired teacher may be like hey
you know what Elizabeth good morning you
know we needed a woman last time I liked
her and this is and I don't want to make
it seem like you know they're just gonna
but there really is like that would be
the hierarchy for sure would be you know
Joe Biden you know people respond in
like like you said in the beginning of
the show when he came out and he said
you know Bubo bless me Father for I have
sinned
that kind of like that is the first
thing that a Catholic says with their
going into the confessional so in other
words he's confessing to everybody well
there here is my sin I'm guilty of
talking to the Republicans people they
love that they eat it off he'd be
first she'd be second Bernie yeah it's
definitely there's unfortunately is not
that much of a younger population around
here so I mean yeah the younger you get
for sure yes
yes you know they would be on board for
party but there's just not in in in
northeastern Pennsylvania really just
doesn't have that kind of a younger
population interesting well that's
fascinating I guess we will we'll see
and maybe we'll start to see some
polling and we'll keep an eye open for
that but yeah I I mean I think like I
think you are right particularly with
the type of sort of demographic that
you're talking about older more
blue-collar Joe Biden
like you know connects with with folks
like that because it is I think demeanor
and whatnot and you know this just goes
into chapter I don't know what chapter 8
of my blame the electorate because they
don't usually have any sense of policies
I appreciate that
that though cuz I don't we yeah oh I'm
sorry go ahead
one more no I was just going to say I
did the only thing that surprises me
about
I really honestly genuinely surprises me
is that he didn't announce on Saint
Patrick's Day and I really I you're
gonna be shocked to see how many people
like dig themselves up from the grave
from the Irish graveyards to go and vote
for Joe Biden like he's one of the last
remaining Kennedys that's the only thing
that I'm there you have it unfortunately
Joe Biden is going to do some electoral
fraud thank you no wider than addition
to being a very calm very low IQ
individual is digging up dead bodies
these are the things you hear can you
hear it all over the place can you pull
this now I don't this is very
appreciated somebody I saw this actually
last night
totally I've got about it now ladies and
gentlemen a lot of people are out there
the the new the new libertarians out
there are talking about you know Oh Sam
cedar he's not he's not libertarian
enough to run in the election let me
tell you something I'm more libertarian
than anybody who's running in the race I
mean would race would run what would run
in the race if I were to run in the race
I've talked to my great batarians Hashem
forgive me I am exactly I've talked to
non libertarians and forgive me I have
my own I have a version of
libertarianism that we've been
developing here for years and maybe I'll
come out with it publicly maybe I won't
if I do decide to run for the
libertarian presidential race and I do
decide to run I will unveil my my
platform we I'm in consultation with
various folks about my social democratic
libertarianism the utilitarian I am a
utilitarian social democratic
libertarian but also with some touches
and and I don't want to be held to that
because we're still working on the
definition because the definition of it
is very important I know a lot of people
are going to just jump on
certain words in there and say but and
are gonna make a big hay of it but I
don't want to be taken out of context
now with that said there has been a new
poll that has been released and frankly
I cannot I don't know the validity of
this poll I saw it was retweeted by Adam
Koch Hesh it was it is done who does the
polling on this let's see yeah third
party well third party watch now I don't
know this a thing and so I cannot vouch
for this and we haven't checked it all
I'm saying is that somebody has posted
this and it is a 2020 green and
libertarian primary polling from March
10th to the 14th pulled a total of 1231
registered voters from the Green and
libertarian parties and their opinions
on all declared candidates running for
the presidential nomination of the
respective party now I have yet to I
have yet to officially declared my
nomination so I don't know but I'm a
libertarian than anybody who might run
and here is the result of the polling I
come in name relevant this could be just
name recognition and you're the body but
there are five names that are in the
polling Avron waha vermin supreme John
McAfee Adam Koch ash and Sam cedar and I
have just read them in the reverse order
in which they are listed in this poll I
came in first with forty two point seven
four percent now a lot of this could be
name recognition or it could be an
appreciation of my sense of strong civil
libertarian values combined with a sense
of a deep abiding desire to have freedom
almost four different types of freedoms
if you will which I of course will in
the event that I do run I will be more
specific building this around a four
freedoms concept but
but freedom is crucial as Americans as
human beings freedoms beauty it's and
but we will discuss more of this but it
is an interesting thing and I can tell
you that this polling result whether it
is actually from an actual polling
outfit or just some guy who mocked it up
online
there's some interesting crosstabs do we
know do we do we know for a fact that
this is real uh this looks like a Google
spreadsheet you never know with the
libertarian yeah I feel like it's hard
to tell with libertarian sort of things
might be a website they have the sample
size there's in the Green Party they
don't even have Jill Stein is she not
running I don't have time to but I can
tell you that this poll whether it's
real or not it's going to weigh heavily
in my decision well so there was three
hundred nine women Sam surveyed Sam you
got 166 of them Wow
now there was 548 white people versus 73
black people you got thirty four of them
so again the other competition was
khopesh of McAfee so you're doing pretty
well with a lot of that a lot of the I
guess the non-traditional libertarian
vote right that's the concern you're
polling very well with non libertarian
voters is that undermine your electoral
calculus I mean I'm doing better with
with the with I mean I'm doing pretty
good even with the with the white
population
well khopesh is beating you with men
right okay that makes enough yeah the
billionaire software developer and
alleged murderer John McAfee within the
race only only in the Libertarian Party
folks I will say that documentary these
numbers V in Belize is actually usually
this these these numbers are consistent
with internal polling that we have so I
would just say that but I don't know if
these numbers are real I just wanted to
put it out there I will be making a
decision within a certain amount of time
so I
can assure you stay tuned into this area
and I will be making a a decision soon
called from a 301 area code who's this
where he calling from 301 hey guys yes
okay hey I was actually calling for a
different reason
but I was listening to show and I just I
hate to be obnoxious but I'm pretty
disappointed that you were applauding
that the AG on the Senators head I mean
I just applaud it any kind of violence
as little as it is is very dangerous
we're known for wait a second what
constitutes violence for you do do hate
does hate speech constitute violence to
saying things that cause people to be
killed or add to an environment where
people are killed does that constitute
violence are you talking about free
speech like not even noxious things I
mean I don't think Australia has the
same concept of free speech but yes does
free speech does free speech constitute
down can pen can free speech calm today
does free speech can it constitute
violence in your mind if you were
talking about hurting people yes if you
were openly saying I think that this
group should be murdered her expelled
would have yeah what if I say that this
group is in their presence is
justification for them to be murdered I
don't man I don't think that's the same
as actually physically getting somebody
whether it be an Ag or anything else all
right there yes and look we get a degree
on that it's upsetting right really
totally terrible yeah I don't buy any
kind of violent and and and when what
what happens on after Halloween how you
do you go out and do a candlelight vigil
with all the people who are throwing
eggs and shaving cream cars and whatnot
okay yeah just throw an X out it's far
different then then hitting somebody in
the head
with an egg so I mean yeah well you say
you know if somebody is different than
hitting them with an egg teenager don't
worry I got a house okay what if they
throw an egg person what if they throw a
negative person that's that's violent
that's not okay no they should be
arrested and first thought that's just
you don't attack people too like we
don't do that in a modern progressive
society where we want the world to be in
place that's all we have a difference of
opinion as to what how how dangerous
egg egg throwing is at people and who
deserves it but that's fine okay so we
we differ in that respect okay well one
more question I'd like to ask that all
sure or you guys I'm sure the belt
became now that would hold on just be
careful because some some questions I
find to be rather violent but good come
on Roger
don't be so don't be so don't be so
sensitive I was just making a joke now
it would actually say that throwing an
egg an old lady's house is way worse
than doing it to a prominent
global fascist I'm sorry I know we put
this aside but I'm a little offended by
how dumb this argument is but but go
ahead I mean that's that's the hill you
want to put a plant your flag it's okay
to throw eggs at old lady's houses but
not to throw an egg big bunch okay
who punch the kid in the face who
punched the kid in the face and then a
kid was held in a chokehold like even if
I accepted your boy was bad ridiculous
argument you're not even focusing
violent disgusting okay we're so fine so
fine alright good continue okay um the
ballot harvesting night to help me
understand why that there yeah just want
to say that but there should be
bipartisan support
right like we don't want people touching
other people's ballots we are in a
polarized society to crumble the faith
and democracy is dangerous but I'm under
the impression that Democrats are not as
concerned with it and I'm legitimately
asking the reasons why because it seems
to me like a clear like Easy Bar
partisan thing like hey let's not touch
a people's ballots the voting process is
sacred so you're saying that when people
go around with secure bags in California
and take sealed envelopes in which the
ballots are the only way that they are
considered valid right and bring and
deliver them that that's problematic
yeah they is dangerous in that how isn't
that how they uh is not the scandal in
North Carolina wasn't it with ballot
harvesting well I mean they they brought
them in and then there was a completely
there was no chain of custody at all and
it was there was a whole raft of
corruption and yes those people are
gonna go to jail but and that's all I'm
saying is I feel like it lends itself to
corruption especially when we're so
upset in the country these days I mean
like I don't think there's ever been a
time where more politically polarized
like I think I think they've done polls
it's worse than religion right I mean
pew - I know what I find fascinating
like like we have right we have a huge
record of systemic moves by state
legislators and governors of multiple
states to disenfranchise hundreds of
thousands of people of voting we have a
Supreme Court that signed off on this
you know the story of Texas right where
the Supreme Court found that the
redistricting done by the state of Texas
was racially motivated and was therefore
completely illegitimate and what
happened was the way that these
districts were maintained and these laws
were maintained was because the state
legislature we
adopted these laws and because they
didn't actually draw them an earlier
state legislature did the Supreme Court
said they were then okay now for you to
focus on imaginary problems hypothetical
problems right we both agree these are
hypothetical because we know what
happened in North Carolina and we know
they were caught so you're talking about
hypothetical problems with voting but
right in front of you you can see that
this Supreme Court signed off on
districts that they they said themselves
was racist because of a technicality
about the the state of Texas ignoring
those and then readapting them so you
got a look and say what are my
priorities and why in fact let me ask
you why is that your priority easily
explain that number one I'm not as
well-versed with that number two I'm
calling to a progressive show because
we're calling no progression to get
progressive answers I call it a
conservative shows that call them on
that that would call in say hey
guys this is absurd you quote-unquote
claim to be conservatives that you're
completely turning your face to racist
acts and I will look in that one and I
will call a service show in auspice they
think right like I calling the shows to
ask questions I don't know the answer to
well let me tell you let me tell you
what would happen if somebody raised
their hand and they're watching a
surgery and the surgeon was like saying
like okay here's the heart as you can
see there's a blockage to the heart and
somebody raised their hand and said
excuse me doctor what about that
hangnail let me tell you what the
surgeon would say are you serious
excuse me I've got some work to do good
job sir appetite appreciate and
authorize I mean I think actually that
senators Facebook's messages are open
and and I don't know if this would be
okay with the caller because obviously
would be very upsetting but you can DM
em images of eggs
just a thought it's symbolic violence
more it's symbolic violence what a
 idiot caller I just think I have
no I just think that like priorities are
messed up
that's the priorities are very revealing
that's the priorities are and I'm not I
can you know I'm willing to have all
sorts of debates but when your starting
point is just pedantic nonsense
it's not even pedantic just nonsense
what are you doing like there's a
there's a it's just I think you know
this this notion that somehow you want
to situate yourself in the middle so
that you're not in any way tainted by
whatever it is like you know just in you
know you should be spending a lot more
time calling conservative shows deal
with the hundreds of thousands of people
who are systemically been deprived of
the right of vote rather than the
hypothetical notion that the the idea
that California where there is very
specific laws that in California I
assume this is where he's talking about
right no but it was California is where
he's talking about the ballot harvesting
right I was like that's that's the the
whole thing is that that the the notion
that people are going out there and
finding absentee ballots because a
vote-by-mail voter and this is the law
in California who is unable to return
the ballot may designate any person to
return the ballot to an elections
official from whom it came and so the
the theory is that well you're gonna
have all these these partisan people are
gonna have control of the ballot and but
presumably the voter is going to say
like well who sent you know I guess
maybe the election the collector could
be lying but how would they have their
name I mean it's just like the
the what would be involved for the sort
of the systemic throwing of an election
that could be undetected right because
in California in one congressional
district it was detected so I don't know
if like the theory is like well you
could turn the election in this way in
California for the President or like the
state
I guess it's conceivable and like a in
like a town council thing that I guess
that's conceivable but I don't know all
right we don't have time for one more
call come from a four one six area code
who's this where you come from
hey this is Eric from Toronto Eric from
Toronto what's on your mind
well first I wanted to say a first time
a long time thank you for taking my call
hi to Jamie Matt and you Sam thank you
not to Michael I appreciate it
hello well hello um yeah actually I've
bought a few things and came up in those
series of conversations so my heart goes
out to the mr. name but the deal dealing
with the medical with the price gouging
and everything that's it's a total and
the for the for-profit system obviously
you know it's just a killer and any
half-step measures you know to try to
stop it obviously just fall short you
know and uh and I appreciate the fight
that you guys are putting the you know
does catch up with the rest of the
modern world and we're trying
it's a tough system yep yeah um anyways
I have a question um what do you think
progressives should pardon pardon I uh
sorry I'm when it comes in terms the
corporate media they're like time after
time an obstacle for progressive change
um is it is there an issue or art like I
was saying for years before corporate or
before Donald Trump's full the tagline
for me corporate media is the enemy of
people obviously at the Hersh
generalization but you know there's a
lot of truth to it um is there any
contradiction there like anyway we're
like maybe as Kahn was saying on the
Michael on Michaels program to like
shift the support closer to our right I
don't know I mean kind of rambling a
little nervous I think I I think there
is I think corporate media is going to
well I don't know to be honest with you
I mean I don't held much faith in
corporate media providing providing you
know any type of leadership on this type
of stuff I mean I think there are two
things that that are important
developments that will mitigate what
you're talking about
well three things really and let me let
you go and answer them one is a proper
antitrust regime would break up a lot of
these entities and there wouldn't be
such concentration you wouldn't have
such concentrated money owning it to
social media is going to continue to
diminish the power of corporate media
particularly to set a narrative right I
mean they're gonna be there too often I
mean or not too often but more often
they are now following a narrative that
is developed on social media money still
plays an outside you know role in that
but it has less of an ability to kind of
to control things there and and three I
think to some extent you know as
generations change things may change a
little bit but I just the big problem
and let me add another one for Democrats
as Democrats change you know like I
don't think corporate media the big
danger with corporate media it seems to
me is sort of like creating false
narratives as to where the country is on
certain policy issues and it being a
feedback loop more often than not to
Democrats than Republicans because the
Republicans at this point have been
running against the me
for well they've been doing it for a
long time but they've been doing it in a
more concerted effort really in the past
30 years I would say and Democrats too
often you know there's that dynamic that
I think it was Paul Waldman that was
talking about that Ben whittler had had
mentioned the former communications guy
and move on that Democrats you know see
these mainstream corporate narratives
and they buy them and sometimes you know
it's nefarious sometimes this is out of
sheer ignorance but it becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy in some respect
and I think we're gonna see a lot less
of that when you have people like a lot
of the freshmen that we talked about in
the Democratic Congressional class who
are just like you know we don't care
what we don't care what they say on the
sunday talk shows it doesn't doesn't
factor in and when you have a certain
number of them who are going out there
and on a daily basis proving that it
doesn't matter that's very powerful
so yeah they know how to post they
communicate directly with their
audiences and they're not intimidated by
what the mainstream and not only do they
bypass that in terms of communicating to
people but they also don't say like oh
you know Chuck Todd this weekend said
that it's really going out on a limb for
this and they don't care about that but
I think there's a lot of Democrats who
still do so it's very helpful alright
folks we are at a time I apologize to
our many many callers hanging online but
we are out of time especially because of
some of the calls today
that perhaps there was some time spent
on we doubly apologize well I wouldn't
say that about Ronald Reagan that's not
nice oh all right folks
see you tomorrow
to get to where I want
No
[Music]
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
