[Music]
do these sounds Joe Biden he's thinking
about running for president all right
I'm gonna continue to unpopular ly say
this on the show he's a capable
politician I think if he was the nominee
I think Bernie certainly would have won
I think Bernie was you know obviously is
what we need but you know Joe Biden
would have smoked Donald Trump we have
an opportunity to actually assess
candidates on the merits whether they be
Bernie Sanders Kamala Harris beta or or
any of them for what we actually need to
do to not only get out of the crisis
we're in but actually solve long-term
problems so that the crisis is not
replicated and Joe Biden was a hell of a
lot more to get back into about this guy
the bankruptcy bill
Iraq has role in the drone program
during the Obama administration
I need a hill the crime bill this is a
bad record the Biden crime bill he's
gonna talk about the violence against
women prevention broad provision in it
which we like but that whole bill is
hugely catastrophic side note Bernie
Sanders did vote for that bill hole this
mistake
however the same people that are Hackham
for it most of them the people they
support if they were in politics not
only supported that bill they helped
write it and also if he had voted
against it because on the totality of it
it was a mass attack on poor and people
of color and an expansion of the prison
industrial complex those same people
would say Bernie Sanders voted for
violence against women so watch out for
that but this is Joe Biden today in 2018
showing us that he just does not get it
one first I think we have to do is we
have to deal with income inequity
I love Bernie but I'm not Bernie Sanders
I don't think 500 billionaire's or the
reason why we're in trouble
I hope my grandkids grow up to be don't
listen to their parents who all decided
to do something run the World Food
Program run the another would be
Attorney General another one
run run a social organization for
at-risk youth you know I got all this
education and I said you know I should
have had a Republican kid so when they
put me in a home I'd have a window with
a view you know what I mean but now
there's gonna be no view but all kidding
aside there is we have not seen this
huge concentration of wealth and the
folks at Stop aren't bad guys
I get in trouble in my party when I say
wealthy Americans are just as patriotic
as poor folks I found no distinction I
really haven't
but this gap is yawning its gaping and
it's having the effect of pulling us
apart you see the politics of it and the
country is not gonna stand for it
forever so we have to deal with the tax
code it's wildly skewed towards taking
care of those at the very top its favors
overwhelmingly favors investors over
workers and it's riddled with
unproductive expenditures okay I mean so
look so he ends a little bit better
there with a kind of basic center-left
message which is worse again I'm sure it
gets worse again which we've sort of
moved the party in the right direction
of in large part due to Bernie Sanders
but you know there's a lot going on
there and I think and part of it I'll
just talk about this clinically he's
stuck in the 80s and 90s there was a
time when objectively
believe it or not not only did the
Democratic Party need to socially
signify on things like race and crime
and welfare and very reactionary ways
that Bill Clinton was the exemplar of
but they actually did need to signify on
capitalism and comfort with business
there's no you know there's no
mr. ey when this stuff started to
migrate across the Atlantic that one of
the Tony Blair's top associates said
that New Labour was intensely relaxed
about people getting ultra rich and that
was in a government that won a massive
landslide like we have to be real that
there was a time where there was an
electorate for this stuff
it's rapidly disappearing on even the
center-left so he's just historically
out of date - well let's pivot it either
way is it about them personal moral
shortcomings of billionaires no it's
about a structure that rewards incumbent
wealth systemically so if you don't want
to personalize it you can say hey maybe
all these billionaires are the nicest
people on earth whatever blah blah blah
but actually structurally it is designed
literally exclusively to benefit these
people in their corporations and that's
why you have the issues he identified
like income inequality now third though
and this is where the two trains of
thought collide with each other and
become a big problem we've actually
learned that it's a hell of a lot more
effective as a campaign strategy to say
the millionaires and the billionaires
because it simplifies and distills and
gets us away from all the neoliberal
Wong curry and the West Wing
nonsense that he's doing there for
actual for for the simplified version of
the real case about structural inequity
and who the economy is designed to
support and not and just as a final
addendum well they might not all be bad
people
there sure are endless stories of
scumbag billionaires that you can
happily pepper your campaign with to
fill in the detail on why none of these
people should have the resources they
have yeah you can hate the player and
the game
I firmly believe it does speak to some
of the limitations of left populism
right because obviously it's a huge
improvement over right-wing populism
which is you know many would say a phony
populism but it still it personalizes
the issue and makes it about individuals
and then being good or bad people
we should be talking about the system
that allows for that kind of wealth
accumulation and it is a lot harder like
it's politically more it's a more
complex difficult thing to talk about
but I would like to see Bernie start to
do that I mean I think it's just much
easier to tell people what a capitalist
is and what capitalism is basically
that's fundamentally what it comes down
to and when you get people to understand
that capitalists are the ones making
your decisions it's which is basically
like you know whether you should
complain about bureaucrats like you want
bureaucrats making all these decision
right yeah now it's Jeff Bezos it's not
much of an improvement do you want
corporate bureaucrats mate do you want
corporate oligarchs making your
corporate oligarch bureaucracies making
your decisions and of course the big
functional difference is that even those
old bureaucracies which were not moving
towards and we actually want to evolve
out of too they were at least and you
see this today they're they're actually
trying to benefit you on some level
which is a radical difference although I
think to Matt's point saying that it's
Jeff Bezos much better I believe that
Amazon is the most trusted institution
by Democrats we're going door-to-door
and talking to people in Long Island
City and elsewhere because people need
to know yeah Amazon's just now started
targeting the low-performing products on
its website it's coming yeah they have
made their thing yeah Amazon is good
it's coming in Amazon it's coming you're
calling from
