let's yeah let's talk about Mike Pence
let's talk about it Mike Pence went on
face a nation to celebrate of course the
this was on Sunday right and right
before a Martin Luther King and I'm sure
he was calculating a way in which how
can I seem like I'm honoring Martin
Luther King but really really smear his
legacy in some fashion and he turns to
one of his his reactionary staffers and
he says that's the challenge gentlemen
of course they're all men
and they come back and pitch him let's
see what won this week on Face the
Nation I think what the American people
saw the president do yesterday was say
I'm you know I want to set the table for
us resolving this issue in a way that
achieves his objectives to secure the
border in the humanitarian security
crisis and the government shutdown but
also to bring together bring together
the Democrats priorities to accomplish
that that's what the American people
expect us to do and honestly you know
you know the hearts and minds of the
American people today are thinking a lot
about it being the weekend where we
remember the life and work of the
Reverend dr. Martin Luther King jr. but
one of my favorite quotes from dr. King
was now is the time to make real the
promises of democracy you think of how
he changed America he inspired us to
change through the legislative process
to become a more perfect union
that's exactly what President Trump is
calling on the Congress to do come to
the table in a spirit of good faith will
secure our border will reopen the
government and will move our nation
forward as the president said yesterday
to even a broader discussion about
immigration reform in them build that
wall you got to build that wall
lock her up we owe that Wow now look
outside swap border security Mexico will
hey Mexico oh hey by the new negotiated
NAFTA agreement meanwhile let's have the
boys from the n-c-double-a and give them
some burgers eddie's oh my god we got
Papa John's I know how do you how do you
say that like how are you capable well
you know you talk about a bad guy how do
you how are you capable of articulating
that and not feeling like oh my god I'm
so despicable that it's hard for me to
not at least smile like how do you not
even break how you cracked it I offer
daca but the Democrats are taking this
like a joke
that's a pollution Nancy Pelosi more
like Nancy ms-13 members yeah my right
folks collusions Andalusian well I don't
know that's how right-wing Mandela was
born more or less like when Rick
Santorum Santorum compared the fight
against Obamacare to the struggle
against apartheid and that was one of
the first times it was like the only
proper answer to this is exactly the
same thing
well remember when Ricky Rubio kept
saying about Jeb Bush he knows exactly
what he's doing right I think like pants
when he said Trump offered Pelosi candy
right like that to me is he knows
exactly what work how we're gonna take
that too as like he knows where he's
insulting our intelligence well but he's
trying to make it like that's we saw
that Bush was doing that with um he said
Obama knows exactly no no Rubio I think
oh I think so it always a little bit
Obama oh yeah
but but George W Bush keeps giving candy
to Michelle Obama in public as some way
of showing like we can bridge the
partisan divide and that's why pence did
it everybody talks about a rock but no
one wants to talk about skittles yeah
you were right it was a bomb
doing he knows exactly what he's doing
those exactly what trigger the libs
by using a symbol of civil rights as
well as socialism against everything
that he stood for but it's not just like
I think there are a whole host of people
out there who are like the the beltway
establishment centrist press that
actually use this stuff as like it
builds the scaffolding for the the you
know for arguments like Tulsi gabbard's
like you know it's both sides type of
thing Jake Tapper's you know these uh
these Catholic boys you know Jake is
that we're all sitting down in a room
and hashing it out with candy with candy
yeah I'm saying I think these more I
think he the way what's up candy
