[Music]
sellout I think I'm about for Jill Stein
we could support Elizabeth Warren next
time let's play his killer my thing he's
amazing he's so good
killin mike is so good this is fresh off
the heels of Bill Maher saying just
whack-a-doodle stuff about BDS he really
he really has a problem with religion if
it if it's a religion that starts with
an i and ends with an M right here's
killer Mike on Bill Maher's program
explaining to people why the concept of
free college of a free college option in
every state is actually good for society
Mike what did you think of cardi B's
summit with Bernie Sanders there Dennis
I would a Galilee so encouraged because
this is a country that prom well this is
a country of vagrants on one its and
protesters in our inception we
essentially diluted of the United
Kingdom but car D represents the young a
Filipino woman from from poor and
working-class background who has now
used her platform when she could have
become far more conservative made her
money and walked away she used it to
engage not only for her own
self-interest but self-interest on
behalf for people she's now probably in
a forty thirty five to forty five
percent tax bracket and she said Oh mind
paying my money I just would like my
money to go other places besides
Miller's here I'd like it to go in
education and I think that's what my
grandparents wanted when they move from
the deep south that's what your parents
want so for me seeing her participate in
it invigorates me because I know other
young women 18 19 21 years old who may
not be going to college for four and six
year degrees but maybe going to beauty
school maybe working menial jobs
it makes them well that's an interesting
point then because
who you support yes okay he's for free
college
yeah I've raised this point before why
should people who don't go to college be
subsidizing the ones who do because the
people who go to college you're gonna
making a lot more money College is not
free somebody's song to be paying
positive for one second now I don't know
this for a fact but I am willing to bet
the Bill Maher has never complained
about the mortgage interest deduction
that applies only to people who own
their homes as opposed to people who
rent like why should renter's non owners
of homes subsidize people who own homes
there's arguments we've certainly made
those maybe up to a point it's even
justified but I can't imagine that Bill
Maher has ever made that argument I
wonder if Bill Maher's ever made the
argument why do we have people who don't
have children why do you have to pay
property taxes to go to schools why do
we could do that or why do we have to
have people mandated insurance where
people have to subsidize I don't know
guys our age getting colonoscopies but I
smoke pot and I like Obama Maher
Perez wikipedia says he paid for his
Cornell days by selling pot so well but
here's the point is that this
common-sense argument is only deployed
in very specific and narrow instances
which tells you all you need to know
about the person who's deploying this
argument for free college yeah I've
raised this point before why should
people who don't go to college be
subsidizing the ones who do because the
people who go to college you're gonna
making a lot more money College is not
free somebody's going to be paying for
that college I don't understand why the
people who get the benefit of it jumpin
be paying for college and trade school
and this is from a dad who has had
children who went to both my oldest son
went to Omnitech trade and learned
computer engineering and things of that
nature and sounded
my daughter did two years he did the
same two years twice on me in Savannah
State 21 grand really sticks in here
fine there yeah but he offered college
and trade school part of being an
American is being a steward for the next
generation of Americans
my grandparents worked in fields my
grandmother went to college my
grandfather toiled on a blue-collar job
so that my sisters are not could then
have post-secondary education I don't
mind as an American now investing in the
greater America if we're going to build
an infrastructure you got to have
carpenters in there like kitchen do you
notice the I love that the mm-hmm I'm
physically absorbing the stone oh he's
getting ready he's getting ready for it
I've heard this so many times like it
danced it right but I mean just this
concept I mean you get an interest
deduction on your mortgage this is we're
going to contemplate this you're gonna
sell that house MIT in many instances at
a profit it's completely not only is
your living subsidized but your profit
making is subsidized he will never
complain about that now maybe there's an
argument that homeownership is good
it creates stability in neighborhoods
gives people you know a skin in the game
and they're gonna make sure their their
homes are safer in this night I think
that's arguably a good argument maybe
we'll want to encourage homeownership
maybe we do maybe we don't the point is
how can you complain about the concept
of one public higher education
opportunity in each state in each state
and not complain about the mortgage
introduction tax which would cover it a
million times over I don't miss a light
slight exaggeration but well it's
because of what you think society should
do and should value that's it
um and it's but it's so beautiful the
way he threated it's like no it covers
trade school as well and in fact we
should respect and prop up and highly
compensate people in trade school the
whole structure GRU it should it should
cover trade school of course yeah but
even if it didn't the argument argue on
the merits is there value to having the
opportunity for future generations of
Americans to get involved in careers
that are not dictated by hundreds of
thousands of dollars in debt when they
start day one in the workforce is it a
value of Americans to have people who
can go out and make that money and not
be chained to this kind of debt that's
the question it's absurd it's an absurd
why do we have public school where we
have public school at all why should
people who send their kids to private
school have to pay for public education
schools I do think that actually points
to a bigger project that like somehow
higher ed needs to become more inclusive
and not just basically like a way for
late teenagers to jump a class wrong
basically like it I don't know how
exactly we talked about a little bit
about this on TMDs like making it more
like say like any 35 year old has like a
number of free credits so they can go to
a university and take every likes such
in such a years or something like that
right that it's not so sequestered as it
is not as isolated for society yeah and
that there's just more of a broader
concept and investment that people at
different times in their life for a
variety of different reasons not just
professional advancement should be able
to take a course read books have
conversations so meanwhile the New York
Times has come out with they have a
project
