[Music]
so I know I think we're all you know
transparent about who we support for
president I think there's you know
probably maybe different degrees of
Sanders support but I think all of us
are basically on the same page and I but
and the only reason I'm doing this
preamble is because I think like I'm you
know I'm a hundred percent I'm a Bernie
lad and I support the guy a hundred
percent but Bernard brother I'm a
Bernard brother so when you hear
something that is just so disturbing
about your candidate I think I have to
be intellectually honest enough to
acknowledge that to the audience and I
you know in some ways I was not thrilled
that I was in the chair today because I
didn't want to confront this but here I
am we have to confront it Bernie Sanders
and I'll just hate to do this but I will
put on
[Music]
Bernie Sanders wrote a book it sold well
he made money off there's other pieces
of news that go along with this
apparently Bernie has winter coats as an
example he's been known to buy groceries
and live in a home and obviously for
those of us whose understanding of
socialism is not delivering single-payer
health care or free college or federal
jobs guarantee or aggressively
confronting the climate crisis or even
restarting the nuclear deal with Iran or
dealing with gentrification or not
interfering in Latin America or any of
the other things that Sanders has been
campaigning on for those of us whose
idea of socialism is some type of like
knock off Twitter mediated version of
like attenborough's Gandhi movie this is
in profoundly upsetting and disturbing
and a lot of people on Twitter I have
been making a big point of like oh my
god because of course you know all
politics is simply lifestyle politics so
of course like somebody who has a
congressional salary and then in 2016
became one of the most important
arguably the most important politician
in the country and whose books sold well
clearly his making money from it I mean
I mean look it's it's frankly as
ridiculous as those of us who promote
higher taxes on wealthy people not
personally writing checks to the
Treasury obviously that's literally as
ridiculous as being concerned about
Bernie's book sales but I just do make
you sign a vow of poverty when you join
the DSA so we're gonna have to take a
hard look at our endorsement of him
right I mean concerns about Bernie with
DSA we're obviously nothing on a on a
policy level it was obviously like I
heard that Bernie owns a home so we
might really need to look into that lot
of spirited back-and-forth about his
homeownership lot and I'm assuming also
the fact that he's an old man and he has
a winter coat mmm
would also be pretty controversial so I
hear he has a cell phone
whoa I mean Jesus I'm think I'm very
much a pragmatist but if you're telling
me the guy is a cellphone I don't know
if I might need to vote for Jill Stein
so but unfortunately this is actually
really disturbing because this makes me
think of Bernie's whole history in a
completely different manner
and we have the music and I guess some
found audio explaining how he got this
Bernice what is he 77 years old all
right welcome to how to build
generational wealth with Bernie Sanders
while the rest of the young go-getters
were coming out and going into Wall
Street where they could work for the
bankers the billionaire's and
billionaires
I had a different more long-term plan I
moved to rural Vermont and bummed around
until I was in my 30s and Rand third
party candidacies on issues this is the
first step in my patented system of
guaranteed in a generational wealth the
next step they come the mayor of a small
New England city will you promote public
parks and meet with the Sandinistas this
will be the next step in your plan
you're still making probably about
$50,000 a year you know almost forty
years old but you just wait because the
Bucks are coming then you run an
improbable third-party campaign for
Congress now you might be thinking to
yourself this isn't so bad I make over
$100,000 a year I'm solidly in the
middle class but I know that you didn't
move to Vermont and become a socialist
to make chump change like 50
like 150 grand to here working for
Congress no you want millions my friend
and so did I which takes us to our next
step declare your candidacy for
president in 2016 too little and no
fanfare have a hunch Silva posture rant
about single-payer and against Hillary
Clinton piss absolutely everybody off
and write a best-selling book poem
you're a millionaire
and that is my patented system for
intergenerational wealth so that you too
have become at the very least a
millionaire you might not wait have to
wait until you're in your at least you
in your 70s but that might just be the
way it shakes out and that was the
purpose of my entire political career
plan down to the date of what I would
run for president thank you so basically
if you're planning on calling and asking
about this I think I've already
preemptively called you an idiot and and
I mean this is one of those things that
is just self cancelling like if you are
making this as like a serious and
anything other than an ironic appoint
you're dumb you're showing your ass on
this one folks I mean you're showing
like a little void where your ass should
be like just embarrassing that's dark oh
it's a it's a good bit for him to act
like to act like he is a like rakes or
riches sort of like Horatio Alger was
that the guy yes work as hard as and you
can just make money this is I guess a
meritocracy where the meritocracy work
started from the bottom now we here was
in the basement in Putney doing a
teach-in now we hear he did it without
exploiting anyone else's labor even oh
you know if Bernie were yeah there's a
company they might have a like to stand
on but like no he did this with his own
labor only well no that's I mean that's
technically not true right cuz he's
publishing a book and there's
exploitation in the publisher sure sure
yeah
but like he's not like the CEO of a
company or anything right but it's also
I mean this is actually where I don't I
don't have a problem necessarily with
ethical consumption like I think if you
can make a relative choice that you can
have a sense of a supply chain being
better than another supply chain now
obviously like the extreme example is
it's absolutely better to buy just
coffee than Starbucks coffee right like
that is objectively a better use of
money and one should use money that way
but like
this is where the notion that you can
consume your way out of the predicament
of our system actually really starts to
show up in these lifestyle damaging
destructive profoundly stupid ways
because people really I mean again
anybody's making this point is an idiot
but they think they have something here
like they they they are reducing a
venerable political tradition which is
about delivering universal benefits to
all people and democratizing the economy
to I mean literally yeah like some
version of like an ATM ooh 80s movie
about Gandhi like that that is literally
what they're doing and it's embarrassing
and they don't even know it's
embarrassing I think it was Matt Bors on
Twitter said like oh we can't we can't
have health care now because Bernie
Sanders made a million dollars sorry I
guess Ben Shapiro logic yeah sure pure
oh just yeah well the probably doesn't
even been Shapiro I mean though there's
plenty of you know Hillary dead-enders
that are trying to logic or do not even
need to go to him James Surowiecki of
The New Yorker said Bernie's Bernie's
it's totally fine that I'm a millionaire
underscores the problem with the whole
it's wrong for billionaires to exist
position first of all there's a big
difference for a millionaire and a
billionaire not the millionaire's
necessarily need to exist either but
there's a huge a hundred times right
yeah there's no thousand times yeah you
can quantify the difference and also no
look frankly before we we can get into
like bigger scenarios about how we
engineer the economy but in today's
world absolutely if you can't understand
the difference between somebody pulling
in like to a million point five a year
and having a billion dollars then you
don't have the cognitive capacity to
write for the esteemed New Yorker like
one definitionally a one is here is a
group of people that should be taxed
more and Bernie would be the first
person to say he's running on taxing
himself there may be exemptions for
publishing yellowbeard exemption for
publishing books maybe you should be the
only presidential candidate that
it's endless props row I mean he's
basically running the OTT like Howard
Schultz is a billionaire who's running
to give himself money and
self-aggrandizing Bernie's a self-made
millionaire who's running on taxing his
profits away so maybe that's another way
of framing it but if you can't
understand the difference between like
people who are doing well who need to be
taxed more versus people who's just
basic reality of their wealth is a
structural threat to democracy then you
don't know how to think also like I
don't know that there would be ever a
viable candidate for president who
doesn't have a million dollars so what
they're saying when they say that is
basically you don't get a social
democrat ever well they're saying it I
mean 2016 and James Surowiecki also said
that Bernie could have published his
book under Creative Commons license and
it's just like it's so it's how can how
can my supposedly intelligent people not
understand the difference between doing
this through policy and doing this
through like selfless personal
initiative because they're either
disingenuous or stupid and our politics
has been so stripped of analytic
capacity it's turned into a gross
pathetic little moralism game which is
absolutely a not even a Trojan horse
because there's nothing not stealth
about it the upshot of all of these dumb
dumb embarrassingly dumb points about
the book is yeah well too bad I guess
we're gonna gentrify your neighborhood I
guess your kids not gonna get health
care I guess you're not gonna get health
care I guess we're not gonna do anything
about the climate crisis because Bernie
sold a book I mean honestly like I I
almost wish somebody would call in cuz
do you like do you hear I I really
actually don't and it won't end well for
you
but like James Surowiecki is supposed to
write like he's supposed to write for
the New Yorker yeah well like
this is embarrassing
on its face one of the things I've
noticed since I got super political is
that there are people that I respect and
have respected as writers and as
thinkers who are still really dumb about
politics
did you know that I mean this this is
this is Tucker Carlson Tucker Carlson
had this a couple weeks ago
if Bernie wants to do something about
climate change why doesn't he walk from
Burlington and I'm sure a bunch of
liberal idiots that are trotting this
out a couple excuse ridiculous oh right
it's ridiculous exactly you
morons Jesus Christ these are the same
people who think he should like walk
from appearance to appear that's what
I'm saying taking out that's exactly
what I'm saying
that's what tucker carlson said and all
of these same people were you know I'm
sure I'm sure
there is a grid between people that are
trying to make hay of this book who were
laughing at Tucker Carlson I mean yeah I
mean I don't know it's like we just
shouldn't do anything because there has
been an act of hypocrisy in everything
Bernie should just live by as well and
say I'm actually more wealthy than
Howard Schultz and just wink at the
camera yes very funny
and this is funny because like I don't
I've never thought and again we'll wait
till they're released that's you know
good best practices but like I'd never
thought there's no there's no terrible
secret in the guy's tax returns it
probably is some Matt I mean he probably
is actually someone personally
embarrassed about this which I don't
think he should be frankly I think it's
totally besides the point but he but
they knew that a bunch of morons
and I bet some MSNBC segments will be
just built around like he says he
doesn't want anybody live in extreme
poverty but he ruined a best-seller on
the bright side didn't hurt Trump right
well the Trump didn't also have like
yeah that type of like you don't have
those types of weenies on Republican
Twitter yeah so what if he's did crimes
that means he's smart right speaking ill
about millionaires and billionaires and
yet he is one hmm
well okay as I know you guys aren't
gonna like this but it's just like a
devil's advocate okay it does show some
of the failures of left populism when he
constantly blames the millionaires and
the billionaires instead of you know the
bosses and the landlords and the
exploiters
I don't think we're at the point yet
where we're gonna use that language in
popular it's just like the dainties the
dialectic from he's right president also
like we're this is we're very much a
post occupy presidency and that's like I
mean technically I agree just in terms
of if you're writing messaging for DSA
you want to focus on like relationships
to means the production I get that but I
mean I think millionaires and
billionaires that that's just off the
tongue that's it's simple just it's a
much wider yet simple no you're not
putting up any obstacles like you know
people don't need to have any sort of
ideological priming to get on board
again exactly because you know why when
you say landlord like I know what you
mean I agree with you but then it's like
oh well I don't know like I own like a
modest duplex and rent out part of it I
guess I'm a landlord what does that mean
I own a little pizza parlor everybody
gets millionaire billionaire simple no
 keep to it and and frankly all
of these idiots trying to make Haven if
anything like keep doing it because
they're bizarre weirdo fixation I'm not
talking about like look I've been super
transparent I think if you're on the
Left you're gonna have to work really
hard to convince me why you wouldn't
support Bernie Sanders I just don't buy
any arguments I've heard but I but again
if you have I disagree with them on this
or that I don't like the way he frames
this whatever that's all fine that's
great beautiful but the types of people
that are making hay of this have such a
bizarre I mean they're actually starting
to sound like how some people did sound
about Hillary Clinton like there were
some people who would have like you know
Hillary said good morning at this event
I hate her right and even people
like us were like Jesus Christ like of
course we don't like Hillary because
she's done all sorts of horrible things
policy wise and yeah like nobody's gonna
pretend that she's like some great
charismatic leader but like calm the
 down
like did what do you were like why
obsessed with her and these people are
starting to demonstrate and again for
literally a nice old Jewish man who
wants you to have health care they are
running around with this bizarre petty
your obsessive hatred yeah and I think
that that actually will help because
it's just so weird
yeah the level of personal animosity
I've seen towards Bernie on twitter is
like effing ridiculous like oh I'm gonna
savor it so much when that egomaniac
loses like they're way more obsessed
with him than we are it's weird to call
my egomaniac - I just don't understand I
mean maybe maybe who knows like he might
kind of suck
I don't know I don't love politicians in
general no affection for him but you
below you do on some level you do know
I'm not talking like do we know could he
be like rude to people we're not
obsessed with him on a personal but we
also do know that if a guy was literally
for his self aggrandizement he wouldn't
have spent decades looking like a
 rolled-up used suit talking
about the most unpopular political
issues I mean when he was talking this
stuff in the 90s it was a it was it was
thought to be crackpot nonsense like I'm
sorry like it's it's both like to say
that he's an egomaniac is both just okay
who's running for president that doesn't
have a healthy ego that's it that's a
irrelevant point to make about any of
these people on one well yeah my point
is and then the second point and you
know in some level I think it actually
does matter because they're going after
like this sort of core rationale in some
parts of his candidacy which is that
there actually is a commitment there
which he's clearly demonstrated and
they're going after him in a way that is
like and again just pure projection
because the people that I see talking
about his ego are like the most ego
identified politics as entertainment
people on earth who's you know they love
Buddha jig because he tests well well
that's where all of this other kind of
silly stuff but like my donator you
don't have to like Bernie on a personal
level in order to support Bernie right
because that's not what politics is
about or that's not what it should be
about it should be about power and you
know voting for our material benefit
absolutely
