there's another element that we haven't
discussed that's implicated in this too
is that there is another part of the
media that seems to have a a real
problem that is not terribly dissimilar
from that at Fox now Fox will come out
and they will say and Tucker Carlson
this week actually made a point of
trying to argue that you know white
supremacy is a hoax it doesn't exist in
this country but it's a it's not even a
problem at all and and he should tell
that to the literally the millions of
Latinos who are who feel like they're
being targeted but there's also another
problem with supposed neutral media
outlets and their opinion pages I'm
thinking about the New York Times I'm
thinking about columnist like Roth Daath
out and Bret Stevens who and even David
Brooks as well who who will launder
these sentiments they'll promote it and
they'll say what about what about the
legitimate concerns of these people and
they will describe the same dynamic that
the El Paso shooter would but with just
a little bit nicer language and with
some type of arm's length
like I'm not time not saying this I'm
saying they're saying this and we need
to pay attention to that we need to
react to that and we need to change that
we may need to you know make some uh you
know negotiations with them and and then
of course there was the headline this
week right right sorry go ahead
the New York Times headline which indeed
I mean you know you're absolutely right
I mean I've been astonished now I I just
want to preface this by saying I think
there's been some really good reporting
in the in the aftermath of these
shootings more than usual and I think
that there is something kind of shifting
in the way that many in the media are
covering this having said that though
there is still way way way too much of
this idea of you know let's cut you know
but let's look let's go to the
diner and find out what the Trump voters
think about all this and and the idea
that somehow there's some kind of
equally valid you know ideas coming out
of that what we would call white
supremacy or somehow that we need to
understand them and you know look at at
what's motivating them and try and you
know Kempe size in some way and worst of
all that that headline which basically
was giving Donald Trump the benefit of
the doubt that somehow or another that
can speech of his that he gave last
Monday which was you know looked like he
was doing a hostage video and he even
got the name of Dayton wrong and said it
was Toledo that somehow or another that
showed some kind of shift in him and
that he was you know recognizing he was
changing his tune on all of this and I
what were the exact words of the
headline I can't remember to stop the
top oh he had a national call for unity
or something national call for unity I
mean it's just it's a joke and of course
you know there has been one person who's
been really great on this and that's
better a Rourke who's from that frees
from El Paso and has very passionate
feelings about his hometown anyway and
he came out when the press was depressed
I think it was a reporter who came up to
him and said you know do you think the
president is a racist and he just kind
of lost it and it was a video that went
viral of him going you know what what is
wrong with you people why are you asking
that question why are you even asking
that question and making the point that
it is self-evident that the president is
a racist that of course he bears some
responsibility for the rhetoric that he
has been using now for three years and
you know he has his agitation I think
was was very heartfelt and I think
people responded to it as compared to
this dry headline in the New York Times
three the president you know calls for
unity after the you know after the
massacres as if that for one thing no
one believes him of course he said that
he said that before he says it all the
time he doesn't mean it he comes out
afterwards and goes directly back to
what he said before
that is the reality that's the truth you
can't just be reporting you know this is
what he said and and and just say it you
know without context especially in a big
headline like that I mean this is the
New York Times it came out and the
aftermath was very interesting because
people exploded about this people there
was a surge in cancellations of
subscriptions some by some prominent
journalists themselves for other
publications and apparently according to
what we read there was a lot of internal
anger about this as well at the New York
Times and the problem there seems to be
the editor of the New York Times Dean
Beckett who you know honestly I think
that the man really needs to go because
from - from 2015 on when he's been
covering Donald Trump it's clear he does
not understand what's going on here or
at least is unwilling to recognize it
and he said in it when questioned about
this headline you know he said well you
know I don't really see this as being an
aberration I grew up in Louisiana and we
had Edwin Edwards who would say that
with its David Duke that is the
correlation here not Edwin Edwards who
by the way was you know and asked but
you know nonetheless also we're talking
decades and decades ago I mean we're
talking about a time where there was
anti-miscegenation laws probably on the
books
absolutely and he's talking about this
like oh it's this is just American
politics no it is not we're having you
know mass murder in the name of you know
of white supremacy talking about
invasion which the President of the
United States and a major news network
and an entire media apparatus are using
the same language as the person who
committed the massacre that is not
business as usual I'm sorry even in
America no we have a terrible history
but you know we haven't seen anything
like that for you know more than a
century I mean this is the kind of thing
that is it this is unusual in our time
to see this kind of behavior and the
editor of the New York Times who we know
like it or not it's the paper record and
they set the tone for
a lot of other people and you saw it
with others too nor O'Donnell and CBS
said well the president really sounded
like he sincerely wanted to change the
town or something along those lines and
I'm just are you kidding after always
seen with Donald Trump after the both
side they were good people on both sides
and you know him he is an apologist for
these people over and over and over
again and I actually thought one of the
best answers to ecologist came from Tim
Ryan who I'm not a particular fan of but
when asked do you think the president is
a white supremacist his answer was well
the white supremacists certainly think
so and that is the truth I mean these
these people think he's great after the
election they were up there saying you
know I'll Trump I mean you know this is
not what it the fact that the media is
refusing to recognize this reality and
just just say it out as is better
O'Rourke was saying you know what are
you nuts
you know of course he is that that is
just it's intensely frustrating and it
continues to enable him well let's take
a break I want it when we come back I
want to ask you why do you think they
keep doing it
