we forget make sure maybe do this
far-right brawl in front of parliament
oh yeah yeah this is a pretty impressive
Tommy Robinson you know the guy who Sam
Harris listen to one he was on TV
nice mangos or no yeah he heard him on
sam harris was talking on nice mangos
podcast about how he was big into Tommy
Robinson a few with Dave Rieff yeah
who's on Dave Rubin show and he seemed
like a really good guy you Center on of
the right signals this new free speech
Center yeah there's the new free speech
center let's watch these guys free
speech in it up out in front of
parliament
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Applause]
geez literally some of that happened
last night
he was here he is bashing the cameraman
with his lighting tripod which I mean
when fascists used journalists own
equipment to attack them it's a bit
metaphorical I think right the metaphor
is folding in on itself I don't know why
it would do that he seemed like a really
nice guy
maybe they were going after his free
speech
[Laughter]
