where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage are a report with sam Sita it is
Friday March 15 2019 my name is Sam
cedar this is a five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today
Heather Parton or as you may know her
dig be casual Friday folks we're gonna
look back on the week that was probably
also just the last 24 hours
then later in the program we will be
joined by matthew film guide who will
ostensibly give us a film to watch over
the weekend meanwhile 49 dead in New
Zeeland as a white supremacist attacks a
mosque obviously killing children along
with men and women who were attending
that mosque the killer remains alive too
ostensibly have his opportunity to
explain why he was justified in his
killing in his mind
[Applause]
meanwhile new report the Arctic is
warming at a devastating pace and it is
locked in virtually in practicality no
way to stop it we would have to take
extreme measures well let me rephrase
that the only way to stop it would be
extreme measures meanwhile the Supreme
Court in Connecticut Connecticut State
Supreme Court okay's a lawsuit against
the Sandy Hook gun makers and the Senate
rejects trumps emergency declaration
Steve minuchin says he'll protect
Trump's tax returns
despite the statutory power of Congress
to see them North Korea threatens to
suspend talks with the US and in a
lead-up to the Supreme Court case Wilbur
Ross lies about these census questions
and while a federal judge assumed to
decide if Republicans can restrict
Medicaid to people with jobs only beta
O'Rourke's anti ACA Social Security
record on the table now that was quick
lube it abou does Trump have a Chinese
scandal as well and lastly afl-cio gives
their Human Rights Award to lula da
silva all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen yeah just
horrible shooting in in in in New
Zealand and 49 dead in Christchurch New
Zealand gunmen live-streamed himself
taking his guns out of his car
walking into just walking up the
driveway and then begins to shoot
everyone around him he is arrested he's
a man in his late 20s and I believe he's
an Australian actually sure why he went
to New Zealand in New Zealand I'm not
quite clear the guy has gone on to say
you know that he's been inspired by
folks like Candace Owens who knows if
that's the case or not but that's what
he claims he has a manifesto which
claims that New Zealand is for people of
European descent we will dig into this a
little bit later but you know what what
what is there to say there's going to be
a lot of claims of course and we'll play
some of these that this guy's it's
really not a political thing it's just
crazy now I want to make it clear
obviously all white people aren't like
this and which is exactly you know what
we would need to hear is from you know
white leaders now coming up and
preaching moderation in this instance
and you just don't hear any noises you
just don't hear any noises from the
white leaders saying hey we need to get
this under control these are bad ideas
right
he said he admired Donald Trump you
don't hear any noises from the Trump
administration saying we condemn these
ideas right you know this is the but so
not sure what there is much to say
beyond that the but we will talk more
about that as the program goes on
meanwhile as you know yesterday bateau
announced that he was jumping in the
race with the speech you guys play that
video yesterday the announcement video
no we played the CNN like word fragment
Westley the Rosine it wasn't
tremendously dynamic the video and of
course the reason why he's gaining this
much attention is because on day one he
has the second biggest network
fundraising network of any of the people
in the race second obviously to Bernie
Sanders fundraising network at least in
terms of you know what we establish with
grassroots and he's got some pretty
strong grassroots campaigners
unfortunately for him I think or maybe
fortunately for him depending on who the
Democratic electorate is he's his
policies in the past have tracked to the
right of almost everyone in the race and
I would say probably definitively you
know in terms of stated positions and
votes I don't think there is a more
conservative candidate in the Democratic
race the question is is how much will he
how much will he be able to sort of
deflect from his record and his voting
record and so we'll talk more about that
I think would Digby but here this was
fascinating and this was this morning
there is after the interview with Joe
Scarborough a couple of days ago where
Hickenlooper from from Colorado refused
to say that he was a capitalist which
was just an absolutely bizarre situation
and I think indicative of what the
candidates in the race must be aware of
particularly a guy like Hickenlooper is
that the Democratic Party the the
primary voters are have moved to the
left and if you want to at the very
least be part of the conversation you
need to project that to the rest of the
the party which is you know the problem
that Beto is gonna have
however this is set off alarm bells for
a lot of people uh across the board not
just on the Joe Scarborough show but I
would imagine in the Democratic Party
but certainly a guy like Donny Deutsch
who is what's happened to his own a
little freaked out and it is a
fascinating exchange - this is um this
is Joe Scarborough and Donny Deutsch
Donny Deutsch just boom owning the fact
that in these terms are thrown around
capitalists socialists I mean the in the
context of our politics they don't
really mean that much in terms of when
we talk about all the candidates who are
running in this race and to the extent
that we talk about anything that is
actual practical politics within the US
these two terms don't mean that much
frankly but here here these two Joe I
take it one step further because this is
how dangerous socialism I find Donald
Trump reprehensible as a human being
what a socialist candidate is more
dangerous to this company country as far
as the strength and well positive for
one second first off and we should go
back we live in a country not a company
yeah indeed but there is no socialist
candidate who is running in our election
maybe there might as someone from the
Socialist Party might be running I don't
know if they're gonna get on the the
ballot anywhere but I mean Bernie
Sanders I think for the vast majority of
his career identified as a socialist but
in in terms of like what he is running
on and in terms of the way that he's
identifying himself today he is not
proposing a socialist country I think in
the way that Donny Deutsch wants to make
it out to be a maybe is because Donny
Deutsch I think has a very sort of wide
range of what he considers socialism I
would say if it's if it's economic
decisions are made democratically and
not by capitalists Donny Deutsch would
consider that social
maybe maybe what let's listen as a human
being
what a socialist candidate is more
dangerous to this company country as far
as the strength and well-being of our
country that Donald Trump I would vote
for Donald Trump a despicable human
being let me tell you something yourself
look let me correct myself thank you Joe
for a bigot a guy that's made big thank
you thank you for correcting me I stand
corrected
I will be so distraught to the point
that that can even come out of my mouth
if we have a socialist because that will
take our country so down and we are not
now we are not Denmark I love Denmark
you know that's not who we are and if
you love who we are and all the great
things that still have to have binders
put on the side please step away from
the socialism study let me correct
myself I will never vote for Donald
Trump thank you Joe okay very good at
fools rush in Donnie yeah that's how it
was just so-so but I mean this is I mean
it does raise this question now so you
know I presumably die enjoyed she's
talking about Bernie Sanders right I
mean who else would he be talking about
yeah and and the idea let me just finish
what I'm saying
and the idea that Donny Deutsch is
threatening to vote for Donald Trump
until he's you know told by his
television guy like look we're not going
to go there in the context of this this
is yeah right that we were going to make
a marketing decision here this is this
is you know the argument that needs to
happen now like there needs to be just
like there was a for more or less
pledges across the board now is the time
to make these pledges will you support
the Democratic nominee because to the
extent that people talk about Bernie
Sanders supporters abandoning a Clinton
in the in the general election the
numbers are in was it Stokes
Washington Post as shown we're talking
about 12% of Bernie Sanders supporters
from the primary voted for Donald Trump
more almost double depending on which
study you look at Hillary Clinton's in
2008 somebody sent a you know tweeted at
me do you think it's possible that you
know 9% of Barack Obama supporters in
2008 voted for John McCain yes there was
a big push and maybe this makes up for
some of of Hillary Clinton's votes as
well there was a big push in 2008 by
Rush Limbaugh called Operation chaos and
literally and it was for Republicans for
Ross over in in these elections in the
primary elections where you did not have
to declare your party and I'm quite
convinced that at least uh you know half
of those maybe maybe a third of those
Obama voters went and voted for John
McCain because they were actual
Republicans but also you know remember
John McCain was and this might this
might also contribute to why you had so
many Clinton voters who voted for John
McCain John McCain was considered by a
lot of Democrats to be much more
reasonable I think then Donald Trump was
and but nevertheless the numbers don't
lie but the question is here is how many
of Donny Deutsch Democrats are going to
vote for Donald Trump or going to
basically vote for some third party
their version of of a Green Party
candidate to avoid voting for the
Democratic nominee if it's Bernie
Sanders and these people need to be held
to account in the same way that we would
hold any the people who in 2016 would
have gone and voted for someone other
than Hillary Clinton and so this is a
this is a good moment to look in both in
to like well you know how Joe
Scarborough wants to brand himself but
also
to what could be a significant problem
unless it's addressed early and also I
would just add to that
Jamal Bowie has a tweet out because
there's this new you know of course
totally delusional piece in New York
magazine and then the spin from the
Howard Schultz team is the backlash must
mean we're on to something and you know
of course it's and all the quotes are
obviously either from just enabling
friends or the same advisors who want to
make a run on the sky but Jamal buoys
quote is basically I forget in
paraphrasing but something ineffective
I'm increasingly convinced that his that
he just wants to get the president
reelected and I think that I agree that
Howard Schultz does yes and I cause I
think there's degrees of it I think
you're right I think Donny Deutsch is
saying Bernie Sanders and obviously the
piece where the Wall Street guys said
they named it they said Sanders are
Warren right but I think in a in a shell
case and with some of these other guys
they are such babies that they're living
enough that you know a Booker or a
Harris is even migrating with where the
rest of the party is and they might want
to just spoil the whole thing because
they're so bratty entitled and
delusional I mean I find that hard to
believe but I also don't find it hard to
believe that they are delusional enough
to think that they're going to have a
you know they could save the country
soldiers saving the country if they
throw it to trump I don't like that the
fact that he he said we're not Denmark
when he was trying to explain socialism
tells you all you need to know about
this guy's ideology I mean Denmark is
not a socialist country it's not even
the most socialist of the Scandinavian
countries by the way like people in
Finland think Denmark sits like a bunch
of free market wage cooks but like this
is what that's what the prime minister
of Finland said at a recent nato's
exactly but this is what I talk about
when I talk about fish hook theory like
the quote/unquote Center will break for
the right if forced to choose between
the left and the right and it doesn't
take a real socialist it could be a
social democrat who
threatens writer that's exactly shall
interest and it's not just voting its
when you talk about people with this
much money in power you know they they
make donations they use their outsized
platforms and all of that stuff there's
no doubt in my mind the but the I think
you know to the extent that anything can
be done about it now it is to nip this
this meme in the bud as it were right
like because Donny Deutsch is out there
saying this part of it is so that it
becomes a talking point as to why you
got a vote against Bernie Sanders in the
primary because as if like there's an
inevitable back you know there's an
inevitable chance that people are going
to abandon the party because of Bernie
Sanders and it's not inevitable it's
simply the choice that Donnie George is
trying to make no one's forcing him to
do that so well here's a fight take
maybe if he's willing to abandon the
party over mild social democratic
reforms the party shouldn't have him
like if we want to realign the
Democratic Party to be more of a Labor
Party more of a left formation like the
interests of the bosses conflict with
the interests of the workers right and
there's some good faith bosses who are
welcome to come along yes sir but how
does the party say we don't want doing
it Donny Deutsch like the party can't
kick him out he's just a guy going on
there speaking who would be presumably I
mean so yes I don't care about Donny
Deutsch being a member of the Democratic
Party he has no influence on the
Democratic Party he does have an
influence with a platform everyday on
the media where he's arguing that
there's going to be a backlash if you
nominate and he's basically arguing the
same thing that Howard Schultz is
arguing and the reason why they're
arguing this now is not because he's
gonna what he's gonna do in the voting
booth the reason why he's arguing this
right now is to is to on the ledger of
why you would vote for or against the
candidate to put this on the ledger so
that's why at this point there's nobody
in the Democratic Party who comes out
and says Donny Deutsch is not a member
of the Democratic Party doesn't matter
officially
evict you yeah it's it's the the point
is is that now is the time and good for
Joe Scarborough he did exactly what
should be done in that instance and I'm
surprised because these were Republican
all right we gotta take quick break when
we come back dig me will be joining us
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone
ladies and gentlemen from the uber blog
hullabaloo the subject of this little
ditty oh oh hey we go
this little ditty we dig big there we go
I thought that was going somewhere else
I think I don't know it's what to happen
in movie this week has been a little bit
rough with me music hello Digby welcome
to the program
oh I guess I see what's going on there
someone just sent me an exchange between
Casey hunt and I want to talk obviously
about the you know maybe we could touch
a little bit about Zoo Zealand like you
know I don't know what there is to say
about these type of attacks I mean we
have an environment in in the US and
obviously you know when a guy you know
with the internet and a guy is sighting
Candace Owens you know whether we don't
know in what context he's he's citing
her as some type of inspiration but
obviously American culture impacts this
guy this Australian in New Zealand when
he goes into shoots up this mosque and
you know we have a a president who and
and and frankly I mean you know the
research says that the presidency of
Barack Obama
you know ignited some of the the
feelings of of racist frankly and that
Trump has a fan those flames I mean what
I don't know I mean what is there to say
at this point we know the context in
which these you know lunatics out there
who have access to these type of weapons
are bathed in and you know like anything
it seems to me it's all about increase
percentages of likelihood right like
there are people in society who are who
pass a certain threshold of craziness
and when you have when you have a
context in society in an environment in
society that feeds those people who pass
a certain threshold this is what you get
absolutely I mean I don't think there's
any doubt and it's very you know it's
it's I guess it's it's coincidental but
extremely interesting that that this
horror if ik mass murder took place and
it's a political murder right I mean
it's obvious that this guy was it was a
you know a frequenter of H Han and all
these you know far-right sort of
communities online where if you use
manifesto you know it's filled with all
what they call shitposting right which
is just this it's provocative it's
designed to to get a rise and it's all
very ironic and it kind of speaks in
code and that's part of the Kansas OU
and owns thing I mean evidently I read
this this analysis by belen cat you know
who does sort of follows all this
internet stuff and saying that the
far-right internet stuff and it's it's
an interesting to me how much that
tracks with what we understand to have
been the foreign interference in the
election and the ongoing sort of
propaganda campaign online by by the by
the Russians it's this idea of creating
chaos right this is just making
everybody start infighting and
everything and that was part of
apparently what the point of the the
manifesto was you know using this sort
of ironic trolling to get people upset
and the Candace Owen thing as part of
that but at the same time you had the
president just yesterday being reported
to have said that you know well you know
my my my people my military my cops and
you know the I've got it right this is
in bright bright Bert this is in
Breitbart and this is what he said you
know the left plays a tougher game it's
very funny I actually think that the
people on the right are tougher but they
don't play a tougher okay I can tell you
I have the support of
police the support of the military the
support of the bikers for Trump I have
the tough people but they don't play it
tough until they go to a certain point
and then that would be very bad very bad
but the Left plays a cuter and tougher
in other words he's basically sound like
god I can't you know I have these people
there on my side I can't totally control
me because it would be bad if they did
bad stuff I mean that's basically what
he's saying well and it was proved right
I mean I say this guy
we're in New Zealand I mean he's not
even an American but this is a global
movement and and they all seem to really
love Trump I mean he said it in his that
he considered him to be a what was it an
icon or an inspiration or something and
he you know did Trump was actually
saying that look you know I can't
control these guys you know if you don't
do it what we need I can just and what
can I say they're gonna do what they're
gonna do and basically yesterday New
Zealand somebody did that they actually
went out and started shooting Muslims
you know Trump hasn't been he's been
sort of focusing on the on their Latinos
lately but you know he's he's got a long
history of Muslim hating as well so you
know that it fits in perfectly and I
mean this is sort of to me when I saw
the New Zealand thing I was up late last
night when the home when the story broke
I was you know that's the first thing
that came to my mind I'm thinking oh my
god you know this is the president he's
basically giving a green light to this
kind of stuff and he basically did that
and it's weird that I don't even think
that it made much of a ripple where you
know people talk about normalization
right well apparently Trump's you know
fascist impulses are now normal yeah
he's and never just kind well there he
goes again
well yeah people are people are going to
take him at his word and I just looking
we've had this here we had the guy
sending out you know the bombs to
members of the media and members of
Congress I mean the bombs turned out to
be duds but what if they hadn't they
just arrested a guy a couple weeks ago
there in Washington there was in this
same kind of community as this guy in
New Zealand so this stuff is happening
and and I don't know you know are we
going to take it seriously or are we
just going to act like oh gee you know
another lone wolf
right well I mean we know that as far as
the Homeland Security is concerned like
these type of Ilkka people are
considered one of the you know the
greatest sort of in domestic terror
threat that we face and there is really
I mean there's been roll back after
rollback in terms of dealing with these
type of folks and I I don't know I mean
I I i don't believe that Donald Trump
has the military and has the cops right
maybe he has bikers for Trump to the
extent that there but it is highly
problematic that he's calling for it and
certainly when he makes those claims and
sort of divvy stuff up like I mean just
it is to step back and to contemplate
the idea that a US president would be
arguing that the military's behind him
like against whom like you know like the
idea that the cops are behind me he's
not talking about elections and you know
it's Trump and so we don't take him
seriously right like he's a buffoon or
but the idea that the president United
States would be sort of giving stuff up
like this like you say you and I I mean
I I don't know you and I you know are a
little bit maybe less concerned about
this or maybe concerns not the right
word don't think that he has a grip on
exactly you know who supports him in
what case but for folks who are more
mentally estranged let's say that type
of thing is a call to arms whose side
are you gonna be on there's a civil war
catotti gonna be on and and I in I keep
hearing from people who sort of follow
this stuff that you know this is a very
live discussion on sort of right-wing
you know gun-toting gun rights kind of
places where they are really believing
that there's a civil war coming I mean
this is becoming you know and in the
thinking of a specific person that I
know who's very tight in
community who says that you know it's
different than it was before you know
there's always been this kind of you
know weekend warrior thing that they all
you know run around in their camo and do
their militia thing that's how it that's
been out there forever in American
culture but there's something different
now this idea that they're sort of being
that there's this movement and some of
its crazy you know that key you know the
cue and on and all that stuff but but
there's also this sort of sense among
these people that something's brewing or
getting excited and whether or not
anything would happen I mean I I agree
with you that I I sincerely doubt that
the military as an institution is going
to you know suddenly take up arms on
behalf of Donald Trump I mean that's
just not not realistic and cops you know
they're probably some cops who you know
or big we know that there are some that
are big Trump fans they run around with
wearing the red hats and doing the whole
thing but but as you know as a group I
don't know that we could you know assume
that they're going to take up arms for
Donald Trump either bikers for Trump
maybe but you know whatever
but you know this idea that that that
there are members of those those
institutions that are for Trump yeah
there's absolutely that's the truth I
mean you know the oathkeepers which is a
real group there they are made up of
veterans military people in the military
and and police officers that's that's
the the population of the earth keepers
and so you know this does exist out
there and it's just you know it's a
little unnerving the idea that you know
we're sort of letting you know the
president just makes you know casual
fascist remarks at casually says it too
you know and then apparently he posted a
link to bright part last night which was
later taken down although it's unsure
whether or not he meant it to go to that
particular quote but that you know he
probably meant it to go to the article
it was in and they took doubt they took
down the tweet but you know this is very
this is very very unnerving to me I mean
I don't know maybe I'm overreacting you
know cuz he is a buffoon and everybody's
kind of go yeah yeah and there's a lot
of this if you noticed this this you
know sort of seem that's sort of
emerging that well Trump's a really weak
president because it doesn't really know
what he's doing so we really needn't
fear what he's saying
and all this stuff because it's just him
and he's not that great at fulfilling
his specific goals or whatever and I'm
just that just I think is ridiculous
I mean he's saying this stuff he's
normalizing it I mean maybe he won't
accomplish it exactly that is I think
that is exactly the the most important
point is that everybody presumes like oh
if Donald Trump doesn't have the
military on his side then we have
nothing to worry about but he is moving
the ball along I mean this is you know
I'm already I'm already worried about
2028 frankly or 2024 and regardless of
you know and I'm presuming that a a
democratic candidate is gonna win the
presidency I you know at one point like
you know these people are going to go
away the problem is are the people who
support and voted for Donald Trump and
then the bigger problem is what as a
society we now consider the baseline for
appropriate behavior from our
politicians and if it starts out where
Donald Trump leaves right and we've got
to wait until the next person who comes
in with Donald Trump's rhetoric but
maybe not Donald Trump's limited brain
capacity and somebody else who comes in
there and I don't know who it is and
maybe we know their name and maybe we
don't you know we don't know yet but
there's a lot of people out there if
they're smart are looking at what Trump
has been able to accomplish and they may
have the same proclivities and they come
in and next time we're gonna be starting
at a sort of like a you know a basis
point that is closer to you know what is
fascism right like this is not a process
that we can roll up and and reverse in
you know a couple of years or expect it
to only have a couple years live Stan
like Donald Trump in my mind has always
been part of a lineage
that included Sarah Palin that included
aspects of the Bush administration and
when we didn't address these things then
when John McCain got a pass for
elevating someone like Sarah Palin when
George Bush got a pass from President
Obama and Nancy Pelosi who's bragging
about not impeaching people this week
about not impeaching the you know the
Bush administration when they got a pass
they moved the ball forward for Donald
Trump oh absolutely
okay he's just you know this is a
continuum I mean you and I've been
watching this for years the
disintegration of the Republican Party
and then the conservative movement
generally into its essence which we now
see I think in the form of Donald Trump
I mean he's kind of to me he's like the
you know the walking it'd love the
conservative movement and you know this
is not something he didn't spring forth
overnight and in fact you know we know
this for a fact that you know Trump has
some ideas in his head that he's had for
a very long time we know that Kent trade
and you know law and order I mean he's
had certain things that he's kind of
fixated on but but but you know the main
you know sort of part of his program was
lifted directly from talk radio
I mean Sam done Berg who we've all seen
run around on you know and MSNBC all
over the place and he's kind of a kooky
guy he worked with Roger stone and he
would go and listen to talk radio and he
would put a report together for Trump
this parted in 2012 he put a report
together that sort of highlighted what
they were talking about you remember
when Trump was on the trail and he was
going on about Bowe Bergdahl remember
that it was really weird it was kind of
like what yeah why do you care about
this but that is a perfect example of a
just a discrete issue that that number
picked up on that was being oh it was
all over the the talk radio and the
interesting thing about the Bergdahl
thing and I wrote a lot about this at
the time was that what Trump was
advocating when he was talking about on
the campaign trail with summary
execution he felt that Bergdahl should
have been shot immediately when they
when they you know got him when they
rescued him from from the Taliban
after he'd been held for you know a long
period of time they should have brought
him out and immediately shot him and he
said this you know back in the day when
we were strong bing-bong you know when
we were strong we would have taken care
of him he needs to pantomime you know
shooting the guy with a with a rifle so
you know this was these were this was in
me in the ether long before Trump came
along he sort of jumped on it and had
this sort of unique you know spin on it
I guess as the billion you know the
blue-collar billionaire and how he was
going to make everything you know he's
going to make everybody rich you know he
had this sort of extra sort of thing and
the celebrity that he came with but
there's no way that this is that you can
put this genie back in the bottle it's
been it's been building for a long long
long time and I agree with you I you
know this isn't going away and effect
Trump himself is out there pretty much
and in the comment - Breitbart it's kind
of indicating hey you know I don't get
reelected I I don't know what's gonna
happen guys cuz my people you know my
people they're not gonna be happy so you
know could have a little problem here
just telling you you know just keep in
mind that there could be a little
problem I think that is going to be less
of the problem than what comes back four
years later or eight years later frankly
I mean I you know and and we should say
you know we talked about this lineage I
remember Mitt Romney coming to New York
kissing Donald Trump's hand in 2012
looking for the imprimatur like you know
this is this did not come out of nowhere
and I think it was obviously a surprise
that he won the election but he won by a
very small amount and we had a very
specific circumstance I think that
allowed him but even if he was to lose
by you know a landslide this time around
there they're still gonna be 40 some out
of the percent of the country who are
highly amenable to this message and we
have clearly seen that to the extent
that there ever was a structure of the
Republican Party that would be a
firewall for this type of thing there is
no firewall and you know it is one thing
for them to
to push back on this emergency measure
you know which I don't know that they're
going to have the votes to to reverse a
veto but they they have not stood up to
him and one can only imagine how
completely useless they would be with a
a president who uses these tactics but
has a modicum of intelligence in dealing
with right like I mean it's not like
Donald Trump has sophisticated
knowledgeable people around him as to
the to the emotive incentive structure
of Republican legislators beyond beyond
the fact that they all support me and my
agenda which is you know more or less
racism at this point and misogyny and
anti-immigration fervor etc etc so I
mean it's it's a it's a pretty dangerous
situation and people should not be
mistaken into thinking that when Donald
Trump gets you know defeated if
hopefully but it will be the case if he
gets defeated and then Robert Muller
walks up and personally puts handcuffs
on him and it makes him do a perp walk
to the federal courthouse in Washington
on that same day this is not over by a
long shot
right and the real question is and let's
this is maybe a good segue it's like you
know aside from you know from a there
are a lot of responses that have to
happen within the context of society to
this type of what we're experiencing in
this country one of them is one of them
is going to be obviously the Democrats
and in you know the potential for them
to win in 2020 the field for the most
part now seems to be I mean Joe Biden
hasn't made it official yet has he
but he will right or did he make it
official I don't even know I mean it
doesn't show up but it sounds like we've
heard the unofficial official
announcement but maybe you know who
knows
right he's in and and for the most part
I think we're not waiting for any more
major players to jump in you know there
could be sleeper candidates and this and
that but I mean there's nobody aside
from Joe Biden there's nobody on the
sidelines that everybody's anticipating
coming in and anticipating impacting the
race on day one
bateau announced yesterday I guess it
was and he's a big force despite the
fact that he's you know as a backbench
congressman because he's got the second
biggest fundraising apparatus of anybody
in the race at this point he's also got
some very strong for grassroot
organizers that came out of the Bernie
campaign I'm thinking of Becky bond and
and others and this guy captured the
imagination of the Democratic Party in
his run against Ted Cruz what's your
what's your take digby well I'm probably
more sympathetic to better than a lot of
other progressives like myself are and
I'll tell you why but let me first just
sort of come out there and say that you
know my to me my dream president out of
this crew that we have running right now
I mean I like them all fine you know I
mean compared to Donald Trump any of
them would be fine and I wouldn't be I'm
not going to be unhappy particularly I
mean well Howard Schultz of course is
completely out of the question but yeah
and if Bloomberg were in I couldn't go
there but even Biden who I really you
know is he's not my my choice if it
happened you know I could live with it
so but my if I were to pick my dream
president out of this group right now it
would be Elizabeth Warren she aligns
with me on virtually everything you know
politically but I'm not endorsing
anybody or anything right now and then
that includes better or whatever however
I do understand why beto has a an appeal
and why in some levels he appeals to me
too and that is because he has a very
different approach than most Democrats
do to talking about politics and it's
it's compelling because he speaks from a
sort of value standpoint he's not a
programmatic
and you know I know that for a lot of
Democrats that's a real problem because
that's what they like to hear I happen
to understand why a lot of people don't
like to hear that that they're much more
interested in saying you know what do
you care about how do you you know who
are you fighting for you know sort of
this is kind of what did what do you see
him what do you think America is about
what is it you know and he's good at
that he has a good I've heard him give a
number of speeches and when I actually
followed him back in 2012 when he first
ran against he actually defeated a
Democrat in a primary which is how it
very unexpectedly won it was a it was an
upset
who was Sylvester a race who very
right-wing Democrat and he sort of went
around knocking on doors in Hispanic
community and basically won you know in
spite of you know all the predictions so
there he had something and he has
something that I think is it's sort of
an inspirational message that can be you
know Democrats tend to do well when they
have candidates who can do that you know
Obama Clinton JFK you know even Jimmy
Carter back in the 70s had those you
know this kind of I'm you know I'm
speaking to a bigger you know a bigger
sense of who we are and Democrats do
respond to that having said all that I
have no idea you know how he's going to
do he has a spotty record in the
Congress of being probably too
conservative for the current Democratic
Party the primary electorate so whether
or not you know I mean let the games
begin that's how I get it and whoever
whoever can you know they've got a long
time to prove themselves here it's an
exhausting road ahead of us in this
primary it's probably going to get
variant in many ways so you know but I'm
willing to let this unfold and see how
these people do and hopefully whoever it
is will take some of the best from all
these peoples I mean they've all got
something to offer and at the end of the
day hopefully whoever that is will have
put together an amalgam of where the
Democratic Party is to go forward into
the general election and go up against
Donald Trump
I mean I'm hopeful that it will be a
good progressive agenda and you know
somebody with some you know fire in the
belly to actually kind of confront all
this stuff and that may be one of the
big Beto's biggest weaknesses in my view
is the fact that he
does not seem to be the kind of person I
mean that's why I like Elizabeth Warren
you know she's a fighter and she's just
kind of no I'm not gonna you know I'm
not gonna stand down here you know
forget it no weird you know we're not
going to do that we're gonna go up
against and we're going to fight and win
and I don't see that with him you know
he's a conciliator so you know they in
that sense I think he may be very much
out of step but maybe the Democratic
electorate doesn't see it that way you
know they're gonna respond more so
anyway I know I sound like a you know a
bucket of lukewarm want that assessment
of where he's at
is is super accurate and it really does
it's going to be interesting to see you
know what the Democratic Party is
interested in and of course we won't
even have that full notion either
because you have so many candidates
right like this is like one of those
races where strange things could happen
because there's so the threshold to
winning is gonna be lower in some
respects right I mean at least
throughout all right three-quarters of
the race because of how many how many
people are in it there was a piece that
came out today in the and it's always
sort of fascinating like the day that
you know this is a piece obviously that
was written a week ago and with
information that was supplied two weeks
ago or three weeks ago by somebody
else's campaign we you know we don't
know whose campaign it would be but this
was in the The Wall Street Journal that
o'rourke in the run-up to that 2012
campaign where he defeated Silvestre
Reyes he filled out here it is in a
candidate questionnaire published two
days before the 2012 primary O'Rourke
called for raising the Social Security
eligibility age means testing federal
entitlements criticized raised for
voting party line with other Democrats
asked if he supported the affordable
care act he said in its current form no
it doesn't do anything for El Paso in
terms of the Medicaid reimbursement rate
but he added that he was supportive of
all the a mess of the law
so you know who knows I mean it's gonna
be interesting and I read that Vanity
Fair piece and I was like I so much want
to support this guy but when we got to
the section about the politics it was
fascinating there was no politics there
and in many respects it is reminiscent
of Obama a little bit although you know
the war was a big deal the fact that he
ran again you know that he was able to
run against the Iraq war that was a big
deal it's unclear to me what betos
signature well I think it's you know
it's climate change its supporter I
think it's the border I think that's
data's big it's the it's immigration I
think it's his is his signature
interesting and and I mean it's gonna be
interesting to see if there's an
appetite for that amongst the the
Democrats I mean I you know I see a guy
like that and I worry that in the wrong
context his politics could be I mean
they could widely diverge it seems to me
you know I I feel like Obama entered the
race he was not ideological he was much
more about very similar to Beto like I
want to bring people together but he did
seem to have some politics and even
people whose politics I don't like as
they're articulated in the race I feel
like that's what we're gonna get on some
level like I'm not clear what what
somebody coming in who thinks that they
can negotiate with Republicans what
we're gonna get with that person because
they're gonna find out at one point that
they can't write grand bargain well
right right I mean and which which is
really sort of scary and who knows maybe
this time the Republican Party will be
smart enough to say yes on these grand
bargains but who knows it's it's
definitely going to be fascinating to
watch this and then the other thing that
I think is fascinating
played this clip before the before we
had you on this morning where Donny
Deutsch was on Joe Scarborough saying
that he was prepared to vote for Donald
Trump over I guess presumably over
Bernie Sanders and Scarborough literally
had to say don't say that stop yourself
and convinced Donny Deutsch on air not
to say that for the sake of Donny
Deutsch his career basically it seems
like in the branding of the show but I
think that's a very real potential
dynamic that the Donny Deutsch is are
gonna are gonna go the way of Howard
Schultz and or at the very least they're
going to threaten that over the next
couple of months as a way of you know
sort of scaring people away from Bernie
I mean do you think at the end of the
day what do you think at the end of the
day these people would go I you know I
don't think so I mean I I I have to with
Donny Deutsch you know I mean I think
he's kind of a blowhard anyway but well
you know this is even beyond what I
would expect from him obviously what
he's trying to do is position himself as
being sort of the the guy the practical
set of centrist regular Democrat and
trying to warn people you know hey you
you you nominate Sanders I assume
Warren's in that too she doesn't call
herself a socialist but I'm sure that
all the Wall Street people are having
write it over her they're absolutely
doing you know exploding over what she
heard her proposals her highly detailed
proposals that are going to affect their
business they're all saying that you
know they're saying hey you know you
vote from where these and I don't know
maybe I'm gonna have to give some money
to trump maybe I'm gonna have to vote
for them and it's basically just a
threat and you know it's a trump-like
threat to be honest saying you do this I
don't know which way I'm going to go and
they're also speaking to another group
that is you know kind of important for
the Democrats to kind of keep in the
back of their mind a lot of people who
voted in 2018 for some of these new you
know that flipped some of these seats
we're in we're in formerly Republican
suburbs and so the trash
Geir those people you know saying hey
you know maybe maybe Trump's you know
maybe maybe these people are going too
far they're they're doing their own
Trump thing on the left so baby you know
at least Trump we know what we got with
this guy right right and so they're
trying to kind of move the moat and move
scare people that those people aren't
gonna vote for the Democrat - I don't
think that I mean I think Trump is bad
enough that most people are gonna hold
their nose and vote for whoever the
Democrat is even if they've been
propagandized by Donny Deutsch I mean
why we're listening to him anyway I
don't know but this is something that's
you know I I mean I seemed which is a
Biden guy I don't know why I haven't
heard him say that necessarily but he
just I just expect that Biden is the
general choice of that particular group
it's going to be very interesting to see
how this all you know they all talk
about lanes which I hate it was a 2016
trope that they came up with but you
know Biden is going to be the
establishment guy and you know
everybody's sort of thinking that and I
expect that somebody like like Deutsch
will be will be happy to back you know
the good you know predictable Joe Biden
that's somebody that there's sort of all
good maybe we can get back to normal now
Biden's looks like a president he's the
guy I really want so you know I assume
that that's where that this fight is
gonna be had on that basis like I said
this is going to be unpleasant I hope
everybody you know gird yourself because
this isn't going to be a lot of fun
we're gonna be this is gonna be super
nasty I mean give me a sense of of where
of and I'm just looking at this it was
funny this is going to be interesting
Casey hunt asked Nancy Pelosi do you
think that experience in terms of beta
Rourke has here in the house is strong
enough foundation to jump to the Oval
Office and Pelosi was like you asked me
that when we have a president the United
States who know do you know please yes
the answer is yes Abby she did she got
halfway through that where she was
basically like we can't have a less
experienced less capable less prepared
president than Donald Trump
and I think that's true what do you
think
of Joe Biden I mean give me a sense of
like what do you think is gonna happen
oh by deny I know like you know we have
all learned enough to you know keep our
predictions
you know unambitious as possible but
what do you think Joe Biden's what do
you think his chances are well you know
I don't know I mean looking at it from
the perspective of you know the modern
Democratic Party where we are right now
there are just so many aspects of his
past that there's so much baggage with
Biden that you know it's hard for me to
see how he can you know gain enough of
the party to you know actually become
the nominee I mean I would expect
there's a certain you know like the
Donny Deutsch people this sort of
they're just looking for some
reassurance that we were gonna go back
to normal we'll get a normal you know
mainstream Democrat guy we know him good
old Uncle Joe we know who he is and and
then we can we can just get back on
track and I think people like like you
know like you and me you know we we sort
of see that that something's really
fundamentally changed we're we're in a
new world now and that we're not going
to go back to whatever what used to be
normal
regardless of you know whether or not
the Democrats take over for some of the
reasons we talked about earlier that the
Republican Party is now a radical
faction Jen you know basically and and
also that the Democrats have changed I
mean they're said this is a new day in
the Democratic Party as well and and
there's actually you know opportunity to
kind of move from push forward with a
new agenda and Biden is just not you
know he just does not fit into that on
the other hand you know there are a lot
of Democrats in in this country who are
you know they're very you know
mainstream kind of you know regular
people who may not be on board with that
and I honestly don't know I mean we're
gonna find out right where this party
really is we're gonna find out in the
next year just you know where we're
going with that it is it is a little bit
nerve-wracking because it's not in my
mind it's not just a question of going
backwards all the
I think that is you know exactly like
people would like to reset it to a
different time where we didn't have to
sort of pay attention to politics God
knows I'd I would and and maybe that was
a delusion and I'm quite sure in many
respects it was but the the problem with
going back to is that to the extent that
there is you know wide support out there
for Biden it seems to me it's gonna be
two parts right one is gonna be just
sort of people in the know who are
convinced we need to have someone to win
they're convinced that it's gonna take
an old white guy to defeat Donald Trump
I'm not sure what the logic is behind
that maybe that's you know there's
there's basically two scenarios where
the Democrats take back take the
presidency that people are talking about
they're not necessarily mutually
exclusive although they could be seen
that way one is through the
post-industrial Midwest where you go
back and you win Pennsylvania you win
Wisconsin you win Michigan and those
three states make it happen from 2016 or
you end up you know going as the
Southwest and you take a bunch of states
there that you know are on the cusp of
turning blue they're not mutually
exclusive propositions although you know
certainly one candidate might be the the
leak on the profile of one candidate
might be more applicable to one of the
others but one concern I have as we you
know to just end this conversation in
many respects where we started it is
without the Democrats moving forward
with some type of an agenda that
represents you know a fairly substantial
change from the past and I feel like you
know frankly Warren and Sanders in many
respects from a programmatic standpoint
are the only ones who offer that type of
thing we run the risk of you know sort
of of a similar sort of frustration
bubbling up again and that type of
frustration I think is much more
susceptible to
exploited by a smarter version of Donald
Trump and like there needs to be we to
the extent you know betos argument is
the way that we get out of this is by
just coming together and I find that
hard to believe that that happens that
way I think the way that we get out of
this it seems to me is to change the
paradigm and such that the the current
narrative from the right is really hard
to sustain I think we're always going to
have but not always but I think we're
gonna have 30 40 percent of this country
that are gonna be ass backwards frankly
you know like dug in
ass-backwards but the the dynamic has to
be such that they're they're just less
motivated in some way and you know are
are kept busy in other ways I guess I'm
not sure there needs to be a paradigm
shift it seems to me just the idea just
a little bit chastened maybe they just
have to sort of recognize that they you
know that there's that they're not going
to that they're not going to prevail
when that the country is not where they
are yeah I don't think there see thing I
don't think they're ever going to
they're ever going to change their
perspective I mean I think it's gonna
take generations I just think that the
ability to weaponize those people by
more powerful forces has to be undercut
and that may involve just undercutting
those more powerful forces right like
you know and that being that you need to
sort of in many respects kneecap the the
moneyed interests that weaponize these
people and rather than trying to you
know change those people because I think
there's mounting evidence that like you
know we interviewed somebody on this
program over vacation who basically
could try
back racism as practiced through
politics based upon down to the county
level on what the ratio of slaves to the
black slaves to white people were and if
you can do that 250 mi deers later 180
years later I'm sorry we've got a couple
more generations to go right yeah that's
true and maybe maybe it's just you know
an intrinsic sort of built into our
system I mean I've often thought that
you know we were born this country was
born on the back of this this tremendous
divide it happened it was there from the
very beginning and it's consistent we
even have civil war didn't fix it yep no
I mean so you know this is not but it
does not have to be this toxic and it
doesn't have to be this dangerous I mean
there can't this divide will exist it
just there's got to be and we have had
those periods where we were reasonably
able to to live side by side well and
when you think about those periods I
mean to the extent that you know you
know I think when some of those periods
were periods where frankly we still were
basically living with you know multiple
series of sub-class citizenry right
where people were second-class citizen
third-class citizens but to the extent
that there was you know some type of
equilibrium it was when money
essentially big money was restricted and
so the real the real question is like
you know do we have a programmatic you
know and I think like you know Sanders
like you saying Warner a Warren
represent a threat to these powerful
classes that weaponize the this divide
and these people and that is why I think
like I worry about a presidency that
doesn't kneecap those people who have an
outsize political power in our society
and use those that that divide
to their advantage it seems to me but
we'll have more time to talk about this
Digby and it's gonna get a lot Messier
as always thank you so much for your
time today I really appreciate it
oh thanks for having me have a great
weekend you too Timmy bye-bye
check it out folks you can read Heather
stuff at Salon de we didn't even get to
the story that she did on on the
potential for this sort of Chinese
scandal that there seems to be a little
bit more there you know coming out of
these these days Baz then we might have
anticipated but who knows and but we
will have Digby back you can check out
her writing it salon.com
or on her blog at hullabaloo we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back
Matthieu film guy just a reminder folks
this program relies on your support you
can support this program by going to
join the majority report calm when you
do you not only support this show for
just pennies a day but you also get
extra content every day we'll be right
back Matthieu film guy
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen it is that
time on a casual Friday where we will
seek out I mean this is how this segment
actually started was back in the day
when I would look for a film
recommendation for the weekend from
someone who I thought was ostensibly a
film critic it turned out he was just an
entertainment reporter and denied being
a film critic after literally I think a
year or two on the program that was a
little bit upsetting
so we jettisoned that guy nice guy but
still can't come on and can't lie about
your credentials so instead what we did
is we got a professor from the
accredited JCCC Learning Annex course in
in in Queens to come on
and thus inspiring this song
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Matthew film guy let it play out
and then apprentice corrales listen to
the lyrics it tells you all you need to
know all you need to know ah
Matthew film we get have worked in
something there we couldn't work we
could have worked in something there
about the Learning Annex class but
plywood extended the running time so you
just have to fill us in on that each
week now you're not technically a
professor right I'm in oh yeah when I
teach it Sacred Heart University and
their Graduate film program I am so no
it's a suck adjunct or whatever it's not
like I'm 10 yourself again Wow is that
right I didn't realize I mean so what
how does your are you doing that or is
that you just was that a hypothetical no
I I'm not doing it I aspire someday to
do that
oh no I'm doing that of course I'm doing
that well actually I didn't do it this
year because as you know I was on the
road for six weeks so how does your gas
at the Learning Annex differ from your
beer your your class at what is it
sacred heart did you say yeah I actually
was teaching editing the art of film
editing at Sacred Heart University
so being one of my specialties so you
were in the Learning Annex class it's
just general film appreciation showing
art films to senior citizens with you
know what I thought a higher than usual
curiosity so that so wait a second don't
let Matthew hear me yeah hold on for one
second yeah so a second so so you
weren't actually teaching film you were
teaching editing I'm sorry I said maybe
you're under the mistaken impression but
editing is film it is yes there is there
is no film without editing it is the one
pure form
expression that is unique to film there
is no way to separate you're making a
categorical right there is no there is
no there is no Labrador Retriever that
isn't a dog but there are dogs that
aren't Labrador Retrievers you can learn
the skill of editing and not necessarily
apply it to film and I don't mean just
the medium I'm talking about the sort of
the narrative structure I mean let's be
honest people could be taking that video
class and all they could do is end up
coming and doing like I'm gonna drug cup
we're gonna put some b-roll in over Sam
talking about you know bateau or orc you
know don't confuse don't confuse the
technical side of things which is
actually 50% of what I do teach us at
the Sacred Heart University Graduate
film program with the understanding of
how to use the aesthetics of film
editing but I mean I do obviously have a
point of view you're flogging here and I
don't want to argue with you it's your
show and I'll just agree to disagree
okay I just I'm a little sensitive
because I just did remembered the way
that you know we the last time we had
you know we in your intro just came up I
had recalled the the moment when I
learned that our film critic was
actually you know not a film critic yeah
you've been burned before Sam I would be
I'm gonna be very right yeah once
something twice shy I can't remember one
burned once burned twice outfit
once bitten once bitten twice shy I'm
sorry Michael did you wanted to question
I'll rather on that's why we we I think
we moved past that I was just I was
thinking of because everything partially
I'm tired but now because I'm rewatching
The Sopranos
everything is Sopranos referenced in my
mind right now so I need to stop
watching that show as quickly as
possible but when I thought of film guy
Matthew with his nice elderly Jewish
students
I thought of Paulie walnuts taking his
mom and her friends out to go watch a
play
yeah anyways I'm not gonna go on from
now cuz I'll just start repeating the
show but that that is now how I I see
Matthew is an intellectual version of
Paulie walnuts being like ma it's a
German film it's about incest but it's
really about capitalism come on so no
one's ladies will love it so alright
with all that said I mean dead-on did
what what is the similarity between the
editing class that you teach and the one
at the JCC well obviously the one of the
JCC is much more expansive it takes in
all aspects of the film experience and
it's more sent it's more designed to
broaden the kind of aesthetic and you
know kind of artistic sensibilities of
the of the class whereas the editing
class you know I do couch it in a kind
of broader context of various film
theories and the kind of language of
film but also we're talking about you
know accomplishing a very specific
technical goal as well so you know one
is a deeper and more narrow dive but
they have a lot of overlap you know I
have my own personal theory of what
makes a film good I try to editorialize
less than the actual editing class
because I am trying to impart a skill
that they can use to go ahead and get a
job or make a film or just be empowered
to make their own kind of craft but um
you know they they what's the what's the
commonality me Sam Matthew the film guy
I am the commonality well all right
there you go that's very bad well you
got it can't be you can't be teaching
you can't teach art objectively you know
you kind of have to give it your
personal attention and I try to give my
you know my enthusiasm for the art form
in every lesson and hopefully you know
the best you can do is inspire someone
to pursue their own path when it comes
to art they're not going to do it
exactly the way you did it or somebody
else did it it's a fool's errand to try
to reverse-engineer art and try to just
figure out someone else did it you kind
of have to give them a few basic skills
and then the belief that they can do it
well I guess it's just going to be a
matter of time if some other JCC comes
around and tries to poach
based upon wine to have Matthew film guy
at their JCC to compete with the
Learning Annex in Queens oh yeah I got
various JCC's playing against each other
right now as we speak it's a whole
system I worked out I teach the old
ladies Dave Danish anthing consumerist
incensed cinema here you stay the
Attica Lee yeah is there is there a lot
of competition amongst the Learning
Annex film film teacher I mean yes I
mean no but I mean I mean I'm just
saying I like it when you come and try
and infiltrate let's say you know
Western Long Island's I know him that's
Paul Ginsberg dropped out of Tisch yeah
why is one credit shy he's been trying
to move the Long Island Marga ve
supposed to stay on the North Shore what
am I doing here
you take your das boat back to New
Jersey with it
let's put it this way if you were to
have if you were to have a conflict that
could devolve into physical to a
physical conflict with another Learning
Annex film teacher over what genre of
film would it be like what would you
find so offensive that you were forced
to actually get physical I'm not sure I
know I mean like let's say there was a
hypothetical teacher who was a you know
film to a guy who was coming from a
different part of Long Island to come
into Queens to teach at the Learning
Annex
however they embraced let's say I don't
know a more naturalistic style of
filmmaking than you did or just for
example I know that's actually not the
case they're trying to piss them off
right now what's that
well but I'm just suggesting I
understand you would be the guy and
that's
Aereo who would support the naturalistic
style filmmaking what would they support
who's coming in who's coming into my
territory Sam what what are you talking
about I'm just asking a hypothetical you
do you know somebody that's trying to
Donal it'll make you paranoid I must ask
we hypothetic there's a lot of talk oh
god Sam come on Sam I thought you had my
back on this
okay I'll answer your silly question the
Knightly answer is if I say if somebody
wanted to come out and say I understand
John Cassavetes better than you masking
film guy then I would have to throw down
okay all right there you go
like I told you I studied casted me you
don't know if I could think about caste
fetty's and it's Sam's pulling him off
he's like he's like he's like hey hey
Sam I got a right to defend myself did
you hear what he said so all
right so with that said I don't know how
we got on this I think it's because you
and Michael are both very tired at the
end of a long week and it's a perfect
time for just concentrate a little bit
on some self-care a little bit of casual
Friday step away from the politics
battle the knife fight and have some you
know a moment of kind of reflection on
on everything that's important why do I
feel like that is a sort of a prologue
to your to your door vacuum salesman
right right there for the Danish you
know what what what do you have for us
this week well to be honest that's the
setup for every week like I feel like
that's what I'm supposed to do here I
think that's what's needed on this show
is just a little bit of a step back from
the sort of the trenches and to go a
little bit more wide view and you know
so I could I could talk about some of
the films that I've been shown in my
class like you know actually for me
personally there's always going to be no
matter how big a film guy you are
there's always going to be some dark
areas in your experience and I've been
trying to fill in some of the gaps and
I've been getting into Hero Kazu Cory
ADA I don't know if anybody as a fan of
his films a Japanese filmmaker who's
really been making world-class
for over 20 maybe even 30 years I'm
starting at the beginning with him and I
showed his film mama Rosie which is sort
of an homage to OHS ooh another
filmmaker who I love a Japanese
filmmaker from post-war Japan and that
was great
I could also maybe talk about another
filmmaker who I'm in love with
aesthetically speaking named Lucrecia
Martel she's from Argentina and she's
only managed to make four movies so far
but the two of them that I've seen have
both blown me away I think I may have
mentioned one in passing called La
Cienega about a kind of Idol kind of
rich class in Argentina and the one I
recently showed my class is called the
holy girl
which is kind of hard to explain but
it's basically about a teenage girl who
lives at her family's hotel and a dental
convention comes in and she may or may
not have been molested by one of the
dentists
I'm sorry the eyes ears and throat
doctor but it's told in a very kind of
even-handed not editorialized style very
nuanced and it's really just a gut punch
of a film but you know what Sam I'm
gonna I'm gonna Matt Hale this week's
suggestion yeah it smell good why don't
you make more movies
well obviously the patriarchy gets in
their way fool is not a lot no it's not
a lot but you know what
quality is important more than quantity
I think and she's only been making
movies since 2001 so you know we'll see
actually people have floated her name is
someone who should direct a superhero
movie but that's more of a right is to
get like actual like is it the reason
why people go in a film now is to do
some work that that gets them in a
position to do a superhero movie but
that's exactly what instead of hiring
like I don't I forget the guys name but
like some you know some blockbuster
idiot the new thing is like oh he made a
you know a movie about like an old
couple dying together in the South of
France you should make the new Marvel
movie yeah
that is kind of what they've been doing
but that's not the only movies that are
being made that's just the one that they
are a little bit better I'm like it's a
yeah well I mean look movies cost a lot
of money right and decisions seem to be
made mainly based on money rather than
artistic choices in the the big-budget
movies wouldn't you say in Hollywood
absolutely no doubt I think that sucks I
mean people think communist art is bad
but like look at all that look at all
the crap in the cinema is like that's
what that's the art of capitalism enjoy
absolutely no doubt about that but you
have to remember that there is more film
out there besides what comes out of
Hollywood you know there's the American
independence scene and is also the
International film scene with actually a
lot more public support than anything in
America get so that's why someone like
Cory ADA or Lucrecia Martel can can have
careers making films it you know may not
necessarily reach every senior citizen
in western Queens at first but you know
eventually you know appreciate it when
they see it well we have to be sort of
thankful for these small favors but
listen I do want to recommend a film a
classic Hollywood film that Sam I think
he will literally want to actually see
hmm and I recently saw it it's actually
a Western I don't know how into westerns
you are I'm not necessarily a real
Western guy not really a fan of that
genre per se well as you know I am angry
but I am a big fan of the eastward
westerns you know in the not just the
spaghetti westerns but even things like
Josey Wales and countrywide High Plains
Drifter paint your wagon red not so
that's a joke for those of us in the INA
yeah the Clintons meet you at the film
that killed Hollywood made it right for
the film breath and I'm also a fan of
Pat Garrett Billy the Kid I think that
is one of the that's that film I think
is amazing frankly Sam Peckinpah great
soundtrack and
so was like the sort of you know
Unforgiven which was an Eastwood movie
in my mind was a complete ripoff of Pat
Garrett Billy the Kid in terms of that
notion of like you know this was not as
sort of honorable and you know cool as
it was just like guys to barely shoot
well you know shooting at each other
basically was it but yeah but so yes I
definitely am open to the Western as a
genre great well then you're gonna love
this film because this really does fit
into the sort of movement post Vietnam
where the Western stopped being these
kind of like moral tales of triumph
against the savage in taming the Wild
West and started to introduce a little
bit of elements of like oh wait
there was a concomitant genocide that
came with all these cool shootouts there
was this entire kind of a land grab that
we went through and it wasn't as
honorable and Noble as you're saying
like Garrett and Billy the Kid is a
great example of that
Mikael misses the Wild Bunch right wow
that McCabe and mrs. Miller Wild Bunch
yes exactly
Wow exactly all these filmmakers started
to kind of revisit the Western and you
know McCabe and mrs. Miller that was
Altman he's a definite auteur and do the
two others Wild Bunch of Pat Garrett and
Billy kid that Sam Peckinpah another
kind of tourist even if he's sort of on
the more lowbrow side this one was
actually directed and stars Kirk Douglas
who's not necessarily known for his
hard-hitting artistic sensibilities but
he made a film in 1975 called Posse that
actually also stars Bruce Dern in one of
his greatest roles I think and I think
this is like right up your alley Sam
because it's it's basically about a
marshal who is has political aspirations
he's trying to capture the most wanted
man in the West played by Bruce Dern who
actually wanted that being somewhat of
the antihero because Kirk Douglas is so
obviously corrupt he's basically doing
everything he does
for political advantage and without
spoiling too much you kind of watch and
see how bruce dern as the criminal winds
up being the more honorable of the two
so I was highly surprised just a little
bit of Billy Billy the Kid in that a
little bit too right I mean yes that's
right and it's you know it's it's kind
of surprising how you know and this was
sort of early ish well no this is like
75 so Vietnam was just ending but it's
really the script surprises you where
you think it's going even when you have
your eye on the kind of cynicism that
you might be expecting it's definitely a
rewarding and just a surprising
entertaining movie so my understanding
is Mike Douglas actually directed this
that's right I believe I said that if I
didn't my mistake but yes Kirk Douglas
directed it this was the the the the
seventies early seventies were the best
period for film for for in terms of like
scrutinizing you know sort of it was the
best way to sort of capture the the sort
of change in the perspective of I know
that you guys both know the actual
economics of why that's the case right
yes that's fast that's always
interesting to me that was that by
Bogdanovich wrote the raging bulls asses
blankety-blank I can't remember what
that book was yeah well you you
mentioned you mentioned pay your wagon
that was known as kind of like the dead
end at the Hollywood studio says like we
have no idea what America wants right
now this was a huge flop let's turn the
keys of Hollywood over to this younger
generation which was people like
Spielberg and Coppola and Lucas and
Scorsese it cetera Brian De Palma and
yeah it did it was a weird historical
bliss sometimes between the 70s and
basically the early 80s when Star Wars
and jaws made everyone realize like oh
wait we don't have to try so hard to
make these movies make money we can just
kind of make them spectacles again that
there was this kind of weird bliss where
the mainstream films actually contained
some artistic merit artistic
point of view and took risks in a
commercial sense that today just you
just won't see but yeah Posse fits right
in there along the lines of things like
you know Clute or all the President's
Men three days of the Condor these
things that has a kind of downbeat kind
of the lineup I remember that one the
long that's right another genre exercise
by all many at Long Goodbye yeah that's
good ear Picture Show says Brendan yeah
yeah that was a great era for film all
right well Posse I'm gonna watch that
ASAP it's on iTunes you can you can buy
it on iTunes on the iTunes
okay great I've heard of that the iTunes
we will check it out I can I will
different folks are different strokes
Matthew film guy as always an immense
pleasure thank you so much for your time
I'll give you one chance to plug an eBay
product that you have this week what do
you have well I don't have any auctions
going right now I've put back on all of
my high-end majority report merchandise
I have the mousepad I have the t-shirt I
have designed bags of air signed by Sam
cedar himself bags of actual majority
report studio air and and you can make
me an offer no offer is too small
come on in we're out my stuff take it
easy we'll see you there all right
Matthew foam guy thanks so much for your
time today thank you would watch
yourself my friend I can tell you that
we have not only assigned bags of air in
this office but we also have them
certified and as far as I know Matthew
foam guys air bags are not certified
certified to be from the air of this
office
there's limited quantities but there's
also more where that came from that's
[Laughter]
folks just a reminder it is your support
that makes this show possible you can
become a member and support this program
by going to join the majority report
calm as always if you cannot afford a
membership but you want access to the
extra content that we produce every day
send us an email
majority reporters at gmail
and then wait an extraordinary amount of
time for us to get around to you but we
will and we do and if you don't hear
from us feel free to email us again
because sometimes our system breaks down
as it were
also don't forget oh we got I get sent
to posters today
Brendon will you grab that one of those
posters I meant to show that we got sent
a poster it's in those two slabs of
cardboard it sent a poster today from
when I was out at just coffee in
Wisconsin I saw a poster of meirin's a
label and there's only two labels that
they make that are accustomed to podcast
shows one is meirin's at WP TF and then
one is ours
and there it is the just coffee mr
poster this is a collector's item that
will not be on matthew film guys ebay
but you can get the majority report
blend as you can see it's a medium blend
and you can also get all sorts of other
type of roasts dark roast medium roasts
the light roasts at just coffee dot
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
today is Friday Tuesday is also a day
Michael what happened on Tuesday
Joshua con taught us using the Simpsons
how to organize a campaign going back to
the history of leftist organizing as the
executive director of the Wildfire
project John iadarola joined us we see
we sort of sized up the 2020 field and
we took a lesson from Cornel West on the
distinction between buzzwords and
showing up to explain how to think
strategically and morally about 2020
patreon.com slash TMDs or become now
we're less than a hundred away one of
the first thirty two thousand
subscribers on our youtube channel Jamie
so we were gonna wait until Monday to
release this episode of history as a
weapon as a bonus for patrons maybe try
to get a few more patrons
sign up but it felt extremely relevant
unfortunately to the shooting that just
happened in New Zealand so we decided to
release it today for free to everyone so
in this history is a weapon Sean and
Matt Chrisman from chopper trap house go
over this book from the 1970s called
camp of the saints by G Andrus by which
is you know currently experiencing
something of a renaissance among these
right-wing populist figures like Steve
Bannon and marine lepen I took a look at
it it's some of the most horrible racist
stuff that you'll ever read in a book
it's about you know these like waves of
brown immigrants who want to destroy
this mythical thing called the West and
I think you know it's it's horrible it's
horrible to look at but I think it's
also really important to understanding
the framework that the ideological
framework a lot of these people are
operating within and unfortunately I
think it will remain relevant until we
confront the roots of this horrible
problem so I'm sorry that's not this
little depressing but uh I just had an
image of Sam as a UH as like a Breitbart
host being like it's called camp of the
saints
speaking of books tomorrow on literary
hangover we're doing the first
bestseller which is actually a book in
the genre of racial paranoia the
captivity narrative of Mary Rawlinson
and it's context King Philip's War or
Medicom it's rebellion as we should
probably call it so I checked look out
for that tomorrow what do you mean he's
first bestseller bestseller is that when
they just instituted the the metric or
what I mean it was like the first
notable publication that was printed
basically like that it was widely sold
on both sides of the
dick basically and if you wanted it in
like Virginia to have to buy it from the
UK because that's how publishing worked
back then but yeah it was a big big
seller people because people were very
interested in Native American life and
Native Americans in general because they
didn't know much about him and they were
colonized in their land but you could
never hear about it unless it was either
through a missionary narrative or a
captivity narrative because if somebody
actually just went and became part of
the Native Americans which a lot of
colonists did they wouldn't be allowed
to write about it
you know be fun mat and if you did like
something like DaVinci Code to like you
just mixed in a couple of like really
wildly bad books it's not I mean be fun
there has in in the early days before
literary hanger was not was launched the
early days was there was a pilot episode
of Fifty Shades of Grey which one Fifty
Shades of Grey
oh dude nice that was on the information
of that out there alright folks could
bring me here a himat headed to the fun
half we'll be right back gone from a
nine one nine
[Music]
well let's just do this exercise Oh
super sick saga super sick oh yeah right
you don't need to meet that's no
security you don't need to meet that's
not a kid nobody cared the way that you
need a special tax wealthy people boards
the pay that's just simply not enough
and as you over say soon as you stick in
that access that we already do of
universal access right there's a weird
weird weird time for politics right now
that's legit balance afraid this is a
friction at all finally got to fulfill
his destiny worker Somali Noel
illegal very good this was a Jew
well I mean
[Music]
[Music]
we are back fun half was a very very
Velma jority report with sam cedar remix
by Riptide a Riptide what should we play
first let's just loosen up things yeah
so ladies and gentlemen there's a lot of
talk as to whether or not Sean Hannity
is actually alive and part of this
questioning his actual existence as to
wit and not I don't mean animated he is
of course animated we see him on TV
every night but some people are
questioning whether or not if she undead
is he the undead because that would
explain a lot of what he's able to do on
television in terms of repeating zombie
lies and and whatnot and here is this is
a segment that he did with I can't even
remember his name now I can't remember
you know Mike Huckabee I don't like
Huckabee yes and there's a bug crawling
all over Sean Hannity as he is live on
television this is pretty awesome stuff
let's just watch and see if anybody
notices but thank you and that was the
bug thing right on is back-trace
Gallagher's here next to give us all the
new developments on his name to cases
jussie Smollett crime and ecology
division at all Geraldo Rivera Rachel
Campos Duffy now together this Djinn was
involved in a really shocking crime you
must see that straight ahead
Wow Wow I mean remember when Tara Reid
didn't realize that her boob was out
because she had fake boobs no feel like
this is somewhat analogous who's Tara
Reid okay I once again I find your lack
of polka pop culture knowledge very
charming if slightly unbelievable um
just take my word for it she's an
actress what's on television this is not
no no let's be real here this is not I
do literally don't believe that Sam has
never heard a sub base there's no way
that's true but not knowing who Tara
Reid is is super plausible I'll bet Sam
definitely gets a pass on this one let
alone like an obscure random
embarrassing well well we don't know who
Tara Tara Reid is this is I think the
bug stink bug oh yeah no I'm fully aware
of a stink bug it's not important it's
not important who Tara readers my point
is same similar thing I think was going
on here because he has a fake face
because he is of course a reptile
wearing the face of a human he could be
I think there's a lot of theories he
could be a changeling
he could be part of the I am the undead
yeah it's one of to say it in his
cadence that stinkbug incidentally they
call him a stink bug because when you
squish it they smell really bad
yeah that's what it is and don'ts yeah
nobody called Sean Hannity nobody calls
Sean Hannity stink bugs pouring out of
Sean Hannity's body I mean a sign of the
Apocalypse it is or maybe it's a sign of
good things to come and make the bird
and Bernie he's been cursed by a stink
bug so let's play this clip from pod
save America and and this is what I find
you know sort of somewhat I mean I you
know look I don't listen to pod save
America on a regular basis I know a lot
of people do that's all well and good I
think probably on balance they're a net
positive sore and it keeps their options
open bumble
[Laughter]
I did have on my back in the day on my
bumble profile I did say let me tell you
why you can do better than pod say I'm
not disqualifying you but do better
right
that's practice there was which was a
big change when just putting a pod save
in America a pod save America in your
bumble profile will get an immediate to
swipe whatever the side is bad
that's why I've left but this type of
stuff I think is you know sort of
problematic because it's so reminiscent
of another guy in who in my mind served
a similar purpose maybe you know
different era obviously where everything
was a little bit more to the right but
here's a Jon Lovitz echoing what I heard
during the run-up to the Iraq war which
was right war wrong reasons or wrong
reasons but right war one of the things
that's very hard in this situation is
that this is one of those rare times
where Trump isn't getting everything
totally wrong
you know this is a situation where just
because Donald Trump has an ideological
interest in proving something in
Venezuela and just because he is not he
has shown such deference to dictators
around the world and has such authority
and tendencies at home doesn't mean that
there aren't places where we align on
trying to remove Maduro it's just that
we might have a slightly different
approach yeah I mean all right and so
here's the thing I mean the and I don't
know what they I don't know what the
slightly different approach is that
these guys have but the the reason why
we should not support intervention in
Venezuela is not because Donald Trump
supports intervention the reason why we
shouldn't support intervention in
Venezuela is because none of our
interventions and maybe somebody can
come up with one off the top of my head
I can't think of one but it's much
easier to think of our
interventions in the past that their net
result has been the has been more
destabilization more violence an
incredibly amount of durable
destabilization and violence for
instance you could just get into a car
and travel north from Venezuela and get
into Central America maybe would even
have to go that far actually but El
Salvador and Guatemala and Nicaragua
Honduras where places have been highly
destabilized and because of US
intervention in one form or another so
there's nothing good that comes out of
this and you can certainly believe that
Maduro is anti-democratic that the the
dissolution of that you know the
rewriting of a constitution the
dissolution of of a legislative body and
jailing his opposition parties and a
run-up to election you can have a
problem with all of this and still
ultimately say the US can't fix this
problem by intervening it can only
exacerbate these problems and even if
there is a short-term fix that the US
thinks it has inevitably and invariably
these things go south and also I mean I
will just do that without opening all of
it certainly greatly contributed to the
problem by our actions but uua outlines
the bigger more important points but I
think there's a smaller by your logic
point here which is actually really
important for understanding how
legitimately problematic things like pot
save America and all this like
resistance discourses because like if I
was to stipulate that okay these are
people who don't have an anti
interventionist anti-imperial view so
they're susceptible to supporting
policies that you know I just
fundamentally opposed in a place like
Venezuela but they an especially pot
save guys are supposed to be the types
of people that real
nice that Donald Trump is in fact
uniquely unable to do anything and
uniquely dangerous and there is just
something extraordinary about people who
rightly spend all day saying that he's
racist he's incompetent he shouldn't be
trusted with anything and then the one
area that they're willing to give him
deference on is in one of the most
dangerous and neatly problematic areas
that we do period that reveals a lot the
the the exact same dynamic took place
when he started launching bombs into
Syria right that on news on MSNBC with
all of these ostensibly you know sort of
folks who would otherwise oppose Donald
Trump who are like we need to do this
and then come up with a plan I'm like
who exactly is going to do this like
you're you're sitting here telling us
that Donald Trump is completely out of
control or is completely incompetent
you're gonna trust this guy to wage war
on I mean like like what are we afraid
of what is anybody afraid of with Donald
Trump like you know beyond what you
would be afraid of of your average
Republican policy it is that he's going
to get people killed like that he
doesn't have the agenda of not just that
he doesn't have the agenda of the United
States in mind as his primary motivating
factor and I would argue that I don't
even know what that means
because I think different people
different presidents would have
different notion of what our key
American interests in any given sake and
what when doing something in the the for
the benefit the United States I think
has a different definition for different
people depending on what part of
American society they're in but the
bottom line is you're giving Donald
Trump essentially the the keys to the
car on you know the night where there's
more drunk drivers on the on the streets
than any other night you're roughing him
you're you're allowing this guy to
operate in the most dangerous of
contexts and so even under right by
their logic it makes no sense
all right let's see what else we have
here let's go to the phones shall we
ladies and gentlemen calling from a two
one three area code who's this where he
comes from
hey hey hello hello and ring came from
Los Angeles what's on your mind maybe I
want to ask how are from what
Joe Strummer was Joe Strummer yeah I use
pretty pretty awesome I've been
listening to the there's a podcast
that's para fight about the story of the
cross yeah well rated by Chuck D and
maybe the third save America guys could
use a little bit more of the class I
think that's probably the case what's it
called yeah what were they listening to
um I had no idea what they were anything
to but what about what's the a podcaster
shut the house oh it's all about the
story of the question I think they're
three episodes but I mean I mean again
into the class lately and then just
sandanista during the class yeah
intimately but take a listen to
Washington Bullets and it is maybe
apparently it's called stay free the
story of the clash yeah
yeah well that's good I'm gonna check
that out actually that's pretty
typically cool of Chuck D to I would say
yes good what do you think of can I ask
you a question because you're clearly uh
a punk music fan what do you think of
all of the sort of leftist punk bands
that uh bado says he likes like Fugazi a
minor threat do you think
that minor threat might turn out to be
his Rage Against the Machine I'm talking
about Paul Ryan like are we gonna find
out what you and Makai thinks of beta
over word oh let's hope not that let's
let's not get beta into the music
territory or maybe you just should just
saying that there's a character yeah I
think you might have something little
Toby I appreciate the call Enrique I'm
gonna check out that podcast that's
something that would
it's called stay free the story of the
clash what was that what happened when
Paul Ryan it was reported he got into a
van and started listening to Papa Roach
what what what did he fail at doing it
that Obamacare appeal and then he got
into a SUV and then this started playing
all right so I think it's really if
there's just a debate that is closed is
that Paul Ryan is the worst human being
an American and probably global politics
he's horrible
speaking of horrible people let's tune
in to Fox News in their response to the
the terror attacks in New Zealand and
good for them for you know at the very
least now they reported this as at two
moths and it was a coordinated shootings
but wasn't it when one person maybe this
is when the early early reports but
here's a Fox talking about the the New
Zealand Mosque attack reporting we're
getting out of New Zealand that he wants
to stand trial there's only one reason
for that he wants to make sure his views
get expressed publicly how sick is that
and well bill you're absolutely right
normally these types of shootings have
you seen the United States the shooter
takes their life within five to ten
minutes of the activity so this
individual is is sick he posted these
rantings online beforehand and also you
know to take this military action that's
really what this is you know you go and
you get this milk
style weapon and you go into a mosque
where people are praying unarmed and
just to slaughter them you know it
becomes such a question of insanity that
someone would want to do this but you
know the question that has also been
circulating whether or not this was an
attack that was based upon religion or
based upon immigration the New Zealand
community has really been kind of
struggling a little bit over the time in
terms of how to deal with the immigrants
there's been the laws there was a law
passed in nineteen in 2017 that
restricted the ability of foreigners to
buy land within New Zealand because that
the housing prices were being inflated
and citizens of New Zealand we're
feeling like they were being forced out
that could have played into so we don't
know but necessarily the motivation was
against immigrants or against the
Muslims and specifically this is just
bizarre to me maybe they're just looking
for stuff to talk about but the you know
the the idea that these white
supremacists have such a specific narrow
set of of hatred they don't they hate
people who are not like them and so they
don't they're not splitting hairs here
in that manner
it is hatred of the other it is in the
air
folks amongst the white world in
particular that societies that are
supposed to be more multicultural are
the those people who are afraid of
somehow the the dilution of white
culture they promote these things and
you know I can't remember in what
context but there is obviously a
difference between a Donald Trump and
the guy who pulls the weapon from the
back of his car in New Zealand and goes
in and shoots up and apparently there
were two other guys it's unclear whether
they were involved but apparent
they had weapons which is why that
reported the first report may have seen
it as coordinated attacks but there's a
difference but they're on a spectrum and
it's very hard to get to the shooter
without first laying the groundwork that
is being laid by those people who don't
nearly go as far as the shooter not just
in terms of actions but maybe they don't
go quite as far as in terms of rhetoric
he releases a a manifesto than in the
form of a question answer here is one of
his questions were / are you a supporter
of Donald Trump as a symbol of renewed
white identity and common purpose sure
as a policymaker and leader dear god no
so sort of fascinating right like he's
what Matt said in the beginning not
sintra tech but Matt said before when
there's like that's not like when we
talk about it how obviously there's the
policy areas but there's also just the
cultural representation of overt white
supremacy in the white house yeah he
gets it right he may say like yeah no I
get he's incompetent I don't have to
support him for that but we've got one
of our own in the white house who is you
know at the within the context of where
society is today this is very helpful
for us he's pushing the envelope and
that's good from the perspective of a
white nationalist of white supremacists
that's that's what they want that's
helpful and in the same way that we talk
about you know Donald Trump pushing the
envelope as it were for white supremacy
and white nationalism in the context in
which he does he's asked himself these
questions - from where did you receive
and research and develop your beliefs
and he goes the Internet of course you
will not find the truth anywhere else I
mean maybe some of this is tongue and
you know I think some of this is
tongue-in-cheek because he add in
another part of the manifesto clearly
sites Brevik as his main inspiration I
think this Candis Owens thing might be
like a little bit but Candis owns
reaction is
interesting yeah so this guy you know
like I say has a manifesto where he asks
himself questions and answers it we
don't know a lot of what these guys do
is sort of you know somewhat ironic in
the way that they present on online that
they attempt to that they they are are
trolls in many respects so when he's
asked himself is there a particular
person that radicalized you the most he
says yes the person that influenced me
above all was Candace Owens now he may
or may not that may or may not be a
legitimate answer on some level he may
see in his twisted mind like oh this is
going to be good this will a lien aid
her or she'll become problematic and we
can get a non-white person out of like
look I don't know that he's sincere
about saying that Candace Owens either
Candace Owens did because you know she
has been quite explicit and in talking
about you know if France wants to build
an army to defend itself against
anything it ought to be declining
birthrate of its own people I mean this
this sort of all signs indicate that it
would be a Muslim majority country in 40
years maybe she has a probably you know
maybe he's being sincere she goes on at
one point to say on Twitter remind Sadiq
Khan that according to the and that's
the Mayor of London that according to
the birthrate Europe will fall and
become a Muslim majority continent by
2050 there's never been a Muslim
majority country where Sharia law was
not implemented I don't even know what
but when we're forced to save you guys
again will forgive the balloon I mean
Candace Owens says we have 50 million
Muslims in Europe these are signs that
Allah will grant Islam a victory in
Europe but she's talking she's quoting
Megara Muammar Gaddafi in 1975 Muammar
Gaddafi is obviously dead we killed a
man she's as a trump balloon won't save
the UK well the question is what will
then Candice right exactly like I don't
understand
and she's dealing her response to
protests against Donald Trump is to talk
about the all the Muslims that are
invading Europe so maybe the guy who
went and just killed 49 Muslims was
genuinely inspired by Candace Owens and
her writing on Muslims he did cite the
birth rate stuff in his manifesto I mean
maybe he legitimately was or maybe he
just feels that she shouldn't be in the
white supremacy perceives her to be in
the white supremacy movement and just
wanted to sort of like caused her grief
right but why would he want that why
would he either answer does not put
Candace Owens in a context that she
should be very proud about one context
is that he literally took her words
about Muslims to heart and was genuinely
inspired or the other reason why he does
it because we read this guy's obviously
fairly deliberate with what he's doing
here he's not just picking random names
out of a hat he could be doing it
because he wishes her ill will and why
would he wish her ill well well he's a
white supremacist maybe he wishes her it
will because she's black but there are a
lot of other black people that he might
wish ill-will - probably some that are
certainly less aligned who are not out
there saying things like about this with
Muslims well maybe he wants her out of
the movement that she's in because it
contaminates the movement this is this
is the generous view as to why he would
mention her in this and so he wants to
cause her problems and this he knows
will be problematic to credit her with
being and to get her out to get her out
of what like what is she in now that he
feels that she's painting this is this
is the generous perspective super
generous so here is Candace Owen trying
to defend herself today and her response
to I guess the tweet was deleted a tweet
that what indicated you know that
she had been mentioned in the fest oh
yeah yeah uh lol she writes laughing
very hard fat way to start it I've never
created any content espousing my views
on the Second Amendment or Islam well
well we just read three tweets that went
out to how many followers does she have
also what is this
how many thought she had been a hundred
thousand two hundred thousand maybe how
much she has load in here oh she's got
one point one three million followers
that's a maybe one point one three
million followers who saw those tweets
about Muslims maybe that maybe that
Aikens is content but she never says
I've never created content espousing my
views on the Second Amendment or Islam I
well the Islam is true I mean it's
obviously false rather we've we've read
those the left is pretending I inspired
a mosque massacre in New Zealand in
dot-dot-dot as if the internet doesn't
work in New Zealand I mean I've never
been in the same locales Candice Owens I
think in my life apparently she doesn't
realize in New Zealand that there's an
Internet
because I believe black America can do
it without government handouts is the
reaches reach of all reaches lol very
funny um it's super funny of course the
left is not pretending that I inspired
that she inspired the mosque massacre
if anybody's pretending it is the maus
massacre
and maybe he's pretending maybe he's not
but the left isn't pretending left is
just reading the guy's manifesto and you
know who else is reading the guy's
manifesto the right everybody's reading
the manifesto it says the exact same
word regardless of your political
ideology I mean so this is Candace Owens
doing our best to deflect now there's
two options you have when you're candice
Owens I regret that my name was in this
guy's manifesto I have nothing to do
with this I find it a Horan I I find
violence I find violence against
immigrants I find violence against
people because of their religion
horrible
I it is not my fault I am in his you
know a lunatic can't be you know I can't
be held responsible for a lunatic who
cites me but it's it's disgusting
so instead her response is to like this
is hilarious look at those crazy lefties
look at those craziest like crazy
lefties reading something and then
talking about what the fact is and the
fact is she was cited as his inspiration
by him that's a fact and she should come
up with a you would think that the
millions of dollars that they have to
deal with the public relations which is
basically their job and TP USA you can
come up with somebody who has a better
response than that it's pretty gross
forty nine people were slaughtered by a
man who said you were the inspiration
take a couple minutes think about what
you're gonna say really I mean it's
disgusting okay can we go back to what
you said about Trump because it's such a
dark mirror to how the left sees Bernie
right it reminds me of something our
interviewee who in who infiltrated the
alt-right said which is you know people
regular white people right now have a
choice you can be white or you can be
human the only way to fight fascism is
with socialism like I know I'm always
saying socialism or barbarism but it's
true like we are facing a crisis right
now in many different ways
crisis of ecology a crisis of the
profitability etc and liberal
institutions are collapsing all over the
world everyone everyone can see that so
one one solution is for you know regular
working people all over the world of all
races and all genders to get together
and demand a more equitable distribution
of resources and the answer the right
has come up with is to become
tribalistic
have this imaginary idea of the West and
white nationalism and say we need to
take care of our own everyone else is
gonna be exterminated right so there
isn't a representative of either of
those viewpoints right now in mainstream
politics but Trump I think is to the
reactionary right of that as Bernie is
to the left and I'm just I'm scared of
what's gonna happen if the right wins
like you know what I'm saying like Oh
Bernie's probably not gonna pass a law
to get rid of capitalism but he's gonna
spread the message of you know brothers
and sisters uniting as as a class to
demand more for themselves what the
right is saying is you know Trump's not
going to literally put all brown people
in concentration camps although he's
starting to do that but he's spreading a
message of white nationalism and it's
terrifying I mean I think if I was
frankly gonna vote exclusively on that
sort of the the symbolic message that
you're talking about you know someone
like bado I think that's what he's going
to be running on frankly is this notion
of you know I think last conflict no I
don't I don't think that shooting was
about class conflict in New Zealand no
I'm saying that the left answer to the
problems is class conflict and the right
answer is white nationalism socialism or
barbarism being the two choices
Edie there should we are already living
in barbarism okay I just don't
understand how I just don't understand
it I just don't understand how dark beer
- what the left is trying to do that is
positive that's all I'm saying they view
Trump in much the same way that the Left
views Bernie
okay III that may be the case I just I'm
I'm confused as to like what I don't
okay does anyone know what I'm trying to
say
well be more explicit here like so I
don't know what dark mirror means I just
wouldn't I would not I just don't think
they're like I just think like why even
give anybody even the sound byte of I
like I get I think I get where you're
trying to go but like let's not even
give them the sound byte of comparing
Bernie to Trump yeah I just don't I I
think that's a bad analogy I think I
think it is analogous but whatever it's
fine okay let's go to the phones you're
calling from an eighth first 7 area code
who's this where you calling from
hello Josh from Chicago what's on your
mind
Oh first of all I want to and I wondered
if you could wish my friend Zoey a happy
birthday oh sorry so ask you know happy
birthdays are all you need a all
right Samantha Cox Josh Josh what
else can we do for you Botox for me Josh
boom we all know our room and all
anyways I want to first of all follow up
Matthew films guys recommendation
Lucrecia Martel is awesome and her new
films AMA it's really good and some
people should watch it it's all about
colonialism it's actually really trippy
and but I want to talk about this beta
stuff ok um is it just me or do like I
really don't feel like this guy has any
chance and I think the reason why ok I
might be speaking too soon but I think
there are two things that bothered me
and I think the two reasons why don't
think he'll really go far I think he's
kind of just going to crash and burn one
he has like no message whatsoever and I
think people our age aren't just looking
for like a cool guy in like memes you
like skateboards they're actually look
for like concrete a concrete message
like concrete ideas someone like a
Bernie Sanders or even Elizabeth Warren
but I also think his run smacks of just
complete white male privilege like that
Vanity Fair article I don't know if he
is aware of how he just came off looking
like someone who is completely entitled
especially especially because like he
didn't even win and not everyone who
didn't win was afforded the same
privilege just run for president the way
he has it smacks of real narcissism well
that that is the thing is that like you
know if you read the if the if the piece
did not include he's going to run for
president and his politics and you read
that Vanity Fair piece it like this is
cool this is like this sounds like an
interesting guy that's the guy who he's
the guy who invented like you know the
blankety-blank box but the bad you buy
in the box but then when it comes to
like I've been I mean this sense that he
this is his destiny it is it's it's
pretty stunning and it's also it and
some level it's a little bit frankly I
gotta be honest with you I was a little
bit scared by it because this is a guy
who was completely intoxicated by the
crowds that he that he got when he was
on the campaign trail this is all stuff
from the and the existence of these
crowds convinced him that he should run
for president and you're right without
you know and he he at the very least I
think recognizes the odet the audacity
of him running in a Democratic Party
that it does not look like him
increasingly right and is sort of like
very interested in having I mean so I
and I think you know look anybody's
allowed to run for president
I'm iron less concerned about the
the sort of the white privilege that's
there I mean that is something that is
granted by society he certainly you know
he could run I have a would be
interesting if we could test let's say
Stacey Abrams running against him if we
wanted to just sort of like do a an
experiment but what strikes me well yeah
or Andrew Gilliam what's what what
strikes me is the guy doesn't seem to
have an agenda other than he was
invigorated by running and that to me is
just it's it's it's it's almost scary
none of the other stuff would matter
frankly like I like I said this
yesterday I actually made this point cuz
I noted that thing of like I'm born to
be in it man
and it's like okay contrast that would
Bernie who's a total mission-driven
candidate or contrast that with a comma
Harris you you know obviously I have you
very differently to Bernie but like she
actually could not say that because she
is not born to be in it because of the
structure of our society right she's
overcoming huge barriers just by even
being in the game and I but I said like
look I don't you know that's not my kind
of content and I think that it's a
crutch and a lot of coverages and
sometimes I wouldn't necessarily go
there if he came out with an actual
policy agenda
well that is the which is what you're
saying he just has nothing so it's like
I guess it all is just personal
entitlement and being you know a
charismatic a charismatic a guy like a
charismatic charismatic white guy who's
born to be in it well you know that is
that's not it's not that unique yeah
well no that's and that's kind of like
the thing it's like honestly from a
mission and policy level nothing from a
I mean look we said this yesterday
Buddha gig you know he's a boring
centrist white guy he is a gay man and
that's significant and he's also putting
points on the board I was talking about
the Supreme Court right talking about
corporations dad was a Marxist a dad was
a process executive
executive and I know it just speaks very
well III was I did shows months ago
about like hey where's all the love for
Stacey Abrams if there's all this for
Beto so I agree with that argument but
neither of them should run for president
my opinion look I both would make great
Senate candidates I think my friend
Sophie Weiner said it best when she said
that bado
is not the white Obama he is in fact the
white Cory Booker yes I understood that
like Cory Booker speeches make more
sense I will also say Cory Booker has
had to be fair I don't like what he did
necessarily would that experience but
he's had substantial experience you know
he was mayor of of Newark he has I can
point to you know two or three main
issue silos that Cory Booker has been
involved with that I would like
attributes that I would find either
positive or negative right Cory Booker
has been involved in you know felt very
strongly about charter schools and
privatization of our public school
education I have a big problem with that
but at least he was married to something
his criminal his criminal justice reform
you know he has been committed to that I
have like I say I have problems with
some of his issue positions beto the
amount of monic that he has done on
issues his his attachment to what he ran
on or what he's even running on now
seems so tentative as to almost be
impossible to see and to the extent that
he is has any attachment to these issues
it seems to be rhetorical and simply
over the course of of the last election
so I don't know that to me a guy like
that who is convinced he's right for the
role but doesn't have an internal and in
eternal a compass as to why he's right
for the role other than like it's right
for him this is like you know
Connecticut for Lieberman in my mind but
just a guy just who's I think God really
enjoy it
right I'd really enjoy it you also want
to step back a little bit because I do
think you know he is doing an Obama
impression and Obama setting aside the
the substance of the arguments when you
watch his speeches they're there their
word salads Obama actually always gave
extremely coherent crafted speeches
agree or disagree with the content right
appreciate the call Josh what else we
get here oh this is dr. Carlson of
course is under siege these days because
of the myriad of problematic things he
said that were I think you could argue
racist in terms of of folks from Iraq
they were certainly just grotesque and
of course his misogyny and of course a
tough month for him because he had
Rutger Bregman on and refused to put him
on because Bregman was questioning the
premise of his most recent populist turn
Tucker's been so desperate that he
actually had to have Gabe Rubin on to
defend him and when you the best you can
do is to get to Dave Rubin on to defend
you you know you've got a problem so he
turns to Heather McDonald who is Heather
McDonald
she's like a I think she made I don't
know if she if she coined blue lives
matter but she wrote the book on it yeah
yeah she her most recent book is anti
diversity did the diversity delusion or
something like the diversity delusion
that's wonderful that's my book on cops
and so here she is talking about how
that bribery scheme of people probably
similarly situated to Tucker and
probably for that matter Heather
McDonald
what is really at the basis of that
country we are paying for these
institutions they're in no sense private
none of them I think to Hillsdale and
Grove City everyone else takes federal
funds so why shouldn't we know why they
hide from us how they make these
decisions well the main reason is
because of the size of racial
preferences that's what they are don't
want anybody to know understand what
what the question is here we give
federal funds to these private
institutions why why why is their
admissions process not transparent and
we do know there have been multiple
lawsuits as to opening up these
admissions processes to make sure that
they don't provide quotas for
affirmative action and but yet
everything else is completely opaque
incidentally maybe it's just a
coincidence that there's probably never
been an occasion where someone has
donated a million dollars plus to a
university where their children did not
go there if they had children I mean I
would be very curious to see that
statistically what percentage of donors
to a university who have children who go
to college don't get into that school I
would place it somewhere around 0% but
that's not what they're hiding what are
they hiding folks well she's going to
tell you it's that they're their hotbeds
of diversity well the main reason is
because of the size of racial
preferences that's what they are don't
want anybody to know the fact that if
you're applying to Harvard being black
gets you afford four times greater
chance of being admitted than anybody
else this is much greater than legacy
preferences I mean the first off the
idea that there is concern about that
when these people are all you know all
these institutions are on the record of
saying diversity is actually a is
actually an attribute that we want in
our institution that it actually adds to
the educational experience
aside from the fact that I think this is
stated directly the you know this is the
ethnic diversity of the undergraduate
students at Harvard University you have
Asian white is 40 almost 44 percent
Asian 17% non-resident alien is 12 point
three percent Hispanic Latino is 10
point eight percent black or
african-american is 6.7% ethnicity
unknown is nine point two percent legacy
students make up around fourteen percent
that's weird because that would be a
number that is higher than well I guess
she could be saying like any non-whites
right any non-whites are higher than the
legacy that Tucker's a certain point
it's just all the same right well that's
the thing it's either you know you're
either white or you're diverse right
under her auspices and so all the
non-whites you are on one side and the
legacies aren't another it's not even
bring up all the other selective
pressures kids go through on their way
through high school
exactly that's right I mean this has
always been like yeah I mean I I think
the context of the starting line by
which you could even be in a position to
slightly benefit in a ultra relative
context you're eliminating 99.999% of
the story
that's impressive though to go on there
and push that super impressive
I'm characteristic well she manages to
shoehorn her thing into anything that
happens so in debt indeed
speaking of shoehorning as you know
Donald Trump announced very late
relative to European countries and one
would expect when you have look American
or I should say air travel and
across the board has become so
incredibly advanced than safe in the
past 20 or 30 years that it that it's
sort of the stunning so when you have an
airplane that goes down and it's a
specific airplane that goes down twice
in a relatively short period of time
relative to the timeline of airline
crashes and you have an extended record
of pilots reporting hey there's
something wrong here right it should be
a fairly obvious reaction to grounding
the planes now if you're trying to not
work Donald Trump right Donald Trump of
course has a deep relationship with
Boeing they're his favorite they are big
supporters they give money to the
inauguration all good things
best planes best planes and so he did
not immediately ground these planes but
later did and made a big show of it that
he was going to do it how does he know
that there's something wrong with these
planes maybe it's the fact that there's
been reams written about it maybe
there's all the reports from the pilots
know ladies and gentlemen he gets under
the hood how do we know well Katie
Pavlich tells us how boxes which will
give them a ton of information flying is
still the most it's the safest way to
get around the world around the country
much safer than driving in your car
posits incidentally I think Katie
Pavlich must know that you cannot drive
around the world because of the oceans
but go ahead for then driving in your
car that's for sure but there are
reports of US pilots complaining or in
reporting problems with this plane that
are similar to what happened with these
flights that went down now they have to
ask a question about standards of
training are the pilots in the United
States are getting the same training on
the Boeing as the pilots overseas and
that might not be the case there could
be different standards and training that
are not being upheld so we'll just have
to wait and see what happens but I will
say you know to get President Trump some
credit everyone's like Oh what does he
know about planes for the guys owned
planes entire life and you know when you
own a private plane
know about the way it functions so I
think totally this is about as
ridiculous of a take as you possibly
could get first off have you owned a
plane yeah I've known a plane I have
owned cars for the better part of my
life and if there was something wrong
with a specific model of a car I would
have really no more insight into it than
anyone else a B you don't study I also
there is a difference between a private
plane and a 737 or whatnot but even even
if there weren't I mean the idea I don't
know I went to Wharton you would take it
cuz I'm gonna take a look into the
engine I just before I come on I like to
sit talk to the pilots about the
computer assisted navigation tools and I
the highest marks at work a lot better
service privately hey Mike Mike Pompeo
you need to call word and threaten to
drop a drone on them they release my
grades they are very selective about
when they think standpoint epistemology
is okay that's unbelievable these guys
are just completely nuts
don't you contradict my lived experience
so the Senate was this yesterday and
maybe two days ago now voted to endorse
in many respects is an endorsement of
the War Powers Act I mean and well
overdue a resolution to end support for
the saudi-led Coalition in Yemen saying
that we should not be supporting the
slaughter of civilians that is taking
place in the context of this so-called
civil war we should not be supporting
the embargo etc etc this will despite
the fact that it was a
a house resolution that the Senate
picked up the the Republicans managed to
interfere with it enough
procedurally to send it back to the
house I suspect that it's gonna pass
again in the house no reason to believe
that it will be less this time around
Mike Pompeo very upset though very upset
because well let's hear Mike Pompeo
complain that the US Senate has actually
acted upon their role under the War
Powers Act to resolve that we should not
be involved in this in this Yemen
conflict I'd like to comment on the
Senate vote this week to end support for
the saudi-led coalition fighting in
Yemen we all want this conflict to end
we all want to improve the dire
humanitarian situation but the Trump
administration fundamentally disagrees
the curbing our assistance to the
saudi-led coalition is the way to
achieve these goals the senators who
voted I say they want to end the bombing
in Yemen and support human rights but we
really need to think about whose human
rights if you truly care about you many
lives you'd support the saudi-led effort
to prevent Yemen from turning into a
puppet state of the corrupt brutish
Islamic Republic of Iran if we truly
care about Saudi lives you'd want to
stop Iran back Houthis from launching
missiles positive one second I mean just
what what's stunning as you hear this
and for those people who don't who have
not read into this conflict and you
would really have to have really not
read into this conflict to know what
he's saying how audacious these lies are
how audacious these lies are first of
all it is it is a humanitarian crisis
what this has caused like the the
possibility of greater death amongst the
the Yemeni people it's hard to imagine
and the idea that this is in any way
mitigated it this war is stunning no I
mean it's actually lit I mean you
translated as you should have a genocide
all campaign and I we can actually on
the border of legitimately use that word
if you include like cholera epidemics
and food shortages to undermine Iran
what we did is it that's a point to we
haven't even got Mary that's it that's
point to well though he's saying because
so it doesn't become an Islamic Republic
the point to is the the idea that Iran
is in any really sort of like seriously
material way associated with with
supporting and the the Houthi efforts is
debunked by any reasonable individual
Houthis have existed for a very long
time of their own independent power base
and if anything the relationship between
the Iranians and the Houthis is all has
been actually like it is a more true
statement today than it was in the
beginning of 2015 but they are not
Hezbollah at all in terms of depending
on Iranians to operate this is just the
most disingenuous display of supporting
the mass murder of of people that I
think you know we've seen in quite a
long time this is a coalition he's just
a remind people do you remember the a
couple of months ago the Saudis bombed
the school bus and it was relevant for a
couple reasons because one was I think
it was a General Dynamics bomb or maybe
a locky bomb and this was the same time
they were doing like a we're supporting
girls to go to Sciences cat right and
the Saudis who normally don't publicly
comment on their daily murder and
slaughter campaign they came out they
were just like yeah that was a mistake
because what happens we thought there
were two people in the bus that weren't
in the bus so sorry about that yeah no I
mean they Basel II literally like you
know the subtext was obvious let's
listen to the rest of this it's
disgusting
if we truly care about Saudi lives you'd
want to stop Iran back who these from
launching missiles into Riyadh
if you truly care about Arab lives in
the region you'd support allied efforts
to prevent Iran from extending its
authoritarian rule from Tehran to the
Mediterranean Sea and on down to Yemen
and if we truly care about American
lives and livelihoods and the lives and
livelihoods of people all around the
world you to understand that Iran and
it's proxies cannot be allowed to
control the shipping lanes that abut
Yemen Wow so and also releases how many
children
sorry Yemeni children shouldn't have had
your shipping lanes abutting Iran you're
gonna pay for that alright the final
call of the day folks
let's see coming from a two one five
area code who's this where you calling
from how are you there I'm good
first I want to just tell you that Donny
Deutsch is going to make a run for mayor
of New York no way that's not a
joke that's gonna be how didn't know how
do you know that instead of losing chair
this morning
oh geez ray alright welcome to the race
you loser
grand opening thanks for all the content
exactly it's also Donny Deutsch I'm
gonna vote for Donald Trump
I mean honestly that was that was Joe
saying I just saved your mayoral
campaign campaign that was well Jojo
hasn't been on on me well Joe the reason
why I've been watching him lately is Joe
Amica have been remotely if they even
show up they've been just sitting in
their living room just kind of like just
showing up so Willie has basically been
running the show so Donny was on today
with Willie and they were talking about
it and that bill de blasio was on and
then after bill de blasio Donny said
that he's going to thinking about taking
ID like they set it up because well he
knew what he was going to do
so they set it up that Willie had asked
you know Donny about it and Donny said
that he was thinking about he's
learning whether or not to run for mayor
of New York so I thought you would like
to hear that and I think that's borne
out of you know he dated Marla maples he
has a hatred of Trump so much that I
think he wants to prove to Trump that he
could he's not he doesn't hate there's
like a personal relationship there Mindy
there he doesn't hate Donald Trump at
all at least as far as I know some sick
sick kind of way right if Donny Deutsch
would like some tips on how to reach out
to the emerging constituencies that
maybe he'll have trouble reaching but
we'll need an a broad-based campaign
available for turning for a million
dollar a month yeah I'll help him run
yeah Joey yeah Donny join to-20 MBS for
$500,000 a month all right so the only
thing I wanted to say is now I don't
want you to yell at me and this isn't my
opinion I'm just gonna tell you what
happened my my Republican girlfriend
called me or the other day and we were
talking and she was very excited about
Joe Biden running and she's a Republican
and her all her friends are Republican
and they're really excited about Joe
Biden and I know originally we said we
didn't give a if who they were
excited about and that was originally
the way we felt about it
but you know if we do get them on board
I know you're gonna get mad at me for
saying this but we could I know elevate
please yes just just yell it just
obliterate just just just scrub me but
they really I they won't vote for
anybody but like a Camela or a Biden
that's it that's that's that's like
where they begin and end okay and that's
a huge amount of people I mean a huge
amount of people so many people exactly
have you taken a scientific poll of this
okay no but obviously I haven't but I'm
in you know approaching
sixteen white middle-class Jewish woman
and half the people you know we're
Democrats and the other half are
Republicans no way you're approaching 60
you look so young Mindy no I'm gonna be
16 mate but thank you it's the hair I
keep the hair long but I think that no
knowing knowing and I have it in surgery
yet so I think that makes this not look
so bad but the other thing is these
people that I know that are rich that
purely vote for Trump because of the tax
thing cannot stomach did they vote for
90 well I'm sure right did they vote for
John McCain but well I know I think that
no I think she voted for Obama okay but
they vote for Mitt Romney
all right well ask her about Mitt Romney
cuz Mindy here's my here's here's my
take on this is that these people
probably voted more often than not for
Republican candidates in the past and
the the Democrats have still found ways
to win now and so I would suggest to you
that Democrats can win even if those
people don't vote for the candidate and
that in my experience every time
Democrats have tried to pick a candidate
based upon the notion that they could
win with that candidate they have lost
now we may go back you know
I'm trying to try to go back to your
time I'm trying to go back to no I
listened put aside put aside put aside
any other calculation I think it is just
like it is a fool's errand to try and
vote in a in a primary for someone that
you think is going to win
intellect I just don't think that our
our politics are like that anymore
I think things are a lot more clear you
know we're not going to nobody's gonna
get through the Democratic primary
who doesn't have at the very least a as
good a chance as anybody else as far as
we can measure in my mind now it's
possible there is an answer to this
question out there but I don't think
it's one that's accessible to us as mere
mornings I just I think that like
obviously if we had the ability to run
16 parallel universe elections between
the different people who are gonna be
Democratic primary things and run them
in the general election we would come
out with a disparity in the victories
for the different people maybe some
would lose I don't know but I don't
think that we can access that
information
we don't have 16 parallel and I think
that every attempt to guess that in the
past whether it was based on polls or
not has been wrong that's just you know
as far as running running a candidate to
to appease them because we want their
votes and it's not gonna work out well
guess we'll get screwed even worse and I
understand that no I am glad you'd sign
up to me I totally get that
and I'm not interested I don't even like
bado
I'm like I'm like anti-b know here's
here's the thing is that and this is
true in in in in in most endeavors I
think just as a as a general principle
when you attempt to win by being
defensive you you you open yourself up
to a lot of potential of failure points
it seems to me that you and you know I
think that's true in sports I think
that's true in in politics the the
attempt to win by by instead of just
actually like just attempting to win
it is like trying to plan to - I don't
know - try and guess who's gonna win I
think is licensed that everybody has a
plan until they get punched in the face
yeah infrastructure no bumps in the road
I would also point you I know we can't
predict these things but uh I would also
point you to the chart that Michael
brought up the other day which was a
poll of the electorate showing that
there's not really a constituency for
people who are socially liberal and
fiscally conservative I would say you
know there's a relatively small number I
don't I do think to be honest like and
I'm not making being just objective here
I like affluent suburban voters are
disproportionate because of money and
education and geographic location but
they are not they do not reflect much of
the electorate that's a very small small
group electorate we've already seen that
Mindy
appreciate the call yeah I gotta go I
did hang up on her when she told me that
she needed Omar and on that note you
have a wonderful day bro and I'll see
you again soon
[Music]
all right folks that was the final call
of the week we will see you on Monday
to get to where I want but I know some
I'm gonna get
I was
[Music]
feel any better yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
