time for two more calls that's actually
a great idea call from a two six six
area code who's this
two six six hello yes it is you
hi okay hi my name is dan from ontario
dance and uh yeah if I could just would
I be able to talk about that should we
be socialist the panel that you had sure
oh sure okay groaning here sorry
well pretty much there's two things that
I would say that I heard that was pretty
interesting one was well I think the
first person was describing their
position with regards to socialism they
said that they didn't know where they
fell they were for government doing
things like health care prisons but they
didn't want government to do things like
making shoes for example they thought
that private sector made shoes better
and to me this is kind of like
tangential to what most socialists think
about socialism they see that it's not
governments or private companies that
make anything its workers and so it's
always so it's kind of an abstraction
that I think a lot of liberals make so
yeah that's why they're there for
workers like maybe if they saw how those
shoes were made
you know by those workers they would
they could consider being a socialist I
don't know I mean I think wait I don't I
don't remember you know who it was that
said that I sort of feel like it was
maybe Pakman know is Ana Kasparian
owes an experience okay well I mean I
think like I don't want a name oh okay
why why it was a public I mean it's not
you know okay but alright I think that I
think that
I would bet her argument and we didn't
exemplify it I mean we didn't sort of
tease it out but I would bet her
argument it's like I want there to be
competition with shoes and the
implication that if the government is
you know making shoes and has a monopoly
on making shoes that there's only gonna
be one kind of shoe and I think that's
probably the fresh to death comrade yeah
I don't want the government to make
shoes either I want the workers to
direct their own circumstances in making
the shoes yeah I think it's so cool when
you think of it as isms it becomes due
to personalized so think of it as who's
making the ultimate decision about
production is it a capitalist or some
sort of democratic body and the latter
is socialism the former is simply so the
idea would be like you would have plenty
of entities that are making shoes that
compete with each other just happened to
be cooperative ones yeah owned by labor
there are different visions of socialism
I would listen in mind notions have you
listened to yeah there's no no but I
would I would I think also uh yeah
hunter mots and I had a conversation on
public basically why innovation is a
group activity and just even decoupling
the notion of sort of like singular
genius or singular entities generating
innovation innovation actually happens
in a highly social and public way and it
easily can be redirected whether you're
talking like things that happened in
Brazil under Lula and Dilma for public
health that were public
innovation-driven
or the more you know radical ends as
well but decoupling innovation from
competition and innovation from a
specific capitalism I would I think is
an important important for us to do oh
yes innovation definitely needs to be
redefined because under the system we
have now not all innovation is created
equally right like there's no reason why
you should have something like planned
obsolescence that does not benefit
consumers or people whatsoever all
way to make money for the companies
right tell me about it my computer drove
me crazy let's think of how much money
has been in finance and what's the best
financial innovation we've had in the
last like 30 years right just the ATM
basic alright Dan what's the second part
of your question which when I first
introduced elicited a lot of groans and
moans from some Chatty Cathy's around
I'm into it was the white phone calls
white phone calls all right the second
part was Bakari sellers he said having
served as an elected official he
approved a multi-million dollar package
because you can't get better schools if
you don't have these big companies
coming in which is uh you know true but
that's true under capitalism you know
under socialism you don't have to grant
big gifts to private companies to get
your needs met so again I don't know why
he used that as a point against
socialism he should have used that at
the point again capitalism right well I
mean that's that's the that's I mean
that is sort of the the central dynamic
of of neoliberalism as a practice right
it creates the problems the market
creates the problems and then the market
solves the problems it's like a itself
licking ice cream and they're just what
you need maybe a win-win would you think
there was even it's a win win win win
win win win the Karenin folks this even
came up with Joseph Soren Sione in the
context of arms control disarmament and
I mean it's obvious but it's still just
stunning that he's also like and part of
the reason is is that there's a huge
market infrastructure around maintaining
these webcourse I mean it's obvious but
it really just shows you the logic to
the point it quite literally easier to
imagine the end of the world on the end
of capitalist right it is still did that
example well dan I appreciate the call
stimulate a lot of conversation I would
just recommend in the future you don't
lead with your from Canada and then
maybe I've got the groans appreciate the
call right
