so Heather in the last hour we were
talking about the piece that you wrote
in salon about the the cries of the
left-wing mob and we are three weeks out
and in these cries obviously coming
they're coming from Republican senators
but it's really across the board I mean
this is the talking points that they're
using at the moment and this is all
about the midterm elections and there's
a lot there's huge stakes in these
midterm elections in a way that I don't
I don't know that we've seen frankly I
mean you and I have been doing this you
know for we're you know well into our
second decade of doing this or I should
say at least you know for a couple of
you know over the course of two
different decades let's put it that way
and I don't know if there's been a
midterm elections that because it's
consequential is this because in
addition to sort of empowering the worst
elements of our society in addition to
empowering the Republicans and being a
validation of Donald Trump if the
Democrats can't seem to take over the
the house at the very least there's all
this lack of accountability and you know
these midterms are gonna decide you know
do we have Democratic governors in a
half dozen states across the country
that are so crucial when we get to the
census I mean there's so many things on
the line here and you had written about
this a left-wing mob of play the the
Republicans want to keep this on a
culture war footing and part of the
problem they have is because there's
been some very ominous economic news I
mean the economy if you if you get far
enough away from it looks like it's
doing better still on the trajectory
that Obama set we know that wages have
been not have been particularly stag in
it that the quality of jobs that are
being produced are bad but people really
do care about health care wanting to
improve on the Affordable Care Act we
have a lot of Democrats
medicare-for-all which seems like a
fairly obvious thing to do both from a
political and policy standpoint and so
the Republicans have a problem and they
have a problem even with their suburban
voters the ones who just care about
things like you know had been raised on
a belief that they should care about the
deficit and now they're wondering hey
wait a second we were told if you made
these corporate tax cuts that we would
see the deficit close and tax revenues
go up but the opposite has happened just
like it happened in Kansas if you cut
taxes guess what you cut taxes you don't
magically it doesn't magically make more
revenue and so Mitch McConnell has to
deal with the deficit and he's doing it
in a way that I think we all anticipated
the Republicans would we just thought
that that maybe they would wait another
couple of months well it's very
interesting I mean you know normally tax
cuts are just generally pretty popular I
mean it's not something people don't
like right I mean even if you just get a
couple bucks extra you're going to go
well it's better than nothing right but
these tax cuts that they put through are
not popular that in fact they're
unpopular and they're so unpopular that
the Republicans can't run on it it was
actually hurting them in their polling
so they stopped running on their if
their only legislative achievement you
know if you want to call it that that
they have it's the one where they all
stood on the steps of the Capitol and
you know they all grinned and glad
handed and cheered Donald Trump and call
them a genius and all this stuff I mean
and it is it is lethal to them and so I
think you know there is a sense that
maybe their shtick is not working
anymore in a lot of ways I mean this
economy should be enough for them to win
or at least do better and certainly
Donald Trump's approval ratings should
be higher but the problem is is that I
think you know people have come to sort
of see what the scam is now maybe I'm
being too optimistic here but I mean
this is a con that they have run for
nearly 30 years
which is that they run up deficits with
huge military spending and tax cuts for
wealthy and corporations then they end
up you know screwing the pooch in some
way and the the they end up losing the
White House and often you know the one
or more houses of Congress at that point
they turn around and start screaming
about deficits in a in an attempt to get
that to force the Democrats to cut
spending and by spending they almost
always mean to signature programs of the
Democratic Party which are the safety
net programs Social Security Medicare
Medicaid and now though undoubtedly the
Affordable Care Act is part of that too
so that is their method of trying to you
know at the very least contain Democrats
from trying to do anything more to help
people like Medicare for all and at most
hopefully get them on board to try and
to start cutting these social welfare
programs the the big ones that are
across the board and you know they've
actually had some success in some ways I
mean Bill Clinton talked about
privatizing Social Security at one point
Barack Obama put cutting Social Security
on the on the agenda as part of his
grand bargain and each time it didn't go
through for a variety of reasons mostly
because Republicans wouldn't take yes
for an answer but it's a weapon that
they have deployed over and over again
and so one of the reasons why they do
these big tax breaks
aside from rewarding their big donors
and corporate sponsors is to put the
Democrats in this kind of a bind where
they are stuck as they inevitably will
be because you know maybe in this case
they actually knew Donald Trump was you
know hardly going to be a successful
president otherwise they would stick the
Democrats with this big bill and then
they would have to be in this position
of you know talking about cutting
programs again you can already see it
happening and the media by the way are
the worst enablers of this scam because
they love to sit around and talk about
how you know the people really need to
understand they've got to tighten their
belts and take their medicine and we
can't afford it and they need to
sacrifice and you know all this stuff
these rich celebrities on television
in lecture the American people about how
they have to give up Social Security
Medicare and Medicaid so they help the
Republicans every time and I saw it just
happened this week when Mitch McConnell
came out with his comments that said
well you know when when asked about this
soaring deficit which you know a deficit
Hawk like him should have been upon by
and he said well it's not a Republican
problem it's a bipartisan problem driven
by entitlements right so I mean this is
an immediate you know we did we raise
the Social Security benefits and
Medicare benefits by 17 percent in the
past year I mean it's you know this
absurd talking point but that's that's
what it would mean yeah I mean that's
exactly what it would mean and that's
you know and and the thing is is that
you know everybody went well but what
about the tax cuts and it turned into
another one of those arguments but it
doesn't seem to me that the the voters
are buying it if you look at polling and
the way that they're sort of responding
to this economy they're giving
Republicans are very tiny within the
margin of error advantage in approval
for running the economy which seems odd
to me you know we're two years in Trump
should be able to take you know some
credit for all this and they're really
not getting it and they're not getting
you know they're they're not doing well
with their with their tax cuts I mean
and you know that they are afraid of
what's happening with the health care
business because they're all lying like
rugs in all their ads saying that
they're going to protect pre-existing
conditions when there are the people who
all voted to repeal Obamacare and we
said there's a slew of Governors races
where you see candidates talking about
that in their own attorney generals have
joined a lawsuit to literally strip from
the ACA of things like covering pre you
know pre-existing conditions and all of
the other patient protection aspects of
the Affordable Care Act all right we'll
listen tick we got to take a quick break
but I want to talk about something that
is that that probably does not have much
in terms of implications for the
midterms but it certainly will in
could in 2020 and that is Elizabeth
Warren this week came out with an
announcement that in many respects has I
don't know I want to get your take on it
and we will examine that when we come
back plus we also have to touch on the
other implications about these midterms
and it has to do with robert muller
we'll be right back after this i'm sam
cedar this is ring of fire radio I'm
talking to the great Digby
