oh and not to be left out folks we just
played part one of how a narrative gets
built on fox news they're worried that
sending troops to the border is going to
mitigate the fear that their audience
feels so early in the morning Fox and
Friends are there yes it's true we're
sending down 5200 troops to the border
to guard the border like you know
they're being sent to the to the wall
and the south now do you outfit them
with machine guns or disinfectant they
have well they go with machine guns
that's the point they have the Blackhawk
helicopters they're there they're gonna
wait for two months ostensibly right
we're gonna send these guys down there
for two months they're gonna wait but we
have 7,000 on the ready that was gonna
keep those 7,000 on the ready for those
two months keep troops in the field for
two months it's a bit of a resource haul
- it's a little bit of a resource haul
but you just got to make sure your
supply chains are there so you can you
know they'll they the this caravans not
gonna have the element of surprise folks
we're going to be there for two months
waiting for them but also they're not
gonna shoot people remember right were
they not gonna shoot unless they we're
not gonna take it off the table but I
mean if we get shot at we've got to
shoot back of course two months from now
but in the event that that in any way
placates the fox viewers fear that
mitigates the flocks of viewers fear
well let's get up this morning and let's
create a new one here is Fox and Friends
talking to Dan bone jeon oh is that his
name Dan Bungie no or Bongo is that the
guy who yes they were talking about it
politican that's who they wanted they
wanted you to go up against Anne buns
you know after after crowd or crowd are
backed out they said what about Dan bond
Jean and I'm like who's Dan bond gee no
but here he is I was just stunned to see
President Obama just mocking the fact
that we are looking at this caravan with
a sense of concern
as if we feel as though the nation's
going to be overrun by what he terms
underprivileged or poor people that's
not the point and he knows it
posit what do you win that's not the
point
we've we saw a clip yesterday Michelle
Malkin saying it's a full-scale invasion
we saw Gorka on fox say these are
military age men were sending fifty two
hundred armed troops that's not the
point what's the point what is the point
what are we gonna say is the point and
he knows it
yeah he does know and that's what's
deeply disturbing about this Brian
there's really nothing irrational about
Americans taxpaying Americans being
concerned about thousands of people
crossing the border not vetted I mean
this is that we're having this
conversation is almost strange that
we're being painted as irrational you
know I was listening to you earlier in
the show and you brought up just a
simple statistical point that's
irrefutable a a significant percentage
maybe not a majority of but a
significant percentage of people
entering on any given day are going to
be stopped at the border for some kind
of narco trafficking criminal activity
or otherwise it's not a majority it's
not an overwhelming amount but it's
enough for us to be concerned
therefore by simple numbers if thousands
of people enter unvetted at any time
you're going to have people into the
country that shouldn't be here that's
not a fear tactic that's just the truth
and I'm glad you brought that up
what about diseases pause I mean there's
a record now before we get to diseases
what are the chances that let's say
one-quarter of the caravan can can cross
the border without being aware of it
like what's the plan here for this
Caravan they're gonna get up to the
border and they're all just gonna go on
three everybody runs in a different
direction like what what is it that is
the fear here I mean obviously these
people are gonna come up to the border
and they're gonna get in line and
they're gonna apply for asylum and
they're all gonna be vetted and they're
are
thousands thousands of people who
crossed the border legally every single
day four thousand is just not that many
folks but let's hear because if that
doesn't if you if you're not scared
enough what about the diseases at
anytime you're going to have people into
the country that shouldn't be here
that's not a fear tactic that's just the
truth and I'm glad you brought that up
what about diseases I mean there's a
reason why you can't bring a kid to
school unless he's inoculated you know
there's a there's things that happen in
this country we already give 40 to 50%
of our taxable income to the government
for social programs is it too much wait
what what now kilmeade may owe 50% maybe
maybe in New York City by the time he's
done it could be 50 or 50 percent but
I've got some bad news for kill meat if
he thinks this is all going towards
social programs it's going to things
like the fire department the police
department fixing the road the military
that's gonna have to go post up on the
border I was just talking about his
local taxes because he's including his
local taxes and we're gonna work our way
through this they're paying for those
inoculations programs so that you don't
get those diseases as you never go on
the subway
mr. Kilmeade and then of course on the
federal level you're paying a lot for
the military that is that you're now
wasting its its resources by sending out
to the border we go double income to the
government for social programs is it too
much to say that we just can't have
country's entire populations come in
here without being looked at as
hard-hearted to me it's a practical way
of having a nation that everyone looks
up to and wants to be a part of that's
part of the reason why America is
America we've got to keep it exclusive
otherwise people won't come haven't you
ever been to a club where they don't let
everybody in there's a reason we got to
put red velvet ropes out there
unbelievable
