here is Stuart Varney asking the most
important question that one could ask
when considering whether to see an
attempted rapist and a at the very least
I should say an alleged attempted rapist
and I think a proven liar you may not
know he lied about are important but a
proven liar to Senate and beer lover and
a guy who loves beer when you're
contemplating appointing this man to a
lifetime position on the Supreme Court
what is the most relevant question to
ask if you Stuart Varney
it is thus this money okay let's get the
big political story of the day is very
clearly the capital nomination fight I
want to know how do the markets react if
and when he finally gets confirmed let's
take it one way or another professor
Browne Berg okay his suppose he is if
there's a vote Saturday and he's
confirmed what does the mark markets
have been expecting that I don't think
you see much except for a sigh of relief
and let's move on I think they've been
baking this in that's why you haven't
seen the reactions throughout the
process what happens if he is not confer
dad doesn't get that's what markets get
nervous because it means political
intimidation is winning the day the rule
of law is out the window guess what
markets depend on the rule of law I
think they get nervous about that
because that spells consequences not
just for Supreme Court but any other
policy the left doesn't like that's
gonna give markets a little bit of
something to think about it what is such
an amazing stretch if he gets voted down
it's a defeat for the rule of law
like what law is even implicated in this
the law that mandates the Senate vote
and approve whoever the president
nominates it's a completely disregards
ask lost look it yeah the laws of our
green room well no but it sounds like
it's really like if this goes through
there's a lot of people on Wall Street
who are worried that they may have to be
held to account for their attempted
rapes through the years
that that would that that is very
problematic yeah when he said rule of
law he was referring to guy code yeah
bro this could be a complete violation
to the patriarchy not to mention our
well entrenched white supremacy we can't
have any sign that we must be held
accountable for anything that we do
unless it's done to of course to another
white guy and and then of course we
defer to how much money does he have how
much money we handle that way easy way
to the money can you just go to the
money system it's like the jump it's
like a jump on the basketball it's man
show me your checking account it's just
math it's math it's it's a round-robin
okay so white guy meets black guy white
guy advances white guy meets a black
woman well forget it
why K advances white guy meets a white
woman white guy advances white guy meets
another white guy now this is where
things get interesting how much money
does that work how much money is that
like I have boom
