[Music]
all right let's go to these hearings
that took place yesterday there is a
report out today
and we're gonna get to Billy Bragg in
about 45 minutes he's uh he's gonna call
in the other day we reported that the
well we'll get to that
this is reported by a Politico in a
closed-door meeting last week Nancy
Pelosi stunned lawmakers and aides with
a swipe at the Democratic staff on the
House Judiciary Committee Pelosi
criticized the panel's handling of
impeachment in harsh terms complaining
the committee aides have advanced the
push for Alice ting Donald Trump far
beyond where the house Democratic caucus
stands now I I think this isn't it I
don't know if this I think this is a
disingenuous she just she does not this
is not a question of wait for all the
Democrats because we do have a majority
of Democrats now who are supportive of
impeachment that happened after the
Mullen testimony I think that the latest
tallies I saw were close to 140 so the
well over fifty percent closer to sixty
percent maybe more and this is without
any effort by the Democrats to make a
cogent compelling case on how you and
Peach Donald Trump and what took place
the other day was the Judiciary
Committee basically took a vote that was
about the procedure and how they were
going to handle this and this is really
important because the Lewandowski
hearing yesterday was basically a train
wreck as the members of the Judiciary
Committee questioned if they get five
minutes each it's completely disjointed
they don't seem to be on any type of
paid
you know and everybody's probably got
their own ego so the idea of like
sitting everybody down and saying like
hey Betty you'll ask this question bill
you'll follow up by asking that question
I mean it's just these are they for
whatever reason they can't do that but
in this the resolution that they passed
the other day when they talked about
procedures in investigation and how they
would handle the investigation one of
the things that they voted as a rule of
the committee is to allow staff lawyers
to question and I think they're gonna
get a little more savvy about this when
they start to pull when these things
start to become public because they
didn't allow the staff lawyer to
question until the end of all the other
questions by the Democratic Congress
people and I guess presumably
Republicans there's the extent that
there were any there and this was the
most compelling testimony because you've
got a professional lawyer who is in this
instance a defense attorney guys name is
Burke and this was a very effective I
mean there was a couple other points
where you know people made some broad
points but the the question here is that
is about obstruction and it's about
Corey lewandowski's receiving from
President Trump instructions to tell
jeff sessions to give a speech saying
that Donald Trump is completely innocent
of everything that that is actually the
truth in other words that's a week um
that he was going to retake control of
the Mahler Pope probe you remember Jeff
Sessions had recused himself because of
conflicts he was going to take control
the molar probe he was gonna limit
Muller only to investigating meddling
for future elections
God is clean slate clean so like 2016
let's not go backwards let's go forward
go forwards forwards so in other words
who's going to pre investigate anybody
any type of problems that would happen
in the 2020 election well Corey
Lewandowski was not Corey Lewandowski at
this time was not an employee of the
White House Corey Lewandowski was a
former campaign manager looking to be
brought into the White House so the
president asked him to do this and much
of this is in the Muller investigation
but it is there without any conclusions
as to whether it was obstruction the
fact pattern is there the conclusions
are not because Robert Muller for
whatever reason thought that Congress
would be picking this this ball up and
that's what they're doing now and so the
nature of the questions are asked he's
asking Lewandowski are why didn't you
follow through if you thought that what
the president was asking you was
perfectly legal why didn't you follow
through because what they're trying to
establish is that Corey Lewandowski knew
that if he did this that he would get
wrapped up in obstruction of justice
and so here's Lewandowski basically
trying to sort of dodge and weave but it
gets he's ah it's almost impossible he's
going to try and say like I'm not gonna
tell you about any conversations I had
and so what the lawyer is now doing is
like going sort of sideways around it
you don't have to tell me about any
conversations you had but I see shadows
of those conversations now you can
comment on the shadows good questions
are not from me let me ask you this
prior to the Muller report being
published in redacted form
did you ever misrepresent what you did
on behalf of the President
I can't think of an instance where that
would have occurred closet okay so now
so the question is the president asks
you to do this and we're gonna find out
that Lewandowski actually you know
contemplated taking the message tried to
find other people to take the message
and so the lawyers asking like did you
ever misrepresent what you did prior to
your sit-down with
Muller people for the president I can't
think of an instance where that would
have occurred let me show you an
interview that you did on May 14th of
2019 excuse me a I'm gonna showed you
from February 22nd 2019 let me show it
to you for 2019 thank you
I don't ever remember the president ever
asking me to get involved with Jeff
Sessions or the Department of Justice in
any way shape so you did you hear that
sir that was you saying on MSNBC you
don't ever remember the president ever
asking you to get involved with Jeff
Sessions or the Department of Justice in
any way shape or form that wasn't true
was it sir I heard that and that was not
true was it
I have no obligation to be honest to the
media just because there's just as as
honest as anybody else posit now
understand what just took place here not
only did he say well yeah I lied on that
TV show because I'm not obligated to
tell the truth that's true but it also
means that he lied 20 seconds earlier
where he says nah I don't I die
certainly did not misrepresent what I
did so he's just lied in the committee
and he's saying that I lie on television
but then the question is we're going to
move forward to why did he lie like if
it's no problem like why why would you
lie and it's not like Corey Lewandowski
is a humble guy and I don't want to seem
like I'm important to the president
I have no obligation to be honest to the
media just because there's just as a
song as as anybody else see so you're
admitting sir you were not being
truthful in that clip correct my
interview with Arie Melbourne yes can be
interpret any way you'd like
let me would you like me to play it
again you're welcome to please play one
more time I don't ever remember the
president ever asking me to get involved
with Jeff Sessions or the Department of
Justice in any way she so you and sir it
is true in may twenty nineteen you
absolutely remembered when the president
asked you to deliver a message to the
Attorney General of a speech for him to
give related to the Special Counsel
investigation isn't that correct I'd
have to think about it are you claiming
sir that and you had been interviewed by
the Special Counsel about those very
events in which he discussed and you
said was accurately reported at the
report a year earlier are you saying sir
you may have forgotten it
by the time you were interviewed just
before the report was publicly released
I'm saying my memory was clearly much
fresher when I actually gave the
interview with the special counsels
report sir is it your testimony before
this committee that when you said you
did not remember the president ever
asking you to get involved with Jeff
Sessions or the Department of Justice
you were saying you were being truthful
and sir I don't believe there's any
reason to consult with your counsel the
question is are you a truth teller in
that interview how much truth teller
every time I stand before Congress or a
committee of jurisdiction and raised my
hand and swear to God under oath my
question sir is when you said the
president never asked you to get
involved with mr. session I have no
obligation to have a candid conversation
with the media whatsoever just like they
have no obligation to cover me honestly
and they do it in accurately all the
time you're admitting that on national
television you were lying there what I'm
saying is they have been inaccurate on
many occasions and perhaps I was
inaccurate at that time boom all right
now it's not it's not a big deal
- it's not a big deal to get Corey
Lewandowski to admit that he is a liar
on television I mean I would be more of
a problem if we were at CNN and we
hired him to go on television for us and
I wouldn't worry about it but it is a
problem because it begs the question why
were you lying what I mean if what you
what the president asked you to do and
then you refused to do but you didn't
actually refuse he just basically said
you know I didn't get to it yet why
would you do that unless you knew that
what the president was asking you to do
was elicit maybe it's just messing with
them
here is here is I love dumb slick guys
yes and this is the the the sec this is
about when Lewandowski basically said
like there's a bit of a hot potato
the president wants me to do this I
don't feel comfortable doing it or or I
just don't have the time remember now
he's trying to get a job at the way he
doesn't have time to do this so maybe I
get somebody else to do it our friends
me the page number so I can review it so
did the president ask you if they do you
remember testifying earlier that you
said the president said if mr. sessions
will not meet with you for you to
deliver that message you should tell him
he's fired correct again if there's a
reference to the report I'd like to
refresh my memory it's been a long day
however you appreciate that how about if
I referred you to your testimony do you
recall testifying to that earlier today
again it's been a long day I believe it
to the best of my knowledge that that's
what I said but if there's a reference
to the malla report ask you to point it
to me so let me ask you sir if it wasn't
a priority for you to deliver the
message why did you enlist mr. Dearborne
to deliver the message for the president
again I can't speak to private
conversation I would have had with mr.
Dearborne at the advice of counsel not
asking private conversations you're the
fact that you did it has already
disclosed to the report I'm asking you
why did you do it why what's going on I
knew mr. dear boy did you do it can I
answer now please
okay I've known mr. Dearborne since his
tenure as the chief of staff to Senator
sessions he was my primary point of
contact for Jeff sessions during the
Trump campaign and I also knew that mr.
Warren had continued like I did have a
long-standing relationship with Jeff and
if I wasn't going to be seeing Jeff I
figured Rick would be able to deliver
that message well sir did you try to see
mr. sessions again did you call him
after the president told you to do it
and see if he would meet with you this
time
did you call to the please answer the
question not to the best of my
recollection and sir is the reason you
personally didn't call him someone who
you said you were friendly with was
because he knew what the president asked
you to do was wrong and you sir didn't
want to get in trouble that's why you
didn't do it you know mr. Burke I've
asked and answered that question I'm not
a lawyer but I didn't think that he was
asking me to do something that was
unlawful at the time and I don't think
that was the case now he goes on to talk
about not being a lawyer quite a bit in
the context of of trying to you know I'm
not a lawyer like you say lying to
Congress is this you say it's another
like I'm not a little famous proof
defense yeah but his claiming that he
didn't think it was wrong then he
doesn't think it's wrong now I mean this
is where you get to see sort of the the
squishiness of the entire process of the
Muller investigation the fact patterns
are there the question is was it
obstruction of justice did people have
an awareness of what was going on was
wrong and Corey Lewandowski would have
you believe that despite the fact that
the president asked him to do it despite
the fact that Corey Lewandowski asked
somebody else to do it after realizing
after a month that he wasn't going to do
it but they would he had no reason not
to do it other than it just wasn't a big
deal and so I think what there's two
things are gonna come out of this and we
should say that Rick Dearborn and Rob
Porter that's the guy who I think had a
domestic abuse issue I was working in
the White House which I know is a
confusing thing to say because
apparently there was multiple people
with that
issue but the White House said that
Dearborn and Porter have absolute
constitutional immunity from testifying
which of course is also BS and at one
point the committee has got to start to
exercise some some actual punitive
actions when people don't show up
Lewandowski couldn't pull it off because
he didn't work for the president so the
idea of executive immunity is absurd but
the executive immunity is absurd in the
first place across the board so the
other big thing I hope that that comes
from this is that Nadler realizes I put
the lawyer first
I put the lawyer first so that the staff
for all the Congress people can find out
where the the Nugget is the lawyer
uncovers it makes it clear rattles the
witness and then the Congress people can
go and and kick the carcass as it were
hopefully this will happen hopefully
they can they can swallow some of their
ego and allow this to be done in the
most effective way because if this half
hour had been at the beginning I guess
maybe the only argument you could have
is maybe after all that time he he was a
little bit more he wasn't quite as sharp
but maybe you do it twice but I think
we're gonna be seeing more of this I
think we're gonna be literally doing
what we just did today more and more
often going forward that's my hope
anyways but Nancy Pelosi on seems to be
unhappy with that because from what it
appears it's not just a
we don't want impeachment to fail we
don't know if it can pass it's just like
the idea that there would be
investigations into this stuff is
somehow problematic in terms of the
election and that's just absurd
it's just absurd it is still believing
that somehow I don't know there's some
contingency of of people out there who
are inclined to vote against Donald
Trump but if they are made more aware of
all of his wrongdoing they're gonna be
less inclined to vote against him no but
then Trump might be able to act like
he's being persecuted unfairly right
just something he never does don't give
me that opportunity
