we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday June 5th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Republicans warned Trump over his
Mexican tariffs they threatened to maybe
whisper more subtle critiques also on
the program today Democrats pass daca
legislation two decades in the making
it'll die in the Senate like about 50
other bills that the Democrats have
passed in
five and a half months mid dropping
tolls and a new plagiarism scandal Biden
announces he still supports the Hyde
Amendment and Warren drops her green
manufacturing plan payday lenders are
back it all started at a convention at
the Trump national Doral Hotel yes Trump
administration fights the youth climate
suit and Stephen Crowder's racism and
homophobia has some intriguing
bedfellows Senate and House prep
legislation to stop the Saudi weapons
sale Trump administration further shuts
down access to Cuba and Bernie heads to
a Walmart a shareholders meeting wait
what's the classic joke a presidential
candidate walks into a Walmart
shareholders meeting you won't believe
what happens next
all this and more on today's program
ladies and gentlemen welcome to the show
Matt is on I don't know what to what to
call this some type of weird weird weird
vacation Vision Quest
Brendan's on the board that's why I was
waving like that we got a we have split
the difference on the sound they're
going up with the board can you guys
hear yourselves yeah we can hear you can
hear so yeah no you got it I just you
know if the thing is like you know how
you listen to an album well maybe people
don't listen to albums anymore but it
used to be you'd listen to an album and
every time if you listened to it a bunch
of times like that's what I would do
like I that's why I'm there must be
something
something somewhat wrong with me but
because I'm so habitual like I would
listen to an album like 70 times in a
row just because I didn't want to go and
change it and yeah and it gets at a
point where like I would never know the
names of the songs because that's I
would not I don't clutter my mind with
that type of information right but as
soon as the one song would end you'd
hear the next song start in your head so
that's what happens with that music at
the beginning of the show I I have a in
my head small muscle memory so even the
slightest change throws me off
which is okay but I don't mean to did a
good job
what's that yeah cuz yeah I'm trying to
like signal like lower the music wait no
not that much up up up up and then stop
stop stop right there yes well not an
agitated conductor like a conductor I
mean if you ever seen a conductor they
look fairly agitated no check yeah I
think you're pressing the wrong way nope
it didn't get it I think it uh switched
back last night yeah so good now right
Matt leaves and then changes everything
on me it's really nice
max what'd he do now nothing last night
Matt took a long and him down
he took a long deep contemplatively a
little bit what he did and and and as
the smoke wafted out of as long as he
was just like everything up for Brendon
tomorrow a good show
it's never the ones you suspect no I
mean I suspect I mean if there's any of
this weed involved I and I certainly
suspected Matt like for that all right
uh-huh
so let's get on with what's going on
today we will get to a Joe bites having
a bad day folks super bad day and I
think it's gonna get a little bit worse
but before we go there so Bernie Sanders
in the wake of his announcement last
week I think it was where he proposed
having workers get seats on board of
directors not unlike we see in Germany
labor unions in this country I think you
know it would take some adjustment in
terms of like trying to figure out how
you maintain the relationship to
management that is optimal but also be
able to sort of have some say in the
governance there was a second proposal
that he had in terms of coops which was
an extension of legislation that is I
think already been introduced in the in
the house and maybe even in the Senate
I'm not sure which would allow for
family-owned businesses that want to
sell their to be a bridge loan fund from
the US government to allow and finance
the purchase of that company by the
workers he started these first bills
related to this in 2014 with Leahy as a
co-sponsor right so there's and this is
building on that to expand that program
essentially and promote more worker
owned companies like like just coffee
co-op fair trade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority at 10% off
I have to say that the time I spent at
just coffee
the I don't you know I am I imagine
maybe there are some coops that are not
they're not done well but I don't know
but this one was it was impressive in
terms of the the sense of supporting all
of the workers they support each other
as workers and as co-owners of of this
entity but they also support their
suppliers with basically the same level
of commitment that they support each
other with and so you know that this is
what these these business
do they protect communities as well as
protecting the the specific needs of the
workers so good stuff all around in the
wake of those proposals Sanders was
asked on behalf of workers at Walmart to
go and head to the shareholders meeting
to represent their perspective here is a
here is a video Bernie Sanders and route
this was posted just two hours ago here
it is so what this event is about what
we're doing today is telling the
wealthiest family in the country the
Walton family that owns Walmart that
they have got to start paying their
workers a living wage this is a family
that is worth a hundred and seventy five
billion dollars Walmart is a company
that provides compensation to its CEO of
over 20 million dollars a year more than
a thousand times what their average
worker makes so what's going on in
Walmart is just an example of what's
going on all over this country the very
wealthy are getting wealthier and
working people are struggling so the
message to Walmart today is pay your
workers a living wage at least fifteen
bucks an hour allow them to work 40
hours a week provide them with decent
health care in a nation in which we have
massive levels of income and wealth
inequality we have got to address this
issue
and that's what we're doing today thank
you so there is Bernie Sanders laying
out his agenda what he's going to be
telling you the Walmart shareholders as
soon as he gets the meeting and
literally this got tweeted out about 15
minutes ago 20 minutes half an hour ago
I guess Kara Corday who's with CBS News
she's a campaign reporter tweets
for senator sanders takes the stage at
the Walmart shareholders meeting I guess
at these meetings you know you imagine
it's like a boardroom or a conference
table but it's actually like a big
theater because it's a huge there's a
lot of people CEO Doug McMillon calls
for Washington to raise the federal
minimum wage quote it's time for
Congress to put a thoughtful plan in
place to increase the minimum wage
that's that's pretty good very
reminiscent of like when governor Nixon
of New York State was able to push all
sorts of new legislation before she won
before she won the election in fact she
never won the election and still we got
the benefits of that we should always
thank Cynthia Nixon for doing that
finally helped it and no one else would
it was willing to do that she helped a
lot but nevertheless there's a bernie
already getting now now it's smart play
by the CEO of Walmart to call for
Congress to raise the federal minimum
wage right now because and we'll talk
about this the US Congress in the past
five and a half months has passed about
50 bills some really good bills that of
course are going to go nowhere because
of Mitch McConnell and part of the
reason why this story about the tariffs
with Mexico is so important is it's
conceivable that if Donald Trump is able
to or actually imposes these tariffs and
his ability to do so you know laterally
I think is I mean I think it's quite
possible he does have the ability to do
that I think will seriously hurt the
chances of the Republicans to maintain
the Senate in 2020 but we will get to
that all that in a moment
just remind you that one of today's
sponsors is Skillshare anyone who goes
to SK l dot s h / majority report for
the numeral four is going to get two
whole months of totally free access to
skill shares entire library of super
quality online courses and tutorials
Skillshare is a vibrant online learning
community offers courses on everything
from design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation
everything in between there are
Skillshare courses for everyone you'll
have no problem finding courses that
will be useful to you in both your
personal and professional life when you
want to sharpen your skills with
something you already love doing or if
you want to learn how to do something
totally new scale share has you covered
they have courses for entrepreneurs
courses on computer coding web
development personal nutrition learning
new languages photoshop you name it I
mentioned yesterday that I basically
what I'm doing is I'm going through in a
book marking some courses that I'm gonna
maybe you'll be able to get to like -
over the weekend there's a two-hour one
on chess openings dominate with the
shillerman gambit I don't know what that
is
but it's in there how to take the
perfect selfie that I won't do but I
will do the portrait photography working
with natural light that I'm interested
in and the same thing it's the
distinction without difference so I
don't want to take a selfie o
sciencebase workout proven exercise to
gain muscle improve training and boost
health and fitness I saw your eyes a
perk up your ears perk up with that one
Michael and the productivity masterclass
those are the ones I'm gonna do it and
then maybe also think like a chef but I
would love that one that would be
awesome
and maybe the lucid dreaming - alright
everyone treats by the lucid dream my
Andrus thing no no no you should i who
wouldn't be
it's just that's interests intro to
yours business social media strategy I
think I mean I mean I that's the problem
I get I got a
more time I gotta get rid of my kids you
can get two entire months of free access
to every single course offered by
Skillshare by going to sk l dot s h
slash majority report for it that's why
the first one i should take is the
product productivity masterclass create
a custom system works for me if i can
manage my time better and i also think
they have a class on time management
just think of everything you'll have of
your fingertips for two whole months
again that's sk l dot s h slash majority
report for we put a link in our in the
youtube post and in our podcast post so
check it out ah and lazy gentleman as
you all know we all want a haven a place
that feels uniquely you with joy board
you get a one-of-a-kind furniture
crafted to your unique taste turn your
ideas into reality with hundreds of
styles and options from rich buttery
leather to the plushest velvet you've
ever felt you want yourself in aquatic
blue a love seat in bubblegum pink if
you can dream it joy bird can make it a
reality they even have a beautiful
selection of outdoor sofas lounge chairs
and tables plus their personal free
their their free personal design
consultants can help you nail down your
design joy bird offals also offers a
range of kid and pet friendly upholstery
options so that your creations can stand
the test of time best of all thanks to
the 365 day home trial that is one year
ladies and gentleman if you don't love
your joy bird you can return it for a
full refund see how i bird can help you
design your dream space find your joy
today at joy bird dot-com slash majority
you can create the furniture that brings
you joy
that's joy bird dot-com slash majority
head over there now and check it out
it's pretty amazing they've got all
sorts of different styles and you can
mix and match everything receive an
exclusive offer for 25% off your first
order by using the code majority joy
bird dot-com slash majority
offer code majority check it out and
lastly if you love the thrill of an
escape room but the idea of looking for
clues and solving puzzles well allow me
to introduce Hunter Killer it's a
monthly subscription game where you
become a detective immersed in a murder
mystery each month you're gonna receive
crime scene photos evidence motive and
suspect information that you'll need to
use to solve a crime it's so interactive
and convincing that it looks and feels
real you'll be racking your brain to
solve the mystery and anxiously awaiting
the next box of clues it's perfect to
play solo during date night or with
friends for a game night so you can swap
theories so I've been talking about this
with Milam she's now into watching Law &
Order
don't done and I'm thinking I wish we
had thought we had the sound drop we do
it's what's on the board right and just
to get her engaged in something and the
idea of this I'm talking to her and
she's speaking her interest well just
the idea to that it comes in the mail
and it comes every niche gives there's
something that's nice about it being
episod it sounds really fun right now
just for our listeners you can go to
Hunter Killer dot-com slash majority for
20% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hurry to take advantage of this offer
that's hunt a killer dot-com / majority
for 20% off your first box
hunt - killer calm / majority so Joe
Biden is having a very very rough day
first thing that comes out CNN has a
poll that shows that his that he's
dropped about 7 points in you know his
lead Bernie Sanders took about half of
that a couple others brought up
that difference now seven points is not
a huge thing but it's outside the margin
of error and the the reason why this is
most problematic for Joe Biden as
opposed to really anybody else right
because like polls are gonna go up and
down and this and that but Joe Biden so
much of his support is built upon the
premise that he can beat Trump that
there's this weird sort of feedback loop
I think with the polls that is going to
create a problem for him as long as the
polls are staying where they are or
going up it reinforces the notion that
Joe Biden has a certain amount of
invincibility that Joe Biden you know I
may not like him but he's gonna beat
Trump and beating Trump is paramount and
I would agree that beating Trump is
paramount I don't necessarily agree that
Joe Biden is a lock to beat Trump in
fact I would argue that certainly there
are people in the in the 2020 field who
I think have less of a chance of beating
Trump but I think that Joe Biden is a
much riskier pick frankly then the
conventional wisdom has suggested but
putting that aside what I think is
really clear is that there's really no
reason to believe that he is any more
likely to beat Trump then maybe the top
other I don't know half a dozen 10
candidates I'm just - you know saying
that off the top of my head but his
support is mostly or I would say more
than any other candidate by far a
function of this assumption that he can
win so if his polls start to drop people
start to question that premise so this
is very problematic for him and the
other problem he has is that his
strategy has been to hide himself and
the reason why he's been doing that is
because he wants to run a campaign as if
was the incumbent as if it was there was
a certain amount of inevitability as if
I don't have to sell myself because I'm
just gonna win which is that's the
that's on some level that's the message
right forgive me Father I've sinned I'm
not gonna sit I'm not gonna sell myself
and so when that's been your strategy
and part of it is is that as I have
contended Joe Biden is where Joe Biden's
at right now because people see Joe
Biden as Barack Obama's president they
don't remember the Joe Biden pre Barack
Obama's president and I think Joe
Biden's people don't want people to have
really a good grasp on that and there's
there's the reason is is because Joe
Biden is a politician from a different
era and even in that era he was a little
bit too far to the right for democratic
constituencies and even in that era he
was too sloppy there is a quality about
Joe Biden that permeates his campaign
and what he does and that is a sense
that he deserves something or that he
can get away with something like in 2016
where when he dabbled with the idea of
running it said and floated this idea
that he may run with Elizabeth Warren as
a way of sort of stealing her capital as
a financial consumer advocate to cover
for his deficiencies in that era in that
area or when he did it this go-round
with Stacey Abrams to cover his
deficiency when it comes to women
women's issues
and frankly an understanding of of black
issues in a minority issues and it was
just his for the taking
or when he literally lifted from a
speech from a British labor leader who
wasn't even policy stuff it was like his
upbringing no that was the extraordinary
thing it was Neil connect in 1988 and it
was a speech about growing up it was
different it was like but it was I think
it was coal mines and Biden just shifted
like the profession and location but it
was literally a long line here to think
it was not somebody it wasn't like you
know hey let me lift this inspiring
especially in the eighties like that's a
great line and nobody knows it was like
this morning in America yeah this is how
I grew up it was literally the sound
when you're telling a story and you
realize halfway through that it actually
happened to someone else yeah except for
your professional and you've written it
and then somebody's written it in your
speech and and the weird thing about
this is it's it keeps happening to him
it was reports he had plagiarized in law
school and now there's another example
of this now you would think that on day
one of the presidential campaign Joe
Biden would say like hey guys make sure
you source everything alright I know
this sounds a little bit idiosyncratic
but let's make sure you source
everything here is as reported yesterday
Joe Biden's campaign has now
acknowledged it
they have been lifting language from
other groups for its policy plans and
the bad and in what makes it worse is
who they've been lifting from so for
instance apparently this was noticed by
Josh Nelson over at credo
in Biden's environmental plan its
language about carbon capture
sequestration was lifted almost
word-for-word from the carbon capture
coalition's plan the members of that
include Shell Peabody and energy and
Arch Coal his education plan included a
sentence word-for-word from the group XQ
Institute which is one of those sort of
like Charter II corporate reform groups
Lorraine Powell jobs and part of the
problem here is a gives you a sense of
where they're looking for their ideas be
a sense that they don't feel like they
have too much of responsibility to to
make sure this doesn't happen because
they think they'll get away with it and
then it also is indicative of the fact
that Joe Biden had no proposals you know
you see Bernie Sanders has had a lot of
proposal that came out in 2016
they've been developing new one their
well-thought-out Elizabeth Warren has
these deep proposals that they've been
thinking about that they lay them out
other candidates maybe not to the same
degree as Bernie and Warren but they
come out with proposals generally in
issue sets that they've been working on
for a long time but when you're a
candidate with really no ideas and
you're doing this in reaction to the
fact that other people are coming out
with ideas I better come out with
something quick this is what happens
this is more indicative in many respects
of the fact that they got nothing but I
like that synthesize point you're making
because just to underline it they have
nothing they don't take
policy seriously and then their default
setting is let's go to these regressive
sources of policy if they had gotten in
the second order if they got things are
shifting a bit so we don't have anything
let's go check out the Economic Policy
Institute or the teachers union or
whatever well I was gonna say that that
is their policy proposal to defer to
these neoliberal think tanks and
corporate entities on everything so in a
way it's actually pretty honest that
they just put them on the website well I
mean maybe it may be perfectly honest
but I think it's indicative of a problem
that they're going to have going forward
because there's no real depth to it and
this latest thing about Joe Biden I
think is indicative of that as well
about a month ago at a campaign event
there was an ACLU I think she was a
volunteer or stringer and she had asked
Joe Biden about whether he would commit
to abolishing the Hyde Amendment the
Hyde Amendment comes from I think it's
the 80s if I remember correctly and
Henry Hyde I think was his name and it
basically says that federal funds let's
say Medicaid cannot be used for
abortions so you may have private health
insurance and if you need or want an
abortion your health insurance will
cover it maybe cover part of it it's a
decent health insurance if you are a
woman who is living in poverty or up to
now and depending on the state's 133
percent of poverty and you need an
abortion the Medicaid will not pay for
it
and this has been a big problem fact
Democrats in their in their democratic
platform regarding choice says repeal of
the Hyde Amendment and so he has that
set sums really quickly hasn't that been
the case for a long time too long that's
that's not like new progressive know
2016 stuff that's been already in census
yep for a while here is here is an ACLU
member asking a quick question of Joe
Biden this is about a month ago I'm an
ACLU rights for all voter and I have one
quick question for you and that is will
you commit to abolishing the Hyde
Amendment which hurts yes by the way
they CL you remember I got a
near-perfect voting record my entire
right now yeah now what's what's
exceptional about this is not just Joe
Biden's dismissiveness of like the
question the waving of God he wasn't
paying attention to her like I'm not
yeah whatever yes yes yes and she was
great about this like I'm asking you a
question
you've given me an answer now I'm going
to reiterate the question just to make
sure that you heard it and understood it
yes yes yes and it comes out today that
either Joe Biden lied in that moment or
that he just misspoke couldn't
understand what she was saying
apparently this story that the his
advisors are saying is that they thought
he was referring to the Mexico rule the
Mexico City rule which
prevents federal aid money from going to
organizations overseas that perform
abortions now I don't know how he could
have misheard that it was City they
sound very similar very similar there's
a why and both those things and but he
has come out and said no he still
supports the Hyde Amendment and this is
a this is a big problem it is a four
decades now I guess 80s yeah almost
forty years
it bans federal funds being for being
used for abortion except for in cases of
rape or incest or to save the life of
the woman he apparently you know it was
embracing it because he thinks it's
gonna set him apart but it is again a it
really in many respects Hyde Amendment
is a real problem for women living in
poverty women of color and apparently
he's just okay with that even though he
has a near-perfect record of voting to
support women's rights I also just think
well or the ACLU in general and I just I
want to make a comment on voting records
because it's a really shallow sloppy way
of looking at politics like you know
that was a big thing during Clinton and
Sanders like they vote the same way
ninety percent of the time and it's like
yeah but the votes were they didn't
where the invasion of Iraq the Patriot
Act so you know Joe Biden I have no
doubt if you look at most of his career
as cast I probably not actually
necessarily in the beginning of his
career but probably in the 90s he cast a
lot of like generically the right sort
of center-left votes but the major votes
not only did he vote the wrong way
unlike things ACLU wise the Patriot Act
but he also like authored the crime bill
so you know don't don't get lost in
these statistics
and these these vote measuring schemes
are you know or even like League of
Conservation Voters somebody could have
90%
that's terrific that means you voted the
right way in a lot of things but you
maybe you voted YES on the most
environmentally destructive proposal
than we all would you far outweigh nice
90% of the problem so much voting
records that the problem is more just
sort of like looking at them
statistically as opposed to looking them
Wuala tative ly politically right yeah
and so joe biden has a problem here and
it's gonna be interesting to see how he
he deals with it i I don't I think
there's a reason why this is coming out
now I think this is in anticipation of
the debates people want to start on this
guy quick and early and so there it is
here he is
here's Biden's campaign saying he still
supports the Hyde Amendment is that what
that is what is that one okay oh and
here's one more problem with Joe Biden I
guess and this I think you know is
consistent with this notion that he can
everything's for you know for him
whether it's Neal Kennex personal story
of growing up or whether it's Stacy
Abrams cachet with certain segments of
the Democratic voting base or there is a
sense of the Joe Biden deserves
something its entitlement its
entitlement and theory is still trying
to show like I'm not afraid of my
personal space invasion issues
[Applause]
we're little secret going here
I want the press to know she pulled me
close I just want something okay
and I would delight it
I would delight it anyway weird we love
that okay I mean it a baby subdue but
like why it's I'm being facetious seems
like a bad idea to joke about that I
don't know I'm gonna start a campaign to
start calling Biden supporters Biden
bros because as I've seen people
pointing out on Twitter he has made
multiple women uncomfortable according
to the women and he's terribly weak on
abortion rights so if anyone deserves to
be bros it's people who support that I
don't think you're gonna have too much
pushback on that frankly just go over of
this daca passage because it is
important ultimately this will get
passed in the event that they'll be
there'll be an executive action in the
event that Donald Trump is voted out in
2020 but vote was 237 of 187 for the
American Dream and promise act of 2019
this would grant dreamers these are
these are people who were brought to
this country as children as minors by
their parents no choice of their own
obviously and they will get 10 years of
legal resident status if they meet
certain requirements high school diploma
participation in military sir
service and then they would receive you
know stay out of trouble in terms of I
guess specific problems with the law
they would then receive permanent green
cards permanent green cards after
completing at least two years of higher
education or military service or after
working for three years and this is the
first time that this legislation has
there's been attempts I think over the
course of 20 years to pass this
legislation it's the first time Senate
rejected for immigration bills I think
at least one of them included
citizenship for dreamers and this is
indicative of this is for 2.5 million
people incidentally who have been living
with a tremendous amount of anxiety for
no reason for absolutely no reason like
I see what it's like to be a 13 or 14
year old kid this the enormous my
anxiety you have it just by having to be
like a teen or being a kid and the idea
that there's also this element of like
will I get deported when I walk down the
street will I get deported
will I be here in six months well my
future being I don't speak the language
from the country I came from whether it
was Eritrea or Mexico or Guatemala or
you know Slovenia or whatever it was and
will I get sent back to this country
that is basically a foreign country to
make 2.5 million people very easy for a
lot of people to forget that there is a
a portion of our population that walks
around in a constant low-grade sense of
fear or potential doom just by the very
nature of who they are what where they
were born what decision their parents
made for them and it's been passed there
it's not it's not perfect there are
provisions that allow the Secretary of
Homeland Security the discretion to deny
illegal status to immigrants with
certain juvenile judgments against them
gang affiliation etc but it's a step in
the right direction and it's indicative
of what's been going on for five months
the house has taken up fifty-one bills
since January 49 of which they've passed
I think this is actually written before
they passed this this DREAM Act it was
bills that include lower prescription
drug prices protect pre-existing
conditions disaster aid is now passed so
I think that's 51 for 51 they passed HR
1 which had a whole host of reforms
bills to save net neutrality bills too
broad and background checks for guns
calls to put us back into the Paris
climate Accord they passed the violence
against women's reauthorization Act
chemical facility anti-terrorism
standards I mean goes on and on federal
civilian workforce pay raise Fairness
Act
basically reinstating the executive
orders that Obama had passed that Trump
has reversed all of which have died in
the Senate now they've run out of bills
hopefully they'll start immigration
proceedings soon maybe there's been a
bull you know they haven't done a great
ability of making it about obstruction
from the Republicans on these things
that I think are would be very popular
in and of themselves but this is what's
been going on and meanwhile you have all
these bills that are passed they are
waiting a Democratic Senate Joe Biden
came out with a climate plan
some of it was plagiarized fortunately
some of it was also borrowed from the
green New Deal there are now there's now
broad Democratic consensus over many
aspects of the green new deal including
the the the dollar amount and public
investment 1.7 trillion dollars the cost
that would be laid on polluters that
there would end fossil fuel subsidies
that there would be economic justice
protections for people displaced in the
transition from their jobs they would
end a drilling on public lands and
offshore there's been a lot of sort of
like what mainstreaming of these broad
positions not unlike we've seen with
Medicare for all and so there's a lot of
encouraging things that are happening at
least to the extent that you can have
encouraging things happening when you
don't have the ability to do any of this
stuff now I can I can tell you right now
that if the Democrats take the Senate
and the presidency they will not deliver
on all this stuff
that's just simply not the way it works
which isn't to say that we shouldn't
insist that they do and the more
insisting the more likely it'll happen
part of that is going to be a function
of who if the Democrats win the
presidency who that president is a lot
of these things are more likely under
some candidates than others I mean I
think people I think there's probably
broad understanding of that just other
people might just say like well but it's
not that important right now the most
important thing is getting rid of Trump
and I think that is the perhaps the most
important thing but it's not necessarily
the case that by rejecting positions
that are consensus positions among
Democrats that you're going to get rid
of Trump it could be just the very well
be the opposite at least if you look at
the polling so that's where we stand
today well do a couple more stories in
the fun app but I want to go over this
briefly because this is sort of amazing
to me we've talked about this so Steven
grat Crowder is one of those guys who
has been avoiding you know any real
debates on policy is an interesting
program and I just heard the other day
from from a friend who I don't talk to
too often her son said to her hey I
heard Sam might debate Crowder I hope he
does because that guy is horrible and
the kid is a kid I know he's like 14 15
and this is the thing that's problematic
about steven crowder that it's really
twofold one he spews this right-wing
garbage he debates college kids over it
and if you're 14 or 15 you can't quite
tell like hey wait a second that doesn't
make sense why doesn't he have a real
debate about it he pretend he has these
pretend debates
it's like when you're a kid thinking
like wow these Harlem Globetrotters
they're the best basketball team in the
world every time they play this team
from Washington
the Wizards they beat them why don't
they just play in the NBA
why don't in every single why they
probably aren't in the NBA it wouldn't
be good and that's what you think is a
kid and the other aspect of what Crowder
does because he's speaking to right-wing
inclined teenage boys who are get jazzed
about guns and imagine that a you're an
adult
if you smoke cigars and drink a bottle
of whiskey I mean this is this is all
stuff I've been there I was a kid I was
14 you look at that stuff and you think
like that's what it is to be an adult
and you assume like that's all the adult
stuff that you get to do and crowder
also sort of mixes in a very healthy
dose of racism and gay bashing in a sort
of jocular tone right I'm just I'm just
telling jokes but out gay people talk
like this I mean it's really the most
juvenile level of of comedy I mean it's
not even a juvenile it's not even a
level of comedy it's just juvie
it it's almost definitional a juvenile
and so one of the the ways that he mixes
this in is to go after this guy on Vox
what's his name aza Carlos maza and who
does these YouTube explainers on
different issues and we played a clip of
of Crowder that was assembled of Crowder
basically every time he does one of
these rebuttals to
Mozza which you know of course you
should be doing rebuttals if you're if
you're if you're you disagree
politically but he always like sort of
buttons them with like he's gay and he's
Mexican so not terribly relevant it's
just it's just gratuitous not that
there's non gratuitous but it's just gay
bashing and in racism ad homonyms are
not arguments well I mean ad homonyms
are fine too
it's just that when you make it about
about someone being gay or Mexican what
happens is is you're sending a message
to those little kids those teenagers who
watch you you know if it's odd hominem
somebody says like oh look at Sam cedar
four-eyes or this guy's you know
condescending or he's a shill or
whatever it is there's no kids out there
who hear that and then go and ostracize
bully beat up other kids because they're
condescending but if they're gay if
they're Mexican that's what it breeds so
I have no problem with autonomy minim
and particularly if you're broadcasting
out of Austin Texas
and you're attacking transgender folks
and you're attacking Mexicans maybe
you've read the paper and you realize
that there have been two murders of
transgender women in the past two weeks
and Dallas half a dozen I think it is
now five maybe in the past two or three
years in Dallas I don't
it's somebody who listens to steven
crowder but if steven crowder keeps
working at it and keeps preaching like
this maybe someday he'll succeed and be
able to reach somebody who does that I
mean why else right I mean if you're
going to go on and attack somebody
essentially attack gay people attack
Mexicans what is your end goal your goal
is to get rid of them right and so it's
a success for you if one of your
students goes out and beats the gay out
of somebody
and so Maas is a complaint to YouTube
about it publicly because he gets a lot
of harassment for being gay and I don't
know what the solution is to this
obviously you could dimana ties his
entire channel he can keep doing what
he's doing but you can demonetised it
like you're not silencing anybody by
completely d monetizing a channel there
was a lot of people who are demonetised
almost all politics were demonetized
about a year and a half ago and it
sucked
it sucked but if that's what it takes
let's do it if it's unfair for the guy
who's gay bashing to be demonetised and
not us b to monetize to monetize us to
because at the end of the day anything
that we do here has no relevance if our
getting money from this allows him to
keep doing what he's doing and getting
paid for it and here is here is a and
the reason why I say this ok I mean this
is
there was a time actually where some
members of Congress right when air
America started where they wanted to
institute the Fairness Doctrine they was
Louise slaughter actually and she
invited me down to talk about it because
there was no other talkers who would
come and support it and because right
and left they knew that the business
model is not supportable in the way that
it would be if there was a Fairness
Doctrine people don't like to mix in
their left and right commentary on the
same Channel and my attitude was like
you know the reason why I'm doing this
is because I mean I need to make a
living but that's secondary to doing
this if I want to make a living I'll go
get a different job and if you're
worried about the suppression of free
speech then the first thing you should
be doing is saying D monetize him and D
monetize me if that's the concern
because if you don't do that then I get
a question like what your motivation is
here I'm not worried about censoring in
it and if people are worried that that
that YouTube is too dominant and cut it
up decouple it from from Google's
advertising revenue make it a different
company have competition for advertising
make it more transparent so the
corporations can know what they're
associating themselves with make it less
financially viable if you're worried
about the censoring that's involved if
you tell gay bashers that you can't make
money off of your channel like you can't
use that as a loss leader I don't care
if they do monetize that one video do
you monetize the whole channel cuz we
know how this works right this is a
business model Netflix HBO
they all have the same business model
the shows that you read about aren't
necessarily the ones that everybody's
watching those are the shows that get
people to buy the service to come in
it's called a loss leader and so even if
you de monetize his gay-bashing
that's a loss leader it brings people
onto the channel they make the money the
other way so I have no problem with
people going after a steven crowder I'm
we're not going to be bereft because
he's gay bashing we're not gonna get
enough of the joking about lisping and
whatnot and if it's a slippery slope
then let's just slide down it everybody
gets demonetised all politics
demonetised let's do it
and the reason why I say this and we
talked about mozzie yesterday is because
there's been some people ostensibly on
the Left who are taking issue with with
the with maza calling for Crowder to
stop doing what he's doing
what's this is this a Jimmy yeah yeah
here's our old friend Jimmy Dore who was
so toxic they had to jettison him from
TYT oh no I know he wanted to go tour
you want to go tour here is off to
create smart thorough engaging content
for you to pause it this is he's reading
off a Carla Carlos Moses tweet where he
is contacting YouTube and saying like
look I've been doxed because of this guy
we also got this video from progressive
voice and I think he pulled it from his
paywall stream so it's a little bit low
quality but oh is this a one
he's paywall this way you gotta pay to
hear yeah a company that claims to give
a about LGBT creators and it's
miserable to have that same company
helping facilitate a truly mind-melting
amount of direct harassment really is
this what your complaint it's something
funny my family sees this oh really
really you heard about the families of
the 85,000 kids that have been killed in
Yemen what about those families really
really a family sees this I had to
explain to my much younger sister what
the is steven crowder is and asked
my siblings not to respond I have to
explain to my nephew what a news
dupe is who pushes wark for
military-industrial complex
24/7 explain to them that Wolf Blitzer
Jake Tapper Rachel Maddow and Chris
Hayes are war mongers and they're tools
of the establishment and that's why
they'll never tell you the truth which
is why we have Trump as president I had
to explain that to my nephew my family
sees the
this guy what a snowflake this
guy is this isn't about silencing
conservatives I don't give a flying
of conservatives on YouTube disagree
with me sounds like you do but by
refusing to enforce that's an
anti-harassment policy YouTube is
helping incredibly powerful cyberbully
I'm being bullied Carlos maza Jesus h
 christ anyway if you want to
help i guess you can go to this dude's
videos and flag them but youtube isn't
going to do anything because youtube
does not give a about queer
creators it cares about engagement and
homophobic racist harassment is very
engaging again the problem isn't crowder
there will always be a
 trying to get attention by
being bigots the problem is that YouTube
is designed to give those of
megaphone push new followers in their
direction and keep them listening it's a
weapon uh-oh sounds like he wants to get
rid of YouTube let's see harassment
isn't siloed either every time he makes
one of these videos his fans flood the
comments on the original Fox video so a
piece I spent
for weeks working on is drowning in
homophobic and abusive comments and down
votes other alright so there it is Jimmy
door pooh-poohing the idea that this
guy's getting attacked for being gay is
a bit more here finishing that thought
comments and down votes other other Fox
vans see it it's humiliating what is
wrong with you what is wrong
with you are you kidding me you're upset
that people are down voting your videos
and you're humiliated what in the
 is wrong with you I mean
the the the the I'm less concerned with
his feeling humiliated and downvoted
than Jimmy just saying that well who
cares if steven crowder is gay bashing
you because there are kids dying in
yemen Mozza incidentally one of his
videos was about the the media promoting
the here it is how the media weapons
fetish primes us for war so it's not
like maza has been a cheerleader for
yemen but somehow door justifies stephen
Crowder's and this is you know you know
what this is about this is about jimmy
worried that he's gonna get demonetised
if this this is what it's all about and
there are some youtubers who are at the
very least I've seen who are at the very
least honest about it but this is Jimmy
worried that he's gonna get demonetised
to that we're all gonna get demonetised
because a youtuber is complaining about
being gay bashed talk about hip
hypocritical jimmy Dory's entire channel
has been built upon saying that people
who make money are going to make too
much money on on cable television that
Chris Hayes is respond
for Jennifer Donald Trump being elected
how is that the plan I thought the plan
was Jimmy was gonna make sure that
Hillary Clinton lost so the Democrats
could learn a lesson so they could
nominate Elizabeth Warren look that up
like her that was that was he said that
in his debate with you oh is that what
he said yeah I don't know Elizabeth
Warren but the kind right who he's now
attacked himself but but this is this is
this is the point is that you know like
Jimmy's making a very good argument that
really the whole thing should be
demonetised and I would say that tmv is
doing pretty well and I'm not totally
sure I agree with all this whole
demonetised everybody think I just
actually I just think it's incredibly
hypocritical to say like we can't figure
out how to deal with someone being gay
bashed and and in to equate to pooh-pooh
the idea that mazda doesn't care about
conservatives disagreeing with them and
then laughs like oh it seems like you do
i think what he's referring to is i
don't like the fact that he's calling me
you know he's basically queerbaiting me
we all know that if you complain about
being doxed that means that you don't
care about the genocide in yemen well
he's making kind of a weird argument
he's saying like don't hate the player
hate the game
YouTube financially incentivizes people
to do hate speech therefore they're
gonna do it and then YouTube is what
hypocrites if they censor it but like
that that kind of argument could be
extended to like capitalism as a whole
right it doesn't get the abusers off the
hook yeah I mean I'm Jimmy Dore is not
an anti-capitalist way the third I mean
the other thing that just strikes me is
like one you could just do monetize all
political channels for sure - you need -
regardless of that start breaking up
these companies I don't think that that
that to me is a separate track that
needs to happen and then three there's
the other aspect of companies these
platforms acknowledging that their media
publishers and in fact hiring and paying
well human editors and content curator
you know whatever the hell they want
all them and in recognizing that look
there's a journalistic platform we need
to actually invest in it
YouTube is quite efficient at giving you
copyright strikes there you go ok if we
were to go and use material that is
copyrighted material we have three
strikes there's two things that can
happen one if one of our songs hits the
stream we get demonetized for the entire
video it can be one minute of a song and
a two and a half hour show and we get
demonetized for the whole thing fine
that's somebody else's content there no
they want the money for it whatever we
can also get a community strike against
us if we use copyrighted material
without the permission without the
credit and we don't we don't have fair
use for it so YouTube can de monetize we
get three copyright strikes three
community strikes
we are demonetized period as a channel
there's no reason why they can't do that
I mean I just would say I mean obviously
they can do that with machines and
algorithms and AI and stuff like that
but I think with you know what I would
say about the need to actually have
editors and so on is you know I mean
before it it's worth like I think that
if you were a channel that did forget
even maybe you could even make a
distinction that okay whatever or if you
do political opinion D monetize it
sure okay you know that's one proposal
but if you did anything having to do
with an actual journalistic enterprise
and one thing that I do see is a
potential problem that's much bigger
than Jimmy Dore whining about this but
as I say like the way Facebook has
treated Telus or as an example is a huge
problem and these companies are both
ideologically and business-wise
not equipped to distinguish between Alex
Jones and somebody doing an actual
documentary series on as an example
that's why you break them up that's when
you break them up you break them up and
I think though frankly even when they
are broken up their media platforms and
media platforms are eventually going to
need to have actual
journalistic components to them and be
treated as such and higher as such an
investor's I think that you need I mean
look you could base your your conditions
upon you know something like I don't
know the way that we do
anti-discriminatory housing practices or
something like that because obviously
there is ripe for abuse soon as you know
institute that d monetize the whole
platform the whole channel type of thing
we're gonna get attacked Samms dip you
know calls conservatives a-holes or
whatever it is but you can make it about
religion you can make it about and you'd
have to assess it on a complaint by
complaint basis and there would be
certain amount of channels that would be
targeted for it no doubt but the idea
that you're just gonna say like okay
we're not gonna worry about that because
of the policy in Yemen how about what it
kind of shot wait you know like whoa
like who are you kidding
Jimmy door cries like a little baby and
I know this for a fact because I know
the people he cried to about it when he
was made to look stupid
I didn't raise it because these people
are mutual friends but I got I had
people talk to me Jimmy's upset he's
upset because you made him look like an
idiot
well I'm sorry he made himself look like
an idiot
I wasn't gonna say anything about it
because he told me he was ill and he was
suffering whatever but if this is the
game we're gonna play you're gonna cry
about your illness when there are people
dying in Yemen seriously you're gonna
cry about that stuff when there's
there's climate change but give me a
break
what a baby what a disingenuous baby all
right
we've gone too long well it looks like
we have some new news about this
actually what's this YouTube will now
block discriminatory content just a day
after saying it didn't violate his
policies YouTube announced Wednesday
that it will prohibit videos that
promote discrimination or segregation
based on things like age gender race
caste religion or veteran status the
announcement comes just a day after the
video platform was criticized how it
handles homophobic content thousands of
channels are expected to be affected by
the policy change shortly there you go
YouTube's new anti Supremacy policy is a
joke a shiny prop meant to distract the
reporters and advertisers from the alley
which is YouTube doesn't actually
enforce any of these documents ask ask
yourself this if YouTube actually has
been enforcing these policies against
hate speech bullying why does it need an
additional policy for supremacist
content isn't it already included it's
all a smokescreen they don't enforce any
of this don't well this is this is
the capitalism component because when
they do this there's two components of
this I mean one obviously you know
whatever they all decided to go after
Alex Jones together and you know sure
but but a vast majority of these things
but so far maybe this will be new but
this would be my guess effect relatively
very marginal channels like the reason
that Crowder didn't face any consequence
is not because the employees at YouTube
think he's funny or agree with his
politics necessarily it's because he's
got a lot of views alright that's it
that's how it works and then the other
part like a Twitter you know like just
even the games like some of these people
on Twitter are like they've gotten
really aggressive at rudeness so you see
people who say like hey fu you know they
get banned or whatever for know worked
or taken offline but there's accounts of
you know Spencer or Mullen you or
whatever they know how to keep in thin
side the parameters of what has been
established as you know quote-unquote
non-threatening non bullying or whatever
so everybody around it has plausible
deniability and again all of those
counts I mean you know Twitter wouldn't
exist without all right accounts
starting with you know Donald Trump but
but but look none of this is ever going
to be perfect and you're not going to be
able to do that there's there's no
perfect way of doing it but the bottom
line is how do we diminish the number of
like there is research that shows that I
mean you go back to the Milgram
experiments you there is plenty of
research that shows that the context in
which stuff happens that predispositions
that people have are impacted by the
context the societal context whatever
that is and so if you diminish the
rhetoric Richard Spencer may still be on
Twitter whatnot but if he's out there
saying stuff that's like marginally less
offensive somewhat less offensive
somewhat less supremacist and I don't
know that Spencer isn't necessarily a
good example for this but whatever
that's going to help somewhat there's no
way to eliminate it all the way through
but you know and the issue is less about
like Carlos Moses feel he's just
indicative of what's going on out there
for the thirteen-year-old boy living in
some town in Texas where the kid is
afraid to admit to himself even that
he's gay because of the hostility around
him or some other kid who gets beat up
because he's gay
or some other kid who gets killed
because he's gay that's the point we
just know that Carlos maza is got this
problem because it's directed at him and
he
a platform to discuss it but there are
literally thousands of other kids out
there who are living with this stuff
it's not like only Carlos Mazda hears it
it's not like just that kids who may be
gay are gay watch this and feel bad
about themselves it's that all of their
the kids they go to school with are
watching this and Crowder sits
there and he's a voice of authority to
them I mean to us he looks like a
whose daddy has to follow him around for
whatever reason well I think like maybe
if we do what do I do a 13 year old kid
they look at this guy and they think
here's a role model and it's cool to
make fun of gay kids it's normal it's
it's the way things should be and I
don't know I mean to have to say like
well you shouldn't complain about it
because what's going on in Yemen
seriously are you effing serious my god
how demented do you have to be how much
how dangerous are those chemicals that
you're putting in your hair oh is that
childish to make fun of them for his bad
dye job should I be banned
I think that is an example of the
appropriate kind of ad hominem exactly
exactly one that kids are just not gonna
deal with alright I get a little caught
up caught up and I just think that's
disgusting I just think it's absolutely
disgusting I mean my god I get it you
got a brand yourself because Michael
Tracy went on and said something about
it and so now you know that's your your
crew your tribe I said we're not going
to
we're not going to you know we're not
gonna side with the guy from Vox because
I don't like Vox you dye your hair when
kids are dying in Yemen he's serious why
don't you send that money to uh why'd
you send that money to Yemen instead of
buying your hair dye that's what it ad
hominem is that doesn't pertain to a
whole class of people but I know he's
not gonna be bothered by that I don't
think our channel should be financially
demonetized
just sitting with that idea I don't like
it yeah yeah it's not it's not not solid
thinking I know there's a lot of you out
there are gonna clip that little segment
where it says like where specifically
where I said you're you're crying about
kids with the Yemen and the hair dye and
oh you're gonna clip it so okay
sometimes we accept the world as it is
yeah what am I gonna do God give me the
grace to accept what I cannot change you
gotta use they gotta use the serenity
prayer a lot we're gonna take quick
break ahead into the fun half your
support makes this show possible become
a member today join the majority report
calm so that when they demonetised this
on youtube we can still do this built
this nice studio
well they don't need to do monetize us
now because they're taking down the hate
speech I mean look I you know I'm I'm
I'm being sincere about this yeah you
know if there's no way to do it that
doesn't threaten our our revenue then
our revenue will be threatened but
honestly that is this is where I grow I
agree I like the this but this is where
having an actual journalistic enterprise
comes in like you know the literal
distinction and even ability frankly to
say even as clear as we are on the
ideological line like it's obvious the
difference between you know an editorial
that I think is distasteful stupid
wrong in the economist that I will
critique that I might mock but it
absolutely should not be demonetized or
bothered or interfered with I mean we
need to be able to make these actual
basic analytic distinctions it's it goes
well this on this this actually this was
not our ability to have an open society
the Internet age yes I mean this is the
role that journalism is supposed to play
it was what my argument about why the my
getting fired frankly over that tweet
was a failure because right I could
understand why advertisers to this show
would be nervous about that and leave
the show fortunately they did not
largely because basically commercial
forces Maron basically said you can't
can't advertise on our show if you leave
a seeder show but I understood what was
going on in their heads because they
don't have divisions and money to assess
the what the the nature of that tweet
the nature of the attack and whatnot now
if you're a media company like MSNBC or
CNN or ABC or whatever it is you
literally have an army of reporters and
editors and people who are paid money to
assess what is at least somewhat real
and look at what on facebook said okay
we'll start assessing what's real let's
outsource it to some horrific neocon
think-tank to the French that of hiring
any number of highly talented and
capable unemployed journalists editors
fact checkers you know that's my point
right and it's not like these things
aren't enormous ly profitable and to the
extent that they're not then maybe it's
just not sustainable
right like you wouldn't open a
restaurant and say well we just can't
afford to pay any waiters so you're
gonna come up and grab your food at the
front well that's not a restaurant
anymore oh the Silicon Valley has been
built on a restaurant that is making
like hundreds and millions of dollars
but it's like the waiters get exposure
right exactly they can meet all these
potential clients that they could go
home and do like
mini-maid service for or whatever it is
but yeah there's I mean there's ways of
solving this and the solutions are gonna
come from people to continue to harass
these companies about allowing I'm sorry
you cannot make a journalistic argument
to me about steven crowder because so
much of his material is a function of
that crap that I'm sorry it just doesn't
cut it not worried about the First
Amendment because YouTube may D monetize
steven Crowder's channel I'm not worried
about the First Amendment if YouTube D
monetizes this channel you allow me if I
if if I feel strongly enough about gay
bashing or promoting Social Security on
YouTube that I'm willing to do it
without making any money from it and
expending money good well that'll help
me to do that was then well I know I'm
not you know popular for this but I have
I have real concerns about just taking
Alex Jones off of platforms period in a
monopolistic environment but not for a
second was de monetizing like great BD
monetize go ahead say Phil your thing
which is by the way another total
distinction in with regards to going
after Tucker Carlson and Laura Ingram's
advertisers right and you can also say
smart and correct I Walter the market
when they're getting mad about is the
market yes right and I will also add
this that you can also say just like
they do if we were ever to put this show
on on nonprofit FM stations no
advertising embedded in in it either so
you can't give out can't sell
memberships can't sell anything you just
want to go out there and express your
views go ahead and do it so all right
with that said introducing hunter-killer
a monthly subscription game where you
become a detective immersed in a murder
mystery it's so interactive and
convincing it looks and feels real right
now for just for our listeners you can
go to hunt to killer comm slash majority
for 20% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hard to take advantage of this offer
that's hunter-killer comm slash majority
for 20% off your first box Hunter Killer
comm slash majority because ladies and
gentlemen irony is not dead and there
you go so we've got it after all that
folks you could support this show by
becoming a member join the majority of
port comm don't forget just coffee dot
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
last night Michael
the Michael Brook show happened it was
excellent uh we had a very fun time with
Hassan did a deep dive on a
strategy for the left in light of bad
European Parliament election results and
then I Milton al-ahmadi who I I just
can't encourage people enough to seek
out and read and and watch we did a a
long conversation on Thomas Sankara who
is really especially because he ran
Burkina Faso in the 1980s and such a
sort of bleak time politically
extraordinary leader and assassinated
and in a coup backed by the French we
talked about that a number of other
topics had an incredible postgame with a
brand new debunk with Ben Burgess on can
the co-op democracy economy combat the
climate crisis among many other things
patreon.com slash TMDs this weekend
capitalism vers freedom for patrons
Jamie this week on the anti fada so
we've been doing a lot of cool
collaborations lately with all our
different podcast friends and this week
we have released the second edition in
our series high theory it's a
collaboration with our friends at swamp
side chats the gayest highest communist
podcast probably in exists
right now and the series is about
communist a ssin and the communist a
Shinto sowed we talk about a book by
shield of a the Eclipse and re-emergence
of the communist movement and I gotta
say I was little intimidated by the
material going into it because I'm the
only one of us who has not been to grad
school or even ever studied this kind of
thing in school but I think I got a lot
out of it things got a little bit heated
at times so yeah don't be afraid to
listen to it did you say the gayest and
highest mmm-hmm what does that mean like
smoking pot they smoke a lot of weed and
they're quite gay all right now I wasn't
sure self proclaimed Matt is on a
retreat literary hangover retreat but
check out literary hangover wherever
your podcasts are sold or you can also
check it out on on youtube quick break
fun half all right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degre the white man almost has one
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total can we bring back DJ
Tanner yeah or a couple of you put them
in rotation DJ dance well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break that's have Markinson and the
alpha males like
Oh
[Music]
the back
on the back
back
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blocked back
alpha males all back
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 you boy and
the alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price request
we around here I am a total we are
back Sam cedar on the majority report
that's gonna be a long clip that last
one oh yeah that one's gonna click first
we didn't even get the Michael Tracy's
dumb that's fine
he doesn't matter which is absolutely
true actually but it does it justice or
whatever I don't want to get back into
that yeah save it um huh let's talk
about how speaking of dumb how done a
dumb Donald Trump is so Donald Trump was
running a base election that's probably
not I don't I don't know what his
different options are but he certainly
feels comfortable with that maybe
that'll work maybe he will win again in
a similar fashion but here he is with
Piers Morgan piers Morgan this blowhard
went back to Britain I guess he got a
job there and this is uh probably the
last time he'll interview Donald Trump
probably knows it ah yeah and so why not
here he is he goes all in presses Donald
Trump on climate change and Donald Trump
handles it with a plum about climate
change what he really wants and what he
really feels warmly about is the few
positive positive ones let's go back
who's he talking about talking about
about Prince Charles Prince conversation
yes his conversation with Prince Charles
Prince Charles feels warmly about the
environment just so you know he wants to
make sure future generations have
climate that is good climate as opposed
to a disaster and I agree I did
in a couple of things I did say well the
United States right now has among the
cleanest climates there are based on all
statistics and it's even getting better
because I agree with that I want the
best water that bits cleanest water
crystal clean has to be crystal clear
same is brother what people want to hear
from you about climate change is that
you basically understand that almost
every scientist who looks into this
believes climate change is a very real
and present danger if we don't tackle it
now that America has to lead the way
along with China and India then we're
gonna be in serious trouble do you
accept that well you know you just said
it China India Russia many other nations
they have not very good air not very
good water and the sense of pollution
and cleanliness if you go to certain
cities I'm not going to name cities but
I can if you go to certain cities you
can't even breathe and now that air is
going up so if we have a clean in terms
of a planet we're talking about a very
small you know for a small distance
between China and the US or other
countries I think is mutual
responsibility no question but they
don't do there is what you personally
believe in climate change I believe that
there's a change in weather and I think
it changes both ways don't forget it
used to be called global warming that
wasn't working then it was called
climate change now it's actually called
extreme weather because with extreme
weather you can't miss look we have it
well it's just unbelievable extreme
weather I know we shouldn't shouldn't
worry at all about climate change
because of Yemen because of Donald
Trump's bombing in Yemen I don't know
how we work that but the the bottom line
is like you know this is clearly a guy
that you know this is what we're stuck
with and the rest of the world sees this
and rightfully I think says there's
something really problematic about that
country that they would elect this
lunatic well you don't want crystal
clean water I do I want crystal clean
water crystal clean crystal clean
hashtag me too
there you go
I mean I don't know what you say about
that
this is a guy who's just like adamant
about not acknowledging climate change
because he's a he's I don't know what he
believes but he it's either just he's
regurgitating what he's heard on
right-wing talk radio or he just knows I
can't acknowledge it no he's actually
making it another nationalist argument
in a way I mean we all know the the old
talking point that they always use about
if it's you know if China and India blah
blah blah but the way he's like
specifically juxtaposing like we're good
were clean crystal clean we've done our
job so that does that we've done our job
and then all the others Billa texts ruin
since we've the best claim it's come
from a 3-1 to area code who's this where
he calling from
3-1 to area code who's this where he
come from southern Illinois my name is
Jay Jay what's on your mind I love you
guys you guys are the best
brilliant but I wanted to talk to you
about and it ties in with the interview
with the author of Occupy movement
yesterday right after Taylor mm yeah mm
2016 I went out to Grant Park in Chicago
tried to start a movement of individuals
coming out to express their anger
frustration fear about what's going on
politically I wanted to make it a
nonpartisan fight thing just asking
decent good people to come out and I
thought it was a great idea because if
people meet in local public spaces for
three hours a day three to six it's like
an Occupy movement where you can go to
places where you know progressive people
are going to be we're good you know
caring people are going to want
go meet other people like them you're
not gonna do it on Facebook and Twitter
and all that stuff that's useless and I
really only saw a couple problems with
it one is that it's got to get the
police on board to come and protect the
people that are meeting right as opposed
to containing them right that's one
thing and the other thing was five um
bad actors infiltrating the crowd right
but my idea was get a clearing
clearinghouse for places that you know
if you're a progressive okay so so tell
me what happened I get it tell me what
happened I went out there for a week
and for three hours a day and I set up a
Facebook page a group on Facebook but I
I had just started Facebook and I didn't
know that to join this group they had to
be personal friends with me and none of
the people that I meant knew my name so
but I did get some people in the group
and I met some young people and it
turned out they were mostly concerned
about the relationship problems that
they were having with other young people
I mean I'm talking like really young
people and I'm disabled and at that time
I was just starting my treatments and I
couldn't do it anymore
well I mean look here here I mean I I'm
not I'm not sure where that's going but
we but we got to move on but I will say
this is that like it's hard to to to do
what you were trying to do I mean I you
know I don't have you know I can't sit
here and assess whether it's a good idea
or a bad idea but what you know trying
to organize people is hard it's it's
very very hard it's very hard to get
people motivated even if they you know a
test of being highly interested in it's
very hard and I would I commend the
attempt and I would just keep saying
keep trying and you know if you figure
it out well
remodeling the reason that I thought it
was a good idea was because in my little
town there's a local library if if
there's a place on the internet where I
can look and see in my time where
where's a good place to meet progresses
I can meet other progresses in that town
there and nobody can come and say you
can't have a rally here you can't you
can't meet here because I'm at the
library I'm yeah I mean I think it's I
think that sounds like on an individual
basis meeting people um as opposed to
occupy the occupy yeah I understand what
you're saying but Melissa but let me
just say this I think one of the things
that worked about the Occupy was that it
was standing like it you know when it
was there it was standing and it made it
easier for people to to basically try it
out without feeling like it was a
commitment and then find out that they
liked it and go but I appreciate the
call keep plugging away at it good job
also on behalf of my generation I would
like to apologize that we are all so
horny and confused
there you go there you go
it's a real problem come from a three
one seven area code who's this where you
calling from em yeah who's this oh
there's Sean from Indiana Sean from
Indiana what's on your mind I don't know
if you guys have seen the show when they
see us or not but man I haven't I
haven't seen any show so really no but I
think I've heard good things about
Parkman 580 Central Park five yes
actually that's where I read about that
because someone just resigned from the
the prosecutor yeah just resigned from
the Board of Directors or from the
presidency did something at Vassar
College there's like a board member
board member yeah that's where that's
the first time I became aware of that
show I think just in the past day or two
we did an interview with who did the the
documentary was it Ken Burns yeah we did
an interview with I think it with Ken
Burns about the document
tree must have been about four years ago
maybe five years ago maybe more you can
search for it but yeah I will check that
show out really yeah I appreciate it
yeah man it was really oh thanks I just
Google a majority report Central Park
five I think you'll find it here is uh
Donald Trump in his press conference
with Theresa May I guess this was from
yesterday or two days ago talking about
his plan now remember his plan as far as
I know kicks in June 10th he says that
if Mexico does not stop immigrants from
entering its country presumably so they
can basically knock on our door to get
into our country then he will levy a 5%
tariff on Mexican goods coming into this
country which will undoubtedly start off
by hitting people living in lower
incomes
it will then ultimately impact
businesses that are selling to these
people because the product will jump by
5% and then he says every month after
that he's gonna raise it five percent
until it's twenty five percent and it I
don't really have a sense frankly of
what kind of deprivation this is gonna
cause to be totally honest with you I do
have a sense that it will severely hurt
Republicans chances of maintaining the
Senate and so I need to do a little more
digging before I publicly advocate for
Donald Trump to do this it'll be
interesting to see as an experiment what
happens when the president has no idea
what he's talking about but I imagine he
will wriggle out of this in some way but
here he is talking about how I don't
know what he expects Mexico
to basically build their own wall
shouldn't allow millions of people to
try and enter our country and they could
stop it very quickly and I think they
will and if they won't we're gonna put
tariffs on and every month those tariffs
go from 5% to 10% to 15% to 20 and then
to 25% and what will happen then is all
of those companies that have left our
country and gone to Mexico are going to
be coming back to us and that's ok
that's ok but I think Mexico will step
up and do what they should have been
done and I don't want to hear that
Mexico is run by the cartels and the
drug lords and the Coyotes I don't want
to hear about that a lot of people are
saying that Mexico has something to
prove but I don't want to hear that
they're run by the cartels you
understand you report on it all the time
a lot of people do it would be a
terrible thing Mexico should step up and
stop this onslaught this invasion into
our country John wow I love how he says
like I don't want to hear me say that
they're run by cartels and coyotes and
what God's gonna say you have an
excellent opportunity to stop having
that experience it'll be interesting to
see if this works and how he wriggles
out of this if it doesn't was it we said
what was it Lord give me the the
strength to accept what I cannot change
and the courage to change what I can
there you go there you go dude you apps
also coyotes are not high in the
hierarchy yes that's just just a little
nitpicky of me here but I'm from the IOT
part yeah I'm funny we're part of the
border smuggling group of the top
echelon hierarchy hi Mexican cartel
oligarchy good wild dogs be running a
country her campaign calls for
hovercrafts and i for everyone at the
trying to get across the border and for
the digging of a huge tunnel in an
unnamed place that's our campaign
but remember when he thought the Coyotes
were literally like the animal yes you
should also help out on low armed lows
trying to take on some of these
truckers in Mexico which were
facilitated by the Merida Initiative
where we militarized the drug war there
in an unprecedented way you know that's
not what I know Sam I do know that
Donald Trump is not sincere I'm using
that as a bridging point to mention some
other worthwhile things apparently we go
about Mexico meanwhile Mitch McConnell
is also aware of the dynamic I just
expressed that tariffs 5% on Mexican
goods coming to this country will hurt
low-income people first then will hurt
businesses second and third will hurt
Republican senators Mitch McConnell does
not care about the first set of people
whatsoever only to the extent that it
might have implications on some
businesses and to the extent that he
cares about those businesses I also
genuinely believe that's really just
because it will impact his ability to
continue to jam a pack the poor the
courts with right-wingers so here is
Mitch McConnell bravely standing up to
Donald Trump and saying please don't not
much support in my conference for
tariffs that's for sure
but we appreciate the offer you had an
opportunity to lunch to talk to a number
of representatives from the White House
about this particular strategy I think I
can safely say most of us hope that this
Mexican delegation that's come up here
and discussed the challenges at the
border and what the Mexicans might be
able to do to help us more than they
have will be fruitful and that these
tariffs will not kick out now hold in a
lot to me is Mitch is saying why don't
you guys hold some type of conference at
a Trump Tower property or trump property
that might do it
I mean that's apparently the way that
payday lenders succeeded they just had
their 1 million dollar conference at a
Trump Trump Doral golf course
I mean Mitch McConnell is trying to
figure out a way that they can convince
the Mad King to to not do this without
being seen as being against the Mad King
in any material way so which is why he's
talking about the Mexican delegation
Mitch McConnell is afraid of going a
head-to-head with Donald Trump because
he knows the Republican Party is Donald
Trump's party and it is helped Mitch
McConnell for decades control our court
system in this country but Mitch
McConnell fears that he may lose the
Senate if something like this happens
and they're stuck between a rock and a
hard place they cannot control Donald
Trump because their voters love Donald
Trump and this is the one area that
they're worried about business is
suffering so we'll see go to a31 for
area code who's this where he come from
what's up families and Christians I want
Chris from Taiwan what's on your mind
well first of all shout out to the LGBT
community in Taiwan because Taiwan just
became the first country in East Asia to
legalize same-sex marriage so far
that's not the shofar expand actually I
was calling because I want to talk about
the Tiananmen Square incident you guys
brought that up yesterday because it was
the anniversary yep yeah so the
Tiananmen Square movement I think is
consistently misrepresented in the
Western press and what I mean by that is
the movement is always referred to
pretty much exclusively as a democracy
movement and that's actually true like
the protesters were calling for greater
democracy they wanted elections they
wanted you know more civil liberties due
process and so forth but more than that
the the movement was actually largely a
movement of resistance against
neoliberal economic reforms that were
happening in China which is the part
that always gets left out in Western
reporting about the history of the
Tiananmen Square incident so well I
think what people need to understand is
that you know what was happening in
China in the 1980s leading up to the
Tiananmen Square massacre was that the
Chinese Communist Party was starting to
embrace global capitalism more than it
had in the past Milton Friedman himself
actually visited China multiple times in
the 1980s to advise the Chinese
government on how it should reform its
economy as did a number of Friedman's
Chicago School acolytes and on this
advice what the Chinese government was
trying to do during that period was
integrate China into the global economy
by instituting neoliberal you know quote
unquote reforms like they were
eliminating price controls reducing wage
supports for Chinese workers privatizing
various parts of the Chinese state
sector and thought and so once
resistance to those economic policies
started to emerge which is
what was actually largely about that's
when the Chinese government started to
crack down hardcore and I actually think
that the Tiananmen Square incident is
one of the best examples of how Friedman
I claims about capitalism and democracy
going hand-in-hand is a total lie and a
historical fabrication and the same was
true almost everywhere that the
neoliberal economic neoliberalism
quote-unquote tiger economies or the
former Soviet countries at the end of
the Cold War or Latin America which by
the way is crucial to understanding
bolson are oh and Brazil for example
which Michael you know talks about a lot
you know Bolton ro is the direct
descendant of the Brazilian dictatorship
which awarded Brazilian democracy in the
1960s for the purpose of implement the
alluvial ISM the same kind of kneeler
that provoked the enamines rising I
would really just real quick alright
because we talked about how this word is
thrown around too much and not defined
there is a great book by David Harvey
called neoliberalism and it's his
history of it which I think provides
actually a very sensible sound
definition of it and on the cover
there's several leaders including
Thatcher and I think maybe also Pinochet
and Reagan and one of them is dung Xiao
ping yep you know done Xiao ping done
shall be essential lesson to understand
and and it was also that not only was
Tiananmen Square a lot about labor and
preserving those rights it was
definitely also about opening up and
democracy and that other thing that the
Chinese leadership was really concerned
about obviously was the fact that the
Soviet system had fallen and the fact
that they perceived what Gorbachev was
attempting to do as exactly what the
protesters wanted he was trying to turn
it into a more like Finland style model
which was liberalized and open up but
still have you know
versal benefits and worker ownership so
yeah they hit it from both sides and it
definitely in the Chinese leadership
from what I've understood and there's a
great book called what does China think
that really a lot of the people who've
been the biggest market intervenors are
the ones who are most comfortable with
authoritarian state apparatus that no
that's exactly right and you brought up
Michael you mentioned I think it was
yesterday by the way the way you
pronounce his name is Zhao the Yong Zhao
Xiao Jian is a doubt the Yong Zhao Zi
next to each other yes yes important but
he wasn't he was he was part of you know
he was high up in the Communist Party
but he wasn't the only one there were a
number of people who were purged by Jung
Xiao ping who was the premier of China
during Tiananmen Square and they were
purged largely because they they were
advocating offering concessions to the
protesters on the economic front that
they were saying like oh hey listen we
should slow down these neoliberal you
know capitalist reforms and that's you
know why they got purged from the party
so but I mean but you know the point is
again and again neoliberal economic
policies can only be enforced down the
barrel of a gun whether it's in
Tiananmen Square or anywhere else you
know because the truth is that when you
give people Democratic power and that's
why you know the Tiananmen Square a
movement wanted democracy so much
because they wanted more democratic
power in order to have more economic
power but when you give people
Democratic power they will use that
power to improve own lives economically
and they will reject neoliberal policies
you know whether now I go back to this
for a bit coordinate but Phillip Moritz
little poo no more we're out Suki
murasky in his intellectual history of
neoliberalism
mates makes the point quite clearly that
you know it is lazy fair except for a
narrow set of interests that are
supposed to control this and it is
fundamentally anti-democratic and if you
couple that interview with and I his
name escapes me now too who was talking
about the international neoliberal
project Quinn solonian yes those two
will make it quite clear that you can
see the anti-democratic nature of
neoliberalism that has to be
specifically narrowly tailored it is not
as it's not accurate to say that it's
sort of like just that it's just free
market its it really is a market that is
set up for a specific subset of people
to win and let's just keep it that way
and that will take care of everybody and
that's where it's sort of like almost
gets a little bit Strauss Ian but not
quite but appreciate the call Chris yeah
thank you yeah yeah yeah thank you and
one more thing real quick anyone
listening to my voice right now should
read the Shock Doctrine by Neyman by
Naomi Klein I think that's one of the
most important english-language books
published in our lifetimes and she
explains really well I'm a lot better
than I am right now you know wide
neoliberalism is fundamentally
anti-democratic
and why it is an inherently violent and
oppressive ideologies but thanks for
taking my call good point on the Shock
Doctrine it also helps you understand
like what happens with places like not
just Iraq but also places like New
Orleans after a major catastrophe or in
any area really that suffers any type of
major catastrophe there's always a a
rush to get in Puerto Rico in many
respects similar type of order Rico's of
vintage well that's horrible Rico and
it's always facilitated and it goes back
even before this latest crisis the Obama
administration was abominable in Puerto
Rico too that's another great example of
like
you know the federal government fighting
cases in the Supreme Court to keep
arcane laws on the books concerning you
know Puerto Rican sovereignty that goes
along with selling off the public sector
to hedge funds in Boston in New York I
would also recommend Robert Brenner the
boom in the bubble if you want sort of a
Marxist political economy of the
neoliberal turn as well as I hate to be
self-promotional but history is the
weapon this week Sean and Matt break it
down in turn like I learned a lot from
listening to it come from a 501 area
code who's this where he calling from oh
hello who's this hey my name is Colton
I'm calling from Rogers Arkansas where
they had the Walmart shareholders
meeting today and Bernie Sanders is
there spoke I didn't actually get to
catch what he said and they wouldn't let
me in well my I suspect they had very
good reason called I have like a third
of a share oh yeah they they definitely
you gotta have a whole share apparently
hmm but yeah it was a Bernie came out
later and I was and he was standing up
at the top of this hill there where you
know all the Wally guy goes to the
protest were but that's okay I got to
say and what did he say did he say
anything when he came out he he spoke
about I mean fairly fairly mild given
what people were you know out there on
the street demanding you know just like
$15 an hour totally doable it's it
Amazon's already done it targets already
done it mentioned another store and
that's what he was in there fighting for
yeah Walmart is you know it's amazing
about the CEO calling for a a federal
increase in the minimum wage didn't I
don't know if he said the what the
actual dollar figure would be but
Walmart is the single biggest private
employer in the country and and they
certainly could go ahead and and and
raise that
minimum wage and that would go a long
way to to increasing the minimum wage
across across the across the economy but
I I understand I agree with the CEO of
Walmart everyone should be forced to do
it that way it'll make it easier for
Walmart frankly to compete there's no
reason why we should should have you
know corporations should it's just not a
there's just not a healthy incentive and
this is not healthy to force
corporations to or to encourage
corporations do this themselves it gives
other corporations an unfair advantage
by and an incentive to impoverish their
workers doesn't make any sense
yeah it's no they're literally getting a
federal subsidy in the form of you know
having any standard of living for their
employees from the federal and state
well I mean I'm like I'll tell you I am
very nervous about taking that that that
may be the case but I am a little bit
nervous about about from a political
perspective making that the issue
because I don't think that we should in
any way stigmatize support that people
are getting but from the and and I get
it but but on some level look the
reality is the US government subsidizes
everyone it subsidizes Walmart it
subsidizes every corporation it
subsidizes my business here because it's
developed technologies that I am now
using to make money because I I mean I
can rely on electricity coming through
here because of money that's been spent
on the grid I mean it's just the US
government subsidizes everybody that's
all that's what it should do that's why
you have a government but the bottom
line is is that but we be and because of
that the problem isn't that we're
subsidizing the problem is is that
because of that relationship that people
have with government
and that corporations have with
government that our government should
also be able to ask and demand frankly
Returns like this you know it's not a
one-way street it doesn't work that way
and that's the bottom line but
appreciate the call thank you thank you
all right this is gonna have to be the
last call of the day folks I'll take one
more call and then we got one or two
clips and then got a jump who we got
here is this a 208 yeah hi it's Ben from
Seattle Ben from Seattle what's on your
mind Ben yeah you've been saying that
you know we have a limit to what we can
expect out of even if we win the Senate
back well the Republicans there's a I
hesitate to say down you're right well I
hesitate to to put it that way but I
should just say that like there isn't a
limit to what we can expect we should
expect but we should also be aware that
you know these are politicians let me
put it that way yeah yeah
but there's a new idea on GoFundMe and
best with confidence it's a liberal a
very progressive yeah investment company
combined with an app that shows you out
of boycott the worst Republican
offenders those that fund the Republican
Party so it would be like bringing a
nuclear weapon to a knife fight next
time the Republicans come up with that
stuff I'm not sure I fully understand
what you're saying but I mean there's
been there's been stuff like this before
I don't know if it's been with an app
but where we where people would try and
support that was like maybe a blue book
I think it was called where you support
liberal you know companies that donate
to liberal causes versus
Republican causes I mean I think you
know that that's helpful on some level
but at the end of the day that is it's
still a bit of a bank shot as far as I
can tell but I appreciate the call Ben
thanks okay all right that's it for
calls today folks I'm sorry we're gonna
have to wind up in about 5-10 minutes
apparently Donald Trump we don't have
that clip of Donald Trump not being
aware that there were protesters in in
in Britain but here is Laura Ingraham
and there is a real concerted effort by
by Trump and by apparently those on Fox
to in some way deny the fact that Donald
Trump has been met with thousands upon
thousands of protesters there's there
was footage of Trump completely denying
it saying like I didn't hear about here
it is yes there every news outlet has
basically said this is just not true
there were thousands of protesters and
nobody was cheering for Donald Trump and
Trump realizes there are two different
narratives there are two different media
ties and we were saying this quite a bit
at a year or two ago I feel like and
we've sort of forgot but that moment
where that woman at the jacent of the
the Amash Town Hall worries she's like I
had no idea that was anything negative
about Trump and the Muller report no
idea she is involved enough to go to see
her Congress person speak what
percentage of the American public does
that right so she's that much of an
informed voter here's the weird dynamic
she is not a low information voters she
is a narrow information voter and
they have figured this out that their
core audience does not listen to any
other media outside themselves and
therefore they can create a narrative
that it doesn't matter that other people
are reporting something that is
diametrically opposite that here is
Donald Trump saying I didn't see any
protesters what far as the protests I
have to tell you because I commented on
and yesterday we left the prime minister
the Queen the royal family there were
thousands of people on the streets
cheering and even coming over today
there were thousands of people cheering
and then I heard that there were
protests I said where are the protests I
don't see any protests I did see a small
protest today when I came very small so
a lot of it is fake news I hate to say
but you saw the the people waving the
American flag waving your flag it was
tremendous spirit and love
there was great love it was an alliance
and I didn't see the protesters until
just a little while ago and it was a
very very small group of people put in
for political reasons so put him for
political reasons yeah exactly
there was about a hundred thousand hours
conservatively 75,000 people and one guy
put a penis shape in his lawn
right from blonde over just so trumpets
lady yes yes I know I know just
reiterating I don't I don't know that
that was love well I mean but it was
crystal clear yes crystal clear his
favorite phrases I think but but this is
this is this is I think effective that
is the clip that they're going to be
playing on Fox News and they're gonna
say like the president was absolutely
right and it's going to be effective I
mean this is one of the difficulties
when this looks like love yeah this is
yeah there's a picture of that I mean
people
we rented
you are shakers yeah this house a table
this is one of the difficulties that I
think is underestimated in the
calculations of candidates that are
trying to convince Trump voters to
switch back that you don't necessarily
have a way of reaching them in the way
that you think you do now it's possible
there's marginal things and you know but
largely I think a lot of this is talk
radio
you know Fox's couple million five
million ten minute I don't know but talk
radio is much bigger with that said
there's this ongoing program Donald
Trump as we mentioned sitting with
Teresa may standing with Teresa may
claiming like I didn't see any protests
well that's position a but just in case
any of the Fox viewers saw the protests
on other stations there is there's a
position be it's sort of like this is
the this may be the Alamo here is Laura
Ingraham queen of the Alamo the protests
went just a bit too far they've labeled
them every east every negative every
pejorative you can imagine and I got the
sense out there the few Brits I actually
met most of people didn't seem British a
lot of people were more from outside of
London just fine but they posit for one
second first of all Britain is bigger
than London but I think the idea that
she was saying maybe they were outside
of Britain like if she was basically
saying they weren't white go all the way
back so basically saying that I'm gonna
say sing it sing it Tess went just a bit
too far they've labeled them every East
every negative every pejorative you can
imagine and I got the sense out there
the few Brits I actually met most of
people didn't seem British a lot of
people were more from just fine but
they even some people like if they were
watching the purchase seemed a little
uncomfortable about what was unfolding
hmm I'll tell you what I love all of the
just like impressionistic nonsense
of like well it didn't seem and it
didn't feel but I will say from watching
Laura Ingraham and and that's one of the
really painful counterman intuitive
things that I have to do in this job
from time to time a tremendous
meditative excuse gay apologies I think
even the fact that she's after making
that dog foghorn that she said and
that's okay
keep calling her advertisers Oh daddy a
little in the armor you got there
without a doubt I'm sure some of them
were good people but he's not somebody
who does she does not usually pull of
course it's definitely having an impact
but it is fascinating like well okay
there may have been protests she says
but they weren't really genuine people
all right look folks we're out of time
got to do it quick today thanks for
joining us see you tomorrow
that's it
where I want but I know
[Music]
I was
[Music]
the alleged burns
yeah
[Music]
