[Music]
Mick Mulvaney I love the idea that they
brought him on on st. Patrick's Day I
think that's pretty good
but I also sold to the Irish people Mick
Mulvaney did not bring his well he may
have brought his AGame
but he did not bring a a game to face
the nation this is pretty stunning how
the how he is defending the President of
the United States from being an
influence on white nationalism across
the globe
you know when the the killer in New
Zealand specifically cited I am sane
enough to realize that Trump is a
buffoon but I also appreciate the work
he's doing for white nationalism
essentially what he said
and here's Mick Mulvaney trying to make
the argument that this is it's so unfair
like even the numbers even this keeping
tallies of things is a problem bring to
what happened here hardly speaking the
number of attacks and support for white
supremacy is up according to the
Southern Poverty Law Center and even a
trump appointed attorney in the state of
Virginia Thomas Cullen was recently
quoted as saying white supremacy and
far-right extremism are among the
greatest domestic security threats
facing the United States has the
president been briefed on this I don't
know who that gentleman is certainly the
president's briefed on all of the
Southern Poverty Law Center I do I do
the president's absolutely briefed on
all of the threats both domestic and
international but I want to push back
against this idea that every time
something bad happens everywhere around
the world folks who don't like Donald
Trump seem to blame it on Donald Trump
I'm hoping we get on the president's a
characterization I didn't say you I'm
saying that that's clearly what some
folks want to do I've heard other
members
of the Democrat Party trying to do it
folks at the Southern Poverty Law Center
here trying to do it this is a tragic
thing that had her just a number of
white nationalist groups has surged by
fifty percent since Trump has become
office right well in the past year there
you go so here's the point excuse me
well there you go you're just deciding
normal timeframes like the past year
cystic that happen oh there you go it
happened at the same time but I mean
what if you were to look at for instance
has the number of white uh you know
nationalist groups gone up over the
course of like two hundred years how
could you possibly blame that on Trump
you couldn't right so let's look at that
that's basically his argument here to be
of little fair here that's his argument
basically is at this point like you know
it is unfair to use the period of time
that Donald Trump is been in office or
any part of that time his office to make
that measurement is what his argument is
go back it's sort of astonishing like oh
there you go one year of course going
back a year well we'll have you come
back and blame me for a deficit number
how about you start before I became
president come on well be a little fair
Mick but the increase in the deficit is
what would be the analogy there is
nothing so I'm saying there is no it's
this is just bizarre that's clearly what
some folks wanted want to do I've heard
other members of the Democrat Party
trying to do it folks at the Southern
Poverty Law Center here trying to do it
this is a tragic thing that happened
just a number of white nationalist
groups has surged by fifty percent since
Trump has become office right well in
the past year there you go disagree that
it's a rising threat I disagree that
there's a causal link between Donald
Trump being president and something like
this happening in New Zealand that's not
the argument or the suggestion there by
the judge or by that statistic is the
president aware that this is a rising
threat again a rising threat I think the
president you saw you saw him asked the
other day does he think it's a rising
threat and he says no I think there's
information that would back that up the
issue is how do you stop these crazy
people whether or not there's one of
them or posit so let me be clear first
he says it's unfair to blame this
rising threat on Donald Trump and then
he says and of course there is no rising
threat as the president has said there's
no rising threat so it's not just that
it's unfair to blame the President on
this rising threat it's that it's there
is no rising threat and on top of that
it's just not you're saying there's a
causal connection between the rising
threat and the presidency and I'm saying
that's not a causal connection and it is
for the next question I'm gonna say it
doesn't exist anyways issue is how do
you stop these crazy people whether or
not there's one of them or four of them
doesn't make a difference if they're
willing to go on live TV and stream the
murder of people so I think that's where
the time is better spent instead of
worrying about well who's to who's to
blame how do we stop from doing this
Donald Trump is no more to blame for
what happened in New Zealand then Mark
Zuckerberg is because he invented
Facebook there are some terrible people
in the world we need to work with our
partners of which New Zealand is one of
them to try and figure a way to find
them expose them and bring them to
justice
well I'll also say that there is a
decent argument out there that Facebook
is adding to and these type of social
media platforms is adding to the
virulence and the spread of this
ideology and that they have some type of
responsibility to sit on it in fact I
mean there's a reason why gap is that
what it is exist right because a lot of
these white Nationals have been kicked
off a Twitter so that didn't work out so
well for Mick Mulvaney yeah we're fine
with blaming Facebook work with our
partners of which New Zealand is one of
them to try and figure a way to find
them expose them and bring them to
justice well President Trump and
certainly during the campaign talked
quite a lot about the need to be
specific to name a threat in order to
counter it so why minimize it why not
directly address white supremacy and
specifically Islamophobia yeah I get a
lot of questions about world leaders did
and the president didn't I get a lot of
questions from people saying what you
need to tell the President to do X you
need to tell the President to go and
give it an oval office address on this
or on that that's not how the system
works the president communicates in his
way different Pres
I believe that he mitigated in their way
I don't think anybody can claim that
Donald Trump hasn't done exactly what we
would want him to do in this
circumstance
we've immediately reached out to our
allies we've expressed that the absolute
disgust at the tragic at the tragic
events we're doing the presidents are
supposed to do that doesn't mean it's
going to make everybody happy because of
the hyper parson times we live in but
again I really it's it frustrates me
just as a citizen I don't want to hear
this anymore
honestly he moved in and you know I
don't I don't maybe maybe would Margaret
Brennan is hearing is different from
what I'm hearing but he just said oh I'm
not gonna I'm not responsible I've been
here as a spokesperson for the president
until this moment where you ask me why
he's the only one who's not talking
about white nationalism that's not the
process well of what the presidency is
if we ask the president I'm just the I'm
just the acting second acting chief of
staff or whatever it is to my title this
week I'm just the guy who's in the
office who's not his son-in-law so I
don't I'm not gonna take any
responsibility for that but I can tell
you these suggestions of causal
connections and the idea that there's
anything to be causal connected by is
also ridiculous this is like a parody I
don't know why they bring that guy back
on no he's running out the clock in a
calm tone saying basically nothing
that's his job and he if they don't even
have to make all of their excuses make
sense put together because they have the
power yeah I like the tone the tone
bluffing
which is like I'm gonna ask for a
clarification on that number you gave
and then act like it absolves trump of
everything even though it's just like oh
what timeframe do you got that's right
that's the expert level I think yeah no
you're both right here and really on
some level it's like they got to pick up
the game a little bit on Face the Nation
or wherever it is you got to just like
almost get meta as to what is going on
like wait a second
first you argue there's no causal
connection then you argue that there
that the there is no rising threat which
is it is there no rising threat or is
there no causal connection because you
can't make the case there's no causal
connection to
something that doesn't exist oh you
don't have to make that argument because
it doesn't exist I also don't
particularly care for the like I get
what she's doing with the president said
you need to be really specific about
Muslim terrorism but like it's totally I
totally meant that yes specific that's
actually talked about that's right and
that's actually kind of the point right
neither of those things are specific
with Muslims they universalize an entire
group of people an act of bigotry
discrimination and bans and then when
it's white nationalist terrorism it's
nonspecific to the point of totally
opaque doesn't matter where is there's
actually you know it's there's there's a
happy middle here where we could say you
know al Qaeda did that a white
nationalist terrorist did that it's
really actually not that hard and in
either case are you being specific it's
just one you're obscuring and
distracting and the other you're doing
bigotry
