[Music]
one last thing we'll do some phone calls
the Sean Spicer is apparently gonna be
on Dancing with Stars and I have two
reactions to this one is that's usually
the last vestige of a celebrity very
often it is the last time that you will
you will make some cash
it probably pre Sage's a Celebrity Big
Brother to have a situation or something
like that it's really a cruel thing to
call it if you think about it
what's that Dancing with the Stars right
exactly like guess what buddy
oh well you know he's theoretically the
star that's what sort of problematic
about it there was some tweet where
somebody said you know I never
understood in studying you know like
when I was like learning about history
about the Holocaust like how things like
that could happen in a place like how
did how do you slip into something like
that and then I saw Sean Spicer on the
Emmys and I understood a lot of things
and I I think there really is an
argument that now I understand a lot of
ABC viewers they like the Trump
administration and I imagine ABC in
particular is a network that aims for
people in the middle of the country in
the southern parts of the country that
is where they they make their hay as it
were and you can go back over the years
and you can sort of see that by this
shows that they put on to a large extent
but there's an individual who works it's
ABC I don't know who it is I have no
idea who made this decision and a bunch
of people signed off on it and I can
assure you that those people do not live
in the south they do not live in the
the country they are coastal people who
I would imagine at least some of them
would not vote for Donald Trump I would
imagine some of them are raising money
against Donald Trump and the complete
jettisoning of one's political views
when you make a decision to normalize in
celebrity eyes someone like Sean Spicer
who was horrific in his lying to the
American public
is I mean it's it's disgusting it's
disgusting I understand like you know if
someone came to me and said like well
you know what everybody who is involved
in signing off on this they're all Trump
supporters all right you know what I
Trump supporters exist but I know that's
not the case I know that's not the case
and it just shows an incredible lack of
and integrity and then stuff like that
those small decisions that are shrouded
in like well I'm not gonna get in the
way of this I got my career to worry
about and BA this is gonna be good for t
good TV people are gonna want to watch
Sean Spicer we've run out of people who
are willing to do this I don't know it's
disgusting to me and and what's even
worse this clip we're playing right here
this is from Good Morning America their
news Morning Show or whatever it is play
it one more time he comes out like he's
a WWE star
[Applause]
[Music]
and I wanted one correction here he's
not straight from the briefing room he's
been doing nothing since he left there
because actually other people have
standards I think honestly straight from
being drunk on a former Fox guys show
whose name I don't remove all literally
straight from being tipsy on a YouTube
show yeah well I mean nothing wrong with
that no I believe but let's be honest
the best thing he's ever done right I'm
just saying it's not the briefing room
ah you know I would have it be happily
comfort with that spot straight tipsy
from a youtube show got you went to my
alma mater
sadly Connecticut colleges most famous
alum Kevin Sorbo went to mine so it's
alright it's interesting now you look at
Bates and he got Benjamin Mays was of
course president Morehouse College
adviser to I'm okay and you have Sean
Spicer
yes great well done yeah I guess we got
to watch it
[Music]
the nice thing is Shawn will be in
charge of assessing audience size have
ah that's hilarious how he was
gaslighting the entire country by lying
about what was obvious to everybody's
face that's hilarious he was just a
public official what he did that this is
so weird
and here's the guy who told everybody of
the father from Chernobyl wasn't gonna
be a problem at all haha just kidding
there's a guy that's holding the throw
the switch even though the safety
procedure wasn't in place this is like
one of those like the this game actually
deeply sorry des Beaux I have trouble
pronouncing his last name at Dig Lee oh
you're looking up a cool Connecticut cop
oh no I knew des Beaux he was a civil
civil rights attorney yeah he should
have been Oh L see
it's very this is just not funny though
no it's like it's actually just really
gross it's gross it's super gross
everybody should be disgusting
it's disgusted by that frankly everybody
should be alright let's go back to the
phones
