[Music]
this was a fun moment I loved to watch
I'm both you know like I wonder a like
why is Howard Schultz deserve to be on
television so much
I guess he's is he is the official
candidate or is he still is he still an
exploratory committee stage he's still
if I run I mean come on guy
I thought CEOs were supposed to be
decisive right if this type of like wish
washy leadership is what you're gonna
provide the country but I do enjoy the
fact that it gives the opportunity for
him to go around and have a bunch of
people build their brand on dunking him
and here's Ali Velshi who uh you know
it's fun to watch do you get why some
people don't really think that you've
got all the answers that you rich guys
who are I don't know told you that
America is bifurcated yeah somebody came
to you and told you that there's a
problem because I use the only a rich
guy but I grew up in federal I'm self
made and I built the company that
employed over three million people in
the last forty years and gave health
care we just go back you know what I
also love about this too is like these
type of guys this guy is so handled by
consultants that if you look at his
right hand he has been like it's as if
the vast majority of what this guy has
done has been spent in front of the
mirror making sure he doesn't point when
he talks it is it is like the it is the
functional equivalent of people have
told me you've got to get rid of your
arms when you do your presentation and I
and I probably should but there are
techniques in which people use to get
rid of those ohm's they call it up if
you listen to Rush Limbaugh for a
politician particularly one who has
nothing nothing to offer what they focus
on is the mannerisms and this mannerism
right here where you take your hand and
you don't point
but you make a semi loose fist and make
sure that your thumb is on top and
that's the way cuz you because all the
the communications research has shown
that people don't like it when you point
so you do this and he is doing it with
his right hand and it's so it's it's
supposed to be yeah I can't but it's I
can't help but focus on I mean it's
absolutely nothing but it tells you
everything you need to know about this
guy absolutely nothing tells you
everything you need to know I told you
that America is bifurcated yeah somebody
came to you and told you that there's a
problem be a rich guy but I grew up in
federal I'm self made and I built the
company that employed over three million
people in the last 40 years and gave
health care ownership and free college
tuition to everyone what you get when
rich guys have been getting to the
bifurcation conversation that I us have
been having for decades but this is
about a lack of leadership in a
government of two sides Democrats and
Republicans who are unwilling to face
the issues in solve America's problem
why do we have a 20 20 20 tutorial our
debt why don't we have the health care
crisis why don't we have K through 12
that's not working why is there standing
in a world not working because of both
parties ideology uh none willing to work
together that's why I'm considering
running for president that's true why is
Britain bifurcated why is France my
forget why is Germany bifurcated why
were the Arab countries bifurcated it's
not actually about Democrats and
Republicans it's about rich people who
don't pay taxes who don't understand
that it's not about charity it's
actually about wealth distribution right
wait that's your explanation why is my I
forget wait a week so we're now going to
talk about what's going on but you're
telling me the power bifurcation
epidemic bifurcation in America is
because of Democrats and Republicans not
agreeing on policies why is Britain
Byford talking about the lack of
leadership and understanding of the
fiscal responsibility of elected
officials to do the right thing for the
Americans but that's because that's not
the answer in all those countries yet
the world is bifurcated I'm not here
talking about all these kind of you're
saying oh forget it is because of
Republican and Democrat policies and I'm
telling you it's a global issue wealth
concentration not actually about
political and disagreement on policies
do you want to talk about each
you want to put China so you can cut
this any way you want right the now
posted on the task we were not told this
was gonna be on the test
we were told weird no one said we had to
no other company said we had to know
other countries I'm sorry this was not
supposed to be on the test I'm calling
my mother right now
Jesus is bilberry about political and
disagreement on policies do you want to
talk about each country you want to flip
China can cut this any way you want
right the how many rural in America are
wrong have the wealth of the bottom half
of society how many rich people in the
world have the same wealth as the bottom
three and a half billion in society
Oxfam says it's only ten about twenty I
didn't create policies that we are now
under I'm here to tell you that I am
looking at the current situation
economically in this country and if you
want to solve the problems you have to
have the kind of leadership that
cooperates with one another and it's not
steeped in ideology okay I guess I don't
I don't understand how that I'm really
clear on how economic life vocation
works I'm concerned that it's solving
the problem right but not agreeing is
why Germany is that has to be one simple
question
yeah should we be spending less than
we're taking in it's not a yes or no
it's yes or no it's really not if you're
in a recession and you are you need to
stimulate the economy and you have got a
return are you question not in a
recession right but but the answer in
that case might be yes yeah so it's not
a yes or no question so suggesting that
right now that you're talking on how
about right now in this moment in time
when you just put up these numbers about
the economy going so well should we be
spending less than we're taking in we
have to understand what we're spending
we don't answer the question no I I'm
actually answering it in a nuanced way
that doesn't suggest there's a simple
answer to to to these complicated
questions that that plague our world
okay in all fairness it's not
complicated to me I understand we have
such a robust economy I'm spending much
more than we're taking in and oh my god
you know he's too dumb and oligarchical
II insulated to be embarrassed but
that's the most embarrassing thing I've
seen I honestly felt like wow
I feel like maybe Ali should have said
to Stephanie you might not want to watch
this billionaires you may not need to
see what's going to happen with Howard
Schultz right now well I know where
master Schultz is allowed on television
but just think about it this way as a
really good advertisement for the fact
that billionaire CEOs could be really
stupid like Megan McCain how are you
going to be talking about other
countries I love that excuse me knighted
state on my on my set piece that I've
worked gives me I said President of the
United States not president of the
France Britain state right this is
totally unfair
I would she be and this is so me I have
a psychological concept you guys might
like hear about it's the dunning-kruger
effect in the field of psychology the
dunning-kruger effect is a cognitive
bias in which people of low ability have
illusory superiority and mistakenly
assess their cognitive ability as
greater than it is the cognitive bias is
a loser's of illusory superiority comes
from the inability of low ability people
to recognize their lack of ability I
guess he's he's CEO but without the
self-awareness of metacognition low
ability people cannot objectively
evaluate their competence I didn't know
we were talking about metacognition the
best part is that Stephanie ruhle I
think next was going to say like wait a
second you're not gonna be the
leadership of both parties how are you
intend to make these two disparate
polarized groups do what you want them
to do with that executive or as a third
party president with no constituents
what you guys I'm sorry come together we
need to be fair here as much as it's fun
to dunk on him I believe you're missing
the empty chair which symbolizes the
unspoken American people or something
this is just it really is true like the
the amount of like when he goes home at
night and he's announcing to his family
to the extent that I don't know if he
has won or not but just the you know
where to his dog like things went really
well for me today I definitely think I'm
really getting the same
I should run because the folks over at
blank made me feel good but like I mean
if you don't you know like get show on
MSNBC MIT and Bill Burton while they
like raid his fridges they're just like
oh yeah it was great
no not any more steaks in here good
you're literally just eating their late
Howard this is let me just tell you this
is actually exactly where you want to be
I would say the best thing that could
have happened to you is that Ali Velshi
had said that to you
in fact I would actually maybe we
shouldn't do it
another hit soon there but I like I'm
almost thinking you should do another
hit soon there but probably not let's
back off and you don't want to go to
that well too often but that was very
good and people don't like unfair stuff
so the way that you were just like hey
wait a second man I'm running for
president of America not you want to
talk about France that's like totally
out of left field that showed a lot of
decisive leadership here's the finished
around by the press here's the thing
Howard the thing that you did really
well there as you made it about America
first but without having to say America
first and that's what was so great about
that I mean you may have lost the Ali
Velshi primary but you won the the
primary of the people you can't see dude
Oleg are won the primary the people not
in that chair the empty chairs
represented in that room who aren't on
the set the oligarchs need to get it
together and run Steve klubecks for
president they need it everyman
oligarchy
it's exactly that's been our structure
no bumps in the road our see Howard
Schultz isn't able to deliver that
weight now that guy also was saying like
he said nobody was saying it six months
out from the Democratic primary or the
midterms right where the Democrats did
exactly not what he suggested and had
the greatest off year election victory
in the history of people recording that
but he still gets to look like an extra
and showgirls and be cool and he would
be a much
Candida - it is very very disturbing
when I hear the millionaire billionaire
word and I pulled them to stop it knock
it off
