let's actually get to it I was
incredibly inspired by the Bernie rally
of course other than the incredible
missed opportunity of not taking Bernie
out to one mic which you know I mean it
should have been at least one Naz
reference you were literally right but
you know you were in the heart of that
creative emergence the visual is
extraordinary actually you're at a park
where you have I believe it's the
largest public housing plaque in New
York City which of course is the victim
of NYCHA and under investment and all of
the things that we talked about of which
Bernie's housing plan would radically
address in a completely unprecedented
way in modern politics then you look
across the bridge and you see the core
of the problem Wall Street then you look
straight ahead behind the stage and
there is a power plant like right there
I mean it was so right there that the
first time I ever was in Queens bridge I
knew the power plant existed but in my
just naivete I remember asking a friend
it was like that is that it like that
like this giant monstrosity that looks
so obvious of what this is of the racism
the class dimensions the centers and
peripheries that it represents like oh
yeah I know that that big thing yes
that's right there this thing that
hovers over this neighborhood of all of
these families yep that's it it's almost
a little on the nose
it was quite on the nose you have so it
was a very powerful visual of everything
that is represented really by modern
capitalism and all of the things that
you know that are so basic and so
fundamental that Sanders has been
fighting for for decades including at a
time when and an AOC I was very I'm
really glad that she made this point
that being inside the halls of Congress
is no joke in her words and she noted
the pressure that comes from every
single sector in every single way and
then correctly identified the fact that
this guy held the flame for decades when
now we've got people copying Bernie and
trying to co-opt a message we've got
some Nina Turner in a second but it was
you know I mean this is really even the
difference in framing between being in
your 30s and like even your late 20s
versus being you know a Zoomer
or whatever we're calling it like
calling for national health care was
considered weird extreme and eccentric
through 2016 when Sanders put it on the
table and there are these little there
are these sparks and shoots Occupy Wall
Street fight for 15 black lives matter
Kshama Sawant getting elected to the
City Council in Seattle and Amazon is
dumping an insane amount of money to try
to get her out so we need to have
solidarity and fight for her that's an
incredibly important leader there and so
on so let's play actually these two
clips from AOC let's start with number
three because I think that this really
distills what I'm talking about I'm so
glad she highlighted it this is
significant a ocl on Omar and almost
certainly rashida to lib I'm sure she's
gonna be endorsing Sanders too they're
really showing that they are here for
this
this isn't branding it isn't politics as
aesthetics it isn't a shift in
priorities once you get a position of
power it is we are of a movement or of a
mission and we're going to take these
serious political and media risk and
dissatisfy a lot of people who frankly
are fundamentally disrespectful of AOC
and L on Omar because they know nothing
of their politics and what drives them
we're gonna dis satisfy them and we're
gonna stay committed to our mission
this is a Oh see it's not just about
standing up and saying these things but
behind closed doors your arm is twisted
the vise pressure of political pressure
gets put on you and every trick in the
book psychological and otherwise is used
to get us to abandon the working class
and it has been in that experience over
the last nine months that I have grown
to appreciate the enormous consistent
and nonstop advocacy of senator Bernie
Sanders there's a great clip of a former
Republican congressman Bob ney who in
2016 he was like look I were to Bernie I
think was on Veterans Affairs and he was
like this guy was amazing like no one
had the consistency of purpose or
delivery for people and he said one day
Bernie came in asked him to do something
to help veterans with him and they said
um that sounds good I'll co-sponsor
Bernie said no no you should take the
lead on this this isn't about priority
of authorship we need to get this done
you combine that with everything from
fighting the forces of modern
neoliberalism for decades as a mayor as
a congressman as a senator even down to
the erasure and contempt that just this
entire disgusting media class has for
him I mean I think he enjoys it on some
level I do think there's like a genuine
FDR like of course if you're you know
some schmuck who doesn't care about
working people on CNN fine but that
would take a psychological toll on
anybody and it takes an enormous amount
of commitment an enormous amount of
bigger vision to keep showing up and up
and up and up and up and up and he's the
one who needs to do it right now
look can anybody doubt for a second like
let's be real for two seconds if Bernie
was ten years younger and AOC was ten
years
older he would be backing her for
president he's a mission-driven
oh yeah and now is when he is in the
position he's the leader he's the
candidate that just as the historical
circumstance cuz he's the guy who held
the flame for all these decades we
missed generations of leadership AOC is
only 30 years old
Elano Mars in her 30s Rasheeda Talib is
in her 30s you miss generations for this
actual commitment not Third Way stuff
not you know technocratic progressive
tinkering but structural reform let's
take a look at AOC acknowledging that
mass mobilization is the only way to
even have a prayer of achieving these
things we're going to do it is with a
mass mobilization of working-class
people at the ballot box that's the only
way that we are going to win this thing
because our number one of our top
priorities is not just defeating Donald
Trump but defeating the symptom the sick
the symptoms of which he isn't of which
he is a symptom that we cut out before I
well of course she's absolutely right
and now AOC elevated and you need that
will get to Bernie who actually I was
incredibly moving the way Bernie close
to speech
