[Music]
welcome folks so a lot of polls have
come out over the past couple of days
really on the past day or two in the
wake of the the debates there going in a
bunch of different directions Washington
post/abc poll which I think was done
with data progress although I'm not 100%
sure about that there was a data
progress pulled that Weigel wrote about
in the trailer that was vetted by the
Washington Post
pollsters that showed after the debate
Joe Biden had lost significantly Bernie
Sanders basically stayed the same but
Kamala Harris had sort of taken a lot of
Joe Biden stuff and it just sort of
basically got into a statistical tie
with Bernie Sanders with Elizabeth
Warren up in there - another poll the
Washington post/abc poll had Sanders at
23% gaining 12 points in the two months
since Biden launched his campaign the
Reuters poll has Sanders at 16% morning
consult that has Sanders in second place
at 19 percent and of course it was
announced in q1 Sanders only raised 18
million dollars but they had nearly 1
million different donations so an
indication it's not a one-to-one
calculation but an indication that
there's just simply a broader base of
support of deeper support of deep
support support deep enough to
contribute money let's put it that way
however there is a very strong urge to
put the fork into Bernie Sanders
understandable he is threatening to a
lot of people in the establishment
Democratic you know in the establishment
period here is Chris Matthews in panel
saying that Bernie Sanders is
essentially over it's a little bit early
for this but I mean I don't even feel
that confident saying that about people
judge although it's pretty clear but I
wouldn't say that it's harder just some
of the losers I think bernie is a great
example of a place where everyone wasn't
sure what to make of his performance I
sort of thought he faded into the
background he didn't have a big standout
moment and his polls have sort of
faltered a little but not Monument a big
Bernie like here's all if there were all
the states for losers they're losing you
selection is not a loser but he loses
elections he would be behaving like that
man Alma taught atomic time that was
Bernie being Bernie the way that Larry
David portrayal was just gonna say Larry
David Chris no I think it with it with
one other cannon in the race Bernie
being Bernie was fine in 2006 from there
rather it served him well but not a
saint was nine other candidates and with
now 25 people on the race you know
that's exactly whenever somebody says
I've been thinking better than I do I
thought it's very hard to talk
revolution when there's nine people
around you they're not in a revolution
how do you claim there's a revolution
going on when you got
these into yang and everybody else think
about the saying the same thing he said
2016 this time around I think that's not
working that's exactly the point I was
gonna make is that America has evolved
in the last four years people's
perspectives have changed Bernie Sanders
sounds like 2015 Bernie Sanders and if
you if you've expected some evolution
and you haven't gotten it from him I see
what it's stolen his life's on the left
because your gun come on what's younger
hmm talking pretty hard stuff pretty
strong got some stuff you've got
Elizabeth who's been out there for four
years selling it and she says that
there's someone more subtle way I'm not
as socialist I'm a Democrat
I believe in markets but I want to
refine everyone structural change very
carefully calibrating how far left the
country is willing to go still Bernie's
out there with the old left yeah I think
so Chris I also think that voters know
that Bernie Sanders isn't talking about
these same policies essentially since
he's been in public service from that
past 25 30 years but he actually haven't
done anything to pass them right he's
talked a lot about them but we have not
seen any of these policies signed into
law so you've got calmly Harris
Elizabeth Warren new senators on the
scene who I think voters are looking
them and saying you know what we make
these ladies may actually have a chance
to get these policies passed with all
due respect to the former Clinton
campaign official speaking about not
getting things done
it is sort of stunning to watch this
panel go from everybody stealing
Bernie's thunder because they've adopted
his policies largely although that they
may deliver it with a slightly different
rhetoric - he hasn't gotten anything
done to get these policies enacted he's
done nothing besides completely recreate
the terrain of modern politics besides
that totally ineffectual totally
ineffectual now of course he's had some
more legislative victories as of late in
terms of the War Powers Act and Yemen
but novice Amazon about interfere with
genocide in Yemen should never interrupt
the kibbutz like this right there is I
mean some of what they say I think it's
true that is the case that it is more
difficult for Bernie
stand out on that stage with people who
have all basically he is you know I said
the other day I think he's like the dog
who caught the the car on some level
many of the people on that stage are
basically saying I agree with Bernie's
policies well I'm on some not exactly
but like you say he has pulled the
terrain to the left and it may be the
case that he needs to simply present and
and show a a variant of that but to
proclaim that it's over for him at this
point when all you've basically said is
he just has to take it to the next level
I think is a little premature I also
very premature I also just think the
other thing is I mean look it what is
calmly Harris done to enact policy I
mean if we really want to start
nitpicking here about and we can get
into all the other stuff that Bernie
actually turns out was extraordinarily
effective at amendments and managing the
process even when not only was he in the
minority in Congress he was actually
somebody who for decades was the only
person talking about inequality in
poverty and all the other things that
these people are copying him on but you
know in addition to that I was rereading
recently about the way the media just
embarrassingly hounded Al Gore in 2000
and it's funny because it's like the
opposite I think there's clearly huge
ideological professional and even like
personal finance at some point you do
start to think like yeah these are a
bunch of well-fed one-percenters whining
about the only candidate who might
unlike Joe Biden impact their lifestyle
slightly maybe that's why you know Chris
Matthews is so upset but you know so
with the gore Bush thing well actually
turned out it did have big stakes but
that was all like oh this doesn't even
matter the economy's riding Bush is a
moderate so let's just focus on what a
like stiff and authentic right you know
bore al gore is all day and but what's
funny was that everything with gore and
I'm sure he'd you know he had his
inconsistencies
ever but you know it was all a lot of it
was built around
he's inauthentic he's a liar he's
inconsistent he changes his persona or
every couple of months earthtones he
hired to consult Chris Matthews though
you can go back he's one of these like
you know you don't know it's a crit you
know George Bush he's in the cowboy
boots yeah yes who he is yes and of
course always you know one month it's
technology now he's a friend of the
workers who is he right now all of a
sudden we are now I mean it's an
extraordinary feat to say guy is
consistent going back to the 60s right
on all of the major issues of the time
including by the way I'm footing of him
criticizing Hillary Clinton on
inhumanity at the border in 2015 but now
let's just turn it into like you know
it's it's like he's not dynamic and he's
a filmmaker it's it's the same stuff
yeah why does Scorsese keep making them
same movies about the month yeah I mean
it's just this glib and superficial and
stupid except inverted yes with Al Gore
it was all he says was different thing
every couple of weeks look Chris
Matthews is great when he's talking
about how thirsty is for Melania but
besides that please
