[Music]
because here's here's max Rose who is
you know I think about as far to the
right that you not that you can get in
the Democratic caucus but he's he is in
that you know that quartile to
right-wing Democrat yeah and even he was
able to sort of like call out the
Republican hypocrisy on this she's a
friend
I take her at her word I know she wants
we share values she wants to see a great
country I do want to point out to all of
you that when Kevin McCarthy said that
it was Bloomberg and when it was Soros
and it was steyr pulling the strings
behind behind the scenes how do you kept
out right and their caucus stayed united
and had his back and none of you called
them out on that so I want to just want
you all to acknowledge that there's some
hypocrisy going on there too okay
my caucus Cathy chicken in the face
of anti-semitism either in the face
anti-semitism we don't acknowledge party
in the face of any hate any vitriol we
don't acknowledge party okay so
seriously you got you you you're not
agents in a Republican have you spoken
with nice Staten Island knows that
Island and also any what he's said in
the beginning to and I think I we traded
we traded him for the the guy who said
I'm gonna throw you off the balcony to a
New York wine report is a nice upgrade
there I hope the rumors I heard about
that story are true which is that
Michael Grimm threatened that reporter
who was like a nice young man throw him
off the balcony and the police all
rumors but the conjecture I've heard is
that that nice young man had some
relatives that were not as nice as he
was that got word to Michael Grimm to
not ever do anything like that again and
I really hope that that's true but
there's max Rosa I mean you know making
a good point yeah along those lines
one more thing that people don't realize
about the sort of Zionist coalition that
exists is that it includes plenty of
anti-semites right like you can be a
Zionist and an anti-semite those two
things don't necessarily clash like
think about all the the religious
right-wing Republicans in this Zionist
Israel supporting coalition so like yes
just because you are anti Zionist
doesn't mean you're an anti-semite and
it doesn't mean you're not an
anti-semite dog whistles that Benjamin
Netanyahu sends out on that I mean he's
recently said that he said in a speech I
think a year ago that it wasn't
necessarily Hitler's idea to do the
Holocaust that it came from the Grand
Mufti this is like deep internet
anti-arab conspiracy nonsense and of
course the Grand Mufti wasn't a good guy
but that's an incredible move to try to
actually in some ways minimize Hitler's
role in the frigging Holocaust and there
buddy I'm sorry it was my idea
I mean seriously and they're all budding
up and aligning with historically
profoundly anti-semitic European parties
so I mean not only you right in a u.s.
context Jamie literally in Israel
there's bizarre borderline anti-semitic
dog whistling coming from the leadership
because it's a far-right country it's a
far-right white identity here's the
dream this goes without saying but I'm
sure they will not be defending Bernie
Sanders against any kind of anti-semitic
attacks he may face I am guessing that
that's probably not gonna happen but I
will say this you know it is for for
someone who I have a still I have a
tremendous amount of ambivalence in
terms of Israel that is increased with
my age and with not just a question of
my age but in terms of the direction
that that Israel has taken but at the
end of the day I fundamentally want
there to be an Israel that exists and to
the extent that there is a an
existential threat to Israel it is a
function of folks like that AIPAC the
folks who who insist on collaborating
with them and the right in Israel
present the greatest
existential threat to Israel there is
because there is they're attempting to
stop people from essentially expressing
their conscience and that is not going
to work forever and when it when that
dam breaks when they are no longer able
to police in the way that they're
attempting to police now and to silence
their perfectly valid and long overdue
criticism there's gonna be a debt to pay
this is the way all this stuff happens
and it's gonna swing hard and quickly in
and Israel is gonna find itself
extremely isolated at one point and I'm
very concerned about what happens then
so to the extent that there's an
existential threat to Israel it is a
function of these people in my
estimation and this is one more area
where Bernie Sanders really is the only
option in terms of viable candidates for
president right now he's the only one
who turned down the invite to speak
AIPAC and you know maybe being Jewish is
part of why he's able to do that and
play it off well because like what are
you gonna call Bernie Sanders an
anti-semite I don't think so yes oh they
will
he absolutely will they will fifteen
years of being called the self-hating
Jew I mean they could try but I'm really
not gonna stick that much yeah no I
don't think so but I generally just
can't play that game I mean I you know
like I'm all for like her modifying
whatever you know whatever mistakes you
might have made but the bottom line is
like anti-semitism is really clear when
you see it mostly and we're talking
about a nation-state and the idea that
people in politics can't talk about a
nation-state is ludicrous and ridiculous
in and of itself and it is absolutely an
area another area where Bernie stands
head and shoulders above every other
candidate by ironically back to the
Freedman clip just publicly stating
support for what is actually official US
policy right and still until Trump that
might be slightly formally changing
