[Music]
speaking of the Affordable Care Act here
is Donald Trump reacting to the finally
went to a cemetery in the rain wanted to
prove I could do it I just need a huge
umbrella for my hair but he this
apparently was the weekend where all of
the Trump officials were going to put
their hair on the line to talk about the
Affordable Care Act and here is Donald
Trump doing so where he is bragging
about the which would being ruled
unconstitutional they should sure I'm
sure that that's a big question about
the Supreme Court upholding we shall see
but it will get there eventually without
a doubt is that top 100 K here is here
is Center Amy Klobuchar could very well
be also potential presidential candidate
right here she is talking about the
Affordable Care Act lawsuit just heard
it that basically is standing while the
house is burned
down and instead of going in there and
putting on the fire they're throwing
lighter fluid on it in terms of tweets
and rhetoric and things are saying the
ruling was absurd Justice Roberts in a
conservative Court has already ruled
that the Affordable Care Act is
constitutional unlike what mr. Miller
said and in fact you can have part of it
not exist and you can still have the
rest of it protect Americans and that is
exactly where this is headed and I can
say that this is about first of all
throwing people offer their insurance no
protection with pre-existing conditions
kids staying on their parent's insurance
until they're 26 years old a very
popular and important protection
Medicaid expanded for millions of
Americans that's what we're talking
about here and for them just to throw up
their hands and say well I'd be great if
we just started from scratch that's not
what the American people believe just
look at the results in the last election
senator Barrasso who was just here said
that he does think there's room for
legislation to protect pre-existing
conditions one of the things that would
get thrown out with this ruling if it's
upheld but I just mentioned a number of
other things that would also have to be
done so the best thing here but is there
room for Democrats to work on those sort
of issue specific things well there's
always room to work on things but the
best way and what I believe will happen
is this will be stayed in court so it
continues to take effect then it will go
up on appeal it will be upheld but what
we should be doing is governing from
opportunity and not chaos that means
doing something about pharmaceutical
prices and passing my bill to allow
Medicare to negotiate for less expensive
drugs for our seniors and letting less
expensive safe drugs come in from other
countries so that we can actually have
competition doing something about
premiums with reinsurance and some of
the things going on in the States so yes
there are things to do but we should be
working to improve the Affordable Care
Act not just throw it out and set it on
fire you heard some disagreement among
Republicans on how to do that there's
also disagreement within the Democratic
Party on how to handle health care a
former attorney General Eric Holder says
it's time now to move to some version of
Medicare for all and end this
nonsense that was his reaction to
Friday's ruling do you agree with it
we need universal health care and there
are many ways to get there that is one
of them the other is to at least expand
Medicare 55 there's a number of bills
that I'm part of including allowing the
expansion of Medicaid which i think is
something we're not talking enough about
that Senator Schatz from Hawaii is
leading and then of course allowing for
an expansion of Medicare so there's many
things we can do but right now with an
administration in place that seems bound
and determined to take away people's
health care we have to protect the
ability of people to even have their
health care exists because they are
talking about throwing them off for
pre-existing conditions I'll tell you
something this is why you should gain a
certain amount of encouragement from
that segment when Amy Klobuchar is
having to defend defend her left flank
on anything from Eric Holder this is a
good situation when Eric Holder is going
to pull Amy Klobuchar to the left on
something this is a good situation and
she's gonna find I can tell you this
right now like I mean we can see where
this is going right she's gonna find if
she gets into the race she is going to
have to get there early like these games
with there's a lot of different ways to
get to universal coverage that's not
that's one element of what people want
with a single-payer well people the
reason why people want a single-payer
right because for me Metiria the
material benefit of a single-payer is
not just that everybody has it it's that
it's gonna be cheaper for me it's not
gonna be tied to my job it's not going
to be tied to my income it's not going
to be something where I'm going to have
to wrestle with health insurance
companies all the time I'm not gonna
have to you know take a skill share
class on accounting to get reimbursed if
I go out and network I'm not gonna have
to
think about networks and this oven it's
gonna be simplified significantly that's
a huge yeah I think simplification is
education affordability yes universality
that's that's important for me as a
citizen but the universality is a is
also what is going to allow me to get
material benefits from a single-payer
system simplification of my life
confidence insecurity less expense also
I think what's interesting about Eric
Holder coming out with that is because
she at first she you know that I Fu's
the woman interviewing her I already
forgot her name but like she did that
kind of annoying like well why can't you
just work with Republicans which is just
nonsense and flies in the face of
everything we already know but what I
like is that now Medicare for all is
part of like the tsunami of searches for
sound bites and awkward sentences that
they're gonna like it's not even just
the kind of like what an interviewer is
gonna try to do to make somebody
uncomfortable is not always just gonna
come from the right anymore
well that's the point which is usually
important she's using Eric Holder in
this instance but there's gonna be a
doubt literally a dozen other people
running and so Amy Klobuchar is going to
be uncomfortable because she doesn't
have that position so sherrod Brown
Sarah Browns you know triangulating like
that too and it's not gonna be durable
and what she said did she say that
Americans don't want us to start over
with a whole new system or is that
something I just read online because
although that was in response to their
to her that was in response Republicans
trying to junk Obamacare which is a
little different than you oppose
Medicare no but but just to remind
people the vast majority of Americans at
this point in time support Medicare for
all it's at seventy percent according to
this poll I found on CNBC and that
includes eighty-five percent of
Democrats and 52 percent of Republicans
and the thing is is that like I don't
even know what that means start all over
I mean there is no there is no there
there is no start all over like what I
don't even know
what that means like if you're trying to
pretend that your health care is gonna
get taken away and you're gonna have a
gap no no they're actually that you
absolutely star lying about but it's
just even that I've noticed that talking
point of like is we're all gonna start
and I can understand if you actually
literally Medicare already exists well
that's incredibly successful so you're
not me right switch to at all people
switch to at all time we're talking
about expanding the most successful part
of modern health care and the most
successful part of the ACA right the
metagame thing but same principle I
would say yeah that is the most
successful part of it I mean the
consumer protections are usually
important but they would all become
irrelevant one if we had a Medicare for
All system because we wouldn't have
private companies trying to screw people
out of health
