[Music]
Jamie points us out all the time and
it's a hundred percent correct that
abortion is obviously not just a
question of either where you stand on
questions of freedom or coercion or
sovereignty or Rights those are crucial
questions obviously there's central
defining questions and being on the
right side of those is fundamental but
also when you get to the issue the Hyde
Amendment
you are talking class stuff you're
talking race stuff you're talking
profound disparities and I think not
only the types of profound disparities
that have always been central and have
always been wrong but ones that might
emerge potentially it's totally possible
that an extreme far-right Supreme Court
could absolutely sign off on a complete
abortion ban in a case involving you
know one of these state initiatives it's
totally possible and we should be
preparing ourselves for that absolutely
and it's also totally possible that we
live just in an even more stratified
country and the ruling does come down to
something the effective abortion is
still legal in say New York or
California and it's totally illegal and
even criminalized in Alabama so how does
that translate in terms of class in
terms of mobility in terms of legal
safety in terms of another huge
disparity in terms of basic services
that people have access to depending on
their economic standing on the Hyde
Amendment is the precursor to that if
you wrote a history of this stuff keeps
going in a reactionary direction you
will identify 1974 the Hyde Amendment
two years after roe v wade as the tip of
the spear of saying okay we'll retreat
on it to some slight extent by
criminalizing poor women for accessing
health services which incidentally we
want to do across the board anyways
because we want to gut all public health
programs so that's what Joe Biden's
stances it's not just you know and again
it's funny because I have no I actually
I have no problem with the idea of
building
as broad a coalition as possible in
speaking different constituencies we
should not miss that in fact but that's
a substantive assault on millions and
that could be the policy precursor of
well I'll quote Andrew Neil stone-age
politics Elizabeth Warren is are gonna
articulate that very effectively here
with Chris Hayes there was an
interesting thing I happen today that
the former Vice President Joe Biden came
out and said that he would not support
repealing behind amendment that is a
provision of federal law that bars the
federal government from funding abortion
services from Medicare Medicaid and
others you disagree with that position
yes I do
is Joe Biden law yes sir
here's how I look at this I've lived in
America where abortions were illegal yep
and understand this woman's still got
abortions now some got lucky on what
happened and some got really unlucky on
what happened but the bottom line is
they were there and under the Hyde
Amendment under every one of these
efforts to try to chip away or to push
back or to get rid of Roe versus Wade
understand this women of means will
still have access to abortions who won't
will be poor women will be working women
will be women who can't afford to take
off three days from work will be very
young women will be women who've been
raped will be women who have been
molested by someone in their own family
we do not pass laws that take away that
freedom from the women who are most
vulnerable it's absolutely right she
articulates it perfectly and powerfully
and that should be played and beamed and
repeated constantly constantly and it is
the distinction between you know if you
want to go somewhere and say hey I grew
up around here and I get where you're
coming from and I don't necessarily
represent this you know different
demographics and different waves of
different social attitudes on a cultural
level and what we're signifying to each
other that's fine that's part of
politics but the question of women's
fundamental justice and health with
regards to abortion and healthcare
generally is absolutely non-negotiable
and not only is Joe Biden negotiated
he's on the wrong side of it and she
told you the exact material consequences
of that so you know of course perfectly
put by Elizabeth Warren excellent I
don't have anything to add to that
you're calling
