want to welcome to the program Mike
Spees he's a staff writer at the trace
and a contributor to The New Yorker
magazine where your pieces on the NRA
have been running in in both places
welcome to the program Mike and I will
say on this very week there have been
new revelations leaked letters that
suggest that Wayne LaPierre has been
living very very large he of course is
the executive director is at it of the
NRA give the executive vice president
and CEO of the NRA yeah so okay so let's
backtrack and what we will will I guess
will circle back around to La Pierre's
excessive spending because this sort of
your work points to some extent where
the money is coming from and how it's
being spent but one of the things I
found shocking by your piece is that the
NRA has been in financial trouble for
what seems like multiple decades yeah
and for generally the same reason which
is that it's been under under Wayne law
here's leadership it's been caging and
endless profligate spending mostly for
the purpose of self-dealing
enrichment for a few like a small group
of vendors contractors senior management
officials folks that have ultimately
over the last few decades extracted
hundreds of millions of dollars from the
organization's coffers alright so let's
walk through this like how how has this
taken place I mean where did they where
where did the the wheels where what are
the things start going off the track and
I guess like I mean I mean I remember in
the early 90s when George Herbert Walker
Bush publicly resigned from the NRA
largely because of Wayne LaPierre I mean
what is that around the time that the
the organization changed
well he did resign from Wayne LaPierre
because of one lab here because of a
fundraising letter that he signed which
was of course created by one of the
NRA's vendors and I believe that vendor
was a firm that is morphs now into
different entities that are still paid
by the NRA in that firm was called p.m.
direct and yes it was around that time
iterate or excuse me Wayne LaPierre
sends it to the NRA stop post in 1991
and it seems like that was when the
business started to go sideways board
members themselves started to get sort
of conned to the problems you know
within the first five years of his
leadership you could see in board
minutes we obtained from that period
that they were admitting very frankly
that they were even at that time in 1996
in deep financial trouble they had been
insolvent for a number of years they
were overly leveraged and one of the
major problems was that they were just
unable frankly to rein in Wayne spending
and much of Wayne LaPierre spending was
going toward public relations ultimately
promoting him and building his image and
that sort of thing and they were
specifically calling out a firm that's
been involved with the and raised
business for well I mean for just going
back to the early 80s but but took on a
far more prominent role once once Wayne
once Wayne became the top leader alright
well let's let's talk about that history
because it's fascinating and it also I
mean let's go through the history and
then I want to maybe just get your
assessment to the extent that you feel
comfortable I mean I know you you report
on this stuff so what you're talking
about is stuff that you have found
either documentary or sort of the
you know through interviews but I'm just
sort of manure there does feel like
there's a part of the story that's sort
of missing as of yet I mean Wayne
LaPierre spending all this money
promoting ostensibly promoting himself
but within an agency that he's staying
in right like it's you know so if you're
threatening the the solvency of that
vehicle in a way to promote yourself
even though you're staying in that
vehicle there's some there's some other
dynamic maybe that's going on but before
we get there where did this dynamic of
this what what appears to be on some
level some measure of self dealing where
did that start well I mean I can only
speak to again turning it back to the
the rise of Lapierre to the NRA stop
post and I think you know what we're
getting at right now is is the anti
raise fundamental relationship the
relationship that built the modern NRA
and that is its relationship with this
firm Ackerman McQueen that became
crucial for Wayne LaPierre
it essentially I mean Wayne by anyone's
description who knows him is not just
mild-mannered people call him meek
serious introvert he is not the person
that you encounter in public and the nra
of course had aspirations to become this
very strong national organization
putting itself on the front lines of an
issue that it ultimately created that of
gun rights so it needed to
professionalize its messaging it brings
on this PR for macro McQueen Ackerman
essentially concocts Wayne LaPierre x'
persona out of whole cloth and over time
the firm and the organization have
become sort of inextricably intertwined
now I hesitate well the you know so that
means among other things that there's
there's you know been quite literally a
revolving door between the two places
executives that worked at one network at
the other and vice versa internal
documents that I obtained specifically
say that roughly 25 percent of the NRA
staff are managed by former a criminal
there's just been an incredible exchange
of money that being said this is the you
know it's it's what it sort of happened
over time as the blame has been placed
on the firm itself which is not quite
right I mean the firm is doing what the
firm is supposed to do which is to make
a profit and as much profit as a canned
and it's doing this off of a client now
the issue is of course the willing
client that has that bought into this
relationship and ultimately oh wow
allowed it to become what it is which is
which is sort of the the apparatus that
produces the vast majority of the
organization's messaging so you know as
I said before when you the average
person are encountering the NRA or you
believe you are in media you're really
encountering this firm and that you know
means Dana lash calling or any of the
leading personalities these are folks
who are Akron McQueen people NRA TV
Zachry McQueen produce conceived and
this is I'm just talking about you know
the current moment but some of the most
famous ad campaigns you know of going
back to the period you're talking about
the 90s the IND NRA campaign I mean
that's also an acronym McQueen creation
so so you have people you have
executives at the NRA you also have
steaks and actor and related entities
about this again to be clear so that's
your segment where the self dealing
starts that's some of it but it extends
far beyond that you have a number of
people that have a number of conflicts
of interests with you know a series of
firms that that the NRA pays money to
okay so alright and so there's like
there's there's there's almost like two
major I guess silos of issues right from
the perspective at the very least of
critics of the NRA one is sort of the
the the problem with this sort of the
the the substance of their work which
you touched on in part was the sort of
the creation of this mentality around
gun rights which they have now extended
to
a sort of virulent form of social
conservativism that doesn't really have
much to do with gun rights necessarily
but is you know I guess sort of an
expansion of the things that are
theoretically on the table for for the
tribe around gun rights and then there's
also sort of the the operations of the
entity which there's multiple issues
there and you've done work in the past
in terms of their their relationship to
electioneering but the that there may be
some self dealing so let's let's start
on that sort of the or continue on on
that sort of operations because the
whole issue is not so much that I mean I
I don't think it's that strange for an
organization to have a PR firm the
question is what is the the nature of
that relationship because we have an
entity that takes tax-free contributions
right that is theoretically supposed to
be geared towards promoting but what you
tell us their Charter in terms of the
way they're charged with the IRS what
are they supposed to be doing well
they're supposed to it's called the 501
C 4 under the tax code they're tax
exempt and under the tax code they keep
their tax exempt status by promoting
social welfare nobody is supposed to get
rich off of a non-profit so that is one
of the fundamental issues certainly
nothing wrong again I I've you know I
don't want to make this too much about
the PR firm because it's just it's one
thing but it's the NRA problem it's not
the firm's problem the firm's job is to
get the business that it could get the
issue is just the amount of money that
gets moved from the UH nonprofit to that
firm and along with many others are you
know a small handful of others so in
2017 alone is the figure that the men
have hurt right now the money that you
know some 12% of the NRA total expenses
went to that one firm that came to more
than forty million dollars so is that so
that's that that becomes the issue is a
non-profit should it be operating as
almost like a pass-through entity for
for other for-profit
these or people I mean there are so
there are you know we're going to move
to to write to move off of that you know
they're they're these folks who worked
in senior management for a number of
years again array they leave with then
they end up staying on as consultants
and I say consults with quotes because
it's just what they do is not really
clear but they get paid many hundreds of
thousands of dollars every year those
are just people so it's just individuals
there are executives who are you know
who's getting contracts further their
dad's there they're what you know like
their connect you know getting making
payments to firms that employ their
wives
hiring former friends from other
problematic businesses like it just uh
there's an there's an endless number of
these issues and in the you know with
the documents that we have show is that
all the main problem perhaps is that so
much so much of this these problematic
transactions are many ways being
disguised from the NR a zone accountants
like they're the ones who produced these
memos that I've obtained and what they
started in earnest sounding the alarms
about last summer were you know we're
paying like for example one point eight
million dollars for cornica rental of a
house from that belongs to the owner of
a business that we contract with we have
no idea why we've done that and this is
just one example of many examples you
know this is it where this keeps on
playing out and we're in this terrible
financial state right now and what the
documents seem to saying what the
accounts are saying is we've driven
ourselves here we've created this by
putting making it this situation which
we're kind of almost operating as a
piggy bank that we've allowed people
just to sort of willy-nilly put their
hands in and take money out of it and
just to be clear it's the the nonprofit
which collects the money tax-free is in
many respects managed by the same people
who end up being the private entities
who are outside of the nonprofit who get
paid so it's not necessarily double
dipping going on but the
at least temporarily no double-dipping
right you know it some cases it is
double dipping I mean you have someone
who for example in 2016 you this this
particular person was managing the NRA
affinity relationships so that means you
know the NRA wins its brand to a number
of products different kinds of insurance
products that kind of thing and then
they get paid like a royalty fee through
that and one of the insurance brokers it
worked with was called locked in is
called locked in affinity to carry out
those relationships and give me just to
give you an example I mean this this
particular person retired at the end of
2015 this person then stayed on a couple
weeks into 2016 in order to collect a
base salary for like twenty eight
thousand dollars the reason for doing
that is that it would then because the
person in Syria had been appointed at
all during that year it would allow that
person then to collect a bonus from the
NRA which was worth hundreds of
thousands of dollars and at the same
time the accounts didn't notice that
person was also collecting hundreds of
thousands of dollars in payments from
Lockton the vendor that was working with
the NRA on those affinity relationships
so double dipping and they're they're
you know thank you said that's just one
illustration and so and I want to talk
about that those type of insurances like
carry guard for instance right in a
moment but I mean how does someone like
that individual are they is it possible
for an individual like that to operate
in that way in a rogue fashion in other
words like you say like the accountants
don't know this stuff but you know and
I've worked in some companies where
there does seem to be sort of a quiet
understanding of people looking around
going like I'm not gonna say anything if
you don't say anything and there's a you
know a quat like you know I don't know
how
what's your sense of that well no the
sense is that this is is not I mean it's
we know we've enumerated a number of
examples that show this kind of thing
and that's really where the story is is
an accretion of details but what the
documents show and these are a vast
collection of both public and private
documents so this is a purely systemic
issue this is an institutional problem
and the institutional problem is that
there this is an institution that's
marked by secrecy self-dealing and greed
and all these did various arrangements
whether they be conflicts of interest or
other payouts it lavish pay packages
bloated pay packages gratuitous payments
it's all part of the same it's all part
of the same problem it's all at all it's
it happens because it seems it seems
like people have just sort of accepted
the idea that this is acceptable
corporate behavior and in it and it
seems to me that the the the the
implications for society are that what
appears to be ideologically motivated is
really just sort of a a money grab and
they're creating it's almost as if
they're creating markets you know like
an ideological market based upon just
because they're making money off it I
mean it's it's a grift
well that is over time but it starts to
look like I mean I have to obviously be
careful when I can't I can't make you
know I can't personally make any kind of
declaration like that but certainly yeah
I mean that's the it raises the most
important questions which is what you're
getting at and those are or maybe that
is maybe just one question is you know
is this organization really about
creating a movement whatever you take
the gun rights movement to mean you know
whatever that means to you is that
really a central purpose or is really
the purpose of creating a movement to
enrich a small group of people
specifically vendors contractors senior
management folks all right just folks
senior man
and people who have a relationship with
senior management and obviously that is
highly problematic for you know for all
the obvious reasons one the NRA is a
tax-exempt and therefore tax subsidized
organizations all of us American
taxpayers are subsidizing the NRA just
like we subsidize all 501 C 4 s and then
it is a it is an organization that has a
very outsized influence on our politics
particularly an issue that is a matter
of life and death right I mean this is
this is something that touches all of
our lives in some way or other and it's
sort of almost unthinkable to imagine
that all this carnage and bloodshed has
really not been about ideology it's bit
just it's been about making money and
that is the way it starts to feel the
more paper you accumulate tell us about
carry guard because that is seems to be
an exemplar of a product that was sort
of almost created out of an ideological
movement in some way right and that
doesn't necessarily serve any purpose
other than enriching the people who sell
it right I mean you know that in that
debt concept so I guess to speak to that
desert to find it first carry guard has
two facets and the first one but I'll
talk about is the one that really
matters and that is it's a it's a
program that provides insurance or self
defense insurance for basically for
people who would if you purchase it it
would in theory it's supposed to cover
your legal costs in a criminal
proceeding in the event that you shoot
someone and claim self-defense so
obviously to most people that is that is
just on its face objectionable okay you
know the idea that you would that's why
it's been
by activist groups as murder insurance
which is not you know it's not a
perfectly accurate characterization but
it's certainly close enough that it
works and it makes sense I mean it's
just as a you know the idea that you
could go on and purchase insurance in
advance of shooting someone is obviously
not something that any regulators want
for the incentive for just just indeed
the incentives alone and so quite
obviously so that so that product
launched you know it's conceived around
the 2016 election and it became much
more important after after Trump won
because one the NRA had already been in
the deep financial hole but then spent
way more than it had on the 2016
elections more than fifty million
dollars a good portion of that in the
surface of electing Trump but but not
all of it
so Trump gets elected that means that
they're not going to be all the
fundraise off of the Democratic
president who's going to take your guns
away right that's a big problem that
changes the entire the changes it
changes everything it's not it's it's
it's the exact opposite of what you had
in Barack Obama who became a very
convenient you know boogeyman so carry
guard internally was marketed as a way
to sort of safeguard the NRA s financial
future and put it was supposed to place
it on a new path to prosperity it's a
hedge and right I mean it's it's it's a
perfect hedge if we don't have somebody
who's going to take away our guns we can
we can market the fact that we're going
to have the more freedom to kill people
in self-defense and yeah that's right
now you're totally right it also is if
there's in your perfect edge it's also
very much part of a very vertical
integration right the NRA created the
Stand Your Ground philosophy so it's
also telling people if you accept the
idea that stand your ground is
legitimate and you're going to get into
the situation where you may need to use
or you have to use your gun in
self-defense you don't want to awesome
then we don't want you to be depleted by
by legal costs so here's this product
you know you've satisfied both ends of
the market you've created a demand and
now you're going to satisfy the demand
in theory that's how it was supposed to
work of course there were a number of
folks within the organization who said
this is a horrible idea
is not going to stand up to scrutiny and
we shouldn't do it and according to
documents those people were
quote-unquote intimidated into silence
so product goes to market in April of
2017 and immediately like almost
immediately within a few months not only
gets just slammed by activists across
the country and because they still work
so aggressively marketing the product
but immediately falls under the
regulatory scrutiny of the state of New
York and who which found last spring or
I guess now two Springs ago and in May
of 2018 then it obviously broke several
New York rules and meant which meant
that it could not be sold here in New
York is the most important insurance
market in the country it also sort of
sets the standard for guidelines and
regulations so a number of states have
very similar if not the same guidelines
and regulations and that basically meant
well it's not going to work in New York
it's probably not going to work in a lot
of other places too which is proven to
be the case it's also you know been shut
down in California and several other
states and I'm sure they're going to be
a lot more so it it's just it's been a
it's been a massive disaster his place
and it's put the NRA further into a hole
because that program the amount of money
that was spent on promoting it creating
it everything else and then of course
the litigation has just has his only and
greatly exacerbated the NRA s financial
woes would tell us why New York is so
prominent fascinated by this it has to
do with the founding of the NRA and why
New York seems to have an outsized
influence not just because of insurance
regulation they sort of function and the
insurance realm like California does
with cars the you know but but they have
the the Attorney General in New York
State has even more power because why
well the NRA is chartered in New York it
was founded here after the so video
found here after the Civil War and its
purpose and this is good to remind
everybody of was to see the culture of
marksmanship it was founded by former
Union soldiers who were dismayed that
they were so out shot by their
counterparts and so the mission and they
remained this way the core mission was
supposed to be you know gun education
safety training that sort of thing
it's obviously gotten quite far away
from that any rate they never left New
York they remain chartered here they
could have they didn't and and now
because they are chartered in New York
they fall under the regulatory purview
of the New York Attorney General who
since our stories have come out has
opened not surprisingly an investigation
into the organization's status as a
nonprofit here and we should say that
your your earlier work led to complaints
that were filed with the FEC they were
ignored I believe there's a lawsuit that
was filed in the past couple of weeks to
the fe against the FC FEC for not acting
upon these complaints right this week
leaked documents show that Wayne
LaPierre has been very liberal if you
will with the spending and just a couple
weeks ago there was a big sort of public
rift between oliver north and wayne
lapierre
we'll give me your sense of where this
is all headed I mean it seems like it
gets headed toward a complete implosion
I mean what's happening is just everyone
is trying to stay alive so it's a game
of survival now and in factions have
been formed factions that have been some
ways been forming over a period of time
and each is trying to just take out the
other
I mean Oliver North who in theory had
his own conflict of interest in that he
was while he was president and I think
they were using this against him he was
getting paid by the PR firm we were
talking about earlier the question is
that they do raise since alleged I think
this was done to push him out
I sense allege that somehow the details
of that contract were kept from the
organization which doesn't really make
any sense or at least certainly defies
credulity but one of the leaked things
that came out was that the law firm
Brewer associates which has been
which has been litigating for the NRA
and handling a number of things for the
organization has made an incredible I
mean they've in the 13 or 14 months
they've been working for the
organization they've made something like
24 million dollars and as I'm currently
in according to those documents quarter
1 of 2019 the NRA has been paying the
firm more than 97 thousand dollars a day
Wow
that seems what that think end what that
what that mean I mean that is I mean
I've by any standard that that is sounds
utterly insane again 90 was currently
this is what I can q1 of 2019 what these
documents say that firm has been getting
paid more than 90 so I mean coming from
a family of attorneys just like you know
the idea of like there are even if it's
$1,000 an hour per person firm right 97
hours of man hours a day you have five I
mean you'd have to have 10 attorneys
working 10 hours a day every day on your
case that sounds like a lot I suspect
yeah that gonna be a focus of a future
story well Mike's B's the pieces in The
New Yorker I can't recommend it enough
and for folks to follow your work there
and at the trace as this evolves because
I have a feeling we're about some of
this is is is going to be get rather
messy or more messy I guess soon
