I want to touch on this story I'm not
gonna make you know I'm not look I'm I
think that this is like a story that
needs to be talked about and is relevant
for understanding a candidate I don't
think it's a you know I think there's
plenty of stories like this that are
worth noting I don't know if they're
like I don't think this is not a reason
I mean I've explained obviously why I
think Bernie Sanders is the choice over
Elizabeth Warren and I think this story
is relevant for people to know but I
don't think it's like well and this is
it I mean here's your reason why you
can't vote for her I know view it like
that at all
I actually view some of the foreign
policy stuff is much more to me if
you're having that global perspective to
be extremely problematic but I do think
that this is relevant I think if you
know and this is about some Senator
Warren's work as an attorney if Bernie
Sanders um who sure he's frankly had you
know he's basically been a politician
and you know sort of a bohemian which I
happened to like about the guy but he
had a business where he produced
educational strips for schools and
basically was in some kind of small form
of documentary filmmaking / PR whatever
you want to call it if it happened that
before the guy was mayor of Burlington
he happened to take a crisis PR job for
Raytheon I think that that would be a
valid thing to put into the docket and I
apologize I know this will offend a lot
of lawyers I do think being an attorney
is obviously innately more valuable than
being in crisis PR person but I don't
buy some vast moral gulf between who you
choose to represent for money as an
attorney versus who you choose to do
coms for to carry the analogy and it so
happens that when senator Warren was
teaching at Harvard University she took
on over 50 legal matters and she charged
well for them which I just want to say
not the point great I'm glad she made a
lot of money and I've noticed that some
people in defending her have zeroed in
on how much money she made which is it's
not even like not the point it's just
not it's just not even it's like it's
like talking about what train she took
to get to these jobs it's totally
doesn't matter and salut I hope that
elizabeth warren is a multi-millionaire
I think that's great I don't care sorry
the Khaleesi has a dragon yeah I mean it
does get to that kind of nonsense but I
do think it is relevant that including
in in you know recent iterations you
know she advised as an example in 19
2003 she served or excuse me in in the
past now in the Dow Chemical in the
mid-1990s she advised them and I'm
quoting now from the Washington Post in
the mid 1990s absolutely she one of her
most controversial clients was Dow
Chemical which she advised in the
mid-1990s a subsidiary that manufactured
silicon gel breast implants faced
hundreds of thousands of claims from
woman who said their implants caused
health problems
Dow Chemical denied it was playing a
role in designing or making the implants
and sought to avoid liability as its
subsidiary dow corning declared
bankruptcy in this case elizabeth served
as a consultant to ensure adequate
compensation for a woman who claimed
injury from silicone breast implants who
otherwise might not have received
anything when dow corning file for
bankruptcy is is I think the response
from the campaign so that's one that's
certainly not on the side of consumers
to be representing a company that had
silicon blowing up in women's chests
essentially she also and I think this is
very troubling to me she helped
travelers gain immunity from asbestos
litigation and in in a very significant
case help them settle a payment thing
for
consumers and then when she left they
got didn't have to face liability
charges and didn't have to set up that
payment right but after right exhibit
after yeah and then there's the case of
LTV steel which put and I'm quoting
again from post which put Warren at odds
with Richard Trumka who was then
president of the United Mine Workers now
president of the afl-cio and that
instance Warren argued in a document to
the Supreme Court to help LTV battle a
new law that required it to put aside
millions of dollars to fund health care
for retired coal miners according to the
globe Warren maintained that she was
supporting an important legal principle
that would help workers receive needed
aid sooner in testimony before Congress
Trump Co argued that there shouldn't be
an exception to the rule when it
unravels you will have roughly two
hundred thousand miners and
beneficiaries out there who lose their
health care he told Congress Trump could
didn't appear to hold a grudge and some
prusik went Li campaign for Warren in
her 2012 Senate bit so look it's just
important to put on the docket it's
important to put on the docket that
Bernie Sanders supported drone policies
in 2016 it's important to put on the
docket that you know Kamala Harris had
poor mothers arrested as part of a
horrifying truancy policy and it's
important to put I mean just the
endlessly exhausting list of Joe Biden
you know credit card Iraq and everything
else you know on the docket but you know
Elizabeth Warren has a brand that is
built entirely on the central axis of
these types of issues she doesn't have a
foreign policy she doesn't have a
military policy that you know would be
deemed progressive in a sort of
authentic assessment and but she's
rightly built an incredible career and
generated an unbelievable amount of
great policy ideas on the axis of these
specific types of issues it is relevant
and legitimate to know and be aware of
the fact that she has been on the other
side of these types of very
bread-and-butter middle-class issues
using her legal sales to help
corporations get away with harming
people or not paying their obligations
sorry
well that's I know I don't plan on
covering it more but that is a
legitimate story this is not
inconsistent with the trajectory that we
know Elizabeth Warren has taken right
like she used to be a Republican she
used to have terrible politics now she's
got better politics and you know if her
campaign were smart they would use this
as part of the story you know she could
say look I used to be on the wrong side
of these things in my career as an
individual and then I came around I saw
the light I founded the Financial
Protection Bureau and I wanted to change
things on the love level of policy but I
don't see them going that way yeah it
was my job just doesn't fly you have to
have a story about how you felt awful
doing some of those things right or like
Jamie saying you put it in a different
context now I and I think that's another
that those types of spin in in favor of
it are yeah they're just not going to
cut it in our context um
and frankly with the you know you look
Sanders and Warren have you know people
are looking at them in a different way
because they represent different things
in politics I don't you know Peabody
judge there's a story we don't have time
to get to today a news story about Pete
Buddha judge that you know I believe it
was a woman's son you know it was
something that I forget the specifics of
it I don't have it with me but something
very serious and disturbing in South
Bend Indiana involving a teenager Buddha
Jed said call I'll follow up woman says
he never followed up right like you know
beta O'Rourke speaks in word salads
takes money from oil companies like
there's nothing about these other
candidates that the you know Cory
Booker's whole career was facilitated
specifically by people like and
including Betsy DeVos got some
candidates with some huge problems here
obviously starting with Joe Biden so
we also have to remember you know
whoever it is as soon as they get into
office there are going to be powerful
forces pulling them to the right without
a doubt and given the choices like if we
have a choice between somebody who's
always had great politics and someone
who's past is checkered I'm at least
gonna go with the person who's been most
consistent through the years even
knowing that that person will be subject
to the same forces precisely you're
calling from
