I mean the reason why it gives a
two-hour speech at CPAC is because this
is the lunacy that is the right and this
is the lunacy that's been the right for
years in many respects Donald Trump is
uncovering a a massive problem that
we've had in this country just because
he is a perfect reflection of it he is
of it and it's just as risen now to the
point where he's completely not you
can't ignore it some try John
Hickenlooper or whatever his name is
tries to go on TV and pretend like none
of this is real like it's just isolated
to this one guy what it is a significant
portion of the country he's represented
by the ideas and and this guy and I just
represented our he is representative of
them that's just the reality here he is
talking about the problem that we don't
have enough brief free speech in this
country that's the problem now it's that
I will be very soon signing an executive
order requiring colleges and
universities to support free speech if
they want federal
[Applause]
if they want our dollars and we give it
to them by the billions they've got to
allow people like Hayden and many other
great young people and old people to
speak free speech
and if they don't it will be very costly
that'll be signed very soon every day
we're restoring common sense posit first
of all I don't believe that he's gonna
sign that but it's also a ridiculous
it's not free speech to force a college
or university the government to force
them to allow specific speakers to speak
they'll be state subsidized speech
that's right yeah and that would be for
speech in fact that's what the basis of
the supposedly of the the Janice ruling
was right that you can actually force
people to speak even if they're not
adopting it even if they're not even
speaking themselves so I mean horribly
unconstitutional will will not pass any
mustard would be my guess the roar of
the crowd though wasn't saying oh yes
and I love the fact that we can gag the
speech of doctors when it comes to
abortion advice but continue or in
common sense and the timeless values
that unite us all we believe in the
Constitution and the rule of law we
believe in the First Amendment right and
we believe in religious liberty there
you go
I don't know what happened to my German
music but with all due respect lastly
here is a Donald Trump at CPAC and the
US economy serving everybody according
to Donald Trump this is uh this is his
this is part of his two-hour speech
but everyone in this great country right
now because of our great new economy is
doing well except of course for the
nevertrump errs but they are on
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation
snap the mouth the mouth wow they're
hanging in there a couple of them I mean
these guys have gotten me wrong not only
never Trump errs you have never Trump
errs you have certain hardline they
basically dishonest people well there
you go there you go
I feel like a swoop is getting he's
having to go further and further down
the side of his head
