[Music]
now as you know we reported the other
day that the man who Donald Trump
referred to as my African American has
decided to leave the Republican Party
because he came to the conclusion that
Donald Trump may actually not be a
friend of of people who are black or
guys to the TVs apparently it was when
he told the members of the squad to go
back where they came from that he
suddenly realized like hey wait a second
I do love these departure puts there's
always even like those CNN focus groups
the always be like well I thought Donald
Trump was the greatest political leader
in American history wait a second it's
like he's a racist like he said you
can't say that on Twitter right very
strange but but good news coming from
the Trump camp for every African
American he loses he's convinced that
he's got a Hispanic and another great
friend of mine somebody that was on CNN
and they didn't like him because he was
too positive on Trump can you believe it
he happens to be Hispanic
he happens to be Hispanic but I've never
quite figured it out because he looks
more like a wasp than I do so I haven't
figured that one out but I'll tell you
what there is nobody that loves this
country more or Hispanic more then Steve
Cortes Steve Thank You somebody loves
Hispanic boy nobody loves Hispanics more
what do you like bored the country or
the Hispanics
he says the country I don't know why I
may have to go for the Hispanics to be
honest we got I mean first off I think
we know why Steve Cortez and he get
along so well because he doesn't look
Hispanic so I'm not reminded by it I'm
learning so much about the construction
of what this folks
it's literally like he left the White
House to go on to the Santa Ana star
center in Rio Rancho New Mexico to give
a talk and they said listen we just got
this polling back not doing well with
Hispanics don't worry I'll take care of
it I take care of it I like it's banning
I was talking to one the other day hey
everybody hey check this out ready for
the polls to shift here's a Hispanic who
doesn't look Hispanic that I like that I
like you and look at just wait for the
new numbers watch this do you like
America better or Hispanic oh you like
America well I think I might like
Hispanic I think I'm an asthmatic but I
don't know it's so hard coat am I gonna
get a common tell you though that I am
in touch with members of the Sanders
campaign to propose that an a brilliant
act of triangulation that while we
follow all of our obligations under
international law on refugees and
decriminalize the border that we ban
Hispanic and Latin American people who
have over a half a million dollars in
liquid assets from coming into the
country completely yeah
bringing they're bringing a lot of
problems oh what they have very
autocratic ideas they are used to owning
feudal Said's many of them or involve
the drug traffic some of them I'm sure
it could be some of the much more just
happened to be passive recipients of
wealth that have good people their
daughters are doing bad cholera the
daughters are doing embarrassing comedy
in the New York Times and the dot
disclosing obvious conflicts of interest
there's a lot of problems here and we
need to figure out what the hell's go hi
Bernie Sanders proposes complete and
total bad odd light-skinned Hispanics
from entering the United States can we
figure out what the hell is going on he
stabilized many great experiments the
boulevard Revolution is still pitching
about Castro he beat them decades ago
these are very bad people they're
bringing drugs they're bringing money
they bring unregulated capitalism we
need to do something about it I mean Ted
Cruz need i say more Ted Cruz just look
at Ted Cruz would you see Ted Cruz's
face thing that unrestricted white
Hispanic immigrants Joanna Houseman
standing behind Trump in that video oh
my god can we zoom back in on that Jesus
let's go
