[Music]
let's do this let's play one last piece
of sound this was great on on Gina
Dardis
I would like props for at least 50%
improvement over Sam's pronunciation of
his name he was speaking at the addabbo
a an ey event and chicag excuse me he's
being in the Chicago ideas festival
which was sponsored in part by ey
company called UI and Ernst & Young
Ernst & Young which is a what is it it's
an accounting company right yeah it's a
big global accounting conglomerate and
he noticed something about another event
that he had been to or another event no
I understand but he's concerned he he
also noticed that he why Ernst and Young
had sponsored another event as well the
small point I couldn't help noticing we
got UI sponsoring this and they're
sponsoring ideas and I want to leave
them with an idea today as of this as of
today they're still listed in the
knowledge partners of the Saudi
investment conference the Davos in the
desert how many of you want to encourage
them to pull out if they haven't already
have that conference good
I just I couldn't I hope you'll excuse
me but that's what ideas are for and and
and we got to be real beautiful the
small point I couldn't help notice not
only so that's so beautiful and so
perfect and I can't help but echo cuz I
guess part of the theme of today's show
is this you know it's common thing like
that's what call-out culture is for in
the main is the powerful institutions
that run this planet and him using a
platform like that which could have
serious consequences to break that kind
of social convention is just incredible
