[Music]
I'm an anti fan of Megan McCain I've
come to agree with the Brendan Finn
position that Megan McCain's existence
in the public sphere is a walking
argument against oligarchy inherited
wealth position and dynasties so I guess
in a weird way she's sort of serving an
anti purpose yeah but I you know I just
want to say this and of course what I
think of Donald Trump what we think of
Donald Trump is a whole other thing I
mean he's one of the worst people on the
planet
grotesque buffoon racist who is harming
the country every day world historical
tragedy that he's in power is a world
historical tragedies in power but I will
say this and this I guess also
implicates we're gonna actually does a
teaser for some stuff we might be doing
tomorrow possibly but I know there's a
lot of atheists on the show I know
there's a lot of people who don't
believe in the non-material world I'm
agnostic on these things but I will say
if John McCain is in any capacity still
bothering Donald Trump he should stop
and you know because it's enough the
fact that Donald Trump needs to come out
here and speak about John McCain I don't
know is it because the Donald Trump is
in milk brain who can never let go of a
grudge is it because Donald Trump is so
out of it that he thinks John McCain is
still alive or is there some you know
way that we can't speculate that maybe
Donald Trump is actually still being
bothered by John McCain we really don't
know but whatever it is it needs to stop
this is Donald Trump yesterday taking
the very much not with us anymore John
McCain to task and I got to say frankly
I think he has a point I endorsed him at
his request and I gave them the kind of
funeral that he wanted as president I
had
prove I don't care about this I didn't
get thank you that's sent him on the way
but I wasn't a fan of John McCain so now
what we could say is now we're all set I
don't think I have to answer that
question but the press keeps what do you
think of McCain what do you think not my
kind of guy but some people like him and
I think that's great
[Laughter]
the only thing that separates Donald
Trump for being a complete sociopath is
that most sociopaths were socially
conditioned to feign basic human
etiquette well yeah but what you don't
have if you're born really wealthy you'd
never have to learn that stuff it's not
there's not the Selective pressure right
that's true I'm trying to find it I
think I think Jake Tapper might have
deleted tweet Briana tweet about how
like one of his veteran sources was
texting and he was like how could isn't
there any Republican gonna stand up to
this how could a hurts my soul no no the
point is like Jake for Jake Tapper is
like you shouldn't be just passing that
tweet along or that text along through
tweet it you should be wondering why one
of your viewers especially one that has
your number is so confused about what to
expect from the Republican Party right
that that text should be oh my god I'm
totally incompetent and not doing my job
I'm on TV I'm on national cable every
single day talking and pontificating for
hours and doing my my serious concern
face and somehow you have still not
conveyed to your viewers that the
Republican Party will never I mean there
was like you know with Ben Sasse voting
for the border wall emergency thing
right the market of and the pinnacle he
isn't even there anymore and I honestly
forgot his name but who was the nothing
burger from Arizona who was always Jeff
Flake Jeff Flake the a please no sniff
take his burn snow flake New Mexico
literally
literally yeah that's great the aptly
named Jeff Flake like there was a time a
year or two ago certainly two years ago
and someone a year ago where there was a
big market for I don't do anything to
stop the Trump agenda in fact I support
making the environment worse I support
increasing poverty I support handing
America to corporations I support
legally establishing a full oligarchy
and reversing democracy but boy gee
golly I will get on the Senate floor and
talk about how rude
Donald Trump is uh and now you see with
Ben Sasse I mean Ben Sasse he had an
opportunity to cast a little bit of a
vote there and I cuz he's the the whole
mantle of oh I'm so concerned about this
and we're not all a bunch of friggin
racists went on to him and there ain't a
market for that anymore so if jock it
Jake Tapper can't even follow the trend
of a lot of people pretending to
disassociate with Trump while voting
with Trump all the time or ninety-nine
percent of the time or ninety percent of
the time this was the moment where you
know you've just fallen into a complete
and utter oh this is great just total
not only Arella mean I mean just pure
incompetence Jake Tapper combat vet
always with the combat vets with this
guy combat vet text me
Trump's McCain comments hurt my soul and
by the way I just want to say I'm sure
they did you know okay that they were I
can't even call them graceless you're
right Matt they're just in the I mean
Donald Trump is a is a horrible wretched
human being
Trump's McCain comments hurt my soul how
have we arrived at a place where this is
even possible and how can the Republican
leadership stand on this have we no
decency well let me do in reverse order
no you don't and secondly the Republican
leadership has stood there while Donald
Trump has actually done stuff and they
want to do things that will harm a
replica rekha bleep a rep perco bleah
irreparable Jesus tens of millions of
people they are with it so okay you know
so the fact that Jake passes
is just delusional he's the journalist
this other guy could be the deluded
citizen but Jake Tapper has no excuse I
mean imagine if you knew Jake Tapper you
knew a premier newsman and you just
believe this like maybe we will
have Jeff Flake or Ben Sasse do
something to right the ship like no it's
never happening never never I I think
the the nice little like side story here
is that I get I report to that Johnny
Isakson and Mitt Romney have been the
ones who said this is wrong sir how dare
you have you no decency meanwhile like
John McCain's best friend his little
buddy Lindsey Graham's kicking off his
2020 campaign with pet Mike Pence in
South Carolina and everyone's ask him
what's going on and he's like you can't
say anything no loyalty in this game
