[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Friday April 26 2009 t my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live to tape steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA also on the program today
Katie Mann writer philosopher at Cornell
University author of down girl the logic
of misogyny I'm a little distracted
because I'm on vacation right now and in
fact as you hear this I am rounding up
the kids to get onto the plane to fly
back from Florida I honestly it could
have been the best experience of my life
where my kids were overjoyed they were
had so much fun dad you were great
thanks so much for planning this way in
advance cuz you know you get out ahead
of it it gets it's not you know wasn't
cheap but it wasn't it wasn't crazy
expensive or they could be like why did
you go to the worst version of this in
Florida not even on the ocean who goes
to Florida to go to a river and the
didn't mean any friends I didn't like
anybody there I was bored I don't like
to swim we all slept in the same room
God knows how that worked out every
night I got to puts all the bed at 7:30
then I'm done for the evening and I just
sit there and watch YouTube videos I
guess and drink on the I don't even
think it has like a porch I don't know
what am I gonna do we gonna have to sit
in the hallway Oh God
so anyways I'm back on the plane thank
God thank God this conversation with
Katie man really fascinating about about
just broadly misogyny no pun intended I
guess but you will enjoy this I know one
of the things I probably did on on the
trip if if the kids because everybody
told me like if you go to like a club
Med they they're pros and they can
entertain all the kids and I've never
been obviously and it's not the type of
thing I would have thought I would have
gone to but I'm single parent on this
trip and so I needed you know I needed
the help and so hopefully what happened
is I sent the kids off and then I start
to meditate how did I do it well
Jewellery reported a being supported in
part by simple habit it's a mobile app
simple habit that provides massive and
diverse library of five-minute guided
meditations here's the thing I'm
relatively new to meditation and simple
habit works regardless of whether you're
the type of person who has of specific
agenda as to what you want to accomplish
with meditation regardless of whether
you have set goals or how much
experience you've had with meditation
and this audience can try simple habit
totally for free for an entire week when
you go to simple habit calm / majority
the benefits of meditation
everybody I think at this point accepts
it right you've seen the the the data
you've heard the anok data anecdote uh
the anecdotes about it simple habit has
over 2000 guided meditations
specifically designed for different
parts of your day and just about
anything you might be dealing with
they have meditations that are designed
specifically for when you wake it up or
you're on your lunch break when you've
just gotten home from work when you've
gotten when you're about to go to bed
they have it guided meditations for
mindfulness for when you have important
things going on at work for anxiety if
you're if you're suffering from some
depression when you're having trouble
falling asleep meditations what do you
want to overcome procrastination
meditation is designed for parents the
variety of guided meditations on simple
habit is what sets it apart and that's
why it's simple habit just one the 2018
Google Play award for best well-being
app it's available on iOS for Android
and the web browser
the majority port audience can try for
free by going to simple habit calm /
majority and if you're watching on
YouTube we've got links below the
description if you're listening we've
got links in the podcasts description
check it out check it out today also one
of our sponsors today is skill share
talked about them quite a bit
skill share is a vibrant online learning
community that offers courses on
everything from design to video editing
to photography business technology
cooking meditation everything in between
and anyone who goes to SK l dot s h
slash majority report - is going to get
two whole months of totally free access
to skill shares entire library they've
got super high-quality online courses
and tutorials they're a skill share
courses for everyone you'll have no
problem finding courses that's going to
be useful for but you both in your
personal life and in your professional
life whether you want to sharpen your
skills with something I already love
doing or you want to learn to do
something totally new skill share has
you covered they have
courses for entrepreneurs courses on
computer coding web development personal
nutrition learning new languages
Photoshop you name it
I've been check it out well I my aunt on
my list of stuff to watch I'm doing the
entrepreneurialship
hustle from business plan to real
success I'm checking out the bookkeeping
for freelancers that's exactly what I
need I'm doing a course on branding
there's one that's creating art that
sells a workers artist guide I figured
that might have some help for me yeah
that's the thing is you don't know what
things are gonna stick productivity
habits that stick using time theming
that is something right
I saw you nod your head Matt you're on
that just think of everything you'll
have at your fingertips fro two whole
months again that XK l dot s h /
majority report - and i put a link
underneath this video if you're watching
on youtube again if you're listening
it's in the podcast description we will
be back on Monday I mean unless like
this vacation was such a disaster that I
need to like take another couple of days
just because I'm a and alit which is not
I don't want to say this it's not
impossible I could have made just a
massive mistake but this interview with
a Katy man where you get a notion of
exactly like what what what is misogyny
in today's society what what does it
actually mean how does it compare to
sexism well what is it in the context of
public life and politics Katy man is a
writer and philosopher Cornel take a
quick break when we come back we'll
listen to her discuss down girl the
logic of misogyny
[Music]
Suter on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program assistant professor of the sage
school of philosophy at Cornell
University
Kate Mann author of down girl the logic
of misogyny welcome to the program Kate
thanks so much for having me all right
so let's start with just the the I guess
the I want to say the definition of
misogyny but I know that we'll get there
if we just start with the distinction
between sexism and misogyny as you lay
it out yeah absolutely so I think of
sexism as an ideology which naturalizes
and rationalizes a patriarchal social
order whereas misogyny I analogize to
the law enforcement branch of patriarchy
so for kind of slogan you can think of
sexism of wearing the lab coat and
misogyny going on witch-hunt sexism is
wearing the lab coat and misogyny is
going on on witch-hunt I mean so it's
are they part of the same I mean they're
obviously part of the same system but
what one is the okay well so let's start
with the sex is sexism in the context of
establishing the patriarchy I mean I
think I hope that most of our audience
at least has a a reasonably sound
concept of this but I mean walk us
through that what what does that mean I
guess in practice and then we will talk
about some of the sort of more recent
examples that in some ways inspired
maybe the your work but certainly were
were points of departure yeah um so one
way of thinking about it is that the
sexist ideology will often come up with
reasons why it just makes sense for
women to be in patriarchal service
positions so maybe we can think about
certain
quite dubious sort of pseudo-scientific
Fighting's that women are more caring or
in passing empathic or nurturing by
nature supposedly
whereas what subsequent research often
reveals is that if you intensifies men
they end up being as empathic as women
on average so it's both bad science and
it's also science that kind of makes
sense of patriarchal social roles like
women being in positions of pleasing and
serving and caring and nurturing rather
than having a more egalitarian
distribution of Labor does that make
sense
the think about it that way yeah I mean
in and I mean that is in one I guess
sort of like the the sort of the roles
that are assigned to us you know based
on on sex in in one particular realm but
I imagine it's more it's also you have
more to say on it more broadly
throughout society yeah absolutely so
you can also look at the flipside of
this which is kind of rationalizing
naturalizing men playing men being in
leadership positions and being in
positions of male dominated authority so
I think of sexism and misogyny is often
working in tandem so the sexism kind of
justifies reserving those positions
those masculine coded leadership
positions for men and misogyny then kind
of comes in and enforces that when
sexist ideology proved insufficient to
to keep those positions reserved for
usually privileged men okay so yeah so
how does that I mean give us an example
of how that'll work I mean so if if if
sexism is the sort of the law and
misogyny is the club that makes sure
that you know we or women follow the law
give us an example of how misogyny does
that yes so I think often the film that
it takes is punishing showing resentment
and other kind of negative reactive
hostile attitude to women who and
non-conforming in some way so that could
mean being perceived as being
insufficiently caring
it could mean taking away something
which men are perceived as entitled to
such as said leadership position or it
could be being deviant along gendered
lines by being not clearly conforming to
the gender binary or being a trans woman
I think a lot of different possible
violations of patriarchal law and order
are possible and then result made kind
of punitive resentful and hostile
attitudes you right that the that there
is a a naive conception of of misogyny
what tell us what that is right yeah so
I think of my work is being opposed to
this naive conception of misogyny
according to which misogyny is hatred
for any and every woman or at least
women very generally and the reason why
I think that that conception makes
misogyny a kind of very rare property
almost a priori so before we've even
investigated this society is given that
patriarchal roles involve women pleasing
and serving men it would be really
strange if someone wanted to bite the
hand that suits and serves them so I
think misogyny is much more about trying
to get non-conforming women in line
although it's not restricted to that it
also can involve punching down behaviors
so taking advantage of the fact that
women are often in more vulnerable
positions in a patriarchal
baby but it does often have this effect
where it singles out as targets or
victims women who are perceived as quote
unquote bad women okay so you got to
walk me through this a little bit more
so this the the the idea that it is
simply some type of psychological
manifestation doesn't make sense
insofar as the because of the role that
that women play in society yeah think
about it like this but here's an
analogous and is helpful to imagine that
someone just hates restaurants and it
doesn't matter how much the restaurant
pleases exactly their palate or the
sensibility or their aesthetic digits
against restaurant simpliciter that's
kind of an odd psychological disposition
but the naive conception of misogyny
makes misogyny out to be kind of like
that then no matter how much women are
pleasing and serving and loving and
performing service with a smile it makes
out misogyny to be this Universal hatred
of women despite all of that and that's
just kind of odd psychologically to
think that no matter how good she is
that basically you know performing
certain service functions and performing
reproductive emotional social and
domestic labor to think that she'd still
be disliked or hated despite all of that
it would make misogyny a very rare
property rather than one that we
actually have to take a look and see how
how much or how little its instantiated
in any given Millia let me just play
devil's advocate here and using your
restaurant I'm hungry and the only place
for me to get food is restaurants but I
resent restaurants because of that yeah
I actually think that I think that's um
one for misogyny can take
I sort of think about people in the
position of being hungry and waiting to
be served and becoming resentful in
particular a server who seems to be not
serving them and who seems maybe to be
waiting on other tables they feel
entitled to her service and maybe they
start banging their spoon on the table
maybe they explode in rage and
frustration yeah I think that they that
my conception of misogyny can help make
sense of that so it can count as
misogyny that outburst that you know a
bad entitled behavior when you have an
environment where certain men are
socialized to think that they're
entitled to women sexual social and
emotional as well as reproductive
services and then they don't hate any
and every woman there more target women
who they feel denied by or rejected by
and that I think is actually a common
locus for misogynist aggression I mean
that that is also in in some respects
ostensibly the the one of the jumping
off points of your book as you talk
about Elliot Rodger for those I mean I
think we spoke about it briefly on the
show back at the time and I should also
say I think I maybe I know have this in
the back of my head but if people are
hearing some type of like echos of
Jordan Peterson you know maybe it's I'm
coming into this predisposed and aware
of what you've written about his book
and and his really we'll get there but
let's start with with Elliot Rogers he
was a young man in in California and
Isla Vista who killed I think it was
five or six people as well as injuring I
think about a dozen maybe more yeah he
injured thirteen
six and then killed himself and and and
okay so why was that killing what why
did that why was that a you know if not
a catalyst at the very least a
jumping-off point for you yeah so he had
posted YouTube videos in which he stated
that he was lashing out in order to
reach a vengeance on the quote hot
blonde fourth unquote he perceived as
rejecting him so he targeted his primary
targets for this act were the women of
the alpha phase they're already housed
at the University of California Santa
Barbara who he perceived as kind of
representative of the kind of women who
he wanted to have pay him attention and
affection and give him love and sex but
he said that they gave these things to
other men but never to me so he had this
line in the video it has been very
torturous sort of plaintive line and so
on the on the day of retribution the
circle day of retribution he lashed out
initially at his three roommates three
men stabbed them to death then uploaded
his final YouTube video he had a whole
string of them that was similar in tenor
and then he drove to the the Alpha Phi
sorority house at UCSB and tried to get
let in the door but his pounding sounded
so loud and aggressive that the women
inside decided not to open up even when
the pounding continued for at least
another full minute and it's very
fortunate the very women didn't open the
door because he had come knocking with
loaded gun in his hand planning to
eviscerate all of them and when he was
turned away not letting the door he
lashed out and shot at just three
working outside around the corner they
were members of a nearby sorority house
try Delta he killed 2 and wounded one of
them and then went on a random or
seemingly random drive-by shooting three
and he ended up killing another young
man at a delicatessen before eventually
police closed it on him and he was found
dead at the wheel his car on fire having
shot himself so those were the events
and the reason why that they provoked
such controversy was partly that it was
clear that his primary targets were
these women as the Alpha Phi sorority
house but there was also collateral
damage in terms of who he lashed out at
so it's important to be able to
recognize that misogynistic attacks are
compatible with attacks of other kinds
as well in this case against young men
he killed for all but that doesn't make
the two deaths of the young women
involved any less misogynistic right
they were they were supportive in some
way of the I guess for you know
simplistically the bad behavior of these
women who were not who were not
subjecting themselves to the role that
that this guy thought that they should
have in the context of it yeah
patriarchal society I guess I mean this
is I think that's exactly right he felt
deprived of a hot blonde girlfriend who
he recognized would enhance his social
status and he became incredibly
resentful that no woman had kind of
turned up ready to be his you know his
source of confidence as well as you know
giving him several of affection sex
and all the rest of it but yeah rather
than the attitude being that of being
bombed or disappointed it was a degree
of entitlement where he felt that he not
only was permitted to but ought to lash
out at at women for kind of sins of
omission so at no particular woman but
to representative women who he felt
deprived by for this sin of omission of
not being someone who craved that role
in his life and you know this is where
you know we start to hear sort of like
you know people talk about like in cells
and this is the when we talk about that
that community is it is the the you know
so-called oppression of in cells in
involuntarily celibate is is sort of
that's the framing right now the it is I
mean how is how is it that that guy is
not just merely dismissed as being nuts
right I mean that's really the
implication is the guy I mean or I
should say the sort of prevailing wisdom
is he's just crazy and it just his
craziness took this form but it is Wow
I mean expand him why it's not just a
random that he took this form I mean it
could have taken I guess a couple of
other forms but it took and why does
that I guess I mean that's that's a
great question I mean it's I think one
thing that telling is that women don't
tend to lash out in this way and it's
not that women can't be sexually or
romantically disappointed it's that it
takes a different and I think typically
less toxic form I mean the other thing
worth noting here is that Rajas behavior
was striking in a number of ways but it
also shared in common
several things we've crimes that happen
a two to three times a day in the u.s.
of women being murdered by a current or
former intimate partner when she tries
to leave though those kinds of domestic
violence or intimate partner violence
homicides have quite a bit in common
with Rajas crime the sense that he is
entitled to her and that is she tried to
leave that he has the right to take her
out that kind of misogyny is ubiquitous
I mean it's interesting because I mean
you know there's not only obviously is
we see domestic violence is far more
often perpetrated by by males than than
females and it certainly happens that
females also commit domestic violence
against male partners but that dynamic
of choosing you know to have women who
are representative of the class that of
people that to me seems much more unique
in that sense that like I don't know of
I mean maybe I think you know I'm trying
to think of like something maybe Eileen
warned us who was a I think the only
female serial killer maybe on some level
there was that quality but you know the
idea that he would go incredibly it's
incredibly rare but the idea that you
know the the idea though that he would
go out and it wasn't a particularly as
much as a class or a type of woman who
he was going to punish to send a message
yes that's exactly right and that's what
makes a lot of these crimes quite scary
it's that I mean these women he had I
should say too he had not approached
them it wasn't that they'd actually
concretely rejected him he had stalked
them from a distance but his complaint
was that they really literally hadn't
turned up on his you know his proverbial
doorstep ready to date him and that kind
of resentment
of that class of woman and again
resenting no particular woman for a sin
of omission but rather yeah that um that
type of woman but quite hot blonde
and quote that he perceived as rejecting
him yeah that makes for a kind of act
that it's certainly true that only a
tiny percentage of men do this but it's
almost exclusively men you do that so
it's crucial that we hang on to that
distinction between yeah it's truth of
course true not all men but it's almost
only men we do this and it's usually
typically women who bear the brunt of
that aggression and and and and and this
guy's obviously a a marginal figure but
I guess the idea is that what's in
within the margins is this you know I
guess a gendered economy right and and
it just expand on on what that that
gendered economy is that in its most
marginal and extreme forms leads to this
type of disciplining of the class of
women who are not you know doing as
they're supposed to in the context of
this economy yeah that's a very good way
to put it and I mean and again just to
emphasize I do think these kinds of acts
are marginal but continuous with
ubiquitous acts of domestic violence and
domestic violence homicides but what I
think of their being is as a general
kind of overarching way of thinking
about misogyny in the u.s. today because
I certainly wouldn't want to deny that
we've made considerable and obvious
feminist social progress in an
egalitarian direction but I do think
there is an uneven economy of giving and
taking where she is you know within
let's say um you let's think about
relations between
you know a man and a woman who would
suppose that they're privileged in
various ways though white suits had and
similar age and let's suppose wealthy
and non-disabled to just make it I kind
of initially epistemic ly clean case for
these purposes she is often held to be
obligated to give designated men for men
who she's in a relationship with certain
kinds of feminine coded goods like well
for one thing sex for another thing
children but also a various kinds of
moral goods like love attention
affection the very things that Roger
felt deprived of and he on the other
hand it's held to be entitled to take
these things from her and if she's not
providing those kinds of good there is
often a really near damaging Canisius
and scary logic to it where he is held
to be entitled to to claim those goods
from her or from someone such that
they're in a sense that he is sexually
entitled and hence the phenomenon of not
really punishing or holding responsible
these you know very privileged
I call them hyper privileged golden boys
when they take things like sex in rape
from women and and are these goods I
mean simply you refer to them as moral
goods but I mean to some degree are they
not also material yes I absolutely so I
think it's a combination so often the
service the kind of domestic
reproductive and you know child-rearing
services absolutely partly material and
it I think it's also useful to
acknowledge it has this moral dimension
to it so that women
are required not to give certain things
to men but to do so with the proverbial
smile and with a kind of transparency of
mind so that she's not just perceived as
giving these things but giving them
freely and lovingly and willingly does
that make them yes yes and I mean I mean
it's but I wonder I mean if the moral
follows the material right like even
like the loving and the attention that's
the help and I get home from work and
it's going to increase my productivity
and that's about marketing value and
also I don't want to have to question
whether you're just doing this for you
know for your own material gains like
we're not partners in this endeavor
because if if I have a sense that you
are you know you are loving me when I
come home and you are taking care of the
kids because we're part of some type of
like you know business arrangement that
doesn't you know that puts you on even
more of an equal footing with me that
I'm comfortable with it's just like I'm
giving you this stuff and I do it
because you are you provide me with such
attention that it makes me feel good
yeah it has to feel good it has to feel
and both natural willing loving and all
the rest of it and I think it's right
that it's not meant to feel
transactional even though in some sense
if you look at this you know if you take
a bird's-eye view of this it looks very
much like a kind of moral transaction
but I think part of it too is you know
these kinds of exchanges are very much
embedded in a capitalist system in you
know the u.s. context so it's partly
about patching him up at the end of the
day where he might have you know a
damaged body as well as a damaged ego
due to genuinely oppressive capitalist
forces at work and yeah it makes a lot
of sense within an overall capitalist
within late stage capital
that we would still want women
performing certain kinds of ego boosting
and patching up roles in order to assist
or which it maker to full widget making
capacity by morning is it is it I mean
is it a relevant question at this point
to ask like what well you know what came
first the sort of the moral
justification for the the for the sexism
or the sexism providing support for I
can say a capitalist system or maybe
some other system yeah the morality
being like the the you know the the more
rights the more righteous rationale for
it yeah I love that question and I share
that question I don't feel like I have
an answer to it I feel like that's
probably a question for an
anthropologist or a historian of gender
and my tendency is to offer a kind of
analysis of a snapshot of what we get in
the here and now and then leave those
kinds of ideological questions to people
who can really comment on the full
historical development of these
relations and the fact that they've been
until quite recently so consistent
across time if that's a fascinating
aspect it is um that you know feminist
social progress is a historical anomaly
and I think we have to be very careful
that we don't go back um so let's talk a
little bit about the the present time
maybe there are two things that
obviously you write about the about the
the the response to Hillary Clinton in
2016 and what drives that and I'm I'm
particularly interested in the idea of
like I mean you're looking at misogyny
from the from the perspective of the
victim versus the perpetrator and and I
mean speak to that on just that
because I mean I I have this theory that
you know to the extent that people could
be misogynist you know could could have
or even racist on some level and voted
for Obama and then voted for Trump that
from the perspective of a perpetrator
maybe a little bit easier based on you
know where I sit in the in the context
of society it's easier for me to relate
to is this notion of like you know we're
not gonna have to non-normal presidents
in a row you know we gave you one
non-normal president and you know and
now you come back to us for another that
the distinction in the mind of a of a of
someone who is racist is not just like
oh I just I just dislike other people
based on their skin as opposed to on my
their gender to like the idea is like
you're just not like me and therefore
mm-hmm yeah I mean I think so I mean I
think that's really interesting two
things there may be worth noting so I
think it's not necessarily not like me
because white women the majority of
white women who voted us of course you
know voted for Trump over Clinton I
think it's maybe as you said earlier an
anomalous president someone who even a
traditional fit for this highly white
coated masculine coded ultimate power
position and I think that there is a
very real element of yeah people are
reluctant to vest their trust and really
they're kind of moral as well as
material support they're reluctant to
get behind non-traditional occupants of
that kind of role and I think equally
importantly they were left and to see a
white man go down in terms of losing the
election so one set of empirical
findings I've been really interested in
is if you put men and women and
head-to-head competition
from masculine coded leadership
positions women tend really strikingly
to lose out so the majority of people
will find her not confident if the
information is ambiguous and not likable
if the information is unambiguous that
she is just as competent as the man and
that is around 85% of people in in one
of these studies who would prefer the
man to the woman despite the fact that
their personnel files were alternated on
average so an average participants had
the exact same information about the man
and a woman competing for this vice
president position at a company decided
not buddy I'm sorry the subject the
subjects were both men and women her Wow
that's right it was just as much in
effect for women as men and you often
find that in studies like this that
gender bias fees are as prevalent in
women or nearly as prevalent in women as
in men you know I've seen that effect
quite a bit in these kind of studies and
that suggests that it's not so much
being similar to oneself it's just a
classic structure that's been set up I
mean from my perspective as a as an age
of white guy it happens to be not like
me but it is from other perspective it's
just like not the norm not the exactly
not the obvious answer not the the not
the one we're comfortable with in that
role I'm not someone were comfortable
losing that kind of head-to-head fight
what I mean you know you know it reminds
me on some level of the the idea that
black people can can also maintain some
perspective of white supremacy that
there is a structure that exists and
they can buy into false narratives about
about black people in this country and
yeah I mean I think that that there is a
parallel there but I mean I should
spectrum white women are even you know
white women are really need to be held
accountable for perpetuating a lot of
misogyny so I think there's always a
question about you know and I I don't
really want to to comment you know as
someone who is white on exactly to what
extent it's true that there can be false
narratives internalized by a black
person say in the US but I definitely
think it's true that white women haven't
analyzed some very damaging misogynistic
narratives and also by the same token a
false sense of obligation to uphold and
support white men so often it presents
itself originally not as efficient of
the white woman but rather as support
for white men both in one's own family
in excess of what's actually required or
Dalia tree and also all white male
politicians who are perceived as saviors
or Saints or good old boys again far in
excess of what's actually epistemic ly
and morally appropriate so I mean let's
talk about the when you talk about the
the results of that study that subjects
found either the woman less qualified
than the man and when they found that
the woman more qualified they found her
less likeable I mean it it sounds like
Hillary Clinton frankly and yeah and and
I should say you know this is where I
have my obligatory caveat that I think
there were a lot of different reasons
why Hillary Clinton and with that said
you know misogyny is real and certainly
it played a role in her loss and it it I
suspect it played a role in the
narratives which were built about her
that some of which you know had some I
think salience outside of the influence
of misogyny but but some of which may
have been attenuated because of the
misogyny yeah I mean it's always very
complicated because you know I'll be the
first to say there were valid reasons to
be concerned about her presidency
including from the left I mean my
feeling was there's also various good
wonkish kind of questions about why
exactly she lost but then there's this
question that I'm interested in of why I
was even close
because whatever one is concerned about
her presidency some of which I shared
some of which I didn't it seemed to me
that when it came down to it the
decision between Trump and Clinton
should have been straight forward to
reasonable people so I think reasonable
people could disagree about whether she
would have been an adequate president or
a terrific president as compared with
Trump but I don't think it's reasonable
to have withheld one's vote for her
given those basic realities that we were
looking at the white supremacist
misogynist you know going potentially
into the White House of he and II did
the my feeling was you know there were a
lot of narratives around her where there
was a grain of truth so you know there
are certainly aspects of her record and
her policy positions that were subject
to genuine criticism but then that often
became instead of a flaw it became a
fatal flaw and people felt they couldn't
in good conscience vote for her and were
kind of excessively disgusted by aspects
of her of her history that are of
serious concern but also didn't receive
the same kind of censure in Obama for
example um so I think misogyny is
complicated because it often involves
zeroing in on genuine moral flaws and
then kind of going nuts and holding them
to be much more serious and much more
disgusting than they are
actually our and let's I mean how does
one parse those or is it like is that
outside of your portfolio in terms of an
individual you know parsing those versus
let's say society well I tend to um you
know if someone tells me they didn't
support her I'm always less interested
in assessing whether or not they were
being misogynistic or biased along
gender lines to put it more mildly and
the flip side of that is I'm not
interested in exonerating anyone I think
though as a kind of broad social
question of why people were so reluctant
to get behind Clinton in order to keep
Trump out of the White House but such
nee does have a real explanatory role to
play including in ways in which yeah
real problems with her potential
presidency became exaggerated whereas
men with comparable problems got a
comparatively free pass
did-did-did that misogyny commingle with
you know i mean we could have been right
like a the donald trump could have been
horrible in some different way then he
was horrible right I mean it could be
just like you know even more obviously
let's say incompetent yet I'm trying I'm
trying to come up with with with a way
in which he could be you know more
horrible I don't know what it would be
but let's say he wasn't also like
explicitly misogynist right I think like
with a with like this astray like how
much of his really explicit misogyny you
know not everybody has 19 you know women
somewhere between a does
nineteen women I think it was who you
know had claimed that he had been
sexually assaulted them or inappropriate
in some fashion you know not every you
know everybody out there is has you know
a recording of them saying the stuff
that he said right in the absence I
think that probably helped him I think
it was embolden
to people who felt up in arms about
so-called political correctness which
it's really often an active political
correction I feel like his shamelessness
and his brazenness would have been very
emboldened to watch and so it's hard to
see how this breaks down in terms of
numbers I'm sure there was some
Republicans who were put off him because
of that bad behavior because you know
they have you know much more principled
stance and then maybe they they ended up
not voting for Clinton but also not
voting for Trump out of again conscience
so I think those people certainly exist
but I think there were other people who
were really attracted to his loud brash
unapologetic and sort of I'd like
manifestations of these rogue desires
that had crept up partly because people
now almost subject to I think often
appropriate Corrections if a you know if
they say something that in sex is so
misogynistic there's a greater chance of
being brought to account for that
and I think people don't like that I
think some people have a really hard
time and you know getting used to that
practice and watching Trump mouthed off
was really liberating and I imagine to
to the extent that there's I mean if if
misogyny or more specifically I guess
sexism you know misogyny being the sort
of the practice that keeps you in line
with the sexist sort of set of rules
exactly if if sexism has is a sort of
almost like a road map
for the way that some people feel that
you know life should be essentially I
imagine that in this day and age that
ambiguity the ambiguity that's coming
with the progress with the progress that
you mentioned provides creates anxiety
right like yeah like I'm you know I'm
being told that these are the law of
physics but yet I'm watching a hammer
float up a little bit some time and what
Trump did came in and he's sort of like
here II here II I guess edified and made
re explicit if you will the these these
existing laws and brought some sense of
like you know reduction in anxiety like
things aren't changing yeah I mean I
think that's exactly right he showed up
the existing social hierarchy especially
after the Obama era and in a way he's
you know he's in confidence his
ignorance and his moral achievement it
showed people something that sadly too
many Americans was reassuring which is
the least qualified least promising
least morally upright white men can
occupy a position of ultimate power in
this country even today over a well
qualified white woman and succeeding
well qualified black man and that yeah
we shouldn't expect equality will come
as good news to dominant group members
all right so let me just ask you this
lastly like when I described Trump as
fulfilling that for you know a certain
segment of the voting population I also
think of of Jordan Peterson providing
that for adolescent teenage boys frankly
who are you know also trying to navigate
this world like I need some clarity and
this nuance that's involved like you
know particularly because things are
changing you know sort of societally and
then of course you know within me as an
adolescent boy things are you know
changing like that must be propelled
'full
yes I do think it's a profoundly
soothing message that you're entitled to
compete to the top lobster as you know
and his audience isn't exclusively that
is predominantly white young men who
feel inadequate or surpassed by
historical subordinate and it's such a
shame because there's room for a much
healthier message of you don't have to
in visit your entire life or even much
of it as competitive and you don't have
to think about things in terms of these
social and achievement based hierarchies
and when you do think of them in those
terms sometimes you'll lose and that's
just life that's something the rest of
us kind of and I should say too many
white men also learn to accept and
embrace and think um you know this is
just I don't have to be the best at
something but I think Peterson is
reinforcing the message that for those
who expected to be you know historically
dominant that he's reinforcing that
expectation rather than trying to
challenge or undermine it or give it a
message that I think is much more
consistent with tuflow which is yeah you
won't always win or dominate and that's
okay
life goes on yeah I mean it's
interesting because you write about Rush
Limbaugh and I've been saying for years
that's exactly what he does it's just
like you know when when there's some big
Uwe T I'm going to tell you that there's
not and I'm gonna make this a lot easier
for you and also just coincidentally you
came out on top yeah I think that's at
night it's a really small way of
thinking about that particular political
stick its result
yeah it's resolving those ambiguities
and it's a very soothing message because
you're provided with and out to the
sense that you're losing and the art of
losing is hard to master then a famous
line by Elizabeth Bishop goes but master
it we must indeed
the book is down girl the logic of
misogyny Capeman we will put a link at a
majority dot F M thank you so much for
your time today very interesting stuff I
appreciate it thanks so much for having
me really
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was just got cut
[Music]
feeling better ya know clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made so
the option will you don't get paid for
the rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
