[Music]
all right let's get to this sound
we are sending 1000 troops
ostensibly to protect us interests which
of course is a an incredibly broad term
we mentioned this yesterday in our
discussion in the wake of Tom cotton
calling for a military strike on Iran
having defined just about everything in
the world as a u.s. national security
interest and we have now been told that
the Trump administration will be sending
another thousand troops the Pentagon
will be via the Acting Secretary of
Defense who is not quite the Secretary
of Defense because his hearing has been
put off because of an FBI investigation
into possible corruption he's had with
some corporate defense suppliers just to
you know put a cherry on top of this
story
supposedly Donald Trump has told you
know who said today that the attack on
the tankers near the Strait of Hormuz
was minor because he's now trying to
downplay it there is a fascinating
battle that is going on in the Trump
administration between the people that
Donald Trump appointed to this is the
political appointees right like like I
feel like there has been a precedent
within American history certainly of
career and military officials being more
belligerent perhaps than the political
appointees and politicians there's a
certainly a narrative about this with
JFK regarding the
Soviet Union histories differ but but
this is a situation where Trump's own
appointees seem to be trying to push for
war well seem they are trying to push
for war with Iran by putting our putting
us in such close proximity to basically
nurture a mistake that leads everybody
to war or over aggressive responses by
either side that leads us to war and
then you have people like Tom cotton who
are literally out there beating a drum
for war and then you have other people I
don't know how to really where is trish
regan in this someone is trying to talk
to Donald Trump through trish regan
which leads me to believe that maybe
it's murdoch whoever it is knows that
trump watches trish regan on fox
business and here she is she's gonna
talk slowly and she's gonna talk rather
insanely but with a potentially good
result which is she is going to try and
convince donald trump not to go to war
because the democrats want him to here
it is
there may actually be a whole lot of
americans whispering to the iranians
right now but they just need trump out
of the White House and then the
Democrats can reinstate that deal while
waiting for a new White House is just
kind of dumb on Iran's part anyway
because number one despite recent
polling I suspect Trump just might get
reelected number two even if he doesn't
get reelected if the Iranian sit down at
the table with the president now and
negotiate something new the Democrats
aren't gonna tear it up of course that
reelection thing is predicated upon a
strong economy and peace in other words
people like Americans like that strong
economy in peace meaning no world war
three or no prolonged military conflict
with Ron you know but again there are
remember politically motivated
self-interested people everywhere
including in America and there are
people in America that would like
nothing more they just see us engaged in
a war with Iran because they know war
could very well spell the end of Trump
2020 I don't know I mean I love great up
where this message lands I would have
done a slightly different delivery one
that you tend is wrong but I don't speak
Trump but this is fascinating I mean I I
just I I just don't know that there is a
precedent there may be some product like
you know there may have been like I
don't know Lippman maybe you know would
write things that maybe the president
would read and it will give a sense of
like where certain people Sheree but
that Walter I mean I don't know I'm
trying to think of like but also is the
fact that attic drift you know john
bolton came from fox I mean it's not
like these people are not seeing each
other at the commissary as it were it's
very strange but I would say to Trump
listen to trish regan we should all have
a trish regan in our lives who are
telling us that Mike Pompeo and John
Bolton are not to be trusted
you know what I'll take it
definitely if it works Trish I don't
want to break your head hey folks do you
