[Music]
here is here is the Fox folks talking
about Bernie Sanders interview with on
ABC this week you know they're the the
well the way they've been spinning this
- there's there's also there was a
situation where he was asked like will
you commit to having a female president
vice president of color and he said well
I'm obviously you know more than open
about that but it's silly to talk about
it right now to commit to vice president
nobody's gonna do that correct answer
which of course of course but people are
trying to spend that in a way it's sort
of interesting to watch that but here is
the Fox and Friends crew bringing on the
expert of course I'm talking about
Stuart Varney to talk to them about what
socialism is meanwhile we're a
capitalistic you know some folks who
want to be president talked about the
wonders of socialism Bernie Sanders was
asked about that listen to this Stewart
okay Trump seems to want to run against
you and certainly he wants to run and
Republicans want to run against
socialism okay oh is it time for you to
disavow that that label the problem is
and on a television interview it's hard
for me to describe in depth what we mean
by that if he can't describe it can you
oh yeah yes how much time you got
okay number one position the funny part
is how much time you got is exactly the
point that Bernie was saying we don't
have much time we're in its brief
television interview but here's Stuart
Varney he's gonna give a shot anyways
here it is okay number one seconds as
socialism means high taxes for everyone
socialism means the confiscation of
wealth have you listened to senator
Elizabeth Warren we're just gonna take
it off it no tax we're just gonna take
your wealth posit a socialist actually
no it is a tax we're gonna take your
wealth and so far he's right axes do
exactly socialism means a higher tax
rate that is true and socialism does
mean that if you are obscenely wealthy
you will have that money taxed away from
you continued wealth socialism means
control of health care Medicare for all
no private you're making the point want
to say deposit deposit that is not
control of health care that is control
of the payments for health care that's a
difference one's insurance one is
actually the delivery of health care it
is actually widening access and making
it cheaper and easier to get health care
control of education control of the
bank's Kosmo control of education would
be like something like public schools
and to the extent that Sanders would get
more involved in this Sanders or
socialistic government would just simply
mean that we're going to equalize the
funding so that everyone has access to
good schools and well-funded schools and
that schooling is not limited just to K
through 12 but it may be pre-k with an
option to go to university or college
this is government control over
everything collective control over our
society as opposed to what we've got
capitalism individual liberty and
freedom I've heard it described as
stealing you make your money and I would
feel it from you I would describe it
exactly so positive how is our current
tax regime not stealing if a tax regime
that tax is five ten fifteen percent
more of the wealth stealing that would
be the question I would ask if I was
allowed in that building which I am NOT
Elizabeth Warren senator Warren wants to
take 2% of your wealth over a certain
level you build it up
I know there's like above with tens of
millions of dollars
I think it's 50 million dollars yes it
wasn't ten dollars and fifty yeah it was
like no if you've even got twenty no
second well I want to take that that's
over a certain level over a certain
level I'm not gonna say the number
because I don't want to make anyone
vomit out there to realize how much
money they don't have but you built it
up she wants to take 2% per year right
off your skimming off the top it's not a
tax its confiscation just wrap that
socialist just me get worked up here
it's amazing to see an anchor try to
push this Bernie Sanders to dis about
socialism why should he do that yeah why
he's trying to saying I want you to win
Bernie just give up to socialism that's
exactly how I'd read that interview was
yes karl was saying you know Bernie I'm
a Bernie bro I want everybody to have
health care you've made obviously the
moral case for completing the New Deal
and it fully revitalized American
democracy but I'm just really concerned
about the socialism word yeah this but
on ironically and Brent and Bernie was
just like look I don't think I have time
to explain why I want rich people to
personally suffer and then I resent and
hate all forms of work and then I admire
both Stalin and Mao as historical
figures we don't really have time for
that you know let me get back to why I
think we need to break up Agra
monopolies it's funny how they move from
instead of saying you know a collective
control the opposite of is controlled by
capitalist but instead they say
individual liberty because they know if
you said controlled by capitalists who
just happen to own this that would
not be popular right Liberty to have
control over others how much freedom do
most of the people watching this think
they have it work right like the odd
it's not a choice between the government
controlling things and you control a
face it's being presented here yeah I
want to I want the ability to bump up
the price of EpiPens from 17 dollars to
like 500 because I'm joe Manchin's
freedom like I am a libertarian
socialist but I would rather have the
state deal with these things than
private companies and I would rather
have the workers
control them men anything but at least
the state is hypothetically democratic
