you're about to tell us what the theory
is that's floating around as to why the
Trump administration is really going in
a hundred and twenty percent it feels
like on their anti-immigration policies
they are obviously consolidating things
in the White House and the Department of
Homeland Security so that we can
anticipate more cruelty we see a bill
bar the Attorney General
basically issue a directive to
immigration judges you can't post bail
on and these are for people so there's
two there's there's a couple of measures
of screening right the first level of
screening is when you are deemed to have
a a legitimate case for asylum it's not
adjudicating the case but it's just
deemed that you you know cross the first
threshold right you can't just come
across the border say I have a you know
a case for asylum and then you get
caught up in the system there is a sort
of a first level assessment and these
people are assessed by US officials and
deemed to possibly have a case for
asylum these people are not being issued
bail and the thing is there is no I have
seen no data that suggests that most of
these people don't return the vast
majority of them don't return for their
hearings they want they think they have
a case for asylum they want to have
their hearing so it's it's a very
strictly punitive measure and at the
break you were suggesting that there's
actually an electoral strategy behind
this what what what could it be
well it's interesting and it kind of
surprised me because I I had thought you
look his base is his base they love him
they hate immigrants you know that
whatever he does is going to be fine it
doesn't really matter and he'll just say
he did things I mean he's saying he's
building a wall that he isn't building
and his people are going that's great
look you know the wall is terrific so
you know I'm thinking what's the point
of this well as it turns out Ron
Brownstein you know sort of delve more
deeply into some of the the latest
polling and what here in the Atlantic
you can go find it there he does a lot
of great analysis he's one of my
favorite
Glamis and what he found was that the
Republican base and I'm talking about
the Republican base writ large not the
hardcore Trump errs which are most of
them but not all of them there are you
know there are some other Republicans in
there
but immigration is the one issue that
binds them all of them not just the
hardcore Trumper it turns out and there
are a couple of reasons for this but you
know the first is is that the Republican
Party itself that has now sort of
withdrawn into white enclaves you know
mostly rural America they've kind of
withdrawn a little bit from the suburbs
they're no longer really represented at
all in the Metro centers
so this admit they're now much more
distant from any kind of diversity and
then and you know the social science
says that the further away you are from
a diverse population the more homogenous
your population is the more hostile you
are to immigration those of us who live
in big cities like you and me oh it's
just normal part of life we don't even
think about it I mean that diversity
makes me happy I you know I feel like
when I'm walking down the street I feel
like I'm a citizen of the world you know
I like that but for people who live out
apparently in these rural areas and in
small towns they're just not used to it
and they're very disturbed by the
possibility so that's where the
Republican base is really centered but
it's also true that the remnants of the
Republican Party that exists in the
suburbs and they are offended by Trump's
behavior they don't like you know a lot
of his other policies they don't like
the way he had you know the whole Russia
thing you know they're skeptical of him
in a million ways but on immigration
they are with him this is the one thing
that ties the Republican Party together
and right now it is the issue and wait
now to be clear are we talking
Republicans in the suburbs are we
talking Democrats in the summer suburb
we're talking Republic okay I thought
you said oh no no no I mean I mean
Republicans I mean it's just this is the
Republican Party writ large now that one
issue is one that they hope to make so
preeminent in the campaign that it
overshadows everything else and brings
ensures that Republicans and Republican
leaning independents I should add them
will stick with
even though they hate him but this issue
they think maybe the issue that keeps
them to get so you can see why Trump
would ratchet this up okay so there is
there is a scholarship that shows that
50% of non-college educated whites did
not know before the election of Barack
Obama that the Democratic Party was to
the left of the Republican Party on race
okay it's a shocking statistic you and I
would have thought that would have been
resolved in like 1985 apparently not
not until 2008 2009 and so if I
understand you correctly there is the
sort of like blatantly anti-immigrant
racist part of the and you know I guess
people have other reasons to be against
immigrants I don't hear them as much
about like Irish and non-western or
whatever they call it or Northern
Hemisphere people but but you're telling
me that even the supposedly the
country-club Republicans yeah even the
the the ones in the in the suburbs that
Hillary Clinton and Chuck Schumer were
convinced that they could grab in 2016
even like the sort of the quasi never
Trump errs or you know I like the tax
cuts but everything else he's just he's
grotesque they are motivated by the idea
that they don't like immigrants either
and and and they are sensibly right
don't have like arguments like well
they're taking our jobs or maybe they're
they're not taking my job but they're
taking other people's jobs I mean it's
it really comes down to racism right I
mean like like you know there's no what
else can it be
who have an argument that like well if
you have low wage earners come in
they're gonna take our jobs I mean III
don't think that's an accurate it's not
an accurate argument but it but it's an
argument that at least has some
substance to it other than just you're
sitting in your white enclave assuming
that somehow immigrants are ruining the
rest of the country on some level I mean
you know the there's a lot of data from
the same folks who did that identity
crisis that you know things got highly
all issues got highly racialized
and I imagine immigration got even more
racialized than it was before but it's
fascinating and I guess it just
indicates to us that we can expect more
of this in fact I'm quite convinced the
hola Nomar stuff is very tied into that
that's like a trifecta for them but all
right let's take a break in the next
hour I want to talk a little bit about
Ilan Omar and I want to talk about
what's going on within the Democratic
Party there's a little bit of infighting
to be expected they're Democrats but the
fault lines are pretty interesting
