I think we got the call get off the
phone come from a 705 area code who's
this where you come from this is Vinnie
I'm calling from Ontario what's up yeah
yeah you guys hear me yeah can you guys
hear me yeah I can what's up okay okay
it's okay story yeah so it is you about
every new deal I yeah I hear you guys uh
you know talked a lot about that you
know there are lots of there are lots of
things with that we're you know what
still I've been talking but I'm done
with like the premise itself of having
you know a huge public sector
intervention like that right is uh so um
yeah are you guys aware with aware of
some mainstream macroeconomic theories
no yeah okay so have you heard of the
crowding out of that the crowding out
effect yes that's a yeah yes I have yeah
so basically the idea behind that is so
when you have this massive amount of
public sector are spending right now
expanding within the economy just of the
huge scale as is proposed by aoc and so
many others right what happens is it
temporarily leads to an increase in
interest rates which in the long term 1y
economy corrects itself in the law how
does it how does it how does it lead to
explain to us how does it lead to an
increase in interest rates so what
happens is when there's so it's like
because that's like that's within the
that's within the models we work with
whenever there's an increase in
investment how does government spending
how does government spending lead to an
increase in interest rates
it's a it increases the because it
increases the demand for money right
good money
government spend money a second
government spending increases in
government spending increases the demand
for the demand is it government spending
an increase in the supply of money no
that's what the Federal Reserve does the
federal supply side corrects itself what
you get is you got it isn't that who
said let's just let's let's just start
at the beginning who sets the interest
rates the Federal Reserve open market
operations does that right that's
correct
and so for instance when we had that
massive seven hundred billion dollar
stimulus how high did interest rates
jump in this country well that was
during a period of quantitative easing
or you know what quantitative easing the
quantitative easing came afterwards but
yes I do know a quantitative easing is
that's actually even more money being
pumped into the gut of the economy yeah
so how did the interest rates go then
the stimulus package didn't create a
rise in interest rates because
quantitative easing with a stick right
so wait a second you're telling me hold
on professor since you're giving us a
macroeconomics class here so you're
telling me that when the government
spends seven hundred billion if the Fed
basically creates another trillion
dollars as they did in the quantitative
easing one and two then that keeps
interest rates low but if the
government's pay you don't create
another trillion then interest rates go
up because the Fed decides what they're
gonna increase the money supply which
which sort of creating the equilibrium
so because when the government spends so
you're telling me that when the
government hold on a professor I have a
question I'm raising my hand here
so you're telling me you're telling me
that when the government spends the Fed
decides to increase the money supply
beyond even what the government's
choosing to spend are you saying that's
the same thing oh so if what I'm saying
the Federal Reserve it reacts to
government policy in many ways I guess
it is a dozen so in the case of
quantitative easing it wasn't just it
wasn't just in reaction to the
government stimulus policy but it was
also just increase in money supply in
general right just why did they do that
well they gave it they gave it they gave
it to the bank's right so so the
government spent money so so but the Fed
makes the decision on the on the money
supply and you realize that when they
increase the the interest rates that's
because they're trying to tighten the
the money supply right so you're saying
so what you're arguing is if government
spends all this money if government
spends all this money the Fed is going
to need to tighten the monetary supply
and therefore will increase the price of
money which is interest rates is that
what your argument is what did you know
your phone the interest rate thing is so
it a big government program like that
all things all else being equal so
without quantitative easing that would
lead to a temporary rise in the interest
rates and then in the long run when the
economy corrects itself it would be at a
lower rate of GDP growth so that's
what's code that's the idea behind the
crowding out effect and that's why you
see it like in Europe right now they
still have to do quantitative easing
because their economies are so well part
of the problem was that they they
practice austerity instead of
stimulating the economy like we did but
so your argument is what
so the crowding out effect happens and
then what degree new deal with it would
accelerate that would accelerate my
argument would accelerate the crowding
out effect and when the crowding out
effect happens what happens GDP growth
declines GDP growth
lines and then what yeah and then that's
that's a bad situation not and that's
what I'm warning you what is what
happens to me bad what happens in a bad
situation well there's there's no
economic growth or the economic growth
is so minuscule that it is but I'm
saying why what happens in a bad
situation what does that mean does that
mean that people don't have jobs is that
what you're arguing yeah yeah I mean
creation more jobs the creation of more
jobs under a green new deal is gonna
create less jobs is that the argument
well I mean most of those jobs are gonna
be contract job and contract jobs what
does that mean that you're gonna be
contracted to do a job it's a project B
it's a project B system one you have
that so let's say you know you as
opposed to what jobs are you aware of
you mean as opposed like a service
sector service a service industry job is
that what you're saying oh it's no it's
a just be project projects so it would
be infrastructure things that would
create economic activity in other words
right like people aren't just gonna be
hired to dig a ditch and fill it up
again they're gonna build something that
is going to be used in a productive
manner correct well if you do a
cost-benefit analysis on that I am I
assume like you I'm also saying if you
do a project like this needs to actually
meet an actual need that needs to happen
it needs to be realistic the idea that
by 2030 we're going to completely phase
out all petroleum all nuclear energy and
we're going to replace it with something
what happens what happens if we attempt
to phase it all out by 2030 and all we
do is phase out 85 percent of it I mean
it would be interesting to see that
scenario but
I don't even not is wait you went
ambitious 85% what's that what do you
think that what's the proper ambition
that we should have in terms of this
climate crisis um well I think okay so
in in macroeconomics well don't tell me
about more of good economics give me a
percentage every lesson of history tells
us that you number one lesson that comes
out of it you cannot underestimate
humans ability to innovate to meet their
I can also not underestimate one's
ability to not use a phone
correctly because I can barely hear you
but are you aware of what the United
States did in terms of its war effort
for instance yeah I'm aware of that you
are so you know the figures in terms of
like you know how much of our GDP we
were able to within the course of nine
months dedicate to basically building
machinery for fur award yeah well what
was I number 45 percent 45 percent of
our GDP at that point was was converted
I mean not overnight it took a year I
think into into creating those weapons
for war so I mean our ability I don't
know I thought your your point is though
well you just use that my point I said
do you want me to tell you yeah yeah you
say it's too ambitious by 2030 to hit
even 85% of those benchmarks and I'm
telling you that what we did in gearing
up for World War two in many respects
Dwarfs what we're talking about now yeah
but it's a different situation with war
war you need there is a fundamental
understanding of this is our this is a
clear objective we have and we're gonna
we're good
that with the Sun like green New Deal so
Adrienne will use a very vague it's very
vague you don't well no it's not big I
mean you were able to tell me right away
that you thought it was too ambitious
and you were very explicit on what goal
you thought was explicit it's very clear
isn't it well I mean I mean I'm not
saying I'm not saying it's not ambitious
but there consequences of it I'm like
I'm not saying it's too ambitious to be
done but the consequences are go you did
say ah there's needs to be done but go
ahead like let's say you you create all
these okay so you're able to get on that
that complete let's say you are able to
get that eighty-five percent target okay
um in that situation uh these are so
there's questions to be had would that
be able to first of all would that be
sustainable what kind of jobs would
emerge as a result of that this huge
government intervention what injury what
what effect would that have on the
private sector I assume it wouldn't be a
positive well you assume that now you'll
be pretty positive if you owned a solar
panel production factory if you owned a
a windmill factory it would be pretty
productive if you did not have to pay
the extraordinary amount of money that
is involved in the health care because
of the burning of fossil fuels it would
be productive in all of the huge amount
of savings that you would save relative
to what we anticipate the costs of
further global warming will be you could
save money on your military expenditures
because of the destabilization of the
planet that would not take place
we can't even yes there's so many
questions we don't know contemplating
ability of Adrian yeah I don't know will
you mean by viability the the wind is
going to be there the Sun is still going
to be that well no it's not actually you
should do a little more research now
that you've finished your economics
studies into the viability of things
like solar and wind and
renewables plus when you think of all
the incredible technology that just came
out of ours pursuing going to the moon
and how many technologies that emanated
out from that all the questions are we
don't even know all the incredible
amount of benefits that are gonna come
from it
we do know your costs right now I'm not
doing it and that would up it up you
you're just proving my point before that
yes you can't underestimate humans the
markets private sectors ability
