speaking of look sometimes I should just
frame these segments as we're about to
heavily criticize somebody but really
this is in their own best interest
there's clearly a need for generational
new blood in politics obviously the big
three AOC Rashidah to live in LA Omar
providing that on a grassroots level
Chokwe Lumumba what he's doing as mayor
unfortunately for a variety of economic
and cultural moment reasons I think we
could basically skip Gen X I don't need
the Cory Booker Gillibrand new blood
that's ok you don't want to hear the
Hakeem Nicks Kamala Harris mixtape
that's coming out that bad means-testing
that's really ok how does that I don't
want it cuz I just can't like we got to
save the substance but um Kamala Harris
put out her like mood mix thing for one
of those like little bear yeah one of
those things right and it was very like
okay I you know what here's the thing
calmly Harris sticks out for me because
I actually found like of all of the
candidates trying to do a no bomb first
of all none of them should be trying to
do an Obama impression Barack Obama's
Barack Obama
you're not piraka bomb Barack Obama is
one of the most talented politicians in
the history of the United States of
America okay and beta will Rourke is a
little bit charming
he ain't Barack Obama Cory Booker
certainly is not Barack Obama and comma
Harris is definitely not Barack Obama
but actually she is she's oak like she's
she's more plausible than others in
terms of like okay this is a likable
person I get it she's smart she's
likable and I even believe that she
actually does listen to some of that
music right and that it wasn't just
curated by staffers but when she
when she talked about sun is shining by
Bob Marley I was like how many people
who were having a Sun and shining
experience in California did you put in
jail or like separate from their kids
when you were an extremely aggressive
prosecutor including of these horrific
drug laws in this country that have
ruined so many lives so that being said
Nancy Pelosi of the people that were
untapped now okay progressives need to
be really shrewd with her she's already
played them on some of these moves no
doubt and her position on Pago is
atrocious but of what was on tap Nancy
Pelosi was the undoubted pick for
Speaker of the House and she's showing a
certain degree of savvy if I could
channel Anna Navarro for a second in
dealing with Trump her number two in the
house who has always uh you know there's
always been a certain tension between
Nancy Pelosi and Steny Hoyer because
Nance the Steny Hoyer wants the top job
he's never gonna get it unless you know
something you know terrible happens that
we don't want to put out in a scenario
but he's not gonna get that job and I
would like to invite him to retire very
quickly I'm sure he has a lovely family
I'm sure he has grandchildren I'm sure
he has hobbies seems like a nice enough
Maryland guy whatever and it's
definitely definitely
what is it King Lear to like sit in the
shade and talk of old times something
like that something in Shakespeare that
I'm not remembering but it's that time
for Steny Hoyer check out this profound
fail on seventy percent tax rates for
the ultra wealthy that AOC is so
effectively injecting into the
mainstream
do you support raising the marginal tax
rate on the wealthiest Americans to as
high as 60 or 70
percent no I don't but having said that
we need to pay for what we buy and I
think that's a very important concept
and we need to get the deficit down and
we're going to have to pay for that so
while I think a 70 percent marginal rate
which by the way was it existed some
decades ago is right not reasonable to
attain either politically or frankly I
think from a policy standpoint no we
need to make sure that we have a tax
system that in fact provides the
revenues necessary to pay for our
priorities and our needs okay go away
now go play golf
thank you your services are no longer
required
goodbye Steny Hoyer is on tape trying to
bully a progressive candidate out of a
Democratic primary you voted for the
invasion of Iraq who has cushy
relationships with every type of
corporate lobbyists in Washington
imaginable and has no significant
legislative achievements very few if any
- his name is out first playing - a
politics of like 1991 with pablum
deficit talk then you could tell how a
OSI has actually changed the context
because instead of just saying I was
ridiculous he is saying look what we
used to actually do this and then
providing no effective rebuttal as to
why we shouldn't now which include you
know look we shouldn't waste money on
the deficits but that wasn't in purpose
we shouldn't waste money on the deficit
stuff we have things we need we need to
transition the economy from fossil fuels
we need to create Medicare for all we
need to make College free
we need free public transportation we
need all of these basic robust agendas
immediately as part of a broader
transition to a more durable in just
world obviously but he didn't even have
I mean he even could have said after the
deficit problem that's why we need to
look seriously at tax rates and you know
what it was only a couple decades ago
there were much higher rates and the
economy did really well and blah blah
blah blah dude
just retire just go away
some lobbyists and staffers will miss
you but nobody else
it's a paraphrase Jeb Bush I like to see
a recession and Steny Hoyer 'he's
congressional offices it's okay just
just leave you were in Congress for
decades dude you played your part yeah I
don't like adding to the whole term
limits conversation unless it's focusing
more on the sort of unelected jobs and
government right because I think it just
helps conservatives but there's a pretty
strong case for it especially I mean
with regards to I mean cash I mean yeah
I don't know definitely in the Senate at
least we should turn live with some of
these people um
no doubt I think we should term limits
some people off of the view was or at
least the Supreme Court let's start
there I was gonna make Porter was very
against the term limits of leadership
for the Democratic Party yeah yeah I bet
he was shoveling broken contracts the
pharma companies and looking out for my
district on narrow parochial ways and
doing boring uninspired TV it's for
decades I want to keep going to him
doing it
