the phone it's a pleasure to welcome to
the program assistant professor of
sociology at Virginia Commonwealth
University faculty associated the
Berkman Kline Center for Internet and
Society author of two books Thicke and
other essays and lower IDI the troubling
rise of for-profit colleges in the new
economy trustee McMillan cotton welcome
to the program thank you for having me
Sam so I you know the the the for-profit
college stuff fascinates me and and you
the way in which you came about to to
write of the for-profit college
university world is also pretty
fascinating just I mean just let folks
know you know how how you decided to
focus on that well yeah the story is
probably less about how I decided to
focus on it and why and it was possible
for me to be doing this project and I
probably started this in like 2010 that
I seem to be the only one who kind of
wanted to do this project and I think
that is about my personal experience of
the for-profit college sector but I also
think that speaks to the fact that there
are so few people like me who had ever
touched that sector of higher education
who were also in that traditional
academic world and so what happened was
I was in graduate school and listen Sam
I was going to do anything but this
project I wanted to actually study
Ronald Reagan if you can believe that
and instead end up doing this project
because as I was working on my doctoral
work
what private colleges were experiencing
this phenomenal boom of enrollment they
were taking in billions of dollars every
year from the federal student aid system
and when you start talking about numbers
in the billions people tend to start
paying attention and there was a lot of
media scrutiny there was some growing
political scrutiny of the for-profit
college sector but to my mind there had
not been sort of a critical engagement
with not just why for-profit colleges
were so profitable or so popular but
about who they were enrolling and I knew
a little bit about who they were
enrolling and why that mattered because
I had before I go into graduate school I
had worked in a for-profit college
sector myself as an enrollment officer
and so my experience of it was shaped
very much by understanding that not
everybody was vulnerable to the
for-profit college machine and also that
it was a machine and that we probably
needed to better understand why millions
of people all woke up at one time and
decided that they wanted to pursue a
college credential at all car and when
you went to the for-profit college
sector at all cost was the t term and in
and it was almost I mean literally at
one time in 2000 you had about 400,000
people enrolled in these for-profit
colleges by now it's over 2 million is
my understanding so let's just give us a
sense of what what we're talking about
because you you you know you have two
different types that broadly speaking
that you you discuss the the and you
generalize it by calling the beauty
school and the the technical I guess it
is right here
and so tell us what this is and and how
their funding mechanism works right so
yeah I do I usually just two archetypes
and I had experience and actually what I
call both of the sub sectors of
for-profit colleges so one of the things
that I think kind of got lost and are
lumping all of the institutions together
was a misunderstanding that two
different sort of phenomena were
happening so on the one hand you have
what have been the sort of historical
role of for-profit colleges which was
they mostly provide a career technical
certification and training right and so
that was the certificates that you need
that was just probably below a college
degree maybe even below a two-year
degree but that you needed to become a
certified in occupation so that is a
mechanics training cosmetology school
those had grown out a little bit into
things like what we want you to call
maybe secretarial programs and now tend
to think of broadly it's like you know
administrative or business assistant
program and then this growth into the
healthcare sector and so things like
certified nursing assistant that's all
of these sort of short-term credentials
usually take you less than two years to
complete them but that are necessary
requirements for work I group those
under like the beauty college paradigm
in my book and those are a little
different and the incentives that people
have for attending those schools are a
little different than those that are
happening in what I call the Technical
College System which is the sector that
I think most of us were more familiar
with in the mid you know first decade of
the 2000s because these were the ones
that had all the television commercials
great Strayer University the University
of Phoenix capella and all of those so
these were programs that were starting
an overreach that was historically new
they have started reaching into the
4-year degrees and beyond they are
offering graduate degrees and things
like clinical psychology and nursing and
healthcare they were offering bachelor's
master's doctorate degrees and the
incentives for people to pursue those
degrees will relate it to the other part
but they were not exactly the same and
the real growth in the sector while a
lot of it did happen in that beauty
college sector the real growth and the
real money real money the investment
from the private sector the investment
from shareholders and private equity
firms the financial sector was really
interested in the growth of that
four-year degree and beyond the
technical college sectors that call it
in so on one hand we have sort of what I
you know you one could consider it sort
of almost a vocational school in some
level and the other is this sort of new
animal that and we're talking about
fortune 500 companies here we're taught
right I mean we're talking hundreds of
hundreds of millions of dollars per you
know in terms of revenue per you know
year on these country and these
companies and and that's really where on
some level like the the the action is
right I mean right in that sector and
it's fascinating to me because you
really I mean I I'm quite familiar with
sort of some of the the dynamics but you
look beyond the dynamics and look and
what's going on into
that that sort of like brings us about
but before we get to that part walk
people through the the business model of
a place like one of these technical or
what you call technical side schools
because it is it's I don't want to say
it's a criminal syndicate in my
estimation but it's it's it's close its
I mean it is the it is close to being
the underside of financialization which
is what I would kind of think of it you
know it is it is not unlike what we saw
happening in the mortgage crisis yeah
not unlike what we are starting to see
in the student loan debt crisis and
those things are very much related and
that is that capital looks for something
to invest in and as consumers become
stretched and can't do as much consumer
buying right what becomes profitable are
the things that people have to pay for
now that's the social part and so one of
the things I'm looking at in the book is
you know why did all of a sudden
everybody need or want a college degree
what was it that was so attractive to
the investment class about this
four-year degree in beyond sector that
made it so very profitable that system
looks like looking at what is going on
in the economic system and the economic
structure here we talk about the labor
market but also people how how
comfortable or how safe people feel in
the economy what the system is really
preying on its how vulnerable people
feel in the labor market vulnerability
became extremely profitable to the
for-profit college sector as a solution
and positioned itself as a solution to
workers who are feeling economically
vulnerable in the labor market if you
thought that your wages were stagnant
which we now know to be empirically true
people's wages have stagnated over the
last 25 years if you thought your
consumer purchasing power had declined
well you weren't crazy
it had decline but instead of responding
to those things with what we maybe would
have done you know 40 years ago with a
sort of social policy response what we
told millions of people was this is your
fault this is because you're not
competitive enough for the new jobs of
the 21st century the only way to prove
that you are competitive is to get a
degree
and to keep pursuing credentials and
degrees and to do that at your own
individual cost and you call this the
education gospel that is correct
it is the gospel that says it doesn't
matter what the reality of the economic
relationship is because it is predatory
as you point out it is preying on
predatory in the true sense of the word
which is that is preying upon people's
economic vulnerabilities the education
gospel says don't worry about those
details don't worry about what the
economic relationship is or the details
of the contract you're signing education
will always pay off because it has
always paid off
we were so invested in the gospel that
education could never fail you that I
think on the social policy and certainly
on the political front we fell down on
asking tough questions about whether or
not this specific type of education
actually paid off for people and what we
know now is that the picture is not very
good for whom that for whom that
educational investment has paid off for
for-profit colleges are more expensive
than you know most of your
non-traditional most of your traditional
not-for-profit college options students
tend to bear more of the individual
costs their student loans as opposed to
say grants and scholarships or employee
benefit they take longer to complete
those programs and as it turns out the
labor market doesn't seem to reward it
in higher wages all right so let's talk
about about well we should also say that
something like when you talk about the
the schools that you mentioned these
these bigger for-profit universities
which are also predominantly
online right we're talking about nine
something a 95 percent of their tuition
costs are paid via student loans from
the US government right and about
legally is supposed to be it we have
this 90/10 rule right what for-profit
colleges are held to as a standard that
night only up to 90 percent of their
tuition can come from the federal
student aid program and the other 10% is
supposed to come from direct tuition
payments from either employers or from
students what this is supposed to do
is you know what this is how this is
described is a check on the school's
value to the consumer but ninety percent
first of all is still extremely high and
it's only ninety percent in theory
because what we have found is that money
school that doesn't include things like
GI Bill money is usually counted in that
ten percent and so some institutions
when you count up all of the government
subsidized payments coming to them
approach something far closer to as you
said to that ninety five percent coming
from publicly subsidized dollars all
right and so give us a sense of
demographically who these students tend
to be their age their background because
they're they're there a lot of these
students are similarly situated right
there they're ambitious but they also
don't necessarily have the the the
social the the the social cash cash or
the the networking - you know enter into
what we you know traditional higher ed
schools or be aware or they they can't
they can't afford to because they've got
to take care of children or their other
responsibilities exactly I think the
real telling statistic in the for-profit
college sectors demographics is in
gender actually and in the book I talk a
lot about race class and gender but I
really think gender is the biggest piece
of it cells I think exactly that story
Sam which is this about sixty eight
anywhere between sixty and seventy four
percent depending on which year you take
it and this hasn't changed much over the
last ten years of those enrolled in the
for-profit college sector are women
right this is really a gendered problem
that I think really speaks to why people
would attend V schools people are
attending them mostly because they are
one have already been disadvantaged in
the paid labor market we know all of the
general statistics and trend lines of
how much more credentialed women have to
be to be paid equal salaries in the
labor market how much more difficult it
can be for them to have upward mobility
into higher income positions but we also
know that bigger story that women tend
to be the ones more likely to be caring
for children
when you're talking about the age range
of the student this is we tend to think
of them as quote-unquote non-traditional
but that just means doesn't always
necessarily mean they're older it
usually just means that they are caring
for also caring for a child what were
you talking about people in that
position they're also more likely to be
caring for parents this is a very
familiar story for many of us trapped
between caring for children and caring
for age and parents and their economic
position than not means to not only take
care of themselves but they are really
trying to take care of a whole family
right and so when they are having
problems moving up or getting secure
employment in the labor market they are
especially vulnerable to a message that
sounds like this call today start school
tomorrow get a degree fast get a better
paying job almost immediately because
that's the message right call today's
start tomorrow change your life well
that's the message that would be more
attractive to people for whom changing
their life means changing the lives for
their children for their elderly parents
etc and that's women and then when we
move from there of those enrolled in the
for-profit college sector they are more
likely to be African American Hispanic
low-income students it's not to say that
men don't attend and they certainly do
not say that white students on a ten but
when we're looking at like the typical
face the next time your listeners are
maybe looking at those commercials it's
a really good indicator when you look at
who they put in the commercials right
there are only women who are talking
about they're going to do their homework
while their kids are asleep that's what
that tells you who they know their ideal
typical student is and those those
people are particularly vulnerable to
that message and are especially
vulnerable to taking on student loan
debt to pay for that kind of chance and
and we should say that when the my
understanding of it is and and and walk
me through this but the there's a
quality that reminded me in the way that
they get paid that reminded me of of
working in commercial radio the key to
commercial radio was always you want to
hold people over the first you know the
next quarter hour if you get it past
that and there's a there's there's a
dynamic in these schools that is like
this based upon the
schedule in which student loans are
dished out is that right that is correct
so the goal of the input of the
enrollment machine that I talked about
in the describe in the book is to get
students enrolled as quickly as possible
the idea being that the more time and
the more opportunity students have to
reflect on their decision the more
likely you are to lose them right so you
want it to get them when they called you
want them to come in immediately to sign
their paperwork and to get their federal
financial student aid application
completed as quickly as possible and I
mean we're talking in many cases within
a week which sounds very odd to those of
us who went through like a traditional
college system so that's why I want to
put some numbers on this we're not
talking weeks or months we're talking
you call on a Tuesday you visit on a
Wednesday you're enrolled when you leave
Wednesday and your financial aid
paperwork is done by that Friday then
the next goal there is to get them
started in a class as quickly as
possible depending on when you make that
phone call what we call rolling
enrollment dates are going on meaning
that's almost always a new class
starting you're rarely waiting more than
two weeks to start in the next class and
that was important because the federal
student aid system will not pay the
tuition until they have what we call
button seats right students let means to
be in the seat they've got to show up on
that first day of class and the
attendance during that first three week
so that first month of school is
critically important because that's how
the student is encounted for student aid
purposes before the check is sent right
and then the money this lion's share of
that tuition enrollment comes up front
there's there's certainly other dollars
that come as the student continues on in
school but the student is quite valuable
they are at the earliest part of that
profit for that reason and then and then
the retention becomes an important
metric for these schools right because
they want that second check right right
not even so much completion because
there's no bonus for like different
students completed there can be a
penalty for them not completing but it
is about making sure they are there
through the the deadline to cut off
deadlines for the student aid payment
and so when you were working in
in missions like how much what kind of
dated did they provide you with in terms
of return on investment that's what sort
of fascinates me because I mean I feel
like I feel like if these schools they
my understanding is they take a
tremendous amount of of data about their
students and as a way of sort of like
how do we market to them how do we keep
them in the seats how do we get them in
the seats and how do we keep and we're
being we're being metaphorical with the
seats right because they could
theoretically are you doing it online
but but what you never see is 75% of our
students end up making 30% more two
years out after graduation or some
figure like that would be that's the key
metric isn't it mm-hm
it is and now this is where I kind of
want to be fair we don't actually have a
good metric on that for any of higher
education the problem is it's probably
less of a problem if you went to a
traditional not-for-profit college right
so we haven't had to be as dogged about
that kind of data that's actually I
think one of the weaknesses in our data
system that for-profit colleges have
exploited is the fact that we have not
had great data on employment returns for
all students has made it pretty easy for
the for-profit college sector to say
well hey it's not like we're falling
down a job nobody has its data they're
right they're just not being they're
just not they just don't have the right
motivation when they say that we do not
have excellent data on how much a
student earns after they graduate some
of that is the federal systems fault
some of that is the for-profit college
such as fault what I will say is I talk
to people who manage the marketing data
at for-profit colleges and they have
better data than what is often publicly
available to us about how the students
are doing it is that they are not
compelled to release it and if they do
not release it and use it in their
marketing materials to the students what
was more common was for us to slide this
disclose your agreement across to the
students that the the US Department of
Education has required for-profit
colleges to do they have to usually
provide things like disclaimers about
your student loan debt they have to
provide disclaimers about the graduation
rates
and their job placement data but that
usually looks something like this it was
usually about how much people in this
type of job would earn what they didn't
usually break it out to say was this is
how much people in this job who got
their degree from us have earned so for
example you would say hey I want to get
a certificate in you know electrical
engineering and we'd say alright we
offer that degree program here's what
people with an electrical engineering
certificate earns last year according to
the Occupational Outlook Handbook that's
what we would tell them but we did not
separate out and break out but this is
how much students who earn their degree
with us are making inset jobs and that's
a level of like finesse that very few
people have to push back against the
college to ask for that level of detail
and in in and you say that you you're
convinced that these institutions as it
were have data on on what the return on
investment is at least to some extent
and I mean I think it's fairly obvious
that if it was gangbusters we'd know
about it right yeah that's what I've
always said to them if it's great
awesome
right like you should definitely need
with that information I've certainly
said the same thing and they are
admittedly there's some smaller programs
and some for-profit colleges that do do
extremely well often because they are
attached to other type of arrangements
right right they have a direct line for
example like they're training people to
work at AT&T and AT&T has agreed to hire
X amount of people that's just but those
are anomalies for the most part most of
the students who are going through these
sort of generalized degree programs are
relying on employers to decide whether
or not there's their degree means
something and because of that they're
usually competing with people who have
degrees from other places and their
wages often do not look comparable and I
suspect that if the for most for-profit
colleges had data that says that they
were doing that significantly better
than average they were certainly
advertised it I would imagine even if
they're doing an average they would
advertise it is my guess but I mean I'm
not a marketing guy so I don't know but
but but and we should say I mean just
be fair I've heard of some programs
where you come in and they will your fee
you don't even pay until you make back a
certain percentage of your income I mean
there are programs that are set up
better and and I think some of these I
think folks associated with it are
striving to in certain instances I mean
like give me a sense of what the people
working there like how much was your
awareness as you were sitting there
saying like you know this seems a little
weird that we're not talking about a
return on investment which is why
everybody walking through the door is
here right like you know a
not-for-profit school some schools you
know some liberal arts schools you know
people are there for citizen you know to
be I want to be a better citizen or you
know I I don't have to worry about my
finances or whatever it is but clearly
most of people walking through that door
are like I'm here because in two years I
want to be making 30% more than I'm
making today what I think is absolutely
fair I mean the for-profit colleges
themselves say of their marketing data
that the number one reason that their
prospective students and enroll students
tell them that they enrolled in school
or start out school with them it was to
earn more money immediately right so
that I mean that means the students tend
to be making a very sort of rational
economic exchange when they attend a
for-profit college in a way that is less
true in traditional especially on campus
four-year degree programs that we have
this sort of broader like you said
liberal arts mission and where the value
of college can then be a bit more
subjective
I remember feeling I mean I had gone to
traditional colleges myself as did a few
of my colleagues there in the enrollment
offices so we knew it was different than
our own experience and I remember being
troubled by it and I talked a little
about that in the book but having
absolutely no words for describing why I
was uncomfortable right so these words
about things like you know social
inequality and you know who can who can
make the sit out the check on the
opportunity cost of sitting out the
labour market to go back to school none
of us had that language I will say some
of us were less kin
with than others but I'd like to point
out I think everybody they're saved for
a few sort of extreme cases
fundamentally thought that the education
gospel worked and so if we were offered
an opportunity for people to better
themselves if it was costing them a lot
of money that was still better than
nothing
what we're did get stickier is that
there were admissions people who would
say things like I myself would not go to
college this way right I wouldn't go to
school here or I wouldn't allow my
children to go to school here
but this is still a good option for
quote-unquote other people and that's
where I thought when people felt
uncomfortable over wrestling with those
ideas that's where it usually manifested
okay and this is I mean I mean that's
fascinating macaws I think there is this
sort of of quality of like you know I
don't know the both an ignorance to the
sort of the reality of what's being
offered and sort of predisposition to
presume there's nothing else that can be
done for these folks right and that is
let's talk a little bit about that part
because the the Obama administration
started to crack down on some of this by
basically saying you're not eligible for
student loans and correct me if I'm
wrong on this but you're not eligible
for student loans unless you use
specific accrediting companies or
certain accrediting values and and you
know they said to I think it was
Corinthian and ITT like your creditor
your creditor that's not real we don't
buy it and then their loans dried up and
their business dried up overnight and
they had to close but that was
insufficient because why well it doesn't
solve the big problem right so you know
we can think of this in our own lives
you know the grocery store closing down
this the grocery store you really like
closer to your home close it down it
doesn't solve the problem that you need
groceries wrecking the problem the real
root of the problem was the demand not
the supply
and yet at what point about these
schools that that did rely on federal
student aid dollars and once they lose
their accreditation
you tend to lose then your ability to
offer student aid and that's pretty much
at the end of usually any for-profit
college school as it would to be fair
for all schools but the accreditation
piece the Obama administration was
becoming more particular about the data
they were requiring the for-profit
colleges to provide to judge whether or
not they were meeting the threshold of
providing a quality education
now the for-profit colleges assess a
debate to the death whether or not
that's a fair assessment of them whether
they should be held to that standard or
not and whether the metric is fair but
that is what the Obama administration
was doing what I will say is that what
the Obama administration and really what
no administration has done in quite some
time is really wrestle however with that
bigger problem there was a recent report
that just came out a couple months ago I
think from the Center for American
Progress that said the job skills myth
the job you've gotten have been a myth
right well that's all I was writing
about what many of us have been writing
about for some time that what we have
been telling people the social
inequality problem in the labor market
was not about people not having the
right skills and instead of solving that
problem and being honest
in our political rhetoric to say this is
not about employers not having the right
skills this is about employers not
wanting to pay fair wages this is about
us not holding employers to task for
their tax responsibilities there was a
lot at play and I will say that nobody
had really hit on the political rhetoric
that I think solve the problem of demand
and that was why for-profit colleges
remain somewhat popular with people
demand has not dried up because there's
still a demand for a good quality of
life with good wages and they're still
making that promise and we should I want
to be really explicit about this so
people understand so the the the the
myth was that there was a mismatch in
our workforce with their education and
all the research now shows a big report
came out very recently and I think it
was from the Center for Economic
- but I'm not regardless regardless it
basically showed that in fact what was
happening is as it became more of a
buyers market for employers they just
got more narrow in what they would
accept from people rather than certain
skill sets being needed but but we're
also talking about people who are
already employed more often than not
right when you're going to these schools
right these are people who just want to
get better wages and be able to care for
their families so we have a right not so
much of a lack of employment situation
but rather poor pay for people who are
doing decent work and attorneys and so
we we have this I mean on some level I
feel like the educational story in in
this sector is not terribly different
than when we see education in the
context of K through 12 insofar as we're
looking at schools to deal with societal
ills but really not a portfolio that is
correct and what these that I mean that
is really the big story and the tougher
story frankly right people don't like
the story when I say people is you know
I think it's hard for politicians I
think it's hard for policy people to get
a good story we're just so deeply
invested in the narrative but the real
story here is that it is not just
possible but now I think we can
empirically argue that it is true that
colleges cannot in school K through 12
or K through 16 cannot solve these
larger social ills that the real problem
of wages was never about the human
capital of the workers working in jobs
and so when you told people that story
all you did was make them very valuable
to the financial sector who were able to
exploit that fear by selling credentials
but that does not solve the problem that
what workers are really facing is a
really tough path to not just a good job
but what we would call internal mobility
the promotion's over time for your wages
to increase over time when you work at a
job and after five years that you should
be earning more than when you start it
though
kinds of problems are not human capital
problems and we should say I mean there
it's interesting what's implicated here
because the the the the access to
government loans clearly drove up the
prices of these places right because
they're just they're basically fixing
their tuition as a function of that
90/10 rule we're gonna make our we're
gonna make our tuition cost ten percent
more than whatever is available for
people in terms of government loans and
and that dynamic of course would be
fixed in many respects reversed if we
instead of having a massive loan program
we we provided at least one or two free
options per state but that may be a
separate issue but I want to know I
don't think it's a separate issue I
actually think it's a super-important
once I was one of the ones that I argue
for that the real competition we thought
that the competition that needed to
happen in the higher education
quote-unquote market with that you
needed more institutions and that's what
we saw happen from 1990 to 2010 when we
created tons of new institutions but as
long as the student aid system is
underwriting all of those institutions
to saying that's not actually creating
more competition they would just
increase the size of the pie just taken
more students that's what the for-profit
college sector really was real
competition would come through true
accessible affordable options and the
only people who can do that the only
entity that can do that is the state and
so I actually believe that's the real
solution interesting and
