give me your sense all right step back
for a moment and you have made this very
I think conservative very literal
explicit no speculation case about his
lying
I mean you lay it out there this is it's
basically a math equation step back now
and be a prognosticator for a moment do
you think the nature of this FBI
investigation now that it's been
revealed that only four people are being
interviewed PJ Ramirez this is the woman
who made the other claim about him at
Yale which of course can't be
substantiated right because you're not
talking to anybody else at Yale mark
judge and Leland Keyser judge said he
wants it only confidential I don't know
what that's supposed to mean
but Leland Keyser is there who
apparently is has some type of illness
that that Ford cited yeah and may not
want to get involved in this and Ford
basically gave her a pass at the hearing
so do you think though with the
knowledge about that investigation a and
this almost goes without saying do you
think the investigation is going to be
sufficient be will it be sufficient for
its real purpose which is to provide
some type of cover for at least some of
those senators yeah well this is what I
almost think it was a mistake for
Democrats to spend so much of their time
and energy in the hearings calling for
an FBI investigation because I think it
will allow for whether it'll work I
don't know but it certainly is a way of
filling well the FBI ran investigation
they talked to all the principal people
nothing else came up and so no more
corroboration that's what among the
court yeah I'm worried and I wish I kind
of wish the Democrats had said well
that's not calling us idiot let's nail
him in the hearings we have one chance
to get him and we can't trust the FBI
because you can't
so I don't know what's gonna come out of
it though I have no idea I I have to say
I think the Democrats had to do that
with the FBI because there was no
guarantee they would nail him in the
committee and do in the FBI I think was
the one procedural thing where they
could bring on board people like mansion
and hide camp who who couldn't afford to
make a decision on politics had to make
one on process it's unfortunate though
because if he does come out at the
whitewash it's gonna it's going to be a
problem but the only nice thing is that
we have such compelling evidence that it
does sort of totally discredit him on
the Supreme Court I mean it is a
political rallying point I think it will
decrease the popularity of the
conservatives on the Supreme Court and
will make it harder politically to say
overturn Roe versus Wade if you have
like this guy writing the opinion right
indeed well Nathan J Robinson editor of
current affairs folks can we will link
to this piece this is the thing that you
pass around to I think probably the vast
majority of people you know who don't
follow this stuff well and too so that
they can have a very explicit like you
say conservative no speculation just
laying out the facts and just even
reading again the the transcripts in
those key moments is it's just a bizarre
experience but Nathan say thanks for
your time my bike all right folks I'm
going to take a quick break ahead into
the fun half where we will take your
phone calls and your IMS go over a
couple other pieces of sound let's hear
is let's do this before we go briefly so
it it came out over the weekend the
the FBI and I don't know how we know
this we kept hearing stories of the FBI
not responding to people from Yale who
are trying to get in touch with them to
give them a statement from the woman who
was Mark judges girlfriend mark judge
had told her about his feeling guilty
about getting a woman drunk in high
school and then basically being part of
a train where various men would have sex
with her but according to him it was
consensual
but he was feeling guilty the FBI is not
interviewing her the FBI is not
interviewing Garrett squee who could
tell us about the relationship between
Kavanaugh and Ford
if Kavanaugh was lying when he said he
didn't know forward because squee was
the one who interviewed who introduced
them according to Ford I mean then we
could we could wrap this whole thing up
all you need to do is ask ask Garrett
did you introduce Ford to Cavanaugh
would you have you were friends with
both and if he says I did not well then
all of a sudden do you know that Blasi
Ford is just incredible fabulous but if
he says yeah of course I did I was
friends with Cavanaugh and hang out with
him we've you know the cheesy and
barbells or whatever those guys are and
we had squeeze and keys I went out with
Ford course they would have known each
other then you know Brett cabin odd just
made a bald-faced lie and he wonder why
so it comes out over the weekend that
the FBI is not doing a thorough even
inquiry because they are being limited
by the White House then Donald Trump
gets wind that this has been reported in
leaked
so he tweets out know the FBI get can do
whatever they want then the FBI when
asked by The Washington Post no we have
not heard we have not gotten a formal
rescission from the first instructions
from the White House and therefore we
are going to limit our invest
investigation in fact we may be done
tomorrow
as in today or Tuesday
so Jake Tapper interviews Amy Klobuchar
about it and I mean
seriously Jake Tapper are you confident
you just heard Kelly and Conway say the
FBI can investigate whatever they want
to investigate do you are you confident
that the FBI will be able to explore
everything they want to including if
they are interested the Julie sweat Nick
allegations including whether or not he
was honest to the Senate Judiciary
Committee about his drinking well based
on some of the reports that we've seen
this weekend I'm very concerned about
this because the White House should not
be allowed to micromanage an FBI
investigation she says they're not
telling you and said they're not I know
and there was one thing she did say and
that is that the hard-working men and
women of the FBI should be able to do
their jobs and on that I agree but is
Jake Tapper really citing Kellyanne
Conway's public Proclamation that the
FBI is doing this as some type of
refutation first off in terms of just
the sheer authority Kelly on Conway has
no more authority to tell the FBI I'd do
anything that I do and Kelly on Conway's
job has been from day one to lie on
behalf of the President so if only Jake
Tapper was in a position where he could
marshal resources to go and ask the FBI
this question to find out
exactly what they're doing instead of
saying Kellyanne Conway not once but
twice as if he's serious I mean and I
know in his mind he's thinking it's my
job it's my job to push back on
Klobuchar she's a senator she has power
it's my job to push back upon that in
terms of what the White House is saying
but the manner in which you do that
reflects some notion of your sense of
her credibility right because we know
Jake Tapper wouldn't say well Sam cedar
said on his Twitter feed that the FBI is
doing this and that's because everybody
would look around going well all right I
don't know Sam cedar but to the extent
that I do he that doesn't matter and
even though everybody knows who
Kellyanne Conway is and even though she
works for the president it doesn't
matter
thoughtful people know this Jake Tapper
smart enough to know it doesn't matter
what she says so why is he pretending it
does well because I think journalists
like to abdicate certain kinds of
responsibility that's why he likes to
point to Mercatus but my point is he's
not abdicating responsibility he would
make the assessment if it was me and I'm
sorry the to then decide like I it's too
close of a call if she's being honest in
this instance he is making an assessment
he is not abdicating that's my point
he's not advocating he's pretending he's
advocating but he's not he's actually
saying this is a legitimate claim
against what you've said and he knows
it's not a legitimate claim so he's not
abdicating he's actually deciding to
weigh in it's just that he's deciding
that by pretending to abdicate he's
advocating and he's not advocating he's
making an assessment as to
whether or not the claim is worthy and
he does that every time he puts it on
like there it is completely
controversial the question is to whether
or not Kellyanne Conway is telling the
truth here well generally since the FBI
has come out with reporting that they're
not going to do it that's the problem
with the kind of journalism where you
hold each side of a thing to be equally
valid right because in some cases
they're not and it's your job as a
journalist to go out and figure that out
plus there's not just two sides here the
FBI is another player and the FBI has
already pushed back on this notion I
think the reason why the FBI has
announced that they may be done today is
a way to create pressure on the White
House or on the Senators to have a more
extensive investigation
because I can tell you my daughter took
a she took in a you know like high
school assessment public high school in
New York is a nightmare to get into and
she had an out ninety minutes and she
came out after an hour and my immediate
reaction is what did you do you're not
done you didn't do a very good job you
gotta get back in there it was easy I
then take the extra 30 minutes
double-check your work she announces I'm
coming out you know after ten minutes
my hair's on fire and I think that's
what I think YBF I think that's why the
FBI came out with that I think they
basically say like to just indicate
everybody yeah the same for reals
