[Music]
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
they are unanimous in their hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday May 1st 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrial ravaged Gowanus Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on the program today
Rob and Marty author of a handbook for a
post Row America also on the program
today
bill Barr lied to Congress turns out he
and Muller not quite on the same page
meanwhile Joe Biden expands his is
polling leads as Democrats say policy
Shamala see meanwhile congressional
committees threatening prison to
reluctant former Trump advisor would be
witnesses inspector general finds that
HUD impeded the puerto rican aid probe
not the role of HUD to impede
investigations into the failure to
provide aid for Puerto Rico just in case
you're wondering Julian Assange gets one
year for jumping bail awaits an
extradition hearing tomorrow I believe
it starts meanwhile
Erik Prince nae Blackwater naejay nae
whatever they call it now gets
criminally referred to the Department of
Justice by the House Intelligence
Committee and the ongoing continuing
fall of a right-wing con man turns out
Jacob wall also had some investment
ideas and speaking of falling the
stephen moore nomination implodes turns
out he may actually be worse than cain
and lastly venezuela i don't know if in
chaos is the right word but guido wants
yet another bite at the Apple hey guys
Juan go I know here on periscope waiting
wait for a few more people chatting the
stream or try to Dooku free pool cue dog
get down to the army barracks I'll be
rad thanks for helping likes oh thanks
oh hey what's up thank you art you back
all this and more on today's program
super chat donations appreciated we have
US support but all voluntary
contributions help Mike Pompeo was
making some very weird noises yesterday
I mean not not like just like squeaks
and you know fart noises or stuff like
that but he was saying some very strange
things that I mean who knows in terms of
our I mean I imagine there's we have
some type of involvement right now
beyond of course the the sanctions that
we have imposed on Venezuela to punish
the people of Venezuela for being the
people of Venezuela which apparently
they should not have been but in
addition to the sanctions that we have
to punish the people of Venezuela I
imagine we're engaged
and other things I don't know what they
would be as a government but the the
question is will there be less
clandestine engagements a you know
coming up we don't know but there's like
I say Mike Pompeo was saying some pretty
weird stuff yesterday we will get to
that later in the program in the
meantime the Senate Judiciary Committee
has been talking to Bill Bar and Bill
Bar is the the Attorney General most
well known for his his helping George
Herbert Walker Bush extricate themselves
from the iran-contra stuff and
suggesting pardons and otherwise
misleading Congress on several issues
but on the eve of Barr testifying in
front of the Senate Judiciary Committee
today the Washington Post got a story
robert muller complained that bars
letter did not capture context of trump
probe look these things don't come out
as two people who got that letter right
one person who wrote it one person who
received it theoretically there are
other people on that sort of the chain
of title if you will of that letter but
unlikely any of them would have in any
way shown this letter to a reporter
without one of those two principals
permission and i can't imagine that bill
Barr who we will see in a moment just
weeks ago claimed that he had no idea
what Muller's thoughts were about his
letter bill bars letter to congress in
in multiple different testimonies now
it's unclear I mean it's unclear exactly
I think what Muller was concerned about
with the letter we have yet to see the
letter
but we've seen we've we've heard parts
of it I guess or maybe it's been
released this morning by bill bar to the
Senate committee but clearly they are
upset at bill bar spinning and it is a
big deal
for someone like robert muller to put
this stuff down on paper it is a formal
complaint the idea that it's now been
leaked to the press makes it even more
formal bill bar has been testifying i
don't know that i've ever seen a witness
who's testified at any hearing so
confidently so blatantly avoid answering
questions as proficiently as bill bar
and quite clear why everybody in the
White House was excited to get him
because he is as obstinate and I would
imagine ethically challenged as Jeff
Sessions but clearly more talented can
you please slow rail cuz I will make
sure no part of myself here exactly
let's go back to April 10th now the
letter was from was from 1 April 4th was
that what it was the the I'm sorry not
the bar letter but the the Muller letter
was 2 or 3 days later I guess so April
10th would be an April 9th would be days
after bill Barr received a letter from
Robert Muller saying really don't
appreciate the way you're characterizing
the report think it's misleading and so
here's a bill Barr lying to members of
Congress I mean I guess you could call
it what was it that the whiteout would
the New York Times said the other day
like sort of prevailing on the truth in
a way that stretches things in a
uncomfortable manner something to that
effect here's Chris Van Hollen asking
Barr
ultimately if Muller supported his
conclusion
now bar spends a lot of time in this
thing it's not a conclusion it was a non
summary of the findings blonde fact in
making that assessment it's that's not a
question I really can answer until I
think well you did it but but you mate
you you looked at the report right and
you looked at the evidence to the report
and you made a decision and you said
that the president's not guilty of
criminal obstruction of justice I'm
asking you in your review of the report
did you agree with smaller that there
were difficult issues of law in fact I'm
gonna give my reaction and comments you
know about the report after there well
it wasn't okay so what bill Barr is
doing at this time a couple of weeks ago
is he's trying to just have the only
narrative out there is that there is no
obstruction we know subsequent to this
we saw the report and the report
specifically said we're not dealing with
the question of obstruction not because
we don't have evidence of obstruction in
fact we have ten separate incidents
which would constitute obstruction but
we also are very aware of the OLC s
ruling that governs the DOJ that a
sitting president cannot be indicted and
there are other constitutional
mechanisms in which to hold the
President to account those other
constitutional mechanisms necessarily
reside outside the DOJ and all you need
to do go to the Constitution and find
out what those mechanisms are and their
impeachment so Barr is making it out
like I didn't make any conclusions or
I'm not gonna talk about why I made the
conclusions it's not appropriate for me
to talk about that now and it's it's all
part of a spin campaign go but you you
put your view of the report out there on
this issue of obstruction justice right
nobody asked you to do that
what happened to our sound is the sound
there I'm not hearing aids evidence did
you agree with Muller and his team that
there were difficult issues of law in
fact as I say I am going to explain my
decision and to the extent that requires
any assessment of the Muller report I
didn't when the nor decision out might
your decision require you to look into
the intent of the Prezi nine states with
respect to obstruction of justice I'm
not going to discuss my decision I will
lay it out after the report is out mr.
attorney general the thing is you put
this out there I mean the president went
out and tweeted the next day that he was
exonerated that wasn't based on anything
in the Muller report with respect to
obstruction of justice that was based on
your assessment that was on March 24th
and now you won't elaborate at all as to
how you reached that conclusion because
I'm not asking you what's in the molar
report I'm asking about your conclusion
let me ask you this what was that
illusion it was the conclusion of a
number of people including me and I
obviously am the Attorney General it was
also the conclusion of the Deputy
Attorney General Rod Rosenstock I
understand no I've read the letters and
I will discuss that decision after the
Bob ballers support your conclusion I
don't know whether Bob Hall or supported
my conclusions well at the very least we
know that Bob Muller was unhappy with
the way that those conclusions were
presented we know that for a fact at
that point bill Barr did not answer that
question and then a couple of days later
he goes in front of the House committee
and questioned by Chris Christie at the
House Judiciary Committee and this is
what bill Barr had to say further at the
very least misleading Congress I mean
this is a guy who is a professional liar
and he very adroitly I think avoids a
perjuring himself but he's got to be
pretty adroit because he's certainly
misleading Congress
in a in a particularly acute way reports
have emerged recently pasta John we
should also say this is after the news
reports that came out that members of
Muller's team were upset with the way
that this letter had come out now
understand the way you know Bob Muller
is getting circles run around him
frankly because he's trying to fight
this through the press and he's also but
he's driving with the brakes on the
reason why members of Muller's team came
out and did that is because Muller is
still operating under some type of
notion of like I've got to maintain the
integrity of the office and it's got to
be second hand and it's got to be at
arm's length from me and so bill Barr
takes the opportunity I want you to
listen to this carefully bill Barr knows
that Muller is upset about the way that
his report that that bill bars letter
went out there because he's he's talked
to bill to a Muller and he's gotten a
letter from Muller but what what bill
Barr has not done is talked to members
of Muller's team so chris Christie
doesn't mean excuse me Charlie Chris
doesn't realize that he asked the
question in the context of people of
mulish team bill Barr only answers in in
regards to Muller's team and avoids
having to really address what the gist
of the question is is does Muller have a
problem with what you did reports have
emerged recently general that members of
the special counsels team are frustrated
at some level with the limited
information included in your March 24th
letter that it does not adequately or
accurately necessarily portray the
report's findings do you know what
they're referencing with that no I don't
posit so he doesn't know because he
doesn't know he doesn't know what the
members of Muller's team thinks he only
knows that Muller has that problem
keep playing oh that's it yeah okay so
he's just basically arguing he's just
basically answering
the very narrow question I know what
Muller's problem is with it because I
got a letter but I don't know what
people the Muellers team is because I
never heard from them that that's the
the game that they've been playing and
they're playing it much much better than
certainly Muller mother was the only one
who had this information so that's
what's happening it means and look you
know this is from the very beginning
from the very beginning every
investigation of a president every
impeachment whatever it is is a
political activity it is not within our
criminal justice system
you cannot indict a sitting president at
the very least you cannot indict a
sitting president under this Department
of Justice and so from the very
beginning this has been a political
fight and so to the extent that there
have been excesses on either side it is
their what they're doing is politicking
but for those who had argued that the
atomic clock or whatever the nuclear
clock is being implicated or that Muller
and Bill Barra best friends in bill bar
would never lie about the Muller report
in any way there's no daylight between
them or that this this investigation I
guess or maybe the hyping of the
investigation or the nature of the
coverage of the investigation
somehow handed Donald Trump some type of
big gift none of that has been borne out
did people get out over their skis in
terms of like yes there backbenchers who
who tried to take advantage of it that
guy Eric's wall well I was on TV a lot
he may be one of three Democrats who
don't make it into the debates
because it didn't work for him which I
think also cuts into the assessment that
somehow everyone was like caught up and
the specific fever of conspiracy charges
it's quite clear that the Trump campaign
was encouraging of of Russian
interference I don't know that that made
a difference in the context of the
election certainly didn't help Hillary
Clinton but it's quite clear that the
the Trump White House or I should say
campaign did that maybe they did it and
maybe he obstructed justice because he
didn't want people to find out about his
but the lies he had told about not
having business in Russia which he
claimed throughout the entire campaign
maybe Donald Trump knew that that three
hundred four hundred million dollar
Tower in in Russia was enough to get him
to do just about anything to get that
built including sanctions he didn't care
about including who knows what I mean
does anyone really think that this guy
had fully formed opinions kochiya
strategy on geostrategy yester that were
not tied into how much money am I gonna
make there's a hotel right there's an
agreement there are many things yes then
you make agreements yeah I don't think
we're covering it because we're hanging
all of our hopes on it but like it does
bear mentioning that the president could
shoot someone in the middle of Fifth
Avenue and he wouldn't be indicted
that's right and there is only one
process and that is through Congress and
Bill Barr subverted that process not I
mean you can't do it officially Congress
can still take action but it's a lot
harder when the narrative is totally
exonerated everything's obliterated
and in fact that was not the intent of
Bob Muller when he's submitted that
report and you know because under the
bill Barre regime there is no way you
can hold the president to account we
will get back to that later in the
program but I should tell you that
today's support for today's show comes
from Warby Parker by engaging with
customers directly through their website
and retail stores or we Parker is able
to provide high quality good-looking
prescription eyewear at a fraction of
the price and that's not easy we've
talked in the past that there's a bit of
a monopoly in that in that arena and
warp our key is Parker stands outside of
it every pair is custom-fit with an anti
reflective polycarbonate prescription
lens starting at just 95 bucks and Warby
Parker's free home try on program you
can order five pairs of glasses and try
them on for five days everything ships
free and includes a prepaid return
shipping label and there's no obligation
to buy I hope you remember I think we
did this like four or five years ago and
I think somewhere on the site somewhere
there's survey is still up with pictures
of meeting five different frames and I
ended up getting uh the metal frames and
then later my eyes got even worse I have
I got coke bottles folks but I still
wear those when I'm I'm doing stuff I
don't need to have like the old man
glasses that I have I don't want to talk
about it but the the look of these
glasses these really
I have progressive but style wise I
wouldn't describe them no no no and the
word parky Parker ones are even are
significantly nicer but the ease of the
truck home Tryon thing was great and you
can even do a survey with your friends
on Twitter if you want which one do you
like best on me but check it out folks
great value great
glasses had to barberry why can't I ever
say that Warby Parker Warby Parker
dot-com / majority to order your home
your free home try ons today
that's Warby Parker dot-com / majority
do you have an iPhone X make sure to
download Warby Parker's app where you
can use their brand new virtual try on I
may play with that it allows you to try
on glasses seeing the realistic color
texture and size of each style using
just your phone check it out we'll put a
link obviously in the show notes today
also many times I've been in a situation
where particularly when I'm not with the
kids I forget to eat that's one of I
have one of these issues where like if
you put a full meal in front of me I can
eat everything I can eat I can eat your
meal I can eat all of it all but if I
don't see the food then I forget to eat
it
so it's it's honestly like I'll go like
it'll be nine o'clock at night I'll be
at home and I'm like oh I forgot to have
dinner today lunch that's so hard to
believe it's weird it's weird cuz you
see me around food and I can eat all you
love treats I love it well but if you
find yourself at 10 o'clock at night and
you're like oh dammit I need some food
well post mates is your personal food
delivery a service but it's also your
grocery delivery service whatever kind
of delivery service all year round no
more trips to the store anything you're
craving post mates can deliver within
the hour 24 hours a day 365 days a year
this is nuts they're the largest
on-demand network in the u.s. offer
delivery from all the restaurants
grocery convenience stores traditional
retailers you could possibly need simply
download the app for iOS or Android for
free browse local restaurants and
businesses track your delivery in real
time for a limited time post mates is
giving our listeners what $100 of free
delivery credit for your first 7 days
when you use the code report
that's the code report for $100 of free
delivery credit for your first seven
days when you download the post mates
app anything you need anytime you need
it post mated download POIs but post
mates app save with the code report
download the app and use the code report
also just a reminder we are now 11 days
away from Mother's Day and there's
nothing I would hope Michael there's
nothing we wouldn't do to make sure the
special moms and our lives are happy are
you kidding me I'm just course Sherry's
berries has special mother Day berries
designed just for Mom
they're topped with chocolate chips pink
shimmer sugar and swizzles I can't even
talk about it without getting a little
bit exercised and you choose your
delivery date to ensure that mom gets
your gift of cherry berries exactly when
you want her to so this is perfect
you're thinking about it right now just
go to berries dot-com BER RI es dot-com
hit the microphone use the code seed or
order it and have it delivered the day
of or day before Mother's Day your
satisfaction is always guaranteed these
berries these like they're chocolate
dipped berries they're delicious I'm
gonna have my kids actually get them for
their mother yeah that's nice thing for
me to do yes particularly points in the
war yeah points of the war exactly don't
wait to the last minute on this one
visit berries dot-com today order your
freshly dipped strawberries starting at
just $19.99 for the moms in your life
and to make mom really happy you can
double the berries for just 10 bucks
more you know what I'm gonna get him for
my mom too I don't know why I like I
yeah doesn't occur to me like but I
think she's who doesn't love
strawberries with chocolate Mother's Day
Sunday exactly May 12th that's actually
the way you can find out if you have a
sociopath in your
just see if they don't eat strawberries
dipped in chocolate berries calm berr
IES calm click on the microphone upper
right hand corner enter the code cedar
sed er that's berries calm click the
microphone code cedar do it now so you
don't forget all right we're going to
take a quick break when we come back
we're going to be talking to rob and
Marty on the post row America that we
are very likely headed to we'll be right
back after this
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program independent
journalist and author of handbook for a
post ro America Rob and Marty Robin
welcome to the show you know I I'm
fascinated by this because I think I
certainly after Cavanagh but before that
I think it was a fairly safe assumption
that we are headed to a an era where if
not directly overturned roe v wade
certainly the right curtail certainly
the right curtailed in in such a matter
as to be effectively overturned just
yeah I suspect that's your belief
obviously the intention is that Roe is
going to be overturned in which case we
have at least 15 states that will make
abortion completely illegal we have
about ten states that will make abortion
completely legal and the rest will fall
in between but what's really interesting
right now is if you watch this surge of
so-called heartbeat bands that are
happening in states across the country
those are all failsafe bills and what
they are is they are an attempt to make
sure that if for some reason the Supreme
Court does not decide to overturn roe v
wade they can still essentially ban
abortion in their states what they're
playing on is this idea that the Supreme
Court could potentially say alright we
are going to keep abortion legal all
throughout the United States however
states can do whatever it is they want
to do as long as they do not officially
completely ban abortion so with that
happening and that's why we're seeing
Mississippi um
Louisiana just introduced one now every
state in the south in the Gulf area and
then many of them through the Midwest
are all doing these heartbeat bans
knowing that if the Roe is upheld an
abortion stays legal they can still
basically ban it completely within their
states and I noticed that today I guess
or maybe it was yesterday
that a Alabama at least passed the House
of Representatives a bill making it a
crime for a doctor to perform an
abortion and I would imagine also we're
gonna see like trap laws right like
these the you know anything that that
makes it just that much harder to from a
practical standpoint to provide an
abortion will be found to be the the
scrutiny in which a state's restriction
or regulations around it will be lowered
the scrutiny will be lowered and and and
therefore this is just gonna be chipped
away I mean there this is almost
inevitable it's just really question of
like how blatant right and we're not
even two years out from the Supreme
Court saying that trap laws are not
constitutional we already had the ruling
and whole woman's health fee Heller said
in 2016 that said no you cannot use um
regulations or use extra scrutiny on
doctors in order to close abortion
clinics and make abortion inaccessible
despite this fact we've had the Fifth
Circuit in Louisiana say you know what I
think we should go ahead and revisit
that and so we're still waiting for this
new makeup of the Supreme Court to
decide whether they're going to uphold
whole women's health or if they're just
gonna toss that one aside as well and
and just to be clear the trap laws and
and the the Heller said I think was in
Texas and I can't remember if that was
the physicians needed admission rights
into a local hospital or but there's
other stuff to the effect of like
abortion clinics need to have 11-foot
ceilings or something to that right I
mean both of those were unconstitutional
however we've already seen other states
that are trying to go around it in other
directions one really good example is
that few people have noticed that in
Ohio more than half of the state clinics
have closed over the last five years and
that has happened because what they're
doing is they have transfer agreements
which are essentially the same thing as
this admitting-privileges law but the
Board of Health is shutting down each
one one by
and because of that there has been no
scrutiny over this because there is no
point in which they say that they've
actually reached an undue burden yet so
because they do it one by one they can
keep going and then when the court
finally says okay that at one Clinic was
too many and now it's an undue burden to
the right to access an abortion then
they're basically as close as they could
be
without going over okay so now my
understanding is that you you think that
the that an overturning of Roe would be
a good thing is that relative to you
know the the essentially what we what
we're we're seeing in Ohio or these
these sort of like when it's chipped
away it's hard you know
there's no headline of the day there's
no it's very hard to rally people around
in Ohio that one by one the health
inspector is shutting down these clinics
and so it's very difficult to sort of
like make people aware of how this right
is being taken away and and rally gets
on the ground but even before that it's
been nearly impossible for many
communities especially rural communities
and communities of color and communities
of low economic standing to be able to
access abortion as it is it's too
expensive
there's too many hoops to jump through
all of these things make it too hard for
people who need abortions to be able to
get to them yet abortion is still legal
in all of these places what we need are
these really big wake-up calls that will
help make people who are less affected
by abortion restrictions understand that
this is a fight that they have to have
and be engaged with now and we saw that
immediately after Trump was elected when
millions of women came out not just in
DC but across the country and marched in
order to say no you are not gonna take
our rights away right now
and then we saw it again when people
came out when Cavanaugh was up for a
4:00 appointment and people were coming
into DC and they were being arrested
there was this huge
moment where everybody understood this
is a point of change I believe
personally that in a lot of cases it is
too hard for people to access abortion
it's why we are seeing so much of an
uptick of people trying to access it by
buying medication online people trying
to do things themselves people already
leaving States in order to get to other
states in order to get care should we
hit a point where row is officially
overturned and people understand okay
these states do not have any care
whatsoever and we're talking about not
just like a state here or a state there
but an entire swath of the country that
is going to have no care basically from
the edge of New Mexico all the way out
to Florida
there will be no legal abortion there
when that happens it's unavoidable when
that happens it's a rallying point and
unfortunately I feel like although
activists right now are doing so much
good to try and make sure that people
are getting access there's just only so
much that can be done until the people
of privilege really recognize that this
is a problem and step up all right well
that's I mean that seems to me to be a
big dilemma to even in the event that
Roe is overturned or even in the I think
the worst case the worser case as it
were that it is de facto overturned but
in it but nominally not overturned which
is that you know when we talk about
Alabama when we talk about Mississippi
when we talk about Missouri we talk
about you know Louisiana we're talking
about like you say women who are maybe
living in poverty and don't have access
to this care when we talk about the
states where it would still be legal
we're talking about the bigger of the
wealthier states right where presumably
folks of privilege are our living and
will not have the same experience
because it won't be in the local news it
won't be in the the you know to the
extent that it's even in the national
news because the national media is
centered around those areas where
abortion will vary more than likely but
still be legal how does that word get
out I mean effectively now there's a
couple of states like you say where
where abortion is almost effectively
unattainable but yet very few people are
conscious of that so what we need to do
is make sure that abortion becomes a
much bigger platform especially when we
head into the 2020 elections we need to
make sure that every candidate knows how
to answer questions about abortion one
of the things that is going to be
probably the biggest factor of 2020 is
the fact that the right has already
decided that they are going to define
everything by infanticide that they are
going to only talk about abortion as it
comes to third trimester abortions and
they're going to conflate everything
that happens after a first trimester it
should be a so-called late term abortion
which does not exist
our politicians need to know how to talk
about this they need to know how to talk
about abortion as a right fit belongs to
everyone and that isn't just something
that people unfortunately have to have
that it needs to be considered a part of
healthcare
it can't be divorced from it and in a
lot of ways it needs not just to be
clinic based because regardless of what
happens with abortion law as long as
abortion can only exist by going to an
abortion clinic rather than through
purchasing online doing teleMed as long
as it's restricted to just a clinic then
the Wrights knows that all they have to
do is close a clinic be it through
regulations through zoning through
violence if they can close a clinics and
they can cut off healthcare access we
need to be sure that everybody
understands that this is not just a
rural problem or not just a Midwest or a
South this is how they will close
clinics in New York this is how they
will close clinics in California they
will close clinics everywhere because
all it takes is to take them out one by
one and no one will have care we need to
expand access beyond just clinics okay I
want to circle back to that but let's
start with the question of late term
abortion and infanticide I am very
confident that that there's nobody who
supports the idea of of just deciding
after the
birth of a child that you can wrap it up
I think as Donald Trump said it the at a
rally the other night in Ohio wrap it up
and then decide to kill it killed the
baby that doesn't happen when we talk
about when people say late term abortion
we're talking about dilation and
extraction explain to us what that
process is and give us some numbers here
because I mean it seems to me that there
are and and tell me if I'm wrong my
understanding is that there are third
trimester abortions that take place when
a mother maybe wasn't unable to get an
abortion earlier was unaware that she
was pregnant I mean they're extremely
rare but they do happen when a woman's
health is not necessarily implicated
just discussed that I mean what into the
to the extent that they exist so the
first thing that we have to talk about
is we have to straighten out all of our
terms there's no such thing as late term
abortion because term means 40 weeks and
so late term would be after 40 weeks so
that does not exist when we are talking
from a progressive standpoint and we use
the term late term abortion even though
we shouldn't be what we are usually
trying to reference is the idea of third
trimester abortions right the first
thing we have to understand is that when
the right is saying late term abortion
they are in fact referring to anything
after the first trimester so that is how
things are getting conflated and how
you're finding stories of then they'll
start to say okay well look at all these
statistics about abortions after 20
weeks and why people have them the thing
is 20 weeks is not viability 24 weeks is
the point in which science believes that
viability is a likelihood and viability
is the point in which with medical care
if there is a 50% chance of survival in
order to live outside the womb so we're
already talking on different levels of
definition and those have to be
straightened out when you get to a third
trimester abortion a third trimester
abortion is almost always going to be a
labor induction there is not
you need dilation and evacuation because
at that point the fetus is too developed
to do that um so when when we are having
a third trimester abortion it's going to
be a labor induction that would be the
third trimester abortion would be the
only point in which yes it could be
possible that a fetus that is born at
that point would survive the abortion
but because of the way that the
procedure is done fetal demise is always
done first so first there would be an
injection to the heart they would make
sure that there was no longer a
heartbeat and they would do all that
before any sort of process to open up
the cervix and then induce the labor so
when we're looking at third trimester
abortions or Trebor shion's after
viability they are in that case always
going to be because of the help of a
pregnant person or because of a a fetal
anomaly we do not have elected third
trimester abortions it just doesn't
happen does it is it is it is it illegal
or are you saying it just doesn't happen
like you Roe you are allowed to have
abortion in the first trimester you are
allowed to have abortion in the second
trimester for special indications and in
the third trimester it is only for the
physical or mental health of the person
who is carrying it mental health in
almost all circumstances refers to okay
there is a fetus with an anomaly it is
more detrimental to this person to be
able to be forced to carry to term and
give birth to this than to just go ahead
and end the pregnancy okay fair enough I
mean so that I mean that I think it's
important for people to really
understand because as you say there's a
lot of conflation of a lot of different
do is they'll start talking about okay
so we're having late abortions and look
here are the stats it's say here are
these people 20 who have abortions after
20 weeks that say it's because they
couldn't access a clinic early enough or
say that it was because they um didn't
know they were pregnant all of these
other things
but they're talking about statistics
that aren't specifically for the third
trimester they're talking about
statistics that are any point after the
twenty twenty weeks and so because of
that they're complaining second
trimester third trimester abortions
which are done under completely
different circumstances and laws and we
should also add that these abortions
take place
essentially after consultation with a
doctor between a doctor and their
patient right I mean this is not like
you don't just go in and you know go
online and register for it like you're
going in for you know a I guess you know
I don't know a haircut or something and
you you are actually in consultation
particularly in the context of the third
trimester with a doctor to assess
whether your need for an abortion
crosses that threshold exactly and if we
want to talk specifically about the New
York abortion law which is where this
whole thing got started the things that
a lot of people have lost track of is
that when New York passed their new
abortion law what they were doing is
they were allowing people who were in
the third trimester to be able to obtain
abortions with just one doctor saying
that it was okay to have an abortion
because before that it took three
doctors saying that it was okay to have
an abortion
I'm sorry not New York in Virginia
blogged that they fought over and then
it got stalled because that was the only
change that they were trying to make it
wasn't even hey you can have an elective
third trimester abortion it was you only
need to get one doctor to consent to
this abortion you don't need a full
panel and this whole idea of a panel
approving an abortion goes back to the
days pre Roe when people were trying to
get abortions and they were illegal and
so you had to go up to a hospital and
give them the entire story of why
abortion mattered for you but not for
being legal for everybody and so in a
lot of ways it just goes harkens back to
this age of it's not that we want to
make sure that abortion can't be had by
any
it's just we want to be able to pick and
choose whether we think that your
abortion is valid or not okay so with
that clarified let's talk about what
we're looking at in a and I think it's
it becomes it's a little bit easier it's
a little bit more low-hanging the fruit
as it were if you know a Supreme Court
says we're overturning roe v wade end of
story forget about it completely thrown
to the states anywhere that they want to
ban abortions totally they can do it
that's a little bit easier to imagine
what happens if it doesn't happen that
way if it's simply like it's okay for
states to pass trap laws that we're just
not going to give that measure of
scrutiny what what all right now we're
getting into the handbook a little bit
what do we do as as women what do we do
as men in the context of you know
activists and also people who need this
health procedure right over and over
again is the idea that we are not in is
nearly dire of straits as we think that
we are because there is a system that is
already out there and already exists
already networks people together in
order to make sure that people can get
from one state to another state if a
person needs abortion care reproductive
justice groups have been doing this work
on the ground for decades already and
they've been doing it with little
resources in their communities helping
their own communities because they know
them best so what we have our abortion
funds we have practical support groups
we have clinic escorts we have all of
these people on the ground especially in
low access states who know how to get
somebody to a different clinic how to
put them up in a home how to drive them
to a different place these are all
places that exist and that as activists
if we are new to the movement and want
to do something to help we can find them
and plug our selves into already
existing work this is good because it
means that we do not have to spend the
resources to try and create an entire
it's already out there so as people who
are seeking out abortions the first
thing that we're going to need to do is
it's best to try and figure out ahead of
time some sort of plan um one of the
things that I recommend is that people
try to figure out where their nearest
abortion clinic is going to be what sort
of restrictions might be there how much
money they might need for an abortion
another thing that I tell a lot of
people right now to be completely honest
is it is not a bad idea to treat
medication abortion like you would
emergency contraception the biggest
problem with medication abortion at this
moment isn't that it's a health risk
because it's not um it's that it is a
legal risk and especially in states
where a person could be it could be
under investigation for having a
miscarriage that could be a problem for
you however the other big problem right
now is the fact that getting that
medication online can take a long time
the FDA is already cracking down on
places that are offering it into people
in the United States those are closing
new ones have popped up but even still
we're seeing that it can take four to
six weeks for somebody to get medication
that orders it online and and you have
to trust it right I mean it's it's I
mean it's it I mean it yeah III think
these things are imminently trustable
and certainly but you don't know the
agency right you don't have that
presumption that you have you know
within the states
I guess bedded information to make sure
that so they order pills themselves in
order to test the materials that come
through see how long things are gonna
take make sure that they do actually
provide what they say that they're going
to provide plan C is a group that does
that online and they have a report card
and they update the report card as
different pharmacies disappear and other
pharmacies pop up again it's still a
long waiting period and so I often tell
people that if they think that this
might be something that they will need
to do down the road it does not hurt to
purchase pills off of a vetted supplier
on the plan C report card
have that medication in case you need it
and if you do not somebody else might
need it and then you can get it to them
in a timely manner and you can purchase
another one yourself um I don't see any
reason why medication abortion should
not be treated in the same way as
emergency contraception in Canada now
they have decided that they no longer
need to have an ultrasound before a
person takes medication abortion um and
in the United States there is absolutely
no concern about medical risks other
than the fact that a person who might
have complications could feel insecure
about the idea of going in for follow-up
care um in which case they just need to
know that there is nothing that they
have taken that will show up in blood
work or urine work and that all they
need to say is I think I'm pregnant
I think I'm having a miscarriage and I'm
scared right and let's talk just a
little bit about I think the you know
the the general preference for clinics
and surgical procedures in the context
of abortion because that is I mean it
just seems culturally that is what we're
used to I mean and and and what is I
mean what do we do about that
yeah there is a lot of benefits to
having a vacuum aspiration rather than a
medication abortion for one thing it's a
lot easier it's a it's not it's not more
medically unsafe if that makes sense so
it's if done in the clinic it's very
safe it's quick and it's done and there
is a lot of there's a lot of mental
mental well-being to the fact of knowing
that you go into a clinic and you come
out and you're not pregnant whereas with
medication abortion you are involved in
in that abortion you it will take a
while it will be lots of blood it will
be a labor a miscarriage so yes there is
a huge advantage for a lot of people in
being able to access a clinic and be
able to get a safe vacuum aspiration
abortion and also medication abortion
does not work as well when a person is
in the second trimester
so that's another
advantage we need to work as hard as
possible to keep our clinics open and
one of the things that we're seeing
right now that is actually really making
me feel a lot better than I if you would
talk to me six months ago are things
like Kansas the state of Kansas just
reaffirmed that a state constitution
says there is a right to an abortion so
as long as the state is not capable of
amending in their constitution Kansas
will have abortion regardless of what
happens
federally the same rights as long as
that is not amended Iowa will have the
right to an abortion we're seeing more
states that we did not expect to keep a
right to an abortion find that their
state constitutions have it is there a
is there a provision or I guess I mean
is there I wonder about the concept of
clinics that are designed specifically
to receive women who have begun a
medically induced abortion so that was
actually something that we saw happen
quite a bit in Texas when the clinic's
had all closed especially when the
clinics in the Rio Grande Valley had
closed El Paso ended up with a clinic
that was open solely for people who had
begun who were experiencing any sort of
miscarriage issue and one of the things
that I want to make really clear is the
fact that if a person is having a
miscarriage they do not have to go into
a hospital an abortion clinic can help
them as well and can probably do it much
more cheaply it's just it's not
something that people who are pregnant
with wanted pregnancies tend to think
about so um what would happen is that
yes people who were trying to induce on
their own would begin to bleed would get
concerned and would go into this clinic
in El Paso and they were able to finish
it up with a vacuum aspiration that's a
thing that could work and really should
be in existence especially if we hit a
post pro era one of the issues is that
this is also going to be something that
is gonna be highly highly scrutinized
because the right has already looked at
this idea of miscarriage management as
be
in a way of just hiding abortions and
they're already looking at statistics of
clinics that have and have announced
that they have done miscarriage
management and saying oh well we don't
believe that was actually a miscarriage
that was obviously just an abortion that
was being done in secret and so when
people hear about various states and
we've heard this over the years of state
legislators trying to pass laws about
you know the police you need to file a
report when you have a miscarriage or
something to that effect with the police
this is a way of intimidating women from
exercising this option particularly of a
medically induced abortion all right
well so let me ask you this so two
things one is assuming that there is a
either an effective or a total
overturning of roe v wade what is the do
you have a sense of the legal strategy
we may be decades away before that legal
strategy can be in play at least on the
Supreme Court level but to the extent
that there is one or there is
possibility is there a legal strategy to
come back after that a and B what about
the symbolic implications of I mean roe
v wade made a material and practical
difference in in women's lives but it
also was a statement that women have
rights over you know sovereignty over
their own body that it also opened up a
whole understanding that reproductive
rights was also economic rights what
what supplants that so to go to your
first question what we would see
happening when roe is overturned is
probably a state-by-state level of
counter to try and get state
constitutions to once more include the
right to an abortion what we do need to
think about though is Roe being
overturned is not an end game for the
rights what they want is a amendment
the Constitution a personhood amendment
to the Federal Constitution so that
abortion is completely illegal all
across the country and once that happens
and that would be addressed in the same
way that we just saw in Ireland where
they overturned the Eighth Amendment and
then made abortion legal in the country
and made a right to an abortion legal
all throughout the entire country so the
right only well let me rephrase part of
the right is only just getting started
when it comes to the idea of a returning
roe v wade because what they really want
to do is make sure that there is a
complete and utter federal ban on
abortion all over the country the thing
is the I would say that the
anti-abortion extremists want this but
the Republicans in general do not and
they do not want this because abortion
is the easiest way for them to pick up
votes in an election um abortion is the
reason why Trump is president right now
an abortion quite frankly will be the
only reason that he can get reelected if
it happens and they don't want to give
up something so easy they have so many
people especially the people who call
themselves pro-life democrats who will
go out and vote against absolutely every
progressive value that they believe in
just as long as they believe that they
are saving babies the right doesn't want
to get rid of that they don't want to
lose that low-hanging fruit so in my
opinion there's never gonna be a federal
a federal law that makes abortion
completely illegal okay and and in the
second part the the sort of the symbolic
nature of a federal understanding and
national understanding that a woman has
sovereignty over her own body
I mean inherently that's what the Equal
Rights Amendment is and that's something
that we still need to push and make
happen and that's something that they're
fighting for in Congress right now and
that's why the same people who are
opposing it right now are they changed
their language as to why they oppose it
but in general it's the religious right
and they do not like the ER a because it
it interferes with their belief that
traditional family values means that
there is a man who works in a woman who
stays home and takes care of the show
and that's how God intended his family
to be the book is handbook for a post ro
America Rob and Marty thanks for talking
to us about it we will put a link at
majority dot F M this is I mean and you
predict I think that this is going to
happen in 2021 after the election really
and it it really isn't implicated by the
election at this point there's five
votes there you know at least there
could be you know there could be six
theoretically and one of those five
could be even a younger more
conservative maybe than then even
Clarence Thomas so this is there's a
certain inevitability to about this then
and really important to address I
appreciate your time today thanks so
much for having me on
all right folks we're gonna take quick
break head into the fun half of the
program no no it's gonna be that much
funner we will have some we hear from
some senators in anticipation of them
talking to bill bar in this committee
hearing the earlier we saw Sheldon
Whitehouse with bill bar and and White
House was it was a little flummoxed
because he couldn't believe how evasive
Bell Barr was being it was one of those
moments like you realize you're on TV
right I mean people can see this but
they also know I mean the we're living
in a very it is a very very difficult
time to try and leverage reasonableness
to leverage shame I mean the the
Republican strategy increasingly over
the years has been if we are shameless
we're unstoppable and it seems to be
fair
really effective we will look into that
we'll talk a little bit about the
implosion of Steven Moore this is the
this is he's going out with a bang this
is unbelievable it really is this guy
and I mean again you know we assume that
the Republican Party is going to be like
no and it's the the interesting thing is
it's not going to be because of all the
reasons why we think it's he's atrocious
it's not gonna be because of like he
thinks that women really should not be a
part of the job market or that black
people or that he's like you know enjoys
telling racist jokes in public that's
gonna be the pretense for the
Republicans who are just like the guy
who's completely unqualified and the
feds a little bit important to our very
wealthy donors but we will get to that
in a bit just a reminder you can support
this show by becoming a member by going
to join the majority report calm when
you do not only are you supporting the
free show and not only are you getting
extra content every day but it's
commercial free now a lot of people come
and they complain to me Sam I don't get
a chance to hear your commercial reads
anymore
or I don't get a deal I want a deal I
want what did we do today
I want my pocket hockey Kibaki oh I'll
be back II will be or I want the
that's actually a great concept what's
that some type of like online based New
Hampshire store that's right well
the or I want the the discount from
berries calm with the coupon code cedar
because it's Mother's Day or I you know
I want to use Post mates and get a
hundred dollars free of credit and by
using the code report and while you're
at it Sam why do you always use
different codes why don't you just have
one code majority report but that's not
the way it works I don't get to choose I
don't know why it's simple way too
simple but you can always once you
become a member and you don't have to
hear the ads and you get you news much
quicker you can always go to the show
descriptions and we keep that in both
the members post right and the and the
public post so you can always check it
out there so you get you get extra
content you get a commercial free and
you're supporting the show and you're
you're like on the inside you can't
really tell but it's a feeling that's
inside of you also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off get
the mr blend you'll enjoy it
last night was Tuesday night Michael my
understanding is you had a show it was
an excellent great show and a fantastic
time dr. maté that al-hasan joined me
and we talked about Malcolm X and linked
that to the uprisings in Sudan and
Algeria happening today then Ana
Kasparian stopped by the studio first
time in the studio here and why was she
impressed with the studio she actually
was yes should be I was remember the
North Shore Boulevard set they had
vessel she said it reminds her of that
right yes yes and of course we made fun
of Dave Rubin we had a new Dave root we
we want this is the most YouTube thing
ever we want we had Anna's reaction to
Dave's reaction to her reaction to him
right that was fun and then we had a
whole bunch of other stuff to cover
Biden Budaj edge we played some of this
new Lula interview in the post game new
character actually very much in the in a
Jaime asphere tanki Bill Maher calling
for like this guy one Guido this PIPA is
Bill Maher still around yes what's what
made it funny
I'm anyway these people who think they
can wage a coup we had a lot of fun
patreon.com slash t MBS michael brooks
show on youtube we also
before we did a special you know not
typically but at 6:00 p.m. we did a live
stream with Nando Vela to break down the
Spanish election results because there
was some pretty significant signals
coming out of Spain Jaime this week on
the anti Fattah I forgot to promote this
yesterday because it came out over the
break but it's very good and I hope
everybody listens to it we spoke with
our good friend Natasha Lennard about
her new book being numerous essays on
anti-fascist life so if you've never
listened to the anti Fatih before and
you think that it's only about an taifa
this episode will not prove you wrong we
also released a bonus with Tosh later in
the week where we talk about electoral
ISM the DSA and why even grumpy ultra
leftists like us are not too cool to
vote for Bernie Sanders so uh yeah let's
check that out
patreon.com slash the anti Fattah Oh
also this week we just released the
first episode of a new podcast
side-project on the paranormal UFOs and
space hosted by our producer a P and E
where we talk about why I wasn't on it
but Andi talked about some cool space
news and he had on guest Stephanie mona
han to talk about ufos and belief in
conspiracy theories from a Marxist
perspective it's like coast to coast oh
wow yo communist art bell would be an
amazing show
I would absolutely listen a communist
art bell the way I listen to real art
Bell kind of freaked me out though but
after our pellet was what's his face I
thought it was art bells son no that's
another guy can't remember his name now
that's it alright get literary hangover
is lots of ideas lots of ideas that's
good while I'm still recovering from the
latest idea episode of literary hangover
with Matt neck all right folks quick
break fun half six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty see you there
65 seven thirty nine twenty see
[Music]
[Music]
just want to we bring back the gpna yeah
or a couple of you put them in
reputation DS you did well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males are like
Oh
on the back
back
[Music]
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
now the birthday to meet you boy I have
a talking Spanish to foil and the alpha
males of alpha males
[Music]
somebody needs to pay the price request
me around here I am a total
[Music]
we are back there god dammit
Brendan's on the boards today and doing
a great job doing a great job fun half
is a little more cash so folks you know
a lot of people said you know at least
Stephen Moore sitting on the Fed a
completely unqualified self professed
high steep learning curve type of guy
and it comes to the Fed monetary policy
yeah you say you say is that I'd I'm
gonna love it I got a lot to learn and a
lot to learn this is a guy who's jumped
from job to job I mean this is a really
this is just one of those guys you're
like what do you really need to know
though to just like set monetary policy
to benefit oligarchs and corporations I
mean there is some technical knowledge
at the very least you want to come off
like you know what you're talking about
he can't even pretend to food to do that
so here he is he has walked into the
Lions Den ladies and gentlemen when you
are in the late stages of a campaign and
in this case Stephen Moore is on his own
personal campaign to get on the fed when
you need to shore up your base in the
late stages of a campaign that is an
indication that you're going to lose
badly because by the late stages of a
campaign you're reaching out so at this
point Stephen Moore should be going on
Democracy Now to make his case to those
on the left why you'd be good for
instead he's on firing line with
Margaret Hoover if you've got a cell
Margaret Hoover at this stage you know
you've got a problem here he is saying
he may have something to apologize for
in the context of a joke that maybe some
people misinterpreted as being somewhat
racy or
just another statement that keeps coming
to light as a joke he made about the
Obamas just after the election here I'll
say it by the way did you see that
there's that great cartoon going along
that New York Times headline first thing
Donald Trump does as president is kicks
kick a black family out of public
housing and it has Obama leaving the
White House I mean I just love that one
just a great way so you know a joke I
always made about you know Obama lives
and you know the president lives in
public housing but I didn't mean it like
a black person did I just meant that you
know you know being in the White House
you know for example when I was working
with a lot of women and families were
involved in the education about your
program you know we're here in DC and
people would say well you know and these
were these were blacks who would say you
know why does Barack Obama get this on
his kids study school that he wants to
weaken and they say he lives in public
housing and it was just kind of a joke
and that was really the opportunities
especially in this moment yeah I
shouldn't have said it again he could
find you go back 30 years you're gonna
be able to find clips over and over and
over again about me I have a long paper
trail I mean there's no question about
it and I was pausing I would just remind
people that that was actually not on
paper that was actually just he said it
at a on like a stage actually in front
of a podium yeah and it wasn't actually
you didn't have to go back 30 years I
can only imagine what Steven Moore was
saying about black people 30 years ago
this was all the way back in 2016 when
my son who's six could dye his shoes he
probably doesn't even understand that
that joke is at Trump's expense right
like he's saying it in a racist way to
be racist but like actually it's bad to
kick families out of pol III literally I
know okay nice even more I know the
origin of that joke years ago there was
a Trump roast
Comedy Central these do that you know
broadcast these roasts and and Trump was
totally fine and everybody did the same
like he's got so many wives in his hair
and he's just like uh you know what good
rest and then Snoop Dogg came out and
this was in 2011 so it was you know it's
disgusting this was happening to begin
with but Snoop Dogg said why shouldn't
he run for president wouldn't be the
first time he kicked a black family out
of their homes right that was the joke
and Trump did not like that continue so
I shouldn't have said it again you can
find you go back 30 years you're gonna
be able to find clips over and over and
over again about me I have a long paper
trail I mean there's no question about
it and I've I say things that are kind
of jokes that people if people want to
pick them apart then I probably won't
you know get on the Federal Reserve
Board I think that might be the case
actually I suspect that part of the
reason why you're there on firing line
is to prevent that from happening
actually a little bit unfortunate but
luck folks
you know I've made the the case many
times in the past that that racists and
misogynist don't see themselves in two
separate categories they go like I'm a
double threat I'm racist and misogynist
they just go I just don't like people
who aren't white guys and and so let's
check in a little bit later in that
interview maybe it was a little bit
earlier with Margaret Hoover where
Stephen was explaining you know some of
the things he said that maybe maybe
misinterpreted in some way about women
should be a statute of limitations on
saying stupid things and I've said some
pretty stupid I love the fact I love the
fact that she says they're not it's true
it's true you have said some stupid
things let's play this one we have
queued up for you right now it's not a
good thing that black women are making
more than black men today
in fact you know the male needs to be
the the
winner of the family and one of the
reasons I said you've seen the decline
of the family not just in the black
community but also it's happening now in
the white community as well is because
women are more economically
self-sufficient so let me kind of
explain what I was saying like every
sentence out of this guy's mouth is so
precious when he's trying let me let me
try and explain what I said there
now this is to be fair this was all the
way back in 2000 I think he's gonna
probably use that as the defense because
you know back in 2000 things were so
back things were so different I remember
back in the the early aughts
we had the horse-drawn carriages you
know you God you got now in Brooklyn
it's like you get hit by a car if you
walk in the street well it used to be
you'd have to watch out for the horse
and buggies that were there in 2000
women are more economically
self-sufficient so let me kind of
explain what I was saying there and it
wasn't it wasn't said very freely and by
the way it was 20 years ago changed a
lot yeah did you catch that
he said well times have really changed
since the year 2000 I've got news for
you folks they haven't changed that much
I mean things have changed but I think
in 2000 pretty we were pretty much all
on board with the idea that women it's
okay for them to be economically
self-sufficient I mean well you know as
a society we're pretty much resigned to
the fact that we just can't keep him in
the kitchen anymore but then she comes
back with well you actually said that in
2014 when things were really had
progressed that was back that was back
almost when we had the internal
combustion engine believe one of the
biggest problems with American economy
today is what has happened with male
wages over the last 25 or 30 years
women's wages have gone up which is
great I'm for higher wages for everybody
the problem is black male and white male
wages have been falling and I do think
that's a problem for our society I think
most people agree that's a problem the
problem is that you've said that the
male needs to be though I shouldn't have
said that but what I am saying is you
know when you have male wages declining
like that they become less important in
terms of
breadwinner in the Econo in the family
and that can lead to family instability
we can't have societal suitability if
women are making more than no no no no
no I like the direction women's wages
have been going I mean women have made
great what I'm saying women's wages are
like that and males wages go back oh my
god are you thinking what I'm thinking
no I'm not sure what you're thinking
like that episode of Curb Your
Enthusiasm no I didn't know I don't know
what that means he's making a big vagina
with I was not thinking that I was just
thinking he's tiny just a gap you could
fit a baseball in he's literally saying
it's almost like saying like mark let me
try and do a physical representation of
what I am doing mentally and that is by
turning trying to twist myself into a
pretzel to make it sound like I didn't
actually say in 2014 that it's a problem
that women are the breadwinners in a
family when women are the breadwinners
the vaginas they get too big and then
the men feel small that's right because
they win all their bread wood there but
then the woman cares right in there okay
good like that and males wages are going
like that any I think that's a problem
mmm well Steven more if there's the
Herman Cain music yeah exactly
Herman Cain is sitting back going like I
knew it
excuse me all I had to do was wait and
also for what it's worth I mean Steven
Mora has just been on the like
right-wing propaganda welfare dull
Herman Cain is a successful businessman
well Herman Cain to be fair has also
been on the right wing property
absolutely do it everybody hey Steven
Moore never ran a successful Pizza
franchise that's true he didn't
I wonder there you know it
I wonder if this actually like it'll be
curious to see if Steven Moore if this
if this ends it for Steven Moore like if
everybody's like this dose of how
ridiculous this dude is dropped in one
moment Ben Carson's still in charge of
HUD right
no but pen Carson didn't you know yes
that's true but I think like Ben Carson
just takes you into another world when
he'd like that guy is trying to do what
he's supposed to do really badly ben
Carson would have just been like I did
say that and if you look at the pyramids
and then it would just be like all right
you know what fine you have a job all
right let's talk about this in the in
the coming days but new polling coming
out showing uh Joe Biden has been
unfazed by at least the criticism and
the criticism has been narrow right I
mean most democratic voters do not read
you know the New Republic or or current
affairs or or any really publication
most voters don't read a period and most
of them don't listen to this program and
so it's hard to know whether people are
still supporting Biden
despite their knowledge about things
like you know Jane Mayer wrote in The
New Yorker today reiterating that fact
that the reason why Anita Hill was hung
out to dry during those hearings is
because Joe Biden prevented three women
who would corroborate if not the
specific stories at least stories about
Clarence Thomas that's in The New Yorker
that's a little bit more a mainstream
there are issues with Joe Biden when it
comes to race when it comes to trade and
his you know the depth of his his union
commitment seems to be rhetorical at
best yet with all that his numbers are
going up and the data at least in
certain circles shows and certainly the
anok data shows that the reason why Joe
Biden
getting this support is articulated and
probably very appropriately so I mean I
have no problem with her but I mean I
think it's indicative by Alyssa Milano
on MSNBC with Ali Velshi and Stephanie
ruhle here it is this is not enough is
that a mistake
are they not focused on the overall
mission for all Democrats which is to
defeat Donald Trump earlier today
Michael Steele said Democrats have a
choice you want to be woke or you want
to win do Goosen I think it's a great
point I think look there's nobody in the
world that wants progressive policy to
be set in place more than I do but this
primary to me is not about policy it's
about beating Trump period that's it end
of story we need to nominate someone
that is going to beat Trump and bring
honesty and integrity and indignity and
truth back to the United States of
America empathy compassion all these
things that I want to teach my my
children growing up in this great
country we need someone that's going to
represent that to the best of their
ability and um and fight Trump and and
you know I can't it's not about who's
gonna make the best president it's
really about who's going to beat this
man is horrible horrible now I mean this
is a part of the problem with making it
all about Trump on some level as opposed
to the fact that he is the perfect
representation of Republicans but I will
say this there has not been in my
lifetime a candidate who has been picked
because that candidate can win who has
won they understand what I'm saying is
that the when you start when voters
start getting meta and trying to
anticipate who is the strongest
candidate to people who are not like me
it's always ends up being a failure well
there was also that good I mean you know
I know some people with some problems
with the methodology and there's a
there's always a balance between
accommodating where people are and then
trying to push where you want to go but
I think you know there was that really
important piece in The Times about the
just total disconnect between like
online sort of Twitter woke stuff and
where most normal voters are at and
that's real you can't get by that and
that's why I've said you know Joe Biden
is bad is tough for us to cover because
his appeal is not covered by any of our
quadrants I think even think some of the
other candidates that we don't like and
we don't support are more recognizable
in our worlds right I think Joe Biden
really isn't on both cultural and
obviously policy levels but I also agree
with you I mean I don't know if you're
leading up to this I don't think any
argument for any I mean look I think you
can make narrow arguments like I do
think Bernie would be quite effective in
the industrial Midwest I think
unfortunately Biden might be too so I'm
not gonna be resting any of my arguments
elected but I think it's totally if we
think it's probably a rebel is another
saying that somebody's coming at me
saying bernie is unelectable then I will
marshal the evidence is yes exactly
right but saying that someone appeals to
certain types of folks I think is
actually something that you can prove in
the moment right you can look at that
and and and it's also it's just founded
on a lot more than then then you know
sort of speculating who is going to beat
Trump in the context of a one-on-one
election I mean I think it's quite clear
why people like Joe Biden now versus why
they didn't like him in 2008 and in
whatever it was 88 when I ran it is
because he has the imprimatur of being
the vice president of a president who is
considered very popular of a president
who
is very much in contrast to Donald Trump
there's also a sense that people have
that a Hillary Clinton's loss proved and
I don't I don't know if I subscribe to
this but certainly Hillary Clinton's
loss or even had she won I think it
would you know by a narrow margin would
have exposed the intensity of sexism in
this country and it's the
comfortableness in which people have in
in their sexism versus their racism in
many respects I think and yet the fact
that there are people whose first choice
is Joe Biden and second choice is bado
or I'm sorry people who people have the
first choice of Bernie and a second
choice of like bado or anybody bought
Warren that proves that sexism is real
yeah and I also think I mean I I think
that I think that's part of it I think
it also yeah shows that like the the
sensibility in which people are if you
if you look at a candidates appeal on
various different planes that the plane
in which you're you may have you may
find Bernie appealing on the policy
level it's not necessarily the same
plane that somebody else would somebody
else could just see them as being
outside of the mainstream and someone
could see that as Beto
as being outside the mainstream to
politics our dumbest in this
country well do not always vote based on
policy that's chapter
I mean brand's identity policy also and
I think that that that is where you know
again like what well here's and here's
the other thing is that in June of 2016
my big fear was that if you get four
years of Trump and you're able to get
rid of four years of Trump you're going
to get exactly what we got after eight
years really twelve years of Reagan and
eight years of Bush and twelve years by
Ray
mean the the for the third term of who
of his was with HW Bush and eight years
of of of Bush which is a you know a safe
democratic pick now Obama was some weak
tea in terms of ideology in terms of
policy he was some weak tea particularly
coming after Bush and Joe Biden frankly
I think his politics worse than Hillary
Clinton's and so we are in you know
maybe there's an argument on foreign
policy it's a little bit better but III
mean I think think it's essentially it's
a wash and I think he's got a few I mean
he can he can point to Joe Biden just
cuz the leg this time lead the fight to
cut Social Security true in the in the
Obama White for us I don't think Hillary
Clinton would do that I think she's a to
know oh okay we see it did want to
privatize Social Security Bill Clinton
did and and and there were certainly
members of his his of his cabinet who
did but I'm also comparing Hillary
Clinton to Bill a to to Joe Biden
contemporarily yeah Joe Biden back
during the Clinton administration was
you know trying to project basically a
racist profile so I mean you know I'm
also I would compare them apples to
apples where they were on their
trajectories I think his politics are
just really bad and and and so I think
it's I mean I think he's he's super
problematic it's gonna be interesting to
see if over the course of a campaign
though he his he he doesn't he doesn't
do as well
I mean we're gonna see but what's gonna
happen is if these polling numbers stay
up you're gonna see Harris you're gonna
see bad
you're gonna see Booker you're gonna see
all these people basically run either
for Vice President or for a cabinet
position or for you know a higher
profile in the Senate and it's gonna
very quickly be a question of Biden
versus Bernie and Warren I think is I
think that's very possible and I I just
yeah and I obviously I hope that if the
dynamic holds as it is now deep into the
election then Warren will back Bernie I
think that is gonna be the choice for me
and he should make her his running mate
you're also presuming though that Warren
doesn't pick up more from those people
who fade I would and I'm definitely
presuming that I don't I mean I respect
and like Warren but I don't see it I
think Bernie if you want she's moving up
in the polls if you want a progressive
candidate it's Bernie's but do you think
the people who are supporting Beto and
Kamala and Booker are doing that because
they want a progressive candidate or do
you think that they want I think that
someone I knew yeah novel is most likely
to frankly I mean I think that probably
Biden frankly I think that pool if your
first choice is in that pool unless
maybe Beto
maybe Beto and maybe Buddha Jets are
swimming in different waters that
involve Sanders and there are I think
Paris and Booker R Biden there are
people I just want a woman and it's
gonna jump to her if Camilla is out of
the race where it's all hypothetical I
think I think I'm just you know look
Bernie to is clearly the progressive
frontrunner and I think it's important I
mean you know I just hope that if that
dynamic holds people call us if there's
a major earth satellite say the things
the other way it's just that's not what
it is right now one more thing about
electability sure because okay if there
were strong evidence that one candidate
was much much much more likely to beat
Trump than the other candidates
I'd have to seriously take a look at
that but as of now there's not but if
you want to look ahead to the Future to
the electability in the future I think
there's an argument too
made that another crappy neoliberal
centrist with politics from the Clinton
era that have not changed would lead to
an even more reactionary Republican
winning four years from now so that's
what I would say to those people who are
so concerned about Trump right that's
the actual argument I've been saying
like what about 2022
what about 2024 this dynamic isn't going
anywhere and even if it is I mean god it
doesn't even need to be worse than Trump
could just be another Republican
dominate it's like like look at what's
happening in France I mean I know it's
not totally analogous but people hate
they hate McCrone and that makes a lepen
victory that much more likely next time
around well I mean we I mean I think
there that's that's a I I'm partial to
that argument I mean I think but I think
that's I think you know that's a
second-order argument that you know
you're not going to sway Alyssa Milano
with that argument let's put it that way
that's a shame clearly a very
influential political mind it is it is a
shame I mean I think I think basically
what's going you know we're good what's
gonna have to happen for those of us who
don't want Joe Biden to be the nominee
is he's got to get on the campaign I
mean right now they started out with a
very clear agenda to make him seem like
the the the Bigfoot in this and the the
odd thing is I think Bernie is perceived
as the second most electable in the in
the race it is also I mean to some
extent it is a shame just broadly
speaking that we can't be talking about
you know 250 year old women frankly in
the context of what I think this country
really needs more but we don't have 250
year old women who are you know have the
politics and the stature at this point
that I would like to see but it's gonna
be interesting it's going to be
interesting to see if Biden can maintain
that and how the real question is if
that's the calculus how does how does
Bernie make that argument or any of the
other candidates how do they make the
argument that they are more electable in
2020 than Joe Biden and I mean I think
really what it's going to take is that
they got to win the couple of the
primaries I mean it's going to be
organizing and so if you are in any way
distraught by this money's going to be
important obviously to support your
candidate but also getting out and
organizing because I think at the end of
the day that is going to be the the big
driver yeah and don't forget to register
to vote in the primaries by the way most
of time I just I just came across this
yesterday the deadline for New York to
vote in the Democratic primary is crazy
soon your registration has to be
postmarked by May 31st I believe if you
want to vote in the Democratic primary
you need to be a Democrat a lot of
people don't know that
a lot of states don't have open
primaries so definitely check on that
for your state and make sure you get
that in yeah get on that we got a remind
we got to remember to talk about that at
the beginning of the show tomorrow can
find that for your state on head count
org head count dad or backslash
deadlines - dates this is this is always
fun you never seen those before and
after things where somebody lose a lot
of weight well this is one that just
shows exposes a tremendous lack of
integrity
not so much weight here is Mick Mulvaney
with Maria Bartiromo and he is at the
Michael Milken Institute you guys know
Michael Milken is go to jail like yeah
for junk bonds yeah
well now he set up an institute that to
do damage on society in a different way
and that is to give Mick Mulvaney and
Maria brought Teramo a platform to
discuss anything and here's Mick
Mulvaney explaining how about why it's
important to have a deficit spending on
the infrastructure bill and talking
about how you know deficits Memphis it's
this is remember this is a freedom
caucus guy Venusian up cos move she has
to finance the damn thing I worry about
exogenous shocks to the system where if
something happens specifically or
particularly overseas that that that
caused some type of crisis typically we
be able to fall back on our borrowing
ability to sort of get us through that I
don't know if you can do that when
you're twenty two trillion dollars in
debt at the same time I'll be the first
to admit that I've been complaining
about the debt since I ran in 2009 it
doesn't seem to be holding us back from
an economic standpoint yet I don't know
if things are different when you're the
reserve currency I think you're an
unchartered waters I think it's always
probably safer to have less debt than
more but I don't think debt is really
driving the conversation about
infrastructure yeah let's just go back
it wasn't just 2009 2011 where this guy
was basically saying the world is going
to blow up because of our debt and our
deficit it's will not like it if the
country were to go forward with a
Republican Study Committee proposal for
such what they call drastic cuts there's
a lot of good concepts there you read it
through very quickly but he talks about
the debt to GDP ratio the deficit to GDP
ratio a lot a lot of important concepts
I I disagree with this concept that we
can't afford to do it right now in fact
we can't afford to wait we've talked
about the the level of deficits we
talked about the exposure that the
country has grete to to interest rate
shocks for example were 14 trillion
dollars in debt last year we spent about
two hundred and fifty billion dollars in
interest payments relatively small
portion of our budget last year that's
because we were only paying about two
percent interest on the money that we
had borrowed
the historical average on that debt on
our interest carries about 6% so we take
that number to 6% we get to an average
in the next year or two and you're
talking about interest payments alone
that could approach a trillion dollars
there he is he's very concerned about
debt at that point and of course the the
real point of this is there were plenty
of people saying in 2011 and in 2010 and
in 22 2009 2012 that deficits
particularly then and our debt
particularly then but also in general
but particularly then were not an issue
of concern at all I know there were
voices out there authoritative voices
because I was saying that and I only
knew that because I was reading them and
so the the failure here is not that Mick
Mulvaney is full of crap the failure is
is that the the media would just harp on
these things and would allow us as a
country to to believe it to the point
where you had Barack Obama saying I'm
not gonna argue about the the deficit
hawk or I'm just going to impose
austerity and granted it wasn't as much
austerity as they got in Europe which is
why that we're doing better than they
were doing in Europe but still that's
700 trillion dollar or 700 billion
dollar 770 I guess it was billion dollar
stimulus two-thirds of it was tax cuts
there was just not enough money spent
and many of our problems I think are a
function of that but it was a failure of
the media at the end of the day I mean
just totally a failure of the media
certainly it was knowable because
I know it was noble because I knew it
and I did IIIi did not come up with that
conclusion myself was just a function of
a lot of legitimate voices with
legitimate arguments let's go to the
phones come from a 602 area code who's
this where you come from
hey this is a Kenny from Phoenix Kenny
from Phoenix what is on your mind I just
kind of wanted to get today the spots on
what you guys think about reparations I
know that Michael supports them I'm just
wondering how you guys think would be
the best way to go about like on them
how would that be divvied out to people
that aren't necessarily of plays descent
like Jamaican descent or people that are
biracial how would that go for them i
mean i i i i don't have a fully formed
opinion as to the structure of that but
i suspect what you would do is like
maybe you would create some type of
dynamic where the number of generations
you've been in the country or that your
family you know you can trace back in
your country and if not it's like one of
those things like oh you lost your
ticket on the toll okay we're gonna give
you we're going to pick some number in
the middle and that's what the deferral
would be i mean i that's probably the
way that i would approach it because you
know the the implicit I mean slavery
alone did not just implicate the
ancestors or you know or the slaves and
their descendants it also implicated the
structure of our society and to the
detriment of of of people of color in in
our society black people and and so I
don't I do think that you could and I
think you know the idea of creating it
based upon how many
generations maybe your family has been
here seems to me to at least measure how
much you you've been held back over the
course that time right because you know
the real problem that we have is enter
is the passage of intergenerational
wealth in this country and there have
been not just slavery but I mean I would
argue that you know the reason why we we
saw government taking action to deny
black people wealth you know as late as
the 40s and the 50s was a you know many
respects a function of the legacy of
slavery and so minoo if you if your your
family's been in here the this country
for three four generations five
generations six generations like I think
you you could tie it to that would be a
fairly fair way of doing it I don't know
what the mechanism of you know would we
send a check would it be in the form of
bonds would it be a form of low cost
loans I don't know I would I think
professor Dougherty I don't have it in
front of me but he had some interesting
ideas about how to actually do it in the
piece I I also kind of like I talked
with Marisa Barrera darn about this and
she sort of just I don't know she just
sort of convinced me on a level of just
kind of initiating a process that would
both end up I mean if it isn't material
like actual transfers it wouldn't be
reparations so that absolutely has to be
part of it somehow and there is a lot of
problems and how you implement it but
she also convinced me on a kind of like
South African Truth and Reconciliation
Commission kind of level there's
something about actually being real
about our history and having that being
seriously sort of like publicly
discussed and documents in a way which i
think is really valuable there there is
very little agreement on the left right
now on what kind of what reparations
should look like and if it's a good idea
politically right now and I haven't come
down with a strong opinion either way
but I have been a little concerned about
a privilege improve their family history
over people who can't and be like any
time the government creates some
essentializing definition of race that
that seems like dicey territory however
you know the harms were done based on a
essentializing definition of race
enforced by the government so it seems
like it might be kind of unfair now to
be like oh but we don't do that anymore
I think for leftists the question is how
to balance reparations race targeted
reparations with universal programs
because we need to do both of those
things there are folks like Adolph Reid
who believe that Universal programs
would achieve the same things that
reparations are trying to achieve in
terms of lifting people up economically
because black people in particular are
disproportionately disadvantaged in this
country but yeah if you implement it
even a super basic Sanders style program
it would be the largest wealth transfer
along racial lines in American history
so anybody who uses it I mean on the
other hand you know mainstream Democrats
and people like David Brooks who are
using this rhetoric to undermine Sanders
that's totally cynical oh nice to be
destroyed and rejected Bill Fletcher jr.
and Adolph Reed had a debate about this
I think they actually published a book
together which I'm going to look at
interesting yeah I mean I'm I mean I'm
open to the arguments and certainly to
having the conversation and yeah on what
I said and yet it's all about ideas
Breanna joy gray published a pretty good
thing and intercept recently about how
reparations have to be more than a
symbol or a cudgel against certain
candidates definitely let's go to the
phone's gone from an eight one eight
area code who's this where you calling
from
from Jamaica Dave from Jamaica Thurman
yes what's happening Dave yeah all right
I was going to ask about in the case I
think people are saying we should really
panic about these schools just yet like
give them a week or two see they're
stabilized but that's sad
we do know not everybody does most
people were why I don't vote on policy
it's more of a cap it's kinda like a
personal connection with Wilbur they're
voting for so what you think Bernie can
do or is doing that can chip away at by
the time of the bleep it will include
himself I mean I think that I I mean I I
tend to believe that that's the case too
I mean I don't think this is straight
just personal attributes because the the
the the sort of the cross the cross tabs
of some of the polls that I've read
suggest that people don't even
necessarily think he would be a great
president
they just think he can win and I don't
and and I'm sure there's also support
out there that is just like I like him
he's good you know he's a he's a guy's
guy
I think Sanders has to continue to do
what he's doing and and I think and and
and then and and the hope that Biden
makes some missteps I think organizing I
mean at the end of the day it's like
it's it's all well and good in terms of
polling but if you can bring out they
put this way
the day after every election there's
always a race or two where it's like the
Challenger one of the candidates had a
number that they had to hit in terms of
votes that they anticipated would get
them a win and they hit that number it's
just that they're the the person they
were running against one and it with an
even bigger number do you understand
what I'm saying like when candidates go
into a race they don't just say we've
got to get more votes than the other guy
they come up with a number based upon
what history has shown them in a
specific district if you get a hundred
and forty thousand votes you're gonna
win so instead of like going out that
you know figure out where you're gonna
get those hundred forty thousand votes
sometimes they get those 140 thousand
votes but it turns out like they're
there the person running against got 180
thousand which is just crazy so the idea
in my point is is that
there's only so much messaging that
bernie is going to do or that any other
candidates gonna do but particularly
Bernie I mean let's face it the guy's
been doing the same message more or less
for thirty years forty years he's not
going to get out there and all of a
sudden like there's a different pitch it
may it may appear different in the
context of a debate when Sanders and
when people start going at Joe Biden
like hey what you did to Anita Hill was
a real problem and you should own up to
that I mean there's a lot of people who
haven't seen critics critique of Biden
and so the debates I wouldn't start
panicking about polls until we see a
couple of debates but the you know so
you know we'll see I think but
organizing is going to be the thing
appreciate you calling them on trade a
lot yeah I think a TV I think it's great
I think that that actually really
resonates not just this policy and maybe
the bankruptcy stuff not as a bill but
if they can put ads together ironically
the ads that Newt Gingrich that Sheldon
Adelson funded to run against Mitt
Romney and Bain I know that's a simpler
case because that's literally his
company but if you could somehow show
like Joe Biden shepherded this through
or nice years of metal that's oh yeah I
am so happy to see her finally be
drawing blood on someone and it's Joe
Biden we'll see
appreciate the call Dave called from a 6
1 7 area code who's this where you come
from
hi do I exist
I mean that's very hard for me to answer
that I mean I don't know am i me you III
thinks I am me yes yes ok all right
everybody this is Rachel sang hi again
in Ukraine and Rachel mind a little
international no identity politics fun
great what's on your mind Rachel
okay su-mei or not it may or may not
have known I've been what waiting all
week for this since you guys took your
American school kids have to take their
vacation the week that everything goes
down here don't they yeah yeah yes I
mean it was totally for that reason
clearly so you probably know Ukraine
just this past week elected its first
official first Jewish president and I've
been seeing how social media worldwide
isn't are attempting to take it and not
I you know particularly Israeli and US
media
I did mention on Michael Shore last
night that for all this he is someone
with the background in comedy people are
like oh he's an entertainer like and it
was an outsider like Trump but it's
actually more like if you imagine Andy
Sandberg became president and that you
know his background in comedy of a not
explicitly political nature he got his
background in a post-soviet comedy TV
show called pivot in and which is in
there's way not just really that
different from someone with a background
in SNL okay
I guess I'd yes going into my part of in
a way I'm hoping having a secular Jewish
leader of a not small European country
will at least make well their estate
hankies think twice for a moment before
declaring Ukraine at total bastion of
anti-semitism oh and completely overrun
by neo-nazis I get that fun thing on
Twitter I mean how how much do you think
the electorate is aware of his
Jewishness I'm getting it is he is very
it's very secular it's in a lot of ways
of the Soviet Union and the post-soviet
era of a non-practicing thing is that I
mean a lot of people who wanted to
practice in that time they left they
went to Israel to the States
Canada UK etc so people that are still
here in large part are not part of that
I mean that and I could say that
honestly the people who voted against
him apart from just a small minority of
essentially like crazy people
most people that voted for the incumbent
Petro poroshenko which was less up which
was still like a quarter of the country
maybe if more or less largely from what
I gathered kind of doing it out of their
own fear about worth breaking an
economic status quo that works for them
so really the social aspect is totally
second thought I mean for my part I'm
cautiously optimistic about GSP so he
does have his own issues regarding
potential corruption and I think a lot
will depend on how he responds to
potential conflicts of interest is there
a problem at the yuk-yuk lounge
let's ticket scalp but yeah you know
kind of on a bigger picture thing I am
sort of hoping that you know his as an
international figure maybe will help in
a way challenge the idea of you know
what it means to be a Jew by heritage
and the assumption that that
automatically means that you are
adherent to the you know Judaic religion
and a theological level and even in some
ways what mutations that might have for
you know for Bernie as this comes up
yeah I guess yeah I mean I I mean I
certainly going I'm not I'm not wholly
comfortable with the idea that you know
it's that like I don't feel like it's
incumbent upon Jews be they secular or
not secular or really any individual who
is a member of a group that is subject
to you know a bigotry to you know make
people feel comfortable with them
because they're not you know it's like
I'm culturally Jewish so I don't got the
bad stuff that you like like I don't do
the yeah you know the drinking of the
Christian blood that type of thing like
I I mean I'm just uncomfortable only on
High Holidays
I mean I'm uncomfortable with that that
construction a little bit to be honest
with you and you know like I'm one of
the good ones you don't have to good way
my whole point is that as a way of just
I feel the way that Netanyahu and his
party his rather extreme brand of what
it means to be Jewish that and what how
much that has kind of taken over yeah I
don't like feel comfortable your
national public knows I'd appreciate a
you know having alternative I'd yield
right to push back on that and maybe and
how people interpret anti-semitism yeah
I don't feel comfortable with with with
Netanyahu's attributing his right-wing
fascistic policies with and as an
expression of his Judaism I don't think
that's what that is I mean that's what
that's that's I'm saying it's like I
don't I don't think Bibi Netanyahu is
like he is because he's a Jew I don't
think he's like he is and despite the
fact that he's a Jew I just think that
like there are a holes everywhere and
they come in all different flavors and I
don't really kind of other way around it
that narrative though and which is
really detrimental to you know I would
say everybody to kind of to be put into
a box that way right I appreciate the
call Rachel thank you okay there we go
come from a seven six zero area code
who's this where you come from hey there
this is Kentucky Fried comrade from
California Kentucky Fried comrade from
California what's on your mind
first of all just wanted to say really
had a blast at the TMDs live show in Los
Angeles last weekend really just
fantastic time got to meet a lot of good
people and all people within the mrt MBS
an auntie for the universe really great
glad to hear that awesome uh on top of
that I want to thank Michael and also
shout out again there's a really
interesting opportunity in California
right now there's a bill it's being
drafted it doesn't currently exist yet
it's being drafted but David day and
that tweeted out a good article from the
prospect about it there's an opportunity
to end childhood poverty in California
and Gavin Newsom wants to sign this bill
he doesn't really care what's in it and
so basically progressives are fighting
to get whatever they possibly can in
this bill there's a really easy website
I'll describe it really quickly it's end
child poverty CA org end child poverty
CA org go there you can sign up message
representatives find out who to talk to
it's super great and also shout out to
the California Poor People's Campaign
because they're really the backbone of
this and child poverty CA org yeah thank
you very much all right thanks man
thanks have a great day everyone
they're really important in it I looked
into it a little bit while I was out
there it's a super important initiative
very doable - well in fact we could end
we could end poverty in this country for
you know a couple years worth of the the
defense budget
if we were so inclined but of course
we're not because we need to have a
strong military to fight back on the
threat of places like Venezuela which I
know that people are on edge because of
the threat that Venezuela poses to us as
a nation
it was palpable today on the on the
subway the threat of a good example and
we also know that we you know if there
is a Venezuelan Cuban access that is
formed maybe you know who knows they
could in some way you know I guess
disturb the equilibrium with our beach
with their tourism in some fashion if
their beaches become too too attractive
I mean who knows but here's Mike Pompeo
saying that there is a problem with
Cubans intervening in Venezuela wow
that's that's absolutely right on all
three counts it is the case that central
to Maduro security has been the Cuban
kleptocracy they've cut a deal with the
Venezuelans for tens of thousands of
cheap barrels of oil every day they
provided security for Maduro it's it's
frankly if you're a Venezuelan military
leader it's a bit embarrassing to have
to hand over your senior leader to the
Cubans and say you take care of him what
we've done is we've raised the cost for
Cuba we've begun began that several
weeks back we put on increased pressure
on Cuba there's more to follow you've
seen what the president is it's just
communicated we're gonna raise the cost
if Cuba wants to continue this Millian
activity and want to continue the
destruction of Venezuela that's going to
come in at an enormous cost to the Cuban
leadership how many of those Venezuelan
generals that Mike Pompeo dreams will
turn on Maduro and Maduro and sign up
with Guido how many of them are going
like Oh Mike Pompeo really hit me where
it hurts I'm feel embarrassed he's right
I feel embarrassed about the
that we're working with the Cubans
working with our historical a lie that
we rightfully collaborated with for
decades right how how humiliating how
I'd a foreign power to resist the
Yankees with a government that survived
since the early 60s despite multiple
assassination coup attempts embarrassing
so embarrassing I I I'm going in to
resign my commission right now and sign
up for and I love the idea like look to
be talking about and this is not a
defense of Maduro or anything but just
the idea that we are talking about like
how how horrific it is that this
kleptocracy using their their national
resources to get aid or help from
another country I mean I was being
facetious when I said people on the
subway we're worried about the
Venezuelan threat the reason why we care
about Venezuela is because of their oil
it is our kleptocracy that is just
pissed that someone else's kleptocracy
is getting a hold of this stuff and a
little bit of a good example if
socialism works in a country you know
people might get ideas over here yeah
I'm not sure that under Maduro things
are working out that well that it's a
such a great example I think what is
more concerned is just like our mafia
essentially wants what somebody else has
and we're just moving in they took our
turf we're taking the turf back that is
basically what's going on here and the
idea that we would get involved in this
it's just like you know far-right
politics in Florida that's another
dimension that you always have to attend
to with this stuff it's filled
extremists X Isles from all of these
countries including places you know I
have to bring Brazil into this Lula has
not only did not adopt a path of
militancy
he literally submitted himself to prison
I mean as he said in his interview last
week he's like look a lot of people saw
this coming
I have a commitment to Brazil so I've
chosen this even though it's totally
unjust so I mean the other lesson if you
wanted to reconfigure it obviously this
means no difference to the gangsters
you're talking about but like you had
essentially one country with the
youngest social democratic party in the
world leading it
following democratic norms and usually
delivering for people the u.s. undermine
them and now they have a literal fascist
in charge and Venezuela which has
followed a much more confrontational and
maybe at times problematic path but
they're resilient part of the reason
they are resilient to is that for all of
the problems if you look at the
pro-government demonstrations they are
filled much more diverse faces and that
is another element of this and I think
that Venezuela would be doing a lot
better if they had a somewhat
sympathetic president of the US that was
not imposing sanctions on them like much
of the crisis has been externally
imposed Bush Obama and Trump even more
so I lift the sanctions and then we can
all see precisely where all of the
government of a stir or like social
democracy because it's not even really
socialist if it's such a disaster why do
we have to do so many things to make
sure that it fails along those lines of
doing so many things to make sure it
fails Pompeo was on with wolf blitzer
yesterday saying that Maduro would have
left now this is understand Mike Pompeo
is on there because he when he says like
the the generals Venezuela should be in
Paris because the Cubans are telling
them what to do what he's on TV saying
that they're you know that Maduro was
about to leave this stuff is like I mean
this is idea let me be I want to be
clear here
I don't want our government officials to
be good at promoting coos but it is a
little bit hilarious to see how bad they
are at this like this is if I have the
savvy
- go - no Mike Pompeo is lying and he
wants to make it seem like Maduro is
leaving the country which would that
knowledge would spur members of the
military to jump to Guido because they
don't want to be the last guy on the
Maduro team after Maduro has left the
country they want to go in early this is
you see this dynamic in any political
movement you see it in campaigns there's
a reason why unions you know if they
think one of the candidates is gonna win
they'll jump on that be a campaign early
because they're gonna give them more
influence in the conversation but it is
so transparent what
Pompeyo is doing here that like i mean
come on dude get go get your CIA guys
that you know at the new york times to
write an article about it or something
like don't be so ham-fisted as to get
out there and say it on wolf blitzer
they're gonna know you're saying it but
here he is trying it anyways elaborate
mr. secretary
and what you said earlier that he was
apparently ready to leave and i'll head
off to the airport Medoro but the
russians talked him out of that is that
right that's right
make sure you blame Russia for the
violence right now he was headed for
Havana we'll talk about that how do you
know I can't tell you if there's you see
this you see all the open source
material that's out there there's lots
of information we're talking to scores
and scores of people on the ground
civilians talking to folks in the
military we're talking to opposition
leaders many many conversations that
have given us every indication that the
the fact that Maduro splain was parked
on the tarmac and he was preparing
himself to depart as a fact so when we
go back I mean I got every indication
that it was a I mean it he's he's
fabricating this from whole cloth and it
is so naked like this is this is really
this is this is this is this is
minor-league the stuff that we're
watching this bush league folks Model UN
stuff honestly
and but here's the weird part not only
that okay so now the United States would
love it for Maduro theoretically to
leave right I mean that's their stated
position leave get out of the way let
Guido
assume the presidency and Pompeyo feels
like oh if he gets this rumor out there
that the Maduro is about to leave the
military will abandon him but then he
goes on to say this like he's just
they're not doing this well civilians
talking to folks in the military were
talking to opposition leaders many many
conversations that have given us every
indication that the the fact that Maduro
splain was parked on the tarmac and he
was preparing himself to depart as a
fact so you say you you want him to
leave the country you don't want him to
stay in the country even if he gives up
power is that what I'm hearing that's
right there there's there's no way
there's no way that Maduro can stay in
the country in a nation that he has so
right what what happened there was
another part after that where he had
said something but I'm so devastated I
think was well but there was another
line afterwards where he said something
to the effect oh the are you dude
that's not your country are you talking
to me or you don't know I wasn't talking
to you I was talking to Mike Pompeo
but there's more dramatic effect if I
say it is if I'm addressing him in the
room also like I mean if you get
pushback from Wolf Blitzer on any u.s.
foreign policy talking point that's
astonishing I think that's the first
time I've even seen Wolf Blitzer even
like raised an eyebrow so he goes on to
say well he was headed for a Havana and
I don't and maduro denies that by the
way well of course I mean of course you
know because in I mean he'd leave he'd
leave if he wanted to I mean I it's
still unfolding but I read last night
that a kowai doe said he had the support
of the whole military and then it turned
out to be like 70 people some of whom
were maybe tricked so
not the whole let's go to some IMS here
we got a little bit of time well take
one more phone call come from a seven
one six area code who's this where you
come from
hi this is amber from western New York
hello amber from western New York hi I'm
calling it's actually on the abortion
around that conversation so I
historically have been pro-life and my
plan is to vote for Sanders or war and I
love I would love if she's still there
and I'm just trying to figure out so
with my friends and it just on a broader
appeal level with the worry that the
subject of abortion will reelect from
like what space there is for appealing
to people who are more on the lean
pro-life I mean I remember a
conversation you guys had with someone a
couple weeks ago talking about how a lot
of black voters tend to be more
conservative in that element and
everything without asking people to
obviously on the pro-choice side to
compromise their position and I don't
know how much space there is argument I
mean how much space do you think there
is I mean I I my my sense is is that
that you know look there's been attempts
in the past in fact Hillary Clinton back
in 2004 somewhere around there 2003 was
attempting to soften Democratic rhetoric
and maybe position when it comes to
abortion rights and frankly I think it's
just one of those things that is that is
not that is just interactive art yeah
and yeah and I think look you I think
you're right
abortion if not directly certainly via
proxy with that open Supreme Court seat
brought in a lot of support Trump that
wouldn't otherwise be there the only
thing I can say at this point is that
maybe that can be mitigated by the fact
that it's 5-4 and it's gonna be five
four I mean you know maybe it changes if
Clarence Thomas gets hit by a bus three
weeks before the election but I mean but
aside from that I mean I think you know
largely this you know and obviously it's
gonna be played up but I just don't know
that there is something to neutralize
there III just I just don't know what I
don't know what you would say that would
be satisfying to someone who is you know
the a lot of the people you know will
say the the rhetoric that essentially
like you know no one likes abortions but
it should be or I personally am not in
favor of abortion and and I I don't use
that kind of rhetoric because you know
right nobody likes ya nobody likes
tonsillectomies either frankly but
they're important and they're helpful to
people and and so but if you know I
wouldn't I wouldn't know I'm mostly just
hoping that the broader moral appeals
that have to do with Trump and even like
other pro-life things and like you're
saying like lowering the number of
abortions and more progressive policies
that work towards that and then just
things like the putting kids in cages
and things like that will help overwhelm
that for some people the abortion issue
and be able to vote be able to vote
professedly based on that I have a few
thoughts on this so yeah so first of all
you could I mean I don't know if this is
gonna work on most people but you can
argue against the actual belief that
people have that abortion is murder
maybe some people will try and change
their minds most people probably won't
but I think the idea of skepticism of
certain religious beliefs is something
that the left has ceded too readily to
 like Sam Harris and we need to
take it back that's probably not gonna
work on most people but maybe also I
mean you can make the case that
abortions are going to happen
no matter what they're going to be diet
people who don't want to be pregnant
anymore the difference that the legality
makes is is it going to be safe or is it
going to be dangerous so you can argue
along those lines and I think frankly
the elements of miscarriage and the
scrutiny that can go to that can get to
a lot of people there's a lot of I mean
miscarriage happens to a lot of people
across the board and it's something that
I know a lot of people who if you're
more inclined to think of a fee is
having personhood then theoretically
maybe a miscarriage can have a different
kind of weight in your mind I know
that's personal and it has an issue
across the board anyways but I feel like
when I want to emphasize the friends
that like okay but you had a miscarriage
and if you then on top of that had to go
into like all of this scrutiny about
whether you actually were secretly
having an abortion and all of that well
let me ask you this were you ever a
voter who voted on that issue
exclusively yeah you were and what what
changed your mind
yeah well there's so part of the thing
is I'm not that old so I didn't have
that many elections to like dive be and
I I'm in New York and I was an
independent so I couldn't vote in any of
the primaries so a lot of those
elections I didn't have as much time to
like dive into those things and I
figured okay well this is but I just an
important issue to me so that was over
yeah I guess my point is this is that
like I don't think it's I don't think
it's really I mean the the only argument
that I think that is effective in terms
of like getting is is not arguing over
the issue of abortion I think that
people are just sort of like either
emotionally decide I think like you
could say are you willing to send
doctors and women to jail if they have
an abortion and because like that is the
only way to carry out your policy
otherwise otherwise you know that's the
decision that you have to make I mean
that's what separates this sort of like
I think but beyond that I think the only
other thing you can say is like
I I think the best argument frankly is
like look it's already the Supreme Court
is already 5-4 and and abortion rights
are going to be what abortion rights are
gonna be and they either get taken away
right well my point is is that I don't
know that someone who believes that
abortion should be illegal can be
dissuaded of that idea the the only
thing I think that can be done is that
they can be convinced that that doesn't
have to be your voting fulcrum that
doesn't have to be your litmus test
because that is already a foregone
conclusion now I I hope that it isn't
but we know the the person we had on
today basically said it's that's a done
deal roe v wade is done if not and and
so that's an effective argument it seems
to me the only effective argument at
least in in short to mid-term that you
could make to someone who is is that I'm
not going to try and change your mind
about abortion I'm just going to tell
you you don't need to vote that doesn't
have to be your single issue anymore
because you've already sort of won that
well another thing though that I think
is important to remember with a
candidate like Bernie Sanders is the
left takes a much more expansive view of
reproductive justice than you might hear
from traditional liberals so
reproductive justice doesn't only
include the right to have an abortion
but the right to have children if you
want to and adequately care for them
right and when people have that right
protected that will lead to fewer
abortions down the line
so that is just as important right I
don't know that frankly people care
about that because the number of
abortions in this country the number of
unwanted pregnancies pretty has gone
down and and in so I just know I mean I
just think in terms of advocacy like you
know people trying to come on and really
that's why I like my you know my
suggestion is just like don't try
changed their mind on the issue just try
and change their mind on wait what what
determines their vote what that makes
them vote yeah yeah appreciate the call
cool thank you yeah all right let's uh
folks we don't have any more time for
any calls apologies we will take these
IMS and then we will jet attorney Andrew
and Supreme Court News during the break
the court agreed to hear the argument in
two cases regarding whether trans
persons are protected under Title 7
which protects against discrimination in
employment most people don't know this
but well I would imagine most people I
don't know what they know about trans
but even for folks who are gay there are
some states in which you're protected
your employment and your housing is
protected but it's not federal law be
prepared for the usual plain meaning and
Texas folks to flip completely on how
statutes should be interpreted here
title seven prescribes discrimination
because of sex pretty clear that if you
discriminate against someone for
literally not conforming to their
biological sex you are discriminating
because of sex but you will come to
learn from the likes of Alito and gorsek
that the Congress persons who passed
Title 7 did not anticipate this
application and so trans persons
shouldn't be protected and the reason
why that type of reading is so
transparently flawed is that the
founders of this country also did not
anticipate like airline travel or owns
or cellphones well you know writing
they're like Union its own so the idea
that the idea that you know privacy
should not extend to the phones because
well they didn't didn't know what phones
were in that phones so so we predicted
it
dan wanted secret identity politics
every time I've spoken with someone
who's pro-life they abandoned the
question of whether or not the fetus is
viable or the idea of personhood when
pressed on policy or medical science or
the fact that nobody cared in this
country until the 1970s they pivot to
personal responsibility see this is the
thing about shaming and terrorizing it
is about I mean now I don't think this
caller is taller not the coal but but
the vast majority of people who are
going to vote because they're
anti-abortion it is so bound up in a
notion of women's role in society and in
the family that the abortion thing is
simply symptomatic of a notion that you
you know women should not have the
ability to go and have sex whenever they
want without consequence like that
dynamic the idea that you could have sex
without consequence if you're a woman is
so bound up in the idea that women
should be submissive and suppressed in
society that it's that formula that is
that is that issue here well it's not
always an either/or proposition - I
think it's a combination of religious
beliefs and patriarchy which can't
really be disentangled from each other
but there are plenty of good faith
people like our caller who just hold a
certain religious belief that it's
murder and it's really really hard to
change someone's mind I mean if I
believed it was murder
I would also vote with that as a very
top priority like it logically follows
and like we argue with people all the
time to try to change their opinions on
all sorts of different things I just
feel like this one shouldn't be off the
table for whatever it might do
I only know I know maybe I think one
person who fits this bill where they
have some you know pretty strong moral
objections to abortion but like they
vote democratic and left and they've
already like they're already way onboard
with the social insurance prevents
abortions argument and that's like where
they're coming from so I even wonder
like in the
case it really is shaped by a pretty
strong moral conviction and not like
feelings about women and they're already
flipped by that argument well that's
where folks like Elizabeth brunette come
in handy
she's a legend depressive regressive you
guys haven't mentioned my spiritual
leader marianne williamson
what a weird world deadbeat dad
I like Marianne Williamson deadbeat dad
ISM it's terrifying how little lots of
people care about policy and who they
vote for I've repeatedly explained to my
parents all of Biden's policy problems
and they agree with me and all the
arguments and then say but we're still
supporting Biden because we like him and
we've supported him in past primaries
and it would feel like betraying him
well they are in the minority just
statistically speaking if they supported
him in past prior primaries thank you
cheering all of like the 300 people in
Iowa
Michael we haven't heard from Kofi Kofi
Anan in a while what is thoughts on the
malla report Robert ba has lying the
whole thing is a cover-up for the deep
Russian state get Massa villa on again
Sam why do you not cover this more you
might as well be Michael Tracy yourself
do you think JJ cool do you think that
the president backed by the Senate the
Supreme Court the Republican Party the
corporate media billionaires would be
able to defend himself without
independent journalists like Michael
Tracy standing up for him
do I think he would be able to defend
himself without yeah I do
I don't think Michael Tracy makes the is
the determined cheeto and I think I
actually think that like that Michael
Tracy is just simply riding well I have
no idea
have you heard about the third mother
report it is hired it is hidden in the
Lincoln Memorial it will be at least
after the Iowa caucuses and then Donald
Trump will be arrested by a secret
tribunal father Louise Mitch on Twitter
a square Bill Mitchell thought that what
was going to happen is that the Muller
was going to come out and rest
Hilary Clinton exactly still in the
 wax a Sam
another great into a square Sam another
great interview yesterday and today but
what I appreciate of today's was most
was the analysis and strategy to fight
what is surely coming her point about
people with privilege including women no
longer need to get an abortion the
frontlines bears repeating I wish he
would have discussed some of the
intersectional issues involved for many
in the Religious Right this issue is
about white women not reproducing and
thus race space by a bear alec sites
walled this morning on the bill press
show furthered this ridiculous idea that
by does the only candidate talking about
trump Biden isn't talking about policy
that doesn't make fighting Trump is Lane
everyone is in that Lane Bernie is very
effective fighting Trump Warren is
focused on this how long is this
narrative going to stand before people
realize Biden doesn't have anything real
to offer well I mean I think there is
some indication I mean certainly Bernie
has been talking about Trump on the
stump and I think Michael mentioned this
like you know weeks ago that he was
talking about him more than even
anticipated he would be doing but I
don't think that like I think the
campaign probably should be cutting up a
list some short videos about this and
putting it out there to fight this
narrative there there is some
speculation that Warren's bump in the
polls and then once she's leading Bernie
and a couple she gained over the past
couple weeks is a function of her
talking about impeachment and certainly
a that you know this is not I don't
think this is Bernie's sweet spot which
is difficult but it is very much as much
as you know we don't hear people talk
about the resistance that much in the
media to the extent that they did six to
eight months ago certainly leading up to
the election it still exists in a very
big way and I and I'm not convinced that
that's not what we're seeing here yeah
and I don't think Biden has nothing to
offer I think he has something to offer
I just think that what he has to offer
is bad like it's the same failed
policies that contributed to Trump being
elected in the first place
and he's not going to solve any of those
problems yeah I mean III mean I think
what Biden is offering to people is is
basically they perceive him as being
able to beat Trump period he can yeah I
don't love that day we need to beat
Donald Trump stick our heads in the sand
simple return to normalcy simple go back
to brunch go back exactly I would if
Donald Trump was not president I would
be at joy but right now
chug toad dude ha awesome are we not the
only ones prophesying our questions with
do I exist because for Frank quite
frankly if we pay attention to the
things you that you all seem to it seems
as if we don't exist especially on
television or the mainstream media we
don't exist but we do I'm not sure I
totally get that but that really makes
you think mine
congressional baseball fan wanted to
come back to the discussion of US
imperialism a good and fun way we like
fun to study the history and lasting
effects of American imperialism is to
compare all the countries with
substantial baseball cultures any
country that's a baseball country has
had significant US intervention and
involvement in its recent past example
Mexico Cuba Japan Venezuela for starters
likewise with Britain and cricket
countries stay tuned for my forthcoming
book Empire of the run pyjama boy
preface to this I like both Bernie and
Warren for the primary but outside of
Medicare for all which Warren hasn't
been good on I am seeing much more
progressive policy coming from her am i
wrong can be convinced that she has more
in terms of progressive policy than
Bernie I feel like when Bernie speaks he
comes up as the most progressive but
somewhat light on substance I wouldn't
say he's light on substance but I would
say that Warren has been consistently
putting out new policy after policy now
on some level a function of this is that
the the you know the the party has
caught up to Bernie in some respects so
you know when he was saying free college
in 2016
a radical idea Elizabeth Warren comes
out says free college and debt
forgiveness when he's saying Medicare
for all you know some people are I mean
part of the reason why you don't have
Elizabeth Warren saying Medicare for all
I'm quite convinced is because Bernie
did drug program why would she yeah I
mean her production of generic drugs is
to the left of anything that Bernie has
season the means of production right
read uh Meghan Day has an interesting
you know look and she's like me she's
very Pro Bernie but she isn't but
respects Warren but she has an
interesting argument about this and
Jacobin that I'd recommend people check
out I I mean part of it is just timing
like she does make just the logistical
point before her broader argument that
Warren has assembled a kind of full
policy team first and you know people
they're gonna all wheel out more policy
ideas it's definitely been Warren's Lane
she's great on that but the
medicare-for-all thing is kind of
indicative of the difference in approach
between her and Bernie because she
thinks we can use any number of things
in a number of ways to get to universal
coverage and Bernie knows that we need a
structural reform that will effectively
expropriate a large sector of the
economy and there's no comparing the two
all right I got eight more of these and
then we're outta Winnipeg Craig happy
International Workers day from Canada
yes and happy Mayday folks iron from
Ontario shadow from the Ontario general
strike it hasn't even been a year in our
dip ship premier has pissed everyone off
it's except for his rich friends left is
best Jeremy into mix in PDX hi Sam
related to our guest today there's a
great new documentary about abortion
providers working in states greatly
restrict access through law the Catholic
Church called our bodies our doctors
it's directed by yon Hunkin a portland
filmmaker and DSA member who's your
comrade i'm sorry ii feel sorry for dave
rubin after his last shapiro interview i
hope he says some hate words next time
so I can get my scooby-doo moment when
Shapiro reveals he was a homophobe all
along local pizza historian today is my
company's state of the company meeting
can I get a shofar for the strength not
the rush
stage and tackle the CEO yes good for
you
last year you tell this insurance
premiums are going up because we were
using our benefits too much and the pace
was untenable this was while I was in
the middle fighting stage four cancer
and still showing up every day for work
for this guy telling me that my
continued existence was too costly for
his company what did Jack good for you
for not rushing the stage or not good
for you
drunk day like hi Sam related to her
guest today there's a great new
documentary I did that already
mark monkey TV hey Sam and crew can I
get a Joo horn from my grandma Marvel
Braden who passed away this morning
sorry for your loss
left-handed Lefty those who sacrificed
policy credibility for temporary
electability will gain neither
intersectional vegan cuck brilliant it
to be Sam any tips for getting corporate
media loved one to stop hating Bernie
facts about the 2016 election aren't
penetrating because they aren't part of
MSNBC's narrative about it chiquan de
hay talked about three point five
trillion divided into one hundred and
ninety million workers paying taxes
comes out of it three point five
trillion is the gdp of the healthcare
industry CT MRF an environmental law
update for mr crew Monday last week
Trump EPA published a statement that the
Clean Water Act does not require
permitting for groundwater pollution
even if contaminants end up in waters
that are regulated what are you gonna do
reversing a long-held position engaging
a pre-emptive attack against
environmental groups in a US Supreme
Court case known as County Maui Hawaii
versus Hawaii Wildlife Fund which is
considering this very issue
rack'em the poll Sam sites showing that
Warren is moving up literally has zero
voters under fifty included no benchmark
shows are moving up both of them and the
I'll double-check on that and the final
I am
[Music]
there are police clearing out a homeless
encampment of hundreds of people in
Sacramento California right now please
bring some attention to this our city
has been targeting homeless people very
heavily lately folks check that out see
you tomorrow in that state goes to get
to
[Music]
I'm going
I just got cut
[Music]
the advance
No
take it
I could see where the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid
Desmond
laughs we tried
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
