so continuing our coverage at Netroots
nation 2019
I'm here with Alexander Rojas she is the
executive director of justice Democrats
welcome to the program thank you so much
for having me soon all right so just I I
mean I think by now my audience has a
pretty good sense of what the justice
Democrats are but but give us the sort
of the elevator pitch for those who
might not absolutely I think we're
trying to transform the Democratic Party
to actually fight for its voters and not
just corporate donors for us that means
engaging in competitive primary
elections to recruit a new generation of
leadership and build a mission-driven
team of justice Democrats in the house
that are actually going to present
solutions as big as the problems that
we're facing that matched the scale
scope and urgency of them and I think
that we can see you know we acknowledge
that the same leadership that has sort
of gotten us into this mess aren't going
to be the ones to get us out of it and
so we're trying to merge I think
electoral organizing with social
movement building and you can see the
sort of case study of that work with
candidates like Alexandra Ocasio Cortes
being able to once elected team up with
you know organizations like us and
sunrise to push issues like a green new
deal into the national conversation and
in the last election I think there was
65 candidates that got the over 70 over
70 who got the endorsement from justice
Democrats in the end not not a huge
number of those won their elections but
obviously some fairly prominent wins you
mention AOC and I think it's I think
most people accept the premise that to
the extent that there's any energy left
in the Democratic Party it's coming out
of folks like ASC all right so
we need to talk about I want to get into
sort of sort of more a theory of change
questions in a bit but but let's just
deal with what sort of right in the
front burner I think is this there
there's a lot of friction right now
within the Democratic caucus and Nancy
Pelosi seems to have a strategy do you
have a sense of what that strategy is no
I don't i think that wielding power for
the sake of power and not using it to do
the most benefit for the people of the
america and you're putting politics
before isn't doesn't make sense to have
it in the first place and so I think
that you know for us the strategy that
we feel is the one that is exciting to
voters is by going straight to them
carrying our message straight to them
and that's presenting solutions that are
actually matching the problems that are
facing them every day and so I hope
dancey Pelosi chooses to do that and
focus on defeating Donald Trump and not
singling out for members of Congress
versus the problem-solvers caucus which
i think is causing her more trouble I
mean we do even like like even from her
perspective do you do you see what like
I can I think we should be I think they
should start with impeachment hearings
but I can understand I you know I can
understand the sort of theory behind why
you wouldn't but I honestly can't even
based upon what her objectives are
understand what's going on do you agree
no I I I don't understand like I said I
don't understand it I think leadership
is operating from a place of of courage
and from strength and not just being
afraid of what the Republicans are going
to say or how politically it's going to
do I think at the end of the day we have
to do what's right for the American
people and uphold at least four members
of Congress have to uphold their
constitutional responsibility to hold
the president accountable okay so give
me a sense of what so justice Democrats
presumably the strategy is going to be
an extension of what it was last time
you're gonna go out and you're gonna
primary Democrats who are what like I
mean what when you sit on
presumably in some office with a big
board what are the criteria in which you
start to look at what races you know the
first thing I will say is that we're not
in this to be against anybody we're in
this to elect champions of the issues
that we care about so first off I think
you know what we're trying to do is
something positive which is transform I
think the direction of this country to
speed up the time scale that we need to
tackle issues like climate change but I
think the way that we look at districts
is part art part science that art part
is what I just spoke to which is that
we're electing champions and we believe
that the foundation of our process that
rests on a nomination form is because we
need a you know a Congress that's not
majority white that's not majority
wealthy and that reflects the diversity
not just a Beth Nissa tee but a
background of the American people right
we have 330 million bright and amazing
people that make up the most advanced
society economy all of that stuff right
that means that we can diversify
Congress beyond just attorneys and
wealthy people the science part to get
to your point is where we look at I
think you know positions within the
Democratic Party how long have they gone
unchallenged what are the demographic
makeups of the district both in terms of
you know the makeup of the community
there but also is it urban is it rural
is that going to inform our field
program what is the ideological record
of the incumbent someone like Henry
quarry I was going to go to the top of
the list right but if we had done that
for just really he wouldn't know right
but he has the force most powerful
Democrat in the house someone that when
you talk to the people there has been
absent hadn't been challenged in a long
time it took a ton of corporate and Wall
Street money and so I think at the end
of the day what we're trying to do is
bring out the best in Democrats we
personally believe that no incumbent is
beholden to their seat we only have so
many resources so this cycle we're going
to focus on 20 to 25 with the majority
being against incumbent Democrats that
we feel deserve to be challenged so okay
so when you're making those calculations
the primary factor is going to be the
behavior of those of those of those
incumbents and then if there's a couple
of stars in a marginal seat then you go
with the margin then those are the ones
I would flip it I would say the number
one thing is is that we want to elect
champions so even if it's a district
that seems really difficult like a OCS
we're gonna do it anyway because we need
to support progressive grassroots
insurgent challengers if we want to
transform the party not just from a you
know win-lose perspective but also to
advance the issues that we care about
and we can see that just over the past
two to three years right
single payer is now asked at the
presidential debate to be a so I think
like either way that that's important
that's number one I think number two is
making sure that we have that that we
you know replace incumbents that are
deeply out of touch with democratic
values like dan Lipinski Henry Cuellar
or those that aren't you know that are
accepting corporate money and ruled by
special interests so I asked Sean
McKelvey this this question I know the
data for progress so you guys do a lot
of work together what what does the
number do you think that progressives
need to get to in the caucus to where
they they they have the ability to sort
of
to basically take the problem-solvers
inside line now like you know like
what's the critical mass do you have a
sense of that or is it well no when we
get there
so I'm also a co-founder of brand new
Congress so I literally used to think
we're gonna repeal and replace and run
400 candidates so I I definitely used to
think that you know we needed you know
hundreds of Justice Democrats in there
but I think the reality is that we can
see that it doesn't take that many to
really expand not just the national
conversation but I think momentum for
our movement right to continue to power
it because you know at the end of the
day like these issues are really urgent
but we're gonna have to build over time
to your point right so I think that
where I used to think it was you know
hundreds of Justice Democrats I think if
we build a caucus of twenty to thirty
and we wield and and they are putting
their political ambitions to the side
and they are focusing on what's right
for the American people even when it's
uncomfortable I think that we can see
that the rest of the caucus will sign on
and you can see that with you know green
new deal on day one had like over 80
co-sponsors and when you look at the
co-sponsor ships a lot of them are
afraid of getting primary challenge so I
think that it's a number of strategies
that we have to use to really pressure
incumbents but one of the best ways that
we've seen to be able to do that and
already have an impact is by just
challenging them yeah Miquel we also
added and I have to say like I it stuck
with me because in all my time
discussing the value of of challenging
incumbents I hadn't really quite
contemplated the idea of even
challenging those who may not be in that
column of a Cuellar but to empower them
to go to Nancy Pelosi and say look I'm
gonna get challenged here so I need to
do X Y & Z Nadler for instance I I need
to subpoena or I need to issue you know
you get to get more information or
something like that I mean when you guys
are looking at this stuff do you and I
to what extent do you look at maybe
looking at different districts around
putting aside for the moment as to what
Democrats are not necessarily on board
programmatically but if is there a
second sort of look at things where you
look at if we have this type of
geographic distribution of justice
Democrats or if we had this type of
demographic representation of Democrats
certain demographic you know Waukesha
County let's say like do you contemplate
that notion of there is a potential
strategy that involves very specific
districts around the country that would
leverage a speaker or a majority leader
more so than others or is that just
overthinking things
no that's not overthinking it I think
that's exactly what we're doing I think
that we have to apply pressure and you
know build build power and I think you
know in absent of being able to win
hundreds of congressional seats I think
one of the only ways is by being able to
choose races at this time right I think
last time we had a little bit of a
shotgun method where we endorsed over 70
and we did that because we wanted to
back progressive challengers and show
that doesn't matter if you're running in
Texas the Democratic Party shouldn't be
forgetting about you and if we want to
you know actually build power long-term
it can't just be a transactional
relationship with the community and
thinking about Oh win and lose you have
to make multi-cycle investments to see
change right but I think this time where
we have you know a $16 and seventeen
average contribution I want to make sure
that we're using our resources as
strategically for the movement but
obviously to build power as possible and
I think one of the best ways to do that
is by that part art part science method
where we're building a narrative and
arrays we're finding and recruiting
candidates that are reflective of the
communities that they're serving and
we're making sure that they are going to
run unapologetically because they
champion these issues there's an
intuitive like their life experience is
why they support these policies and I
think the the people that we're going to
be challenging like Henry Cuellar
dan Lipinski and the ones to come are
going to be that mix of champion and
also because those particular incumbents
are halting progressive priorities and
if we want to pass that legislation at
the end of the day they need to they
need to go what
have there been instances where you have
over the over the past year and a half I
guess maybe since you know following the
2018 election where you you thought to
yourself wow they're they're afraid of
us and like who would that be
to the extent me I have there been
moments where you sort of became
conscious of like okay now we're not
necessarily that you need outside
validation to say that you're legit but
that you've got a sense of like oh this
is how we're being perceived in the
context of the establishment that's it
well I will say and I'm really proud
that we do not have an inside game
beyond getting the champions that we
have in there and making sure that they
are you know have the support and doing
the good work that they do you know our
power does not come from DC insiders and
the establishment so that's first off
but I will say that you know I don't
think anyone's was expecting Jessica
Cisneros to raise 150 thousand dollars
in 48 hours and I think that people are
taking this race seriously establishment
and not establishment and I think even
people within the sort of party
establishment are it's exactly what's
happening right now on the national
stage with Pelosi attacking these four
women of color who are championing what
their constituents want are really
disappointed in that they're not just
sort of Bernie bros like myself they are
people that have been in the party for a
long time that are disappointed with the
leadership in the direction that this
country is going because we got Donald
Trump right for whatever reason we
couldn't stop him as a Democratic Party
2016 was when I got politically
activated and I feel like it's my
responsibility to try and do something
about it and really believe that the
same leadership that got us here isn't
going to be the ones that get us out you
weren't involved in politics at all
before 2016 I was at full
I was a full-time student and full-time
in the workforce and that's why I think
primary challenges are so important
because my entry way into politics was
during a presidential primary Bernie
Sanders you know I couldn't afford to go
to college like I had planned to when I
moved out to California I'm originally
from Connecticut but I you know heard
this crazy old white guy from Vermont
talking about these big solutions in
that you know we needed million millions
of people to step up and demand change
if we're gonna do something and I think
like that's powerful and there were tons
of other young women of color like
myself that stepped up and we're not
going away even as much as Pelosi wants
to push us out if you why do you think
that maybe this is outside your
portfolio but why do you think what why
do you think your generation has been
able to be more effective let's say than
my generation in churning things a
little bit in the Democratic Party I
don't know if it's a question of
effectiveness because when we look back
at some of the biggest social movements
of our past which is our North Star
right we look at we stand on the
soldiers of shoulders of giants right
that has always been young people the
founding of this country you know as
much as you know they probably wouldn't
have liked people like me we're young
people and so you know if if we're gonna
sort of continue to pass the baton I
think that you know my generation is
going to be the first that's worse off
than their parents I'm questioning
whether or not I can have kids because
in ten years are we gonna have a planet
to live on
I grew up during the 2008 financial
crisis and watching my parents struggle
I couldn't afford to go to college and
that's why I'm sitting here and had to
create a full time job for myself so I
think when you hear people like Joe
Biden for example say Oh Millennials you
know they're they're so privileged you
know he said that
for its really hurtful and when you see
you know the leadership of the
Democratic Party like Nancy Pelosi
sliding the youngest woman ever elected
to Congress some of the most Evert the
first to muscle woman ever elected to
Congress when I feel when when millions
of young people really really feel a
sense of urgency not from a privileged
place but because we can't afford to do
the things that we want to do it's a
privileged position for the Democratic
Party to face so I don't know if that
means that we we've got a big fight
ahead of us but I think for me it's hard
to see beyond the next two years of
what's gonna happen if we don't do
something in 2020 to defeat Donald Trump
and actually elect a Democrat that's
going to go big and gonna do what's
scientifically mandated that needs to be
done you know four-ten-four to deal with
climate change and implement something
like a green new deal because we've done
it before that's the crazy part right
right we've done this before and we got
to go back to our roots if someone wants
to give 16 bucks or 17 bucks
Democrats calm justice Democrats back
calm
Alexander Rojas thank you so much your
time today
