[Music]
Hey
so Joe Biden his polling numbers dropped
five points in the wake of the poll
according to according to a morning
consult still in the lead but under the
cedar theorem of the demise of Joe Biden
postulated months ago that by October
early October maybe late September he
would be third in the polls which may be
subject to amending in terms of like the
fourth in the polls
what will we'll see now is that every
point in which he drops in the polling
begin to create more downward pressure
than it would for most candidates
because his biggest selling point is
that he can win in every town oddly
allegedly
and every time he drops in the polls it
is evidenced that maybe he can't win
maybe he's just not that good of a
campaigner maybe he's not aware of who
he's talking to or what his liabilities
are and but hold your horses the debates
not everything
this guy's gonna get out there this
weekend this past weekend and try and
change some minds show that he still
sharp his attack here he is this is at a
Chicago rally what day was this on
Saturday and he's trying to show that
hey he's with it he's hip man he knows
the score on the street listen to him
talking about how he understands the
plight of black American black mothers
feel confident when they send their
child and their son out on the street
he's going to be safe
we've got to recognize we've got to
recognize that kid wearing the hoodie
may very well be the next poet laureate
and not a gangbanger ladies and
gentlemen are too many black men and I
might add women in prison all right now
when he says we've got to recognize that
the guy in the hoodie may be a poet
laureate and not a gangbanger
is he aware that most people recognize
that that the problem I mean he's
obviously referring to Trayvon Martin
right I mean that's where the whole
concept of hoodies became a thing that
the problem with Zimmerman killing
Trayvon Martin was that he was bigoted
and presumed and there was a lot of
people saying like you shouldn't be
wearing a hoodie bah bah bah the vast
majority of Americans is quite aware
that a black head in a hoodie is not
necessarily a gangbanger but I would
also add that there's also something in
between you don't have to be a poet
laureate to be allowed to walk through a
gated community you don't have to be a
poet laureate to not have the cops roll
up on you you can just be a dude you can
just be like a guy who's gonna be I
don't know a clerk at a store or a
plumber or a doctor or a dancer or a
father a father a waiter or a waiter
waiter or a seller of hoodies I mean you
could be just about anything I'm out
even and I don't know he is its
construction is a little convoluted from
that segment but and I don't know if the
question is like we want to curb
violence but or you shouldn't have to be
afraid of the cops abusing you I think
that's the case regardless of what you
are
I mean I think like and I don't think
that all the gangbangers are just
gangbangers all the time like even if
you are a gangbanger you still have
rights like the right not to be murdered
when walking down the street yeah that's
the things I couldn't tell from his
construction if he was saying protect
them from the cops or protect them from
violence or whatever it is but the
bottom line is is that Joe Biden thinks
he's talking to a nation of racists and
he's the voice of reason so in addition
bodies you got to understand you have
these old concepts in your head that if
a then if I can't black kids wearing a
hoodie that he's a gangbanger meanwhile
I just saw this great showcase of
underprivileged kids who go to LaGuardia
and they were reading poetry that's the
Biden plan in addition to body cameras
before a kid gets drugs planted on him
or attacked by some random freak in a
housing development Biden wouldn't have
a special tactical team trained to check
if inside the kids backpack there's a
poetry collection and then you could
judge the merits of how far that work
will get him forgive me father I've
sinned I thought that maybe a black kid
could be a poet laureate I'm sorry I'm
sorry
wait this kids scribbling oh this is the
type of stuff no poetry take them out if
there's one thing cops have respect for
its poets yeah
hey hold dog Vic just kids gotcha a
poetry slam is headed to the concrete
but the more this that Joe Biden does
this type of stuff he basically shows
like look I'm sorry you're at a rally in
Chicago you're clearly talking about
criminal justice reform because you know
you have a liability here so you are
this is your a game you're bringing out
your a-game and you're trying to
convince people I'm not the guy that I'm
being sad or parodied or satirized about
I know this stuff and I know but just
cuz you wear a hoodie doesn't mean
you're a gangbanger right who's with me
I mean this hurt us all well this is a
liability that when the chips are down
when he's got to deliver on something he
can't
do it because he just has not really
opened his eyes
look I don't know why I don't know if
it's because he's still the way he was
thirty years ago or he's progressed but
he just hasn't progressed that much or
he doesn't realize where the rest of the
country is or I don't know what it is
but it doesn't matter it matters whether
he can deliver on that moment that's
part one
so part one is Joe Biden just showed us
in that earlier clip that he is a little
bit rusty when it comes to trying to be
the vanguard for racial justice in this
country his his whole hoody does not
make you a gangbanger as if it's a
revelation to everybody in Chicago well
here he is basically doing the same
thing when it comes to the LGBTQ
community I was when he was gonna get
around to them well he is at where was
this one what is this a clip from a
Human Rights Campaign ceremony in
September of 2018 okay but which he just
said it the other day though - he said
it in Seattle but we don't have the
video that okay so in Seattle he gave a
quote which went like this he said this
was just like what a day or two ago
right he said you know if you come here
in Seattle
he said saying five years ago if someone
at a business meeting in Seattle made
fun of a gay waiter people would just
let it go it's according to a pool
report the audience vocally responded to
their mark and some of the crowd said
nah not know it's that you're in 2014 if
people had made gay comments in Seattle
about Seattle buddy well I'm pretty sure
that most of your major cities in face
in the country if somebody had said that
in fact I think probably all your major
cities if they had said it around a
table someone would have said you know
really like that was a little
anachronistic even five years ago but
apparently he loves this anecdote and
will not let it go he said this a year
ago but now remember the timeline 2014
in Seattle they're doing business guys
are doing gay jokes here we go
you guys have done more to free straight
women and men then you have gays and
lesbians so you don't misunderstand me
think about this once at one example a
lot of your very successful business men
and women if you were at a fancy
restaurant in Washington five six years
ago and an important business meeting
and a gay or lesbian waiter came up or
transgender spoke with a lisp or
demonstrated they were gay or lesbian
and someone at that luncheon table said
made fun of that person no one would
have said anything not a joke I want you
to literally think about this today if
that same thing happened the other four
or five people at the table say you
horse's tail get out of here
really
all right Brenda now his point is
well-taken but for some reason he keeps
changing the timeline in a very weird
way because apparently in 2014 he told
this story and it was about and he used
it 15 years ago for 1999 so in 2014 he
thought that era was over in 2019 he
thinks that era still existed in 2015
the point being is he's got these
catchphrases which suggests that he was
in the vanguard of something and he
doesn't realize that things have changed
how dramatically things have changed
exactly it's like he learned he learned
to like pop you know like he could do
that when like we used to you know do
this thing with the breakdancing and he
could but he learned to pop and he just
assumed like I can hang on to this for
the rest of time and be the guy on the
dance floor who looks like he's really
with it just to give you an example
about what was going on five years ago
this was a hidden camera
ABC showed that they did in Mississippi
in Mississippi in a restaurant to see
how people would react to gay people
five years ago just to give you a sense
Joe Biden is extremely out of touch are
you serious see
they're making
but their day are you gay are you gay
these guys have reached their limit and
now they head off to find their server
is there a problem I'm also an actor
working for us but instead of kicking
Tracy out our waiter asks our couple to
lease gives me guys I just spoke with my
manager we're gonna have to ask you to
leave just because Sophie was religious
believes we have to leave yes we must go
let's go this is constant
he's visibly shaken and upset meanwhile
Tracy just keeps pushing
you understand why I had them kicked out
right no no
[Music]
there's a reason why they have its
people because no acceptance for
anything else in the world I'm so I know
I can see I'm not trying to make you mad
get out because there is no point and
you said you're talking me when I'm he
was pretty pissed you know that is first
of all obviously any typical example of
how intolerant the left is she was
trying to have an exchange of ideas and
well you may not even have been on the
left he could just be like I know I'm
I'm joking I don't know but the the
point is Joe Biden every time he opens
his mouth and tries to say something
nice and helpful he's just out of touch
he has lost sight of where America is
and that is why in many respects a lot
of people feel like his candidacy is so
regressive and look Joe Biden's very
popular in the LGBTQ community because
many people give him a lot of credit for
marriage equality and some of that may
be warranted but the fact is is that if
you're worried about Joe Biden's ability
to get elected this should really bother
you because again like he could tell
this anecdote over and over again that's
all well and good and that's fine and
like I say I think that he he deserves
some credit for marriage equality as
much as anybody at least within the
context of the the Obama administration
without a doubt but if he if this is
where if this is his wheelhouse there's
a problem yeah he's like the creepy
white family and get out where they're
trying to show they're not racist and
the dad's like I would have voted for a
third term for Obama if I could have
yeah I it's not even that I think that
he's Nessa I think he has a problem more
of a problem on race than he does
frankly on LGBTQ issues but the issue is
is that he doesn't know where where the
countries act and that is I think a big
problem for him but we'll see we'll see
if other people think it is because I'm
not the only one in charge of that
apparently
