[Music]
as we've said apparently they cannot
find anybody to be chief of staff look
how long are they were talking about
firing John Kelly
I mean months and months and months
and apparently Trump was negotiating and
has been talking to in assuming that
Nick Aires the chief of staff of Mike
Pence was going to move over into this
position and it is unclear why Aires
isn't doing it I've seen a couple of
things one there's something to do with
Greitens he's got some tied into that
that scandal the the former governor of
Missouri was it and there's also people
who say like he wants to get out of the
White House he just said he didn't want
to be tied to Trump because the stuff is
gonna come down and he obviously can't
stay and be Pence's chief of staff cuz
Trump's gonna be like wait what you turn
me down but you can work for him not for
me that's no good so you got to take one
for the team this is you know sacrifice
fly you walk out of the building
essentially but the Fox and Friends guys
they have another theory as to why no
one who in their right mind wants to be
even come like within feet of this job
well these jobs are they're very
difficult the president apparently works
around the clock they don't get paid a
lot of money when you consider how
expensive Washington DC is and then you
have Nick Ayers who says he wants to be
with his family he has triplets young
young children wants to go back to
Jordan put hashtag George on that's
right it doesn't mmm yeah it's good
George I never good to keep up he's Owen
Cinelli for some ungodly reason this
young guy right fairly young guy he's
managed to amass what is it thirty
million dollars in the course of his
public service
Wow
Mike can I just have you achieve his
stuff is that basically what's happened
there yeah that's basically what happens
in these arms I think I think it's just
a one-point that realize like oh this
isn't gonna be good for pence and for
Ayers it's not going to be good for them
so time to leave the building but of
course it's because it's so expensive in
DC I remember when these guys were going
on and on about how difficult it was for
people like AOC they laughed at that
notion and I Got News for you when you
go down as a congressperson you've got
to maintain two residences one in your
home district one in in DC when you have
when you have thirty million dollars you
don't have to go to Georgia
you can bring your family to DC when
you're working full-time for the White
House so yeah it seems a little bit and
of course you know Steve minuchin I
think he can afford live in Washington
apparently he's turned down the
president Mick Mulvaney is already there
minuchin was gonna be chief of staff
they offered it to him apparently that's
what it's being reported know a little a
little close
