I mean the only other thing I'd also the
other thing I'd like to just say apropos
of the clintons and I think potentially
cory booker we're gonna be covering mark
Epstein more in the future Jeffrey
Epstein excuse me Jeffrey Epstein yep
you could call it the real pizza gate if
you want and this was a enormous ly
wealthy hedge-fund guy who spread his
money around and this is just money
there's no clear evidence of anything
else but associated with Donald Trump
there's even a clip from back in the day
where Trump said like me Jeffrey Epstein
likes you know he really likes young
women I don't know if Trump men the
literally woman as young as 14 years old
that Jeffrey Epstein was sexually
abusing Jeffrey Epstein also flew around
Alan Dershowitz and all sorts of other
influential people on his plane and they
continued to have associations with
these people even after he was
criminally convicted on a slap on her
wrist charges I have the Trump quote
terrific guy Trump told New York
magazine back in 2002 he's a lot of fun
to be with it is even said that he likes
beautiful women as much as I do and many
of them are on the younger side no doubt
about it
Jeffery enjoys his social life and his
social life literally involved like
grooming and mass child sexual abuse
there's a soul I want to just say with
regards to the Clintons just quickly and
then go elaborate on it
I want a Democratic nominee where we can
use Jeffrey Epstein against Donald Trump
and his administration and I want to
talk about it regularly so I don't want
somebody who I'm not saying anything
else there is no evidence of anything
else other than Bill Clinton hung out on
that plane a lot and this is an
associate and that's one of the reasons
that even if she wanted to Hillary
Clinton couldn't flip on Trump and say I
don't forget you know this or that rude
comment you're gonna talk about my
husband check this out
Oh
I can't say that because my husband also
hung out with that guy
yep I don't want to done with it come on
we need someone who cannot be made to
look like a hypocrite bottom line even
yeah or someone who just isn't a
massive will always try to make the
movie a hypocrite not disagree with you
Isis a this one's way worse than if
Apocrypha like that's there yeah we need
to turn over the tables and this we need
to turn over the deed I love this on
Nathan Bernard a shout-out to Nathan
bruschetta he's the anti DW bulldog yeah
the silence from Pizza Gate fanatics
bumble Jack and Poe so biack and weird
and weird mic Serna on Jeffrey
Epstein is deafening really disappointed
in that and this is so true because look
I know that I'm on wax here on majority
report I'm saying like there's a reason
this isn't coming up during the campaign
yeah and it's because they're both
tainted by it because if Trump wasn't
tainted bite he would 100% have been
tweeting out the links of Bill Clinton
Oh Epstein right like he totally would
have been doing that and and it was it
was one of the more interesting things
to watch in terms of that mudslinging
and that they both kept their hands
outfit because and look all a trace on
app Stein we all agree and we can play
this game where it's like Hillary it's
not it's it's not bill it's Hillary
right yeah I don't have time you know if
you come to me in 2000 and I'm sorry
finish your point but I mean I'm just
gonna say that's over yeah it's
over and it never was because the thing
about people who wanted to make those
arguments was they all it's like look
the reality of Hillary Clinton's
political career first of all it's a
partnership and it goes both ways
there's no doubt that Bill Clinton would
not be where he was in many respects and
have what he had without her
intelligence and strategic insight okay
it's a partnership and and so you know
my bed sleep you made your bed sleep and
you can't simultaneously go well Hillary
Clinton did all of these incredible
things and she was part of this and that
a as first lady and as a partner the
president but anytime you talk about
his behavior his associations and what
they did is a political collective then
all of a sudden no she's not part of it
and you're using her husband to get her
get the out of here it's all or
nothing either she was pure window
dressing who did nothing and wasn't part
of his political accomplishments which
is untrue a historical and sexist or
they were a political team that did
everything together
um and at the end certainly at the very
least she was complicit in it and you
know I mean everybody seemed the picture
with her and Trump and her husband like
just just stop like that stop the pseudo
woke defense of nonsense before it
starts in 18 because I will be even less
polite than I was in 16 like I missed me
with it yeah I mean I'm a little torn
about it to be honest like I think she's
absolutely complicit in everything
political that he did but in terms of
his like gross douchey behavior with
women I don't know which every up sign
isn't exact well I mean that's we could
I don't agree with you but we can table
that I'm saying Jeffrey Epstein money
was flowing to them jets were being used
for things so I'm not even safe you
flying below leaders account for the the
money part in the political connection
certainly well and also just I mean but
even in general like yeah like I don't
like if you know and you are like your
husband flies in the Lolita Express and
you know it and everybody knows yeah I'm
sorry that's not just like oh that's it
I think it's really dark like that's
actually super dark and we don't and we
don't you know look we keep saying we
don't know maybe Hillary maybe Bill
Clinton's behavior was totally
aboveboard on the Lolita Express but
maybe it wasn't and I'm not willing the
hell of an oversight yeah for an
ex-president I'm just I'm I'm just
saying like husband's hide all sorts of
 from their wives no wasn't if I
knew in 2012 about those flights I mean
I guess I guess if Sean were revealed to
have flown on the Lolita Express I might
have some questions for him but maybe
when would have hitched my wagon to his
everybody knew that he was flying in the
Lolita expressed for a year
I guess is my point and not even to
mention the whole money dimension back
there our package it was a different
time it's a totally different time you
could fly all planes with 14 year olds
no yeah I mean okay not saying anything
yeah they did name the plane after a
book about child rape so that right
there should be a pretty big red flag
yeah
that was not just about child rape that
was an examination of a stat X great
prose and that is what iris that is what
I think Jeffrey appreciated in Lolita
that's what Jeffrey appreciated that's
my husband every Humbert Humbert actions
are different from how beautiful it is
to hear him describe for instance a
mural on a ceiling yeah I'm sure I don't
know I guess like both the the vestigial
liberal feminist in me sometimes gets
defensive when she's held responsible
for his gross but you know what she's
gross too so and I don't even know it's
responsible it's just connected like
she's not responsible look if somebody
said hey it's because of Hillary Clinton
that Bill Clinton's on that plane don't
yes I agree she said you get on that
plane this brings up an interesting
distinction right like it's not about
responsibility but it's about accurately
assessing real liabilities that exist
anyway regardless of whether she's
responsible for him or not precise yeah
she made a cost-benefit analysis
somewhere down the line and what was so
amazing about Clinton's in is this
bizarre culture arose around them
particularly in 2016 where it was like
on one hand like I mean we already know
like the myth of competence and the myth
of that they're effective in all of this
and her if efficacy obviously that myth
is totally just is destroyed but there
was also just this weird like you know
it was like it was like yeah like oh you
know we got to go with them they're
serious she knows how to take the fight
to them they know how to win and then
the other hand like actually in this I
have to say frankly a way that was
totally disrespectful of her it might
men like effective short-term silly
point scores on Twitter but like no
excuse me
Hillary Clinton is one of the most
powerful sophisticated operators in
modern American politics therefore
that's how she's so deficient nomination
right therefore we talk about her
involvement in things politically and
all of a sudden people it was like the
same way like you know Hillary Clinton
she's a boss she can destroy anybody
whoa
Bernie Sanders disagreed with her on the
debate stage totally inappropriate like
people had this weird bizarre both I
mean some of them have no scruples some
of them actually genuinely had like a
whacked
incoherent double consciousness where on
one hand it was like she was the
ultimate slate Queen and then also just
like the perpetual victim where and both
of those narratives are actually sexist
and inaccurate - a very flawed very
complicated and ultimately failed but
certainly sophisticated ruthless smart
and at times very effective political
operator she herself used to cite what I
thought it was one of Nixon's best
touches the man in the arena thing right
like yes we're public officials like
this is what this is right and so the
people that are like you know you know
stop making fun of Hillary or leave her
alone leave Britney Alone sort of thing
like this isn't the woman that you don't
know run a residence you don't know her
though you also you're defending her she
would shoot like scoff at this sort of
pathetic defensive and that was what was
an in fact and not in some ways you
could you could actually I think you can
measure some of the responses to her
because I actually you know lifelong not
Hillary Clinton fan but anytime she
actually could and this is where it was
pure sexism no doubt but sometimes when
she would like break her I remember I
can never find this clip in 2007 she's
in New Hampshire campaign against Obama
and I mean you know no love for her
right I'm like in college loving Barack
Obama hating Hillary Clinton and Chris
Matthews though like even at that time
and even with all of my many blind spots
as a straight man which I will own
I could be like uh Chris Matthews is a
little weird when he talks about Hillary
Clinton and he was at an event and by a
little weird I mean like incredibly
misogynist and so he was at an event in
New Hampshire and he's and Hillary's
campaigning and he's and he's like you
know he's doing he's got the mic so
Hillary really quote you come on my show
and she comes over to him and she has
like this smirk on her face like oh I
won't come on your show I wonder why
and she gives him this like
condescending pat on the head and I
remember being like I would still not
vote for her but if this is what Hillary
Clinton is what she's about
I like that Jim know she that's that's
cool but and not and that's totally the
part where she's a victim of sexism she
could not be I'm actually like a grouchy
old person who doesn't have time for
Chris Matthews and that is
totally a the total gender dynamics that
she couldn't do that hundred percent
fast I respect her for that well
you were on our side yeah but we can
respect her but but her for being a
tough ass woman right but when her
defenders are all of a sudden like that
same woman who did all of this stuff the
Benghazi here yeah the big and all those
a little bit but bernie sanders
interjected a point i mean she might
need you're smelling it's like Bernie's
gesticulate yeah I mean it's just the
way that they were so inadvertently I
mean the the the people need to watch it
in general like the aunt the aunt be
anti essentialist in your feminism as
well and my god don't treat Hillary
Clinton like a like she's gonna
be on a fainting couch for having a
debate pathetic no that's ridiculous
but back one point to the Jeffrey
Epstein thing like pizza gate is
obviously crazy and untrue but like
there's a grain of truth to it
quite a bit of responsibility mommy I
mean duh pizza right you know kicking it
off and it's become like an extremely
destructive thing in our politics so
maybe don't fly on the Luigi Express and
then turn around and express shock and
horror that this conspiracy theory is
going around
and either more if we've happened to
attract any pizza Gators and in the
youtubes
with this clip because we're gonna clip
this maybe wonder why or what posso be
ik and Jack Mike Serna vichaar hiding by
not covering some a story that should so
obviously be on there beat I mean
there's even a Clinton angle of it yeah
this is a story that I am sure if you
dug into that story it could probably
implicate not only Democrats but I mean
who knows Ivy League professor all sorts
of people that you culturally signify
against all day I'd like might end up
and you know it that would be great if
you can get all the manifests to the
Lolita express love to see him indeed
whoever brings them forward if you have
an actual report if it's real all linked
to Breitbart if you if you bring that
out I mean if Breitbart runs that
they're just gonna post the Clinton
stuff not totally exactly well that's
why I say if because I never want to
post the Breitbart so I know I can
easily avoid that all right
