[Music]
there was a resignation yesterday and
we're gonna get to our guests in a
couple of minutes obviously and talk
about the broader structure of the
uprising in Puerto Rico the colonial
structure and the relationships to the
hedge funds that dominate and terrorize
Puerto Rico maybe even also the climate
policies that the United States
accelerates that threatens Puerto Rico
and all of the Caribbean there anytime
you remove a leader like this this is an
also a moment of celebration opportunity
but also of enormous danger you know you
can remove a figurehead of a corrupt
system and unfortunately we see many
cases where not only does the system
replicate itself but it becomes in some
respects even worse that said this was
an incredible uprising of energy from
the Puerto Rican people and Ricardo
Roselli the governor who was revealed in
any number of ways because of a leak
telegram messages resigned yesterday
let's watch this resignation continue
our and yet the opposition represent
tuna difficult at para que el Ã©xito I
cancel that do juego de cuchara clamo
al Arco me Familia pensar en mis hijos
Jagr ACO tomado la siguiente decision so
that's him and then let's go to the
streets with people celebrating this
incredible victory in San Juan you see
them watching them til they're washing
it on us on a screen outside
[Music]
[Applause]
so there you have it we'll see what
comes next the real question is can the
next phases of this movement and push
take on again all of the other systems
of colonial structure in place in Puerto
Rico we wanted to just do this throwback
clip all right Donald Trump's conduct in
quirt oh Rico has even for him been
standout disgusting and again that's
Donald Trump with standout disgusting
but this is also a good moment to also
reflect on this governor Rosello who's
resigned he made a number of different
PR or photo-op appearances with Trump I
mean mayor Cruz is in this one too but
this is Rossella was in there a lot with
Trump yes mayor Cruz definitely
represents as a Sanders surrogate in
someone who supported the protests
definitely a very different political
profile governor I let's just say it up
front um at the time after Maria the
death estimates were not clear but it
was a horrific Allah devastating event I
was envious in this past winter and you
can absolutely still see it so and now
the death toll is in the thousands so
Donald Trump what did we say the
official death toll was twenty nine
hundred twenty nine seventy five twenty
nine seventy seventy-five of people have
died because of this Donald Trump used
and this is right in the wake of the
catastrophe to do an idiot brag and a
totally inaccurate one about the death
toll with Governor Rosello and I should
say I mean Governor Rosella part of
these telegram messages in addition to
revealing corruption networks in
addition to the relationship between the
government and this Control Board which
is implementing austerity on Puerto Rico
on behalf of hedge funders he also in
addition to any number of sexist
homophobic and so on comments made
dismissive belittling and a comments
basically about the victims of Hurricane
Maria and part-and-parcel correct me if
I'm wrong but didn't I see that they
were also like some machan
nations in those texts against mayor
cruz and tried to make cruz look worse
and trump look better my I'm not sure
but look after him that you confirm that
all right let's watch this clip has been
through a lot
Brock has been unbelievable your
governor has been who I didn't know I
heard things about him is not even from
my party and he started right at the
beginning appreciating what what we did
right from the beginning this governor
did not play politics he didn't play it
at all he was saying it like it was and
he was giving us the highest grades so
congresswoman Jennifer Gonzalez cologne
who I've watched the other day and she
was saying such nice things about all of
the people that have worked so hard
I saw those comments and everybody saw
those comments and we really appreciate
it I also want to thank Linda McMahon
small business she has done an
incredible job built a great company
with her husband Vince McMahon we want
to thank you Linda very much Mick
Mulvaney is here right there and Mick is
a judge of a thing called budget now I
hate to tell you Porto Rico but you've
thrown our budget a little out of whack
because we've spent a lot of money on
Puerto Rico and that's fine we've saved
a lot of lives if you look at the it's
fine
but if you look at a real catastrophe
like Katrina and you look at the
tremendous hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of people that died now what is
your what is your death count as of this
moment seventeen sixteen people
certified sixteen people versus in the
thousands you can be very proud of all
of your people all of our people working
together as opposed to into thousands as
opposed to in the thousands most of the
money hasn't been dispersed yet as
Brendan pointed out and also I'll just
add the Puerto Rico has the greatest but
has greater poverty rates than
Mississippi as an example which is the
poorest state in the country and the
extractive relationship the Jones Act
means that
Auto Ricans essentially have to pay
import taxes on products they make
themselves
it's an incredibly obscene relationship
and we're gonna get to it with our
guests in a couple of minutes but we did
want to accelerate the resignation of
governor Rosello
