[Music]
yeah now meanwhile Donald Trump was in
North Korea and no in Vietnam and excuse
me in in Vietnam anticipating a signing
statement on I guess it was supposed to
happen Thursday and it that's a long way
to go
essentially to you know do not have that
signing statement I mean that's a huge
huge disaster and it's Bolton's fault
Aipom Pam and Pompeyo I mean I my
understanding is that the North Koreans
actually came with and again you can't
be moralistic in these conversations so
I'll stipulate all the things about the
horrific nature of that regime but they
came with a deal that was significant it
would have definitely downgraded their
capacity in a pretty significant way and
what they wanted was for real robust
sanctions relief and I think it's also
really important to note that this has
all been conducted through the South
Korean president who wants this to
happen there's a whole civil society
movement in South Korea the place where
the stakes for this are highest they
want a deal and the North Koreans came
with a credible one and Bolton and
Pompeyo
you know made the world more dangerous
and moon I you know I said last year he
should have received the Nobel Peace
Prize or been in consideration for his
work with this but secondly what I think
is important to know this this is what
the deal that Trump was apparently
prepared to take is identical to the
Iran deal basically right the partial T
new denuclearization basically getting
rid of their nuclear weapons but still
having it for their power grid and then
sanctions relief and Trump is trying to
get that done but at the same time
saying around the Iran deal is a
terrible deal it's purely motivated
clearly by his hatred of Obama as
opposed to anything substantive which is
what's sometimes he stumbles upon the
right thing well here's the question is
this a was this a massive failure
that's the question I don't know what
that soundtrack for Sam's question is
nights went a little bit too loud oh of
course it was like some tab I had open
with the Hill classic here's the
question
was this a massive failure by the the
foreign policy apparatus of the Trump
administration I mean first of all you
do not travel to Vietnam to have to
cancel a signing ceremony right you just
don't do that it's not that's just
somebody totally effed up and either the
State Department apparatus and the
foreign policy apparatus completely drop
the ball or Trump was like just get it
done
forced it to go forward I want to sign
something on that day because he knew
that Michael Cohen was testifying and
wanted to make sure that there was some
type of story and they just weren't able
to execute his unreasonable demand could
it be both it could be both I mean I
guess it's it's something maybe we won't
find out until we read some tell-all
book about it but this is a massive
failure it's embarrassing if and if only
his constituents cared at all about
peace with North Korea I mean we care as
progressives and we care as people who
want to see peace move forward in the
world if he succeeds his support
supporters will use it as brownie points
but if he fails they don't care either
so there's no real consequences for his
him and his base no matter what he does
well but here's the problem right is
that he is not going to do this again
he's not going to go like the entire
apparatus that arranged to have a
signing statement yesterday to have a
signing not a signing statement a
signing of some type of Accord he's now
been completely magenta mised right like
he'd be an idiot to listen to them
they'd be an idiot
listen to him like the I'm talking with
in there his own government so now you
have a situation where they're just
going to put North Korea to the side and
they're not going to pay attention to it
and every time you do that with North
Korea is when you start to have real
problems yeah because they don't like to
be put into the corner and and why would
anyone after he tore up the Iran deal
listen to him on deals of sanctions
relief and nuclear disarmament I mean
the United States doesn't keep their
word that's that's a a secondary problem
I am I'm not sure that like you know how
much that plays with even in the context
of this one though there people are and
not just North Koreans or suggesting
that Trump is actually lying about even
the extent of sanctions relief that Kim
was even asking for in the negotiations
I think it's I do think though with Iran
your hundred-percent right and I do
think though it's it's worthwhile to
consider though why why could trump
follow his instincts which were good in
some ways on this with North Korea and
then in addition to his personal hatred
of Obama there's a whole foreign policy
apparatus set in DC committed to not
having peace with Iran right which is a
whole other kind of layer that doesn't
apply to North Korea but I just hope
that you know I glad I was glad that
Bernie Sanders wanted embrace
negotiating with North Korea I hope the
Democratic response isn't like see this
is why we need to go back to the decades
of other types of diplomacy which didn't
work either you know there's obviously a
difference between being not knowing any
details and just wanting a win like
Trump versus let's just go back for the
same arrangement that always the
critique that's why when he initially
made these overtures I was I was
skeptical not because I think these
overtures are wrong it's just that he is
woefully incompetent and you don't want
this type of a competence around when
you're talking about a desperate regime
that has a nuclear weapon like you just
don't want that you don't want that
floating around out there you it's just
because now you know there's a situation
where I think it's gonna get where the
potential again is to get super ugly in
the context of of you know Trump cannot
invest in this again now and what's
scary is that Trump only sees
consequences for himself in his
immediate circle and the consequences
don't really affect the United States
they affect South Korea and they affect
Japan and that's why president moon his
Herculean efforts should be applauded
and why Trump's and competence should be
shamed because there are millions of
people in South Korea who will be harmed
by these talks falling through well as
Lindsey Graham said though that's over
there we're over here
sociopathic I think Trump should get
pivot as quickly as possible to India
Pakistan we need him
