[Music]
majority report on the phone it is a
great pleasure for me to welcome back to
the program the number one talk radio a
liberal talk radio host to progressive
talk radio host in the country author of
multiple best-selling New York Times
best-selling books and a personal
favorite of mine and in many respects a
a teacher of mine Tom Hartman welcome to
the program I've been learning from you
Sam to four years that's very sweet of
you to say but and I'm honored to have
you as a friend and as a colleague well
thank you so much for joining us and you
have you've basically started a a series
of books on the hidden history basically
hidden history pamphlets and you've come
out one for one that is for October of
this year which frankly couldn't be more
timely as we enter into the 2020
election and a and trying to get a sense
of you know what what's at stake here
and in some respects of them we should
talk about this the two that you know
maybe we may be a little bit late in
terms of the stakes and and your book
provides perhaps our corrective for that
but that is you have a hidden history of
the Supreme Court and the betrayal of
America I want to go go through it
obviously because you provide a an
extensive history obviously of the of
the Supreme Court but in what respect do
you perceive it as having when we look
at the totality of the history of the
Supreme Court in what respect does it
betray America
well there's there's three kind of story
lines that go through this through the
book the first is how the Supreme Court
rose from being basically the court of
last resort
necessary an important function of
government to
being the most powerful of the three
branches of government and they did that
by seizing a power that was never
granted them in the Constitution and
that most of the founders didn't think
they had until they asserted in 1803 and
President Thomas Jefferson totally
freaked out
the second fascinating piece of this
that involves the betrayal of America is
how the Constitution explicitly says in
article 3 section 2 that the Supreme
Court not only is to be regulated by
Congress and that would be as to how
many members it has you know when they
meet and what their budget is and where
they meet all that kind of stuff but
also that Congress can pass legislation
and put specific exemptions into that
legislation on which the Supreme Court
may not rule so Congress can pass a law
this is called jurisdiction stripping or
court stripping it has happened in our
history Congress can pass a law and they
can build into that law a sentence that
simply says the Supreme Court may not
rule on the constitutionality of this
and Congress has failed in that regard
in a big way and and then the third is
is the politicization of the court which
really started in a big way with the
Nixon administration and 71 the Powell
memo and then 72 Nixon puts Lewis Powell
on the court then 76 and 78 in the in
the buckley versus vallejo decision and
then the First National Bank versus
Pilate decision which Lewis Powell
authored the court rules in 76 that if a
billionaire wants to own a politician or
throw hundreds of millions of dollars
into a into a political campaign or for
lobbying that that is that cannot be
regulated by the government it
overturned a whole bunch of good
government laws that were passed
literally from 1907 right up through
right you know they have right after the
Nixon bribery scandals and then in 78 in
the First National Bank case they
applied that same logic to corporations
and then tied it all together in neat
little bow in 2010 with citizens united
so we've got and and so as the court
acquired this power and as
gave this power to wealthy people in
corporations the the the the Republican
Party in large part and in part because
of their shock over the 1954 Brown
versus Board decision in the 1973 roe v
wade decision decided that they were
going to get control of the frigging
Supreme Court we're going to take this
thing back and they did it by rigging
presidential elections and in the book I
documented how Richard Nixon committed
treason to become president in 68 by
blowing up Lyndon Johnson's peace deal
with South Vietnam ever dirksen the
Republican leader at that time
acknowledged it was treason we didn't
hear the tapes of this until 50 years
after LBJ died but they're out there now
how Ronald Reagan committed treason in
1980 to become president cutting a deal
we now have the testimony of the
president then President of Iran who
said that the Reagan campaign approached
them and said if you guys will hold out
of the hostages until November until the
elections actually they held on to them
until January they released them the two
the second the minute that Ronald Reagan
put his hand on the Bible to be sworn in
if you guys will hang on to the hostages
Carter is humiliated we'll make sure
that you get all the spare parts and
weaponry that you need because they were
you know they had an all-american
military infrastructure and the Shah had
just been overthrown and then how george
w bush his daddy had several friends on
the court and they went to bat for
george stopping the recount in florida
in 2000 a recount that when the new york
times actually did it a year later they
found sure enough al gore actually won
florida and then you know the the
failure of the court to be involved in
anything having to do with russia
involvement now and and the corruption
of the court by mitch mcconnell holding
off on Barack Obama's nomination
American garland for almost a whole year
this is unprecedented unconstitutional
and frankly I think criminal but the
court was just fine with that so the
court has become essentially
as Sheldon Whitehouse pointed out here
and a hotbed in last week's Washington
Post an arm of the GOP and we should say
I mean just that White House and a
couple other senators that letter an
op-ed that he wrote and I think they
wrote a letter as well to the Supreme
Court with about four or five other
senators I know if it was in the context
of of Second Amendment cases but it was
I mean as far as these things go in uh
almost the threat right like like this
was this is a precursor and I don't want
to get ahead of ourselves because I
think there is a very very strong
movement in your and your book your book
is part of sort of the intellectual case
that is being developed now so that
lawmakers are compelled to do something
in the event that Democrats have the
ability to do something you know after
the twenty twenty election but let's go
back to 803 to 1803 rather and and talk
about how the court changed here and I
and I have to say this too that one of
the things I think that that you know is
clear is that a lot of what we're seeing
with the court today is it's reverting
to where head is traditionally been
right like the court has always been
certainly like in the lead up to the to
the civil war and and and really in a
dramatic fashion I think you know during
reconstruction and then throughout Jim
Crow the court really functions and we
could talk about this sort of the these
smaller aspects of the court remember
the or the cases that that that that
deal with different aspects of society
but from a structural standpoint the
court has been has intervened
to make sure that it allowed the scales
to be tipped in favor of powerful
interests you know when I'm talking
about like Jim Crow and whatnot a lot of
that vote suppression you know Congress
may have opened the door on some level
with
you know with the with the limitations
and put on the Thirteenth Amendment but
the court certainly sort of like busted
that door open and said yes the anyway
you can come up with disenfranchising
black voters or frankly and poor voters
go for it and because the the court was
always edifying power largely and then
you know there was a we had you know
thirty years I think of the court in the
mid twentieth century where that was
reversed for a time but right basically
the Warren Court yeah yeah which is why
which is why the John Birch Society with
Fred cokes money had billboards all
across America this at a future Earl
Warren throughout the 50s and 60 delete
50s and throughout the 60s all right but
let's go back to to 1803 so when we talk
about the court just explain to us what
was the when the court was contemplated
and you know I mean I think there's only
so much we can do but it's important for
people to understand the the point of
this look what was the court
contemplated as being and then what was
it in 1803 that that shifted its role
and and how did that happen well
originally the Supreme Court was set up
to be basically the court of last resort
you had to have a place where the buck
finally stopped so you know if your dog
ate my chicken and and one of us sued
the other and you know one of us wins
and then the other one appeals it goes
back and forth and back and forth and
eventually it gets to you know it keeps
going up and up and up the food chain of
the courts it has to stop somewhere and
that was the Supreme Court so the
Supreme Court was considered the
appellate court the final appellate
court that the court of final appeal in
addition to being the court that would
adjudicate arguments between the states
or between the United States and other
countries those were the basic three
functions of the Supreme Court and as
Alexander Hamilton wrote in Federalist
number 81 this is in June of 1788 he
said the authority of the Supreme Court
the United States which is to be a
separate independent body the power of
construing the laws well actually let me
jump to the next sentence in the first
place there is not a silver this is
Alexander Hamilton in the first place
there is not a syllable in the plan
under consideration which directly
empowers the national courts to construe
the laws according to the spirit of the
Constitution or which gives them any
greater latitude in this respect than
may be claimed by the courts of every
state in other words the Supreme Court
in Hamilton's mind and this is how it
was sold to people in the Federalist
Papers and and how it's written in the
Constitution the Supreme Court is the
final Court of Appeals but doesn't have
the power to say this is or is not
constitutional does not have the power
to strike down laws a process that's
referred to as judicial review or
judicial supremacy and in fact the the
part of the Constitution that
specifically authorizes the Supreme
Court article 3 section 2 reads very
simply you know all cases affecting
ambassadors these are the this is that
other area where the court has original
jurisdiction in all cases affecting
ambassadors other public ministers and
consuls and those in which a state shall
be a party the Supreme Court shall have
original jurisdiction in all the other
cases before mentioned the Supreme Court
shall have appellate jurisdiction where
it's the final appeals court both as to
law and fact with such exceptions the
word exceptions is capitalized and under
such regulations and that word is
capitalized as the Congress shall make
so the court you know was basically the
the dogs and chickens court and in 1803
there was a case that had to do with the
Judiciary Act of 1790 7 that you know
without going into a whole lot of detail
basically in this case the court struck
down a law which had been passed by
Congress and signed by President Adams
or President Jefferson or John
Washington which ever it was in any case
yeah I was washing it was a judiciary
x17 I I don't have the year anyhow so
the court struck this law down and
Thomas Jefferson went absolutely nuts he
he wrote and I'll just give you a couple
of quotes these are in the book the
opinion which gives to the judges the
right to decide what laws are
constitutional and what not not only for
themselves in their own sphere of action
but for the legislative and executive
also in their spheres would make the
judiciary a despotic branch if this
Marbury decision be sound then indeed is
our Constitution a complete fellow to
say which is Latin for a suicide pact
the Constitution on this hypothesis is a
mere thing of wax in the hands of the
judiciary I mean he was just outraged
but the problem he had was that he had
won the case
and so he couldn't appeal his own
victory and but there was such an
explosion in 1803 around the Marbury
case that John Marshall who was probably
the longest serving chief justice in
history or one of them sir Sidney
never again used judicial review you
know in a consequential way and in fact
the court just totally stayed away from
this all the way up until 1856 the
second time that they used judicial
review for a consequential decision and
that was when Chief Justice Roger xx
decided that he would once and for all
resolve the slavery issue in the Dred
Scott decision which of course caused
the Civil War led to the Civil War
exacerbated the the power you know the
the the movement toward the Civil War so
historically the court did not decide
which laws were constitutional in which
weren't historically the court did not
strike down laws and historically the
court did not write laws and and with
those two exceptions in the first 80
years the existence of this country the
court never did any of those things
they started aggressively doing doing
that sort of thing in the in the 1880s
after the failure of Reconstruction and
you know picked up some steam with the
lockdoor court in the 1920s slowed down
in the in the 1930s and then went nuts
again with the Reagan administration and
and and and we should say I mean I think
you know the partly responsible for the
failure of reconstruction frankly
by my okaying you know these
restrictions on voting but but getting
back to article 3 section 2 has there
ever been and so so the court asserts
itself and takes essentially rights if
you will or duties that are not
enumerated or granted to it by the
Constitution is there ever a time where
Congress says hey wait a second under
Section 2 we have the ability you know
and I maybe this is what you're talking
about in terms of like removing
jurisdiction but we have the ability to
to limit the I mean the the Supreme
Court shall have the appellate
jurisdiction both is to law in fact with
such exceptions and under such
regulations as Congress shall make the
erratically Congress should you know
could say you don't have the ability to
to conceptualize the the second
amendment you don't have the ability to
that that we mean could could Congress
strike down the Civil Rights Act yeah
yeah I'm absolutely well no way to
signal
two different things like so so I mean
does does can Congress say you don't
have the ability to interpret the second
amendment it seems to me they're on
stronger footing to say you don't have
the ability to if we have a you Nana you
know if we have ratified the Voting
Rights Act section 5 I mean you can't
it's one thing for them to say you can't
interpret the Constitution it's another
thing for them to say you can't overturn
our laws particularly if it's not you
know unlike an explicit constitutional
grounds I mean I guess maybe that was
their argument was section 5 didn't
somehow it was like a 14th amendment
that's ironic it was a constitutional
argument that they made and when they
when they stripped the Voting Rights Act
and it's always a constitutional
argument sometimes they really have the
shoe
but they recognize that that's the one
area where they have Authority or have
acquired or taken Authority but Phyllis
Schlafly and I used to talk about this a
lot on the air she wrote a book called
The Supremes about this and she told me
on the air on us several occasions that
back when Tom Daschle was the head of
the Senate that in one of the farm bills
he had included a court stripping
provision and I think it had to do with
ethanol basically saying that the
supreme court could not challenge this
law now I looked for that when I was
writing this book and was unable to find
it but I kind of gave up in frustration
after going through you know hundreds
and hundreds of pages of laws but you
know the where it gets real interest is
in in the early 1980s the Reagan
administration wanted to overturn two
Supreme Court decisions the first was
the 1954 Brown versus Board of Education
decision that that you know outlawed
segregation and overturned the 1898
you know separate-but-equal Plessy
versus Ferguson decision I'm at John
Roberts was was in the was in the the
the DOJ working on that well we'll get
to that just a second and then secondly
they wanted to overturn roe v wade the
1973 decision so ed Meese hired this
young lawyer to come into the Reagan
White House and gave him the singular
assignment to spend a year figuring out
how without a constitutional amendment
which is typically how we've overturned
Supreme Court decisions without a
constitutional amendment could a an
entirely Republican House Senate and
White House overturn these two decisions
and this young lawyer worked on this and
he came up with a rather substantial
document see I've got it my hands here I
see how many pages it is it's like 50 Oh
it's 26 pages
he wrote this incredible 26 page draft
in which he starts literally with the
founders and the and the Federalist
Papers in the Constitution and ends at
the present moment and says yes under
article 3 section 2 Congress
easily pass a law which says that the
Supreme Court may not review it and
Congress could simply pass a law saying
that you know segregated schools are
just fine in the United States and that
women do not have the power to decide
whether or not to have an abortion and
that that report kind of got buried I
don't think anybody's ever seen it
before I was amazed when I came across
it and it was written by John Roberts
himself who was working in the DOJ at
that time as you as you point out and
he's now the Chief Justice of the US
Supreme Court so you know the Reagan
administration never did that I mean one
of the things that Roberts points out in
his report is that doing this will
create will be like a nuclear bomb going
off at DC politically speaking and you
know it'll it'll provoke a
constitutional crisis because no doubt
the court will say no you can't do that
and the Legislature will say yes I can
and there is no mechanism for resolving
a dispute between the court and the
other two branches the court has claimed
that they have primacy that they're
there they have the final say in all
matters and nobody knows how that would
shake out but that's the last chapter of
my book it's it's titled in cases
emergency break glass that's like you
know if all else fails we can use John
Roberts suggestion to get around the
court now there's other things that are
probably much less problematic like
doing what FDR tried to do in 1937 which
is increase the size of the court which
has been done a number of times over the
years both increase and decrease
actually when when Andrew Johnson became
president a member of the Supreme Court
died in the first few months after he
became president and he was going to
appoint a new member and Congress which
hated Johnson I mean keep in mind they
tried to impeach him and came within one
vote of doing it Isana
Congress got together and they passed a
law saying that the number of members of
the Supreme Court would go from 7 which
is where it was then down to 6 and so
Johnson couldn't appoint a new Supreme
Court justice and that lasted until
Johnson left office as soon as he left
office and the next president was
installed but Congress came back and
added a seventh person to the Supreme
Court and that person was appointed by
the next president I'm sorry I don't
remember who followed John
but whoever it was that's that's what
happened I think might have been ulysses
s grant yeah and and and so let's talk
about this I mean you know and and folks
should read this to sort of follow the
the court which you know largely again
but for the the Warren Court here has
been on the side of corporate power of
established power that may have been
corporate power moneyed power I mean
throughout our history I mean like you
know like we say you know the Dred Scott
probably was one of the things that lit
a match on the the Civil War insofar as
it brought about you know to had a sort
of argument between the north and the
south as to slavery and the expansion of
slavery and you know what what the the
the federal government what rights the
federal government had in regards to
this and then we so as people read that
let's talk about potential solutions
like as you know the the I think you
know largely this book like this creates
the sets that starts to set the table
for people to see that we have a
structural problem with the Supreme
Court I know you go through this notion
and you just talked about you know the
the number of justices on the court
let's talk about term limits and I'm
curious from your perspective a what is
the best result if you could snap your
fingers and then B what is the best
approach to get to that result presuming
that you don't have the ability to snap
your fingers and having create this type
of reform right well the the in a way
what franklin roosevelt was proposing in
37 was term limits he didn't suggest
that anybody be removed from the court
the constitution quite clearly says that
during times of good behavior which
might be an interesting exception with
regard to
beer bog weenie waver but in any case
during times of good behavior judges
federal judges whether it's the Supreme
Court or any other federal judge have
lifetime appointment so it's just period
so the question isn't how do you get
somebody off the Supreme Court by
retiring them the question is how do you
move them into some other federal
judiciary position and the what Franklin
Roosevelt suggested was that all the
justices who were over 70 years old
which at that time was 505 of them would
become one would it would end up with
one vote they would all become justices
emeritus collectively they would have
one vote and that new justices would be
brought into the court to make up the
missing for votes and so that's one way
to do it they're still on the court they
just have their roles changed they've
been regulated by Congress and that was
presumably entirely constitutional the
way that is being talked about more
frequently these days you know by
progressive activists and and Democratic
politicians is saying that after a
certain number of years on the court a
justice moves off the Supreme Court and
back into the federal into the federal
bench and there was a way they would go
back say they came out of the Ninth
Circuit and went to the Supreme Court
they'd go back to the night so typically
it's the DC Circuit or the First Circuit
but you know wherever they go back home
where they were but there's still a
federal judge and they still have a job
for life and and that you would try to
do this in a way that the justices are
retired in a in a staggered fashion so
that every president had you know every
four-year term of a presidency has an
opportunity to appoint one or two
Supreme Court justices guaranteed this I
mean you know and that it only becomes a
larger number than that if somebody dies
or retires untimely all of those are
viable soon yeah I mean I think Matt
Ford in the New Republic had had a
scheme that and I've heard other schemes
that involved that notion of rotating
maintaining their lifetime appointments
to the judiciary just
rotating them through different places
in the judiciary between the the
appellate level and the Supreme Court
itself what what is it about when we
hear FDR escort packing there's a lot of
people who talk about it as if it was
apocalyptic and it was it was an affront
on democracy and that it was very
dangerous you know there's there's
definitely that sort of notion out there
that like that's such a radical idea
where did that come from that comes out
of the Republican Party that is a
historic it doesn't comport with the
actual historical record although you
know I think I've told you this story
back when I first moved to Washington DC
years and years ago or you know started
doing our show from DC this is like you
know 15 years ago or 13 years ago
something like that I was given a tour
of one of the conservative think tanks
and I was down in their basement and
there was this large room with maybe
2030 people sitting at computers and as
I was walking around and then you know
young people working on computers and I
was I was walking around pretty much all
of them had Wikipedia huh and they were
editing Wikipedia pages I'm just a
lickety-split and it's amazing to me in
writing these books as I'm doing
research you know the first one was on
guns this one's on the Supreme Court the
one coming out in the spring is on the
war on voting the one I'm wrapping up
right now is on monopoly how often I
find just naked right-wing bias in
Wikipedia entries whether it has to do
with the Great Depression you know or
smoot-hawley or the presidency of
Franklin Roosevelt or anything else the
simple fact is that FDR was pushing
through a bunch of progressive reforms
in his first term from 1933 to 1932 the
two January night earth the large
January 37 and and the Supreme Court
kept knocking them down he passed a law
that said child labor was illegal the
Supreme Court declared unconstitutional
II created the American
construction agency I forget the name of
our something and which included
long-term unemployment insurance and you
know the the WPA programs like this that
that would have provided long term jobs
to people Supreme Court knocked them
down and over and over and over again
and the Supreme Court was knocking these
cases down and in 37 the Supreme Court
was set to hear Social Security and so
America was just absolutely on edge the
the majority of Americans loved Franklin
Roosevelt he was overwhelmingly popular
and he had a strong Democratic House and
Senate but the Republicans were
hysterical they were convinced the
Social Security with socialism that we
had started down the road to communism
that we were on our way to becoming the
Soviet Union that long-term unemployment
insurance that child labor laws all of
these things were proof that FDR was a
communist and so FDR realizing that
Social Security was on the line and not
just Social Security also the the Wagner
Act was going to be decided in the court
term of 37 which was the National Labor
Relations Act which made it legal to
have a labor union and some mistakes
were like really really high and so FDR
knowing that the court in all
probability would strike these things
down started doing a sales pitch for
expanding the number of members of the
court and the blow back from the
Republicans was absolute screaming
hysteria but when you go back and
actually read actually read histories at
the time and I quote them rather
extensively in my book you find that the
majority of the public actually
supported FDR and he could have he could
have done it the thing that pulled the
plug on it the reason he didn't do it is
that the two of the justices there were
there were four justices that were
constantly that voted against him on
every single case and they could usually
get a fifth one to come along they refer
to themselves as the four horsemen the
two of these justices changed their mind
in one of the critical decisions in 37
right in the middle of FDR trying to
sell his core packing
and it turns out and this was something
I found in a in a some correspondence
that Francis Perkins had with her sister
turns out that Francis Perkins had a
conversation with this guy's wife and it
was probably the thing that turned him
and so once that happened the court
started agreeing with FDR they agreed
with him on Social Security they agreed
with him on labor unions and he was left
with no political constituency anymore
right yeah it was no longer an emergency
and so he abandoned his court packing
scheme he was not defeated you know the
way that you if you read it on Wikipedia
and some of this revisionist right-wing
BS what you hear is that you know the
Republicans successfully fought him back
no not the case well I don't hold out a
lot of hope for someone convincing Jenny
Thomas to to impact the future Court
decisions so we may be looking at and so
from a strategic standpoint what what do
you think you're advising president
Sanders or President Warren God willing
God willing what do you advise them
let's just assume that they have the
Senate to I mean what from a strategic
standpoint do you go for expansion of
the court or do you say I'm going to
threaten expansion of the court to get
to get term limits or the Congress
should vote to narrow this the the
jurisdiction the Supreme Court has
uncertain issues what what do you choose
in 37 they're the you know public
opinion polling was not as well
developed as it is now but there were
there were a number of ways to measure
public opinion and just 20 years earlier
when the Lochner Court was you know
striking things down we're taking
right-wing positions they were still
viewed as a credible and legitimate
institution by 37 the majority of
Americans viewed the court the Supreme
Court as a political body and the Warren
Court kind of pulled that back
and and and well really the the 3738 you
know going forward Court the Supreme
Court kind of regained their own
credibility over the years but I think
we're at that point again where the
majority of people see the court is a
political agent and so as such my advice
would be do all of the above proposed
legislation that includes court
stripping provisions that go after the
court with proposed term limits proposed
expanding the court I you know I would
assuming that the and this is a huge
assumption as you Sam
assuming that in the election of 2020
that not only do we get the white house
but that we get a substantial majority
on the House and Senate and if that's
the case then I would go for not just
the cosmetic changes and not just the
fight of the day I would go for major
permanent long term structural change
well like you said God willing Thom
Hartmann it is always a pleasure we will
put a link to the hidden history of the
Supreme Court and the betrayal of
America at majority dot F M always a
pleasure thanks so much time I really
appreciate it thank you Sam I always
enjoy talking with you and I really
appreciate your having
