yep
CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any eleiza they are
unanimous in that hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday May 7th 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Eric Blanc author of red state revolt
teachers strikes and working-class
politics also on the program today it's
impossible because of course there was
no underlying crime but so we've been
told but 500 prosecutors 500 former
federal prosecutors say Trump would have
been charged with obstruction were he
not president also on the program today
Steve minuchin appoints himself Supreme
Court justice and rules he is not
compelled by the law to release Trump's
taxes to House committees just does it
feel red ok meanwhile Kamala Harris
calls for full Trump tax repeal Boeing
knew about safety alert problems on the
737 for a year without telling the FBI
BFA New York Attorney General sues IRS
and Treasury for ignoring records
requests the White House Office of
Management and Budget floats redefining
poverty to make it harder for folks to
get food and child support meanwhile
Donald Trump pardons a war criminal
and new video taken by Sandra bland
released prompts calls to reopen her
case all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen forgive me
I have probably you probably have
already noticed I have what I think is
the early development of a cold sore
throat my throat is slowly contracting
and I'm anticipating by the end of this
program I will not be able to breathe so
we shall see and endeavor to persevere
as we go forward but I am buoyed by this
Jerry Falwell to eat from yesterday he
writes this is oh I should say this is
Jerry Falwell a junior sadly the
original Jerry Falwell has left the
building as it were headed up of course
to heaven where guys like him go
and after the best week ever for Donald
Trump
he writes no obstruction no collusion
New York time admits Barack Obama did
spy on its campaign and the economy is
soaring I now support reparations Trump
should have two years added to his first
term as payback for time stolen by this
corrupt failed coup this of course was
retweeted by the president United States
Donald J Trump heart cosine come good
news Arty's Iker endorsements I mean
this is you know Donald Trump strategy
is to and
there gonna be a theme here today
actually is to rally the support of a
narrow group of people in this country
to maintain the and the support of his
base and we'll hear to I think from Eric
Blanc and when we talk about the teacher
strikes for years I've been doing this
on you know radio or in some form or
another and the the least informed
critique I have ever received about
doing this stuff the most consistent and
least informed critique has been you're
just preaching to the choir I think well
people are starting to come to
understand is it's the choir who
actually determines the outcome of a lot
of these things
it was the choir as it were maybe even
the clergy who were responsible for
these these strikes across the country
or at least the catalyst for it and
we're starting to realize that I think
there's broader understanding that more
and more you have to play to your base
and not just play to your base but
motivate your base because they are the
people that go out and do all the work
there's a significant percentage of the
American public who are simply along for
the ride and you need to have your base
go pick them up at their homes and get
them involved in stuff whether it's
voting or and these are not mutually
exclusive activities but activism and
whatnot organizing and so Donald Trump
knows it's I mean he's trolling and he
writes following that despite the
tremendous success that I've had as
president including perhaps the greatest
economy and most successful two years of
any president in history
tell me about it preach they have stolen
two years of my and then he's kind
enough
put in parentheses our presidency in
more parentheses collusion delusion that
we will never be able to get back so
witch hunt is over but we will never
forget which of course is a slogan about
that they use about the Holocaust we
will never forget make America great
again and there it is Donald Trump
calling for reparations hoping to get a
six year term for his presidency and you
know you start to figure out the
calculations he's I think he's thinking
if I if I can get stay in the presidency
until my 80s I am I am going to bet that
no court will sentence me to prison
after I get out because I mean look on a
day when 500 former prosecutors say that
were it not for the Department of
Justice's finding that you cannot indict
a sitting president therefore that being
policy amongst anyone who is working for
the Department of Justice ie Muller
Donald Trump would have been charged
with obstruction of justice the whole
point why you have obstruction of
justice is because it obstructs your
ability to seek justice in other words
it prevents law enforcement from being
able to prove a possible crime it's
quite clear from the report that Muller
is laying out saying that there are
instances where we just don't really
know we don't have access to this but we
clearly have less because of the line
and of the trading for pardons and
whatnot and there is increasing
speculation and assessment of the report
that basically and in fact Muller writes
it in the report we are attempting to
memorialize the
evidence here so that it doesn't go
stale for when the president leaves the
office and the reason why you do that
it's not just for the history books and
so you know I'm sure Donald Trump is
very very interested in winning a second
term because it's probably despite the
fact that the White House is a little
bit rougher than he's used to and he
likes my logo still more comfortable
than prisoner there's executive time his
ways making do right exactly
if I sleep long enough into the day
doesn't bother me a lot of you know
leaders Putin Mugabe
yeah the part of their calculus was if I
leave
specifically trouble
but and we'll talk about this later in
the program
pardoning a war criminal really sends a
great message and I'm I'm being literal
the guy spent five years in prison for a
war crime so we will we will get to all
that and more and of course we'll be
talking Eric Blanc who I've spoken to a
couple of times on ring of fire radio
who has been covering really I mean the
I guess the biggest element of of what
we've seen in a resurgence of of Labor
actions across the country over the past
year and change in fact I think there's
one going on still right now in
Tennessee involving teachers we'll talk
to Eric about that in the meantime folks
we're just a couple of days away from
Mother's Day and it's coming up and
there's nothing we wouldn't do to make
sure the special moms in our lives are
happy Sherri's berries has special
Mother's Day berries designed just for
Mom they're topped with chocolate chips
pink shimmer sugar and swizzles I should
I should note because I see them so
vividly in my mind right now those are
three different toppings on the
strawberries all equally delicious and
you get to choose the delivery date to
ensure that mom gets your gift of
Sherry's berries exactly when you want
her to better yet your satisfaction is
always guaranteed these the berries are
delicious they come packed in a sort of
a cooler type of situation that keeps
them absolutely fresh your mom will open
up and if you're smart you will be there
when they arrive and you will get double
order so that you will eat you can eat
literally six of them and she will still
have plenty for herself don't wait until
the last minute on this one visit
berries dot-com today to order freshly
dipped strawberries at
1999 for mom or moms in your life and to
make mom really happy or in my case so
that you can eat just as many berries as
she does you can double the berries for
just $10 more Mother's Day is Sunday May
12th visit berries dot-com that's BER RI
es dot-com click on the microphone in
the upper right hand corner enter my
code cedar that's berries calm click on
the microphone
enter the code cedar not just for
Mother's Day but they're very good gift
for Mother's Day also do you like the
thrill of an escape room looking for
clues and solving puzzles I play a lot
of clue and my kids yeah they really do
like that introducing Hunter Killer it's
a monthly subscription game where you
become a detective immersed in a murder
mystery each month you'll receive crime
scene photos evidence motive and a
suspect information that you'll need to
use to solve a crime it's so interactive
and convincing that it looks and feels
real you'll be racking your brain to
solve the mystery and anxiously awaiting
the next box of clues it's perfect to
play solo during date night or with
friends for a game night so you can swap
theories started to do this a little bit
with my leg got a little bit intense for
her but it's cool you wait for wait
intense like were you like the Dave
Chappelle sketch where he had the
make-a-wish kid gets to play video games
with him and he ends up terrorizing the
kid is that what you mean no not quite
but it's it's super cool waiting for
those the next clues that you get and
it's it's nice to not have it all be you
know in your hand as it were with the
phone's right now just for our listeners
you can go to Hunter Killer comm slash
majority for 20% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hurry up to take advantage of this offer
hunt a killer dot-com / majority for 20%
off your first box hunter-killer comm /
majority alright we're gonna take a
quick break when we come back eric block
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report don't forget you can support this
show by becoming a member and supporting
the program getting extra content every
day getting it commercial free by
heading to join the majority report calm
now on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program
erik blanc he is a former high school
teacher writes about labour and author
of red state revolt the teachers strike
wave and working-class politics
welcome to the program Eric thanks for
having me back on so Eric we've spoken
in the past on Ring of Fire a radio as a
lot of these strikes were happening over
the course of 2018 and in we really did
have a resurgence of of Labor activity
by teachers particularly in states that
haven't seen much labor action in years
let's start with with West Virginia what
what brought about that that you know
what were the different forces that that
spurred that that strike well in some
ways the big stories how similar the
conditions are for teachers across the
country so in West Virginia like in most
states they pay has been stagnating
there's been a real concerted
underfunding of schools particularly
since the Great Recession a push towards
privatization and generally speaking
there hasn't been the type of massive
resistance until very recently despite
these conditions and so really one of
the particularity of West Virginia is
that in part because there's no
collective bargaining and the unions are
relatively weaker that created a bit of
a political vacuum in which a relatively
small group of radical teachers who
first got organized together through the
Bernie Sanders campaign and then the
Democratic socialists of America group
came out of that they were able to take
the lead in late 2017 to fight in the
direction of a strike to stop a proposed
increase of almost two times that cost
for health care and so they really
initiated this rank-and-file upsurge
that then in turn spread across the
country
so the the I guess the paradox here is
that the the lack of an institution
allowed for more aggressive elements I
guess amongst the teachers to to step in
like is what you're saying and let me
ask you this how much and before we go
you know any further we talking about
the the dynamics of these strikes how
much did No Child Left Behind and race
to the top and impact this because I
just remember talking to elementary
school teachers of of my of my
daughter's you know maybe 10 years ago
and them telling me some of the older
teachers saying that you know the
younger teachers who come in they don't
have the sort of same sense of what they
can do as a teacher and it disempowers
them across the board but was there any
I mean did was the the so-called
education reform movement of the late
Ott's or the aughts in the the early
teens was that was that implicated at
all in any of this
oh yeah it's a huge part of the story
because really what you're seeing is on
the one hand stagnating pay worse
working conditions and in turn combined
with that you have just the practice of
being a decent teacher has been made
much harder by this over testing regime
in particular and overall kind of
disciplining and semi-authoritarian
incursion into the classroom in which
teachers are really prevented from
having the necessary autonomy to be good
teachers and start teaching to the book
start teaching to the test and so you
have this combination of factors in
which teachers want to do a good job you
know a lot of us get into the
profession because we believe in what we
are doing but the corporate IDI reform
pushed by the Democrats just as much I
mean some ways even more than the
Republicans made doing our job
increasingly difficult and that plus the
low pay underfunding had a very explicit
mix so all right so let's go back to to
West Virginia I mean in what was unique
because West Virginia basically started
a rash of strikes if you will that went
from West Virginia to Virginia Oklahoma
I guess North Carolina and Kentucky
Georgia Colorado Arizona ultimately in
LA this year and South Carolina North
Carolina and the just in the past couple
weeks not even past week or so so all
right so but what what was unique about
West Virginia relative to those other
states were there other elements I mean
you talked about this the the political
vacuum that is a function of it being a
right-to-work state
were there other dynamics that that were
taking place there that were unique to
West Virginia yeah there's a reason it
started in West Virginia and I think
part of that is the history of labor
militancy in the state you know this
gets over drawn a little bit some of the
mainstream reports give the impression
that you know everyone there is coal
miners son or daughter and it's not
exactly like that but there's an aspect
of truth to that story particularly in
the beginning parts of the strike where
you know there was a very deep fear
across the state in West Virginia liking
other states to take an illegal action
these were strikes that broke the law
you know public sector strikes are
illegal in most states of the country
including West Virginia and it took the
initial kind of barring that and sort
courage
of teachers in the southern part of West
Virginia Mingo County Wyoming County in
which there really is still a very real
tradition of Labor militancy that does
have its roots going back almost a
century to the mine Wars of the early
20th century and there they really put
their neck out for the rest of the state
and ultimately the rest of the country
by doing some initial one-day walkouts
that inspired other teachers across the
state and that in turn inspired people
across the country I do think that that
history of labor militancy at least in
this pocket of southern West Virginia
served as a catalyst that explains why
West Virginia was first and and and just
also just you know outline for us there
is there are unions or associations
there right I mean we did explain to us
just what the dynamic is in terms of
like the institutions that exist there
and I'm curious as to what your sense is
of what they learned that's a good
question
yeah they're they're actually three
education unions in West Virginia for
the most part like most evenings across
the country they've limited themselves
over the last years and decades to
lobbying the Democratic Party and that
has been ineffective in large part
because the Democratic Party when in
power in West Virginia which actually
ran West Virginia for 80 straight years
I was almost one-party rule up until
just 2014 you know imposed really
draconian budget cuts and anti working
class policies so it's understandable
why neither the unions or the Democratic
Party as a kind of enthusiasm that one
might expect so
the unions really had to get pushed into
supporting these strikes to their credit
for the most part they did eventually
come on board the union leadership were
reticent but under pressure ended up
supporting the strikes and that was
important because the unions did provide
resources and an infrastructure in West
Virginia for the strike to cohere you
the leadership of these unions didn't
take the initial impetus and so I think
it's a little bit unclear to be honest
what the lessons learned by the union
leadership is you know we should
distinguish the members from the top
representative one of the exciting
things about West Virginia and a lot of
these other strikes is that in their
wake there's been thousands of people
have joined the Union and some of these
radical rank-and-file errs who really
push towards the strike have also won
local if not statewide office and have
pushed to build a caucus and to really
do the type of transformative
organizational and political change that
will be necessary to have real lasting
power and have a union that doesn't just
have to get pushed at the last minute
into supporting action but can actually
initiate it initiate a strategic
campaign okay so you had this first
strike in in West Virginia it was
resolved about three weeks later right I
think the first week of March or so or
maybe the second week of March yeah
that's right and and so how much and
then we saw then shortly after that we
saw one in Virginia that was a little
bit more limited but then we saw
Oklahoma and we saw Arizona and Colorado
and Georgia
what did folks from West Virginia had
their I mean how much was how much was
being communicated there how much was
these how much were these strikes like
sort of cross pollinating each other
yeah that's a really good question
I think it's probably useful to think of
that running out a few different
parallel tracks the big story is that
when West Virginia happened it captured
the imagination of teachers across the
country it partly because it was such an
explosive and really inspirational
strike it did garner a lot of attention
both more organically through social
media and also through the national
press so it caught the imagination of
teachers particularly in red states who
you know for years
so that actually nothing could be done
to stop this sort of onslaught against
their profession and against school
because they didn't have the right to
strike they didn't have strong unions
and collective bargaining so they just
had to take it and all of a sudden
almost virtually overnight West Virginia
snaps that and gave people a sense of
hope and courage and determination and
one of the really interesting things
when I did pain abuse for the book and
also just traveling around is over and
over and over again I hear the same
story from the organizers of these
strikes and other states but they said
you know for us things were actually
really kind of dead there's very low
momentum until West Virginia and West
Virginia lit a fire in our state and
gave us a sense that something different
was possible so that's on the big level
and then there was some discussion in
between some of the key organizers about
strategies and tactics labor notes which
is sort of the left wing of the labor
movement provided an important space for
that to happen where organically some of
the rank-and-file teachers could shake
lessons could talk about steps could
organize solidarity for one another one
of the really exciting kind of
remarkable aspects of these strikes is
how much the role of solidarity and
particularly things like ending money
for food and pizza or just taking photos
of oneself in your school and sport of
strikers elsewhere it was a really
central aspect of the strike in part
because the major national union at
least in 2018 did not really step up to
support the strikes like they should
have they've done a little bit better
now but at the time it really had to be
much more organic over social media and
these relatively loose network to
support the other teachers going out on
strike so you have a broad process of
inspiration and then some cross
pollinate pollination strategically
through key organizers interesting so in
many respects the West Virginia ended up
being sort of the emperor has no clothes
moment for other strikers or potential
strikers I guess to to realize
the power they had within their labour
so talk to me about the the relationship
between the the strikers and the
community at large because this is
something that you know I think we saw
first with the Chicago Teachers strike
now I guess seven eight years ago this
this notion of maybe we didn't see at
first but we saw it most prominently I
think in in recent times this notion of
social justice unionism where and
teachers are are very well situated for
this obviously because of the nature of
the relationship between teachers and
the students and the parents of students
in the community but how much was that
in practice where the the the strikers
the union were were garnering community
support and actually you know fighting
on behalf of the community in many
respects yes a huge part of the story
public sector strike in general and
teacher strikes in particular really
depend on winning and maintaining public
support you can't really win a strike
without that because unlike in the
private sector you don't have the power
to halt profit and so your leverage in
large part is by garnering public
support creating a crisis and then
channeling that anger and sort of crisis
dynamic against the politicians so the
the need to win over the public is not a
secondary question it's really essential
and as you mentioned Chicago in 2012 did
really set into motion a much broader
understanding amongst teacher activists
of the potential for this kind of
alliance building and turning West
Virginia that took a lot of different
forms part of it may be most famously
was that the teachers before beginning
their strike that a lot of time
preparing food and back lunches to give
to their students because in West
Virginia liking
States working class students depend on
the free lunch and often free breakfast
provided and so to undercut the media
and politician narrative that teachers
were hurting their students by going on
strike the teachers that a huge amount
of time and financial resources to make
sure that food was provided and in fact
after spending eight nine ten hours on
the picket line or at the Capitol very
often they would spend hours in the
evening hand delivering bag lunches to
families so that students could eat the
next day so small actions like that made
a big difference and then also bigger
demands on behalf of students and really
working-class families generally we're
just as important you know so in
Oklahoma in Arizona the major demands of
the strike in addition to pay were just
for more funding for students that
students needed to be able to have
classrooms in which their chairs weren't
broken in which the roofs weren't
leaking and which had textbook 15 years
old and these types of demand made it
clear to the public at large that the
strikes weren't just quote unquote
greedy teachers but were in fact strike
on behalf of students and parents as
well so what that particular element and
I'm curious as to you know if there's
any theories or you know principles that
have come out of the experience that
these teachers have had that you spoke
to where that dynamic can be replicated
in contexts where there isn't it's it's
just frankly just not so easy or you
know I mean in this instance it's like
okay the the teachers have a very clear
you know advocacy role for their their
students they have already pre-existing
relationships with and in benefit the
doubt from parents right who deal with
them on a daily basis very often want to
talk to them anyways
how how are those that that element
right extrapolated for let's say like
people who are working in sanitation
departments or people who are working
you know in the highway workers or
whatever it is like how how is there
been work on as far as you know not just
you know this cross-pollination in terms
of teacher to teacher from state to
state but teachers to other public
sector workers who have you know
communicating those ideas yeah there's
definitely initiatives in that direction
part of the part of the dynamic is as
you mentioned that there is something t
dick about the position that teachers
are in as far as their direct
interaction with a huge amount of public
that being said it's if we take a step
back there's quite a few industries that
are similar so the most obvious parallel
is health care and a lot of health care
is public and so it's not a surprise I
think that the other sector of Industry
other than education where you've seen a
significant number of strikes recently
has been health care the dynamics are
very similar you have nurses struggling
for lower nurse to patient ratios which
is an almost exact parallel to teachers
fighting for lower class size which is
more the major demand for instance in
Los Angeles so there's quite a few
industries in which the public interface
can be leveraged and I think other
public sector jobs are similar you can
make a case that if for instance you
want better public transportation where
you need to have more funding for public
transportation and part of that is
hiring more workers it's part of that is
expanding public transportation so that
for instance you can move away from the
fossil fuel complex those huge
implications if you just take it
back over on the green new deal for
expanding the public sector and having
unions who right now might be very
narrowly focused on just interest their
members if they're able to raise the
demand to expand public services for all
and to lower cost actually that's a very
direct point of leverage that can be
used the reason it hasn't been is not
because it's impossible but for the same
reasons that has been leveraged in
education until recently is that you
didn't really have enough ranking sylars
and radicals pushing in that direction I
think one of the real particularity in
of education is that for various reasons
you have more left-leaning workers you
know people who go into it maybe be the
profession because of social justice
reasons so you have a critical mass that
can push but historically these other
industries in the thirties forties even
well into the 50s did employ a sort of
social justice unionism in which they
fought not just for their members for
working class as a whole so I don't
think there's a structural reason why
that can't be spread the main difficulty
is just resources and you need people
and pushing in that direction I mean are
we when we look at this is are we
looking at a the when we say why now is
it is it a function of of just simply
you know time plus deprivation at one
point the the the camel's back breaks or
is it that there are people going into
this profession now who have more
radical ideas or is it just simply a
combination I mean is it I mean what we
looking at you know sort of like the the
natural progression coming out of the
financial crisis that you have a
generation of people who who have much
less opportunity so they're much more
open to you know the the idea of
fighting to to get you know some basic
basic pay and services and they go into
the teachers
fashion and this is a profession that
has been you know do repeatedly denied
over years I mean is it a combination of
those things there's a one factor more
prominent than the other that's really
good question
I think it's hard to separate these out
in so far as the general condition that
the economic recession and austerity and
really decades of neoliberalism created
are the same condition that led a
smaller group of people to become
organized radicals and so the way that
that context plays out is different or
let's say a Republican voting teacher
who went out on strike they are
ideologically not as committed to some
sort of social justice strategy but in
practice are moving in the same
direction and are willing to fight back
and then those same conditions certainly
inform the trajectory of a smaller group
of folks who radicalized through the
Bernie Sanders campaign and then took
the initiative on these strikes so you
know taking a step back what I see is
the really unique thing about the strike
wave is how reflective it is of broader
social dynamics in the country and one
of the reasons why it doesn't feel and
there's no indication that this is a
one-off because as you mentioned it's a
reaction against not just this or that
policy but really a generalized
underfunding of the public sector and I
think in some ways it's reflective of a
disenchantment with the political center
and the status quo in the United States
as a whole so the same type of phenomena
that you see with the rise of Bernie
Sanders the rebirth of a socialist
movement through the kind of reborn
democratic socialism America and the
strike wave all of these both feed off
of each other in very concrete ways and
a reflective of a generalized push in
the direction of more radical more
working-class politics so give us a
sense of just you know how these strikes
turned out
talking about West Virginia Oklahoma
Kentucky in Georgia Colorado Arizona
North Carolina LA there was a strike at
the beginning of this year there was a
one-day walkout so if I'm not mistaken
in South Carolina and in North Carolina
or earlier just just last week and
Tennessee is having a sick-out
what are are these are all being
successful I mean I've heard some talk
at one point that West Virginia's just
teachers we're gonna go back out on
strike recently what what has been the
outcome of this and then we'll get to
you're gonna tell us what the future is
gonna bring to bring that the the short
version is that these strikes have one
more in about a year than decades of the
old strategy of lobbying the Democrats
using huge gains 20% pay raise in
Arizona the defeat of charters and
privatization in West Virginia West
Virginia one not only in 2018 but they
had a new illegal two-day political
strike to stop a latest attempt by the
Republicans to impose charters and
vouchers in West Virginia had another
strike just this year I think the Los
Angeles strike in particular is really
the highest most powerful expression of
the wave so far and in some ways one the
most because it wasn't just a defensive
battle but proactively put forward a new
demand to transform and when wind types
of public schools that you know as their
slogan said the schools that our
students deserve so one thing like lower
class sizes at one anti-racist demand
like fund funded by the district to
support immigrant families who are
facing deportation
it stopped random searches at black and
Muslim students
whole slew of real qualitative changes
to the schools in addition to more
funding for nurses and counselors things
like this so that you know the story is
that the strikes are winning they've not
come really close yet to the fundamental
transformation and improvement of the
school system to do that it you can't do
that in just one strike you also
probably can't do it solely through
strikes and that's part of the reason
why in California and in some of the
other states there's there's an effort
to now use the energy of the strike
movement into creating a more strategic
campaign around winning funding really
billions of dollars in funding for
schools and distally defeating the
privatization movement so that requires
a political intervention in the state
both by electing Pro education people
and having initiatives and ballot
initiatives I think that ultimately the
movement has really just begun and the
exciting thing is that there's a
cross-pollination between these strikes
and things like the Bernie Sanders
campaign which is supporting the strike
and then in turn the strikes are
supporting the Bernie Sanders campaign
because I do think ultimately you going
to need political power to have the
deep-seated changes strikes are amazing
and important but not enough on their
own I was going to ask you that is the
last question do you think that the the
strikes and the success that the these
teachers associations and unions and
just groups have had over the past year
have altered the the calculus with like
the the Democratic presidential
candidates I mean maybe this is you know
sort of a little bit outside your
portfolio but I'm wondering if and maybe
presidential candidates is too it's too
it's too broad like it with do they feel
like these teachers feel like they have
strengthened their hand with politicians
as I spoke to Randi Weingarten and I
think it was also the VP of of the aft
maybe was at the DNC in 2016 and one of
the reasons why they articulated to me
that they endorsed Clinton so quickly
was they felt like they were shut out at
the table during the Obama
administration when we did have the sort
of the height of the corporate education
reform movement and Arne Duncan who
represented all of that came in and
created this race - the race to the top
I guess do you is there a different
dynamic since these strikes yeah very
different dynamic the proof is in the
pudding as far as what works to change
the national political conversation and
what works to force elites including the
Democratic Party establishment to change
their tune it contrary to the
perspective of Randi Weingarten and most
union leaders it wasn't by you know
getting a seat at the table through
early endorsements that any of this
change but in fact it was by building
power independently of the state and
employers and both parties that forced a
change in consciousness around things
like corporate education reforms so the
illustration of that is now the
Democratic Party including people who
have taken millions of dollars from
charters people like Cory Booker and
others have nominally distanced them
distanced themselves from the Charter
movement it's become quite controversial
within the Democratic Party now to come
out in favor of privatization like we
shouldn't overestimate that in the sense
that the Democratic Party has a long
history of making promises and breaking
them but the fact that now at least
nominally they have to make gestures and
talk about why teacher pay needs to go
up why privatization hasn't worked
there's a game changer and legitimizes
the struggle and it turns a reflection
of
the real impact that that struggle has
had nationally but you know ultimately
it's there's a contradiction still
between the fact that teachers and their
unions and the students who are fighting
for these changes their schools are
coming up against a political system
that is funded by billionaires that
really want to continue to see the
dismantling of public sector for the
benefit of private charters and that
contradiction will play an important
role in the 2020 debates and we're
hoping that through things like
educators for Bernie and labor for
Bernie and then more strikes in general
that that can force the issue of putting
public education and the teachers strike
waves at the fore of what any viable
contender to be Trump will have to raise
and so that in some ways the stakes are
pretty high
Eric Blanc red state revolt the teachers
strike wave and working-class politics
we will put a link at majority dot F M
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it all right folks
going to take a quick break heading to
the fun half just a reminder it is your
support that makes this show possible
when you become a member not only does
an angel get its wings but also you get
more content nearly every single
solitary day on top of which you get the
show commercial free so you will not
hear commercials but you can always go
to the podcast descriptions to hear them
you just go to join the majority report
com sign up become a member
pennies a day also reminder
hunter-killer it's a monthly
subscription game where you become a
detective immersed in a murder mystery
it's so interactive and convincing that
it looks and feels real right now just
for our listeners you can go to
hunter-killer comm slash majority for
20% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hurry take advantage of this offer
let's hunt a killer dot-com
majority for 20% off your first box hunt
a killer calm slash majority all right
folks
today is Tuesday Michael will tell you
what happens tonight in this very space
that we sit in then Jamie and then Matt
and I will be right back as you go who
did the job who was the kill it
milah we need to find out that actually
some of that might happen tonight
we also are you guys cutting to me okay
so tonight um first of all it's 6:00
p.m. we're doing another one of these
we're doing another one of these pre
main show live streams which are gonna
be doing from time to time not
necessarily every Tuesday but on some
Tuesdays this Tuesday the great Mike
Hanna is joining us South Africa's
voting tomorrow and he is of course
iconic South African journalist and
we're gonna be covering the campaign
we're gonna be talking about the various
political parties the market and
ecological dimensions of the crisis in
South Africa and how it affects the
broader southern African politics now
that livestream will be at 6:00 p.m. and
then on the main show I believe Renick
Allen is joining us to talk about it was
all a dream
biggie smalls black Millennials we're
talking about extinction rebellion and
then the great Ben Burgess is in studio
we're talking about Marx Hegel the G
Jack Peterson debate and a whole bunch
of other stuff Michael Brooks show on
YouTube patreon.com slash t MBS to get
all of the elicit histories idea primers
and theory readings all right is that it
this week on the anti Fattah
we have unlocked our new series prolate
cult in which producer ap Andy talks
about UFOs conspiracy theories the
paranormal the parasocial and the para
political from a Marxist perspective
quick programming note on
we unlocked it on patreon but only Andy
has the raw file that we need to upload
to our free stream on fancy fm and he's
currently in Cuba at the first-ever
Trotskyism conference held in Cuba but
he'll be back soon
to put that into the stream for you guys
we also recorded an episode with Katy
halper over the weekend which will be
out tomorrow in which we talk about the
90s both the silly pop-culture ephemera
as well as the real political and
economic currents that had a real effect
on politics today we also sing a new
parody song or we start to and we're
gonna sing the rest of it Arcadia's at
the live show on friday which i also
want to plug if any of you are in the
New York City area come out to
littlefield Friday this Friday 8 p.m.
I'm gonna be appearing at the Katy
hopper and struggle session live show
along with Jake Flores Matt Taibbi and
all of the struggle session folks so
check it out Matt yeah literary hangover
upcoming this weekend is gonna be the
song of hiawatha a poem by Henry
Wadsworth Longfellow after that it's
going to be an essay for patrons of my
or Weller series George Orwell
such--such were the joys his time at
private school and also going to be in
Rutger Bregman 'z utopia for realists in
the coming months
talk about ubi and this sort of this
sort of promise and pitfalls of that
policy alright folks see you in the fun
half
you
you
we are back ladies and gentlemen Sam
cedar on the majority report don't know
how long I'm gonna be able to go today
so I'm a little bit under the weather
as we've said earlier but I will 220
exactly if you need to seek medical
attention we've got that pre-taped do
not please let's let's get out of here
before we are actually I don't want it
for honestly for herd immunity it's
really important oh I'll finish the show
for you I don't care I just really don't
want to get sick
well it's you know you're not gonna get
any less sick because I'm here five
minutes I will remind you that was you
not only last week but probably the week
before
no the week before Oh throat it's a
migraine I'm giving him one day and this
entire area is gonna be roped off as a
biohazard zone yeah of course
let's go to the phones calling from a
two one zero
area code who's this where you calling
from good afternoon Sam is John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio how are
you sir what is on your mind I'm good
good good interview with the aeroclub
Blanc good to see Bernie ahead of Biden
32:26 in the latest change poll in New
Hampshire released just this morning
about an hour and a half ago you know
it's it's interesting because you see
like like I saw a poll today what was it
maybe the morning consult poll and it
sort of did like the first five or six
states and you're like wow you know
Biden's way up but they don't really
vote five states at a time it's not the
way that we distribute votes but yeah go
ahead John sorry yes so this is the
first poll a national or statewide after
the Biden announcement where Bernie
leads his lead is up from two points in
the same pollster and
early January I agree with you that New
Hampshire is an absolute must win state
for Bernie so in light of the very real
polling Biden polling surged I keep
repeating my mantra it's super early
debates will move polls by never gain
traction in any of his other
presidential runs he's bad on the stump
he hasn't formulated concrete policy
ideas fortunately there's been a lone
child in John that is a very long mantra
okay yeah there's a lot of the not
there's a lot of denialism by Bernie
supporters on Twitter it's the number
I'm a member of the Young Turks I enjoy
watching their show more on an almost
daily basis but they put a segment up on
Thursday on their website where it's
called the CNN does a hatchet job
against Bernie which has 97 thousand
hits see whitey also put this into a
Kyra where he added the word unethical
they also put into a Chiron dat that
poll sampled an insignificant member of
voters under 50 both the statements are
false and it's very disappointing that
they didn't analyze the facts in a
thorough manner the first error is
directly to blame CNN they hire the
pollster SSRS in August of 2017 but
essentially they contracted them to do
poll just like every other media
pollster relationship and they may fire
them at their end of the contract just
like they fire the previous polling
partners ten years o RC so if you can if
you conduct polling the most effective
method is calling people on cell phones
and having a smaller percentage of
landlines they cost a lot of money so
these polls close to elections usually
have a sample size of thousand or more
pollsters simply aren't going to spend
that kind of money you know for some
something far so far away like the
election so because the the SSRS sample
size is so small they don't want to
include crosstabs or subgroups that have
a small sample
so here's the problem if you aren't
transparent about the numbers people
will misinterpret yours result so it's
important no matter how small the sample
size is to list percentages in subgroup
crosstab so you have TYT saying that
they sampled an insignificant group of
voters under 50 and typical polling
experts saying that aide nothing wrong
without either really trying to decipher
which is actually with what the numbers
are for those under 45 according to SSR
methodology they sampled 411 of voters
if a subgroup receives less than 125
unweighted cases or around 30% they
won't be included in their subgroup
right did they reach on we're getting a
little bit weedy here so the the gist of
it is what that that poll was not as as
shaky as as it was reported by some
right it wasn't it wasn't shaky at all
but but FSR also made a mistake they
made two mistakes one is they should
they should publish this because it
leads people to interpret polls when you
don't publish things and when you're not
transparent and the second thing is even
by their own transparency by their
methodology you know their relationship
would be 71% that's 23 John look all
right so the gist of it is that Biden's
up it's not so but it's also like your
extended mantra too long of a mantra
frankly John I think you should shorten
the mantra but like your mantra said
it's early I think look the real
question to me with Joe Biden and I
certainly was a member of the Joe Biden
is going to fizzle out within a couple
of weeks camp and I have had to move
from that camp
be is that you know he is not the same
guy who ran in 2008 because he has had
16 year excuse me 8 years of being
Barack Obama's vice
resident the question is really is when
we get into the debates because I think
this is you know we're gonna see he's
got a bounce I think it's gonna come
back to earth a little bit and then
we're gonna get to the debate season
where things are gonna get a little bit
more intense the question is is that in
the context of the debates does he come
off as the Joe Biden that was rejected
every time he ran for president or does
he come off as this new Joe Biden who is
a vestige of Barack Obama and that is
gonna be the big question and then I
would say there's a subsidiary question
to which is and I imagine you're gonna
see Bernie and Warren really keep this
on a very specific policy level and I
imagine you're gonna see a couple of
others who are maybe somewhere in the
middle and then the others who are just
like this is a this is a war for the
soul of the country and with a lot of
platitudes and it's gonna be interesting
to see how voters react to that but I
appreciate the call John all right thank
you Thanks I mean I yeah I I definitely
think I'm not sure how it'll be done but
I'm someone who's always thought Biden
was very formidable and you know it
would be just wrong to dismiss how
strong a candidate E is for any number
of reasons including by the way like I
don't agree with John I mean I think I
don't like to watch Biden give a speech
cuz it's not like my particular style
but I do think that his approach you
know resonates with with people but that
being said I do want to just say like
III think to Sam's point a little bit
like now we're on the other end of
people a couple of weeks ago being like
oh this is never gonna happen which
again I think was just not like not a
real assessment of where he was coming
from now like he's totally invincible
which I don't think is true either right
no no I mean Joe Biden's populism is a
hundred percent effect he is an
effective
effective candidate and it's gonna be
very clarifying I think to see him have
to debate with Bernie Sanders when you
get down to the nitty-gritty of policy
and see if that message carries forth to
voters that one person is clearly more
populous than the other yeah I mean that
presumes that people I'm also just
talking style I'm not I'm talking total
substance free presentation yeah but
that that presumes - that the American
public is interested in in something
that is not a fact
well I we're going on I thought we'll
see it'll be interesting I think we also
have to be also think though about the
different types of effect that people
are interested in depending on where
they're from and what their class
background is right like I think you
know I might be trying to circle a
square a little bit but I think like
definitely people that I talked to who
are not necessarily as political engaged
but are dealing with you know real money
issues are much more interested in the
asset of I'm gonna get you things then
you know abstractions and I think you
know a lot of people in the media
business are actually you know and and
in sort of these more educated bubbles
are much more interested in a different
type well I'm gonna get you things is
not an effect it's a policy right and
then you get more specific about it as
you go well I mean Trump did that effect
right so I mean it can just be an effect
so the question I mean whatever IIIi
just think that Biden is formidable but
not necessarily as you know now it's
like we're we might be going the
opposite correction is all I'm saying
I am going to make the prediction that
by September Biden is either in third
place or very close to third place
okay well you oh by the way you still
haven't paid me on the Bernie bet
incidentally speaking of your
predictions what that he wouldn't yeah
go into the race yeah was that what was
the pay I think it was either five or
ten bucks it wasn't that big well saving
up saving up for right now saving up you
should be able to folks you should
definitely be able to figure it out the
Red Sox are still under 500
however Alex Cora and two members of the
Sox decided not to go that they will not
be going to the White House to celebrate
last year's World Series ring with
Donald Trump however one guy did decide
to go and that of course is Tiger Woods
he's back
his Republican through and through and
the Fox and Friends folks are really
excited that Donald Trump knows some
black guys Baltimore Sun headlines
plenty of athletes are refusing to stand
with Trump not Tiger Woods and they go
on to tell why they shouldn't in the
op-ed they said this we wish mr. Woods
would have taken the stand against
hatred and declined the award given the
racial and ethnic riff to mr. Trump has
widened and Exploited in the country
since taking office mr. woods has made
his choice and part of his legacy will
be embracing a man who incited bigotry
and racism that is totally inaccurate to
the person Tiger Woods knows I also
would say that people would also think
that's laughable is Darryl Strawberry
George Foreman Herschel Walker ben
Carson Mike Tyson just some of the
people who happen to be black ha
positive for one second sir feels like
he's going to list off just a list of
athletes who are black and I can't tell
if it's like he's just going through a
comprehensive list of black people who
Donald Trump is acquainted with in some
fashion or if he thinks that Ben
Carson's surgery is
sporty and some days to play racquetball
they but it's usually guys hate me to
make something here I was a great squash
champion because God told me the rules
and I stabbed some it was at a
competition but then I want it and I got
a scholarship because of God I got you
whatever you need I love the variant the
variants unlike some of my good friends
are black to some of his good friends
are black to some of the acquaintances
he has are black other people I make
appearances at charity events with a
black there you go where's my black guy
I think he was famous for saying -
where's my half black half asian guy the
person in Tiger Woods knows I also would
say that people would also think that's
laughable is Darryl Strawberry George
Foreman Herschel Walker ben Carson Mike
Tyson just some of the people who has a
bike Tyson you're bragging about your
friendship with Mike Tyson not exactly
the greatest of guys who have met with
the present and known for a couple of
decades and don't feel so that
description is accurate there you go
they don't feel that description is
accurate
I believe my african-american is the
politically correct way to say that
black people excuse me you're supposed
to say african-american you can't use me
anymore you can't say wow look who says
black sam cedar this bigot this is this
story I found to be sort of the perfect
metaphor for the right and for this era
microcosm is the word yeah and I think I
think it's I think it's metaphor but
yeah I guess it's you could say it's
also a microcosm in some way there was
this guy Russell Bolton as you can see
here he was a write-in candidate for
sheriff in Stevens County Washington and
he also was the head do we have a
she from that old web website he was
also the the leader of the Stevens
County assembly what would that be the
Stevens County assembly Stevens get here
here's an old website this one's um and
it says welcome Stevens County assembly
is a volunteer independent body of
god-fearing American citizens who have
realized the changing conditions seeking
to prepare and equip all who will heed
with the knowledge and ability to
protect family and property to secure
real American communities during the
present insurgency insurgent political
and social change and to reach out
across our regions to like-minded
Patriots in order to strengthen our
common cause so they are a prepper
organization that believes
wholeheartedly and run-on sentences and
they also they go on say to the our
website is designed for the serious
patriot who doesn't like commas and who
wishes to rise above the conditions that
increase their critical thinking skills
not so much their grammar we invite you
to unite with us to uphold our United
States Constitution and our god-given
right to life liberty and the pursuit of
happiness and they were very concerned
of course of the about the hordes of
immigrants coming in particularly all
the the drug gang bangers and drug
cartels that would come in the drug gang
banking cartel in that in fact in fact
this group received a letter not just a
letter but multiple letters from Alessio
Don de Grande
well that's wait excuse me
Alessio done de Conde you're not talking
about
he's de Brahman in Sinaloa Don the bass
poor local residents were getting a
letter from me he's the the dawn of the
big and Alessio Don de grande referenced
his membership in a shadowy criminal
enterprise and he demanded two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars in cash
within 15 days and he had left a to
paged typed missive on the car
windshield of members of this group this
right-wing militia they sent the several
members of this group got several
threatening letters from de grande whose
name was signed at the bottom of each
don't get me in trouble with YouTube he
was involved that he was heavily
involved in a mysterious group outside
of the United States and insu insinuated
it was a Mexican cartel well all
prominent cartel heads are known for
running multi-billion dollar trafficking
networks and also uh putting extortion
threats on the windshields of minivans I
sign every extortion thing I promise to
you I sign every extortion threat well
it turns out that the sender was
actually the leader of the militia group
yeah though order of moats their head
fascists James Russell Bolton basically
upcoming Tobs guests and here is the
here is of course the perfect metaphor
he scares the members of his prepper
cult as it were into believing that
there are hordes of Mexican drug cartel
members coming up into Washington State
and they know were the last line of
defense exactly that we're the rearguard
they're gonna come back up through
Canada after they come at us at a
frontal assault got on the radar some
bad hombres down there and so Bolton was
trying to get money from these rubes
that he had in many respects created
does that sound familiar to you no you
know what I got to tell you look at
people and do you think if if I wasn't
doing what I would do I would do what
they do and he said in admiration and my
death I wasn't a trust-fund baby and I
wasn't president that's what I do we
were a superpower we are now a hyper
power respect the hustle that's what I
thought so apparently this guy
apparently Bolton when detectives called
Bolton the militia leader Bolton claimed
he and his wife had been receiving
menacing phone calls too but he had but
he had shaken it off because it was
common in his line of work uh hell yeah
been at this a long time asked if
someone asked if someone could be
targeting the group for financial
reasons Bolton reportedly responded that
the Stevens County Assembly had about
900 bucks in its bank account mystery
was still unsolved in March when Bolton
called the sheriff's office to say he'd
started getting threatening emails he
told detectives that a red Ford pickup
had followed him home and the passengers
had yelled at him and run him off the
road which is a classic play another
classic tactic Mexican cartels what you
do is you drive a red Ford pickup truck
the Washington state and then you drive
this hombre off the road
so unbelievable this is Action Man I say
free him I by the way if Donald Trump
was truly respectful of his base you
know we always talk about he serves his
base
I could not think of a literally a
greater example who's based on this this
guy should get a full part it should be
Secretary of State five counts of
extortion in lieu of freedom of
attempted theft in the first three total
which total which what was the name of
that we got a fun remember Dilisio Don
Del Grande yeah let's just look at let's
see how Russell Bolton did with his
writing candidacy for sheriff in Stevens
County I'm running for Stevens County
Sheriff
welcome to our website hope you'll find
this very useful as you get more
information about our program we would
like to you take the time to sign up for
email and information that you can
receive we certainly thank you for
visiting today they're right I think
it's finally found their AOC yeah you
say oh no here's a tossed ito siding on
the ground
they're coming fellas if you don't
immediately deposit I don't take out a
line of credit or will be killed by the
grande carp and a scare you guys but
there's some Taco Bell bags dumpster a
[Laughter]
[Music]
good you know way it away I imagine you
should team up with no bumps in the road
guy we'd be unstoppable that brand trust
so speaking of which hunt
Steve minuchin has denied a request from
Congress Richard Neal Democrat of
Massachusetts chairman of the House Ways
and Means Committee mr. Neal has been
asking for a Donald Trump's
a tax returns not a big story here this
is well this is a big story and but
we're gonna this is going to go to court
you have minuchin responding that the
request lacks a legitimate legislative
purpose now that is an interesting
response since there is in no way do you
need a that legitimate purpose that's
just the fact there is a statute that
says Congress can request at for any
reason the taxes of an individual so
they have power to do this it's the it's
just the law but this will go I imagine
this might go to the Supreme okay I was
staying in this position because we
didn't want things to go off the rails
okay yeah I was leaking right the press
that Donald Trump was actually an
in-state unstable wannabe dictator and
people said that I was staying in power
just to reward myself money and corrupt
deals from my own position but I was
really doing was protecting democracy
okay Oh his tax returns now you remember
the guy that was wrote that New York
Times op-ed about how he's a mole inside
the Trump White House and is protecting
them from the yes I do remember that
actually incredibly undemocratic the one
person that Donald Trump actually should
drawn out of the White House is it may
be time for the New York Times to
explain what was going on with yeah what
the op ED yeah yeah he's just hoping
everyone was gonna forget and move on we
did but do you right exactly but do you
remember specifically the story was was
that Steve minuchin and Gary Cohen and
mattis yeah they have this dot yeah
right
so Cohen why you would invite minuchin
in on that pact if you're the other guys
I mean that's the thing right I mean one
is almost certainly a war crumb and all
the others like a goldman sachs guy but
at least they're like quasi credible
people right I mean minuchin is not
minuchin should be in jail if not for
common law harris choosing not to
prosecute him like that
story I mean the rounds of just like
bleep like it was like they got together
and they said how about we all leak that
we have public values together okay how
about we do all cover each other in a PR
sense there's no doubt my mind they did
that in the moment it's really just like
that that they don't they don't they
just didn't they just basically say yeah
 heaven I mean we we had that
agreement but well screw it we're done I
mean whatever people change
they can't be rigid and this was the
this was the Teapot Dome the law came
out of the teapot down yes bring that
back up it was like some Wyoming oil
rights the corruption scandal yeah it
was like Mellon and some other guy and I
think Mellon was I can't remember
exactly what bribery scandal involving
the administration of warren g harding
from 1921 to 1923 I feel like the tax
thing maybe I'm mistaken but I feel like
that this law came out of that energy
Harding was totally unfairly targeted I
saw somebody else make the point that
the Republicans forced acorn to give
over those sorts of documents and
grasses like well that was actually that
was meaningful and right it was about
black people getting money for for
preschools and helping people register
to vote that was not about the president
United States being a criminal there's a
god Gary Harrison very very I think
strong argument to be made and I haven't
seen anybody make it explicitly but
there's a very strong argument to be
made that the destruction of ACORN was
very much responsible for you know
losses in places like with
definitely in Michigan and no strategy
Pennsylvania allowing that organization
was a big organizer for people of low
income and you need to have resources
and you need to have these type of
networks if you're going to bring people
out to vote at the very least and the
Obama ministration just like major
Network on behalf poor people and are
getting out to vote efforts or a video
from an obscure disturb right-wing kid
on them up shut it down I listen to the
most recent ruble that it's with the
James O'Keefe talking about the media
and that's still the feather in his cap
is like you know yeah we got Obama and
there at Congress to take action it is a
big feather in his cap because they had
to do something about eat corn we just
hope that Dean did he like squirrels no
no that was just a joke calling from a
what was that what was that what was the
word saying before the show the so I
have a theory though Dave Rubin is micro
dosed with LSD before every interview
that's why it blows his mind so I
suggested it's really where it's a
Zoolander situation zoo and Dave is just
you and would if he ever if we ever get
the mic referred ette dennis prager away
from him was clearly the Will Ferrell
character in this scenario people live
in a new state and when you're Ana
Kasparian hates me so much I think you
meant like a state where everybody gets
along and there's daycare for all the
kids who come I almost think we you've
literally just written a movie that
could be a huge hit let's do it
giddy called from an eight forty five
area code who's this where he calling
from hi my name is Kiki
I'm calling from beacon New York up in
the Hudson Valley Keating from beacon
New York Oh mother dear music exactly
yes I'm at the Museum very good you you
lived up in the Hudson Valley right for
a while yes I did okay well anyway yeah
okay okay so the the reason I'm calling
is a year I love John from
San Antonio and I don't want to
criticize his mantra because I know
mantras could be hard to come by and
that one seemed like a particularly hard
once you memorize but me the most
troubling sign of the in the in the
polling is not so much that Biden is
ahead but that poll after poll
consistently shows that the Democratic
primary voters are so much less
concerned with the policy substance of
these candidates as they are with the
quote-unquote electability of the
candidates and so I don't know how much
room that gives us to work with well I
mean look you don't mean like ya know
what if Lucci cemented in the debate so
what well the the the the idea is this
is that you know what constitutes
electability I mean if you were to sat
down with every one of those voters who
say it it's just because he's likable
and he can relate to people but it's
quite possible that in the context of a
debate stage he could come off as a jerk
I mean you know that he could come off
as you know the there's there's a whole
I mean I would imagine the the concept
of electability is a very vague one and
it really just comes down to whether you
like him or you think other people would
like him and you know there's a lot of
cues in a debate when there's nine
people on stage and there's an audience
there and there's people who are asking
questions I don't think it's a foregone
conclusion that you know a Biden is
going to look like he mean look here's
the question if Elizabeth Warren Singh
says Joe I like you but people are gonna
have a real problem when they find out
that you were basically championing the
credit card companies because people
don't like credit card companies they
don't love a lot let me see I actually
have a lot more confidence in her to
hammer him than I do Bernie act well who
knows I'm just giving an example but but
you know that benefit may may go to any
of
other candidates even if Elizabeth
Warren is the one delivering it but the
the question is is like you know is Joe
Biden gonna be able to stand up there if
Elizabeth Warren if any of the other
candidates say like look I'm in the
pocket of Wall Street but you you you
supported the the credit card companies
and made bankruptcy like basic basically
like a life sentence for people why is
it Joe that you thought that
corporations should have their debts
relieved in bankruptcy but not not
homeowners or students I mean what why
is that don't you worry
sorry don't but don't you worry that the
Democratic primary electorate is so
conditioned in this sort of Third Way
mentality that they might say yeah
you're right about all that what the
current no I don't bar to the center no
I don't you don't think so I don't think
the Democratic hope you're right i I
just I don't think I think it I think
it's a little bit less frankly
sophisticated than that I mean I don't
think that the I don't think there's a
third way mentality amongst the
Democratic voters I just if anything I
think it's just like I think it's it's
you know just not deep sophistication
third Third Way candidates like Bill
Clinton and Barack Obama won because
they're Bill Clinton and Barack Obama
not because of an ideological well they
also they also you know got a little bit
populist during those that's an
absolutely well that was the second
point that I wanted to make actually
exactly right is that the it's actually
the inverse it's that both the
candidates that they always Herald in
this Third Way consensus are enormous ly
charismatic and capable politicians and
secondly their pot I mean even if you go
back to Obama in oh seven and Oh 8
against Clinton he somatically ran to
her left and he not only talked about
obviously about Iraq but he hit her on
credit cards in bankruptcy he talked
about trade which he was definitely like
lying about contemporaneously but he
still talked about it and so I think
what might happen in the debates though
is that some of this distinction between
like and I think it is worth noting Matt
harp did say that 75% of Democratic
primary voters in the same poll that
Biden's crushing it do say that it's
quote unquote very important for
Democratic candidates the back
medicare-for-all and I think the debate
is the opportunity where you start to
bring these things together likability
popularity and policy and they get
motion together in ways let me make the
effect okay let me quote my own tweet
from May 4th eventually Democratic
primary voters will meet the real Joe
Biden versus the guy they think is Joe
Biden and all right and in and that's
really that that is really what has to
happen in the debate I think people will
reference policies in that regard but
there's a presumption I think by a lot
of people in the Democratic Party as to
who Joe Biden is and I don't think that
they and I don't and I don't even think
Joe Biden is going to attempt to be that
guy and I think so that you know the the
American public just when they hear Joe
Biden they hear Barack Obama's vice
president he's been there he's Uncle Joe
everybody loves Joe but when you start
to get exposed to Joe Biden there's a
reason why he flailed in every other
time he ran for president yeah you start
to feel a little bit icky you know but
we'll see time don't you think is the
fear of a trump second term like oh but
dude listen listen I mean I think like
listen I understand the idea of worrying
but there's only so much you can break
this down yes I think and I predicted
this two years ago that after four years
of Donald Trump the Democratic voter the
number one thing they're gonna want to
do is just get rid of Donald Trump but
what they think is going to do that and
achieve that is still up for grabs
and that is going to be formulated as
they see the candidates we are a year
out from this thing being even remotely
close to being effectively over it very
well may not be may we may be waiting
until June
this thing to be over but I appreciate
the call I kind of agree like I'm
looking at a 538 article right now
containing a poll that says Democrats
care more about winning than usual
winning being electability there's still
plenty of time to define what
electability means like you said but
it's like it's a front that we can't
totally cede if we're gonna meet people
where they are you know if this is a
thing people really care about we have
to make some arguments along those lines
if we want people to be convinced that
Bernie's electable and one thing that I
always point to is showing how well
Jeremy Corbyn did in the UK elections
and this is a country that also just
voted for brexit right like they are not
more progressive than us in any way
really and you know it's not an exactly
analogous situation but Jeremy Corbyn
did very well despite being opposed by
all of the Labour Party and the
mainstream media with with all new a lot
of people came out to vote who don't
normally vote and it was a lot of poor
people and people of color and young
people all due respect to the Democratic
electorate I can tell you what 85% of
them will say when you say Jeremy Corbyn
is shows you the way and they're gonna
go who what Jeremy Corbyn what I think
it's like it's just gonna be a question
of when Joe Biden is actually gets
exposed as a candidate as opposed to the
former VP and you know in some ways it's
sort of surprising because I really do
think that the more I think about it
that by the fall he's gonna be knows but
Hillary Clinton was also her
favorability was through the roof
before she started campaigning because
you see someone in a role where they're
not actively trying to convince you of
something and it's different than when
you know that they're coming to try and
sell you something although that is how
he's campaigning and that's another
thing that would be but he's not gonna
be able to do that i and it's gonna be
right I mean those are obviously the
real crucial moments and that's also
really I'm thrilled that Bernie
came out immediately and started talking
about his trade record I really do think
that trade is a great bridge between
Wong curry and something that people
don't really get the details of but they
do generally know I think just like a
path you know TPP is bad problem PNTR is
bad for them but I also think that um I
think the credit card thing also the
credit card thing - means that's
literally in your wallet I mean that's
credit i I totally agree with that as
well I think I think trade and credit
cards he's left himself I mean that is
an advantage right
it isn't like some horrible P it isn't
like glass-steagall or something which
is very important and so on but those
are like these visceral things for
people that don't require money
extremely pocketbook issues yes right
trade is gonna be really good for Bernie
in the primary and in the general right
because he has a left critique of
globalization that none of the other
candidates have he can show that he is
actually a populist and Wool cares about
your jobs and Joe Biden was totally
complicit in NAFTA and all that and
then running against Trump he can show
that Trump's economic populism is
totally phony because Trump wants
basically a NAFTA 2.0 I also think I
mean I you know look it's more
specialized but especially in light of
the Sandra bland thing which I know you
want to transition to you know Joe
Biden's criminal justice record should
be returned to often on the politics and
the merits yeah this is um this is
pretty disturbing I think most people
recall the story of Sandra bland this
was now I guess four years ago that
Sandra bland had been pulled over in
Texas she was I believe enroute to
classes she was 28 years old she was
from Chicago
oh no no excuse me she was she had a new
job and she was
I think just starting the job or just
headed there 28 years old from Chicago
in South Southeast Texas this is in 2015
she was taken into custody for a traffic
stop three days later she was hanging in
a jail cell in what was officially ruled
a suicide this obviously was a
flashpoint one of them for black lives
matter the the trooper my understanding
ended up being charged just with with
with with lying but there was no charges
he or he made a false statement to a
grand jury
during throughout the whole thing he
said the reason why he brought her in
was because he felt like she was he was
in jeopardy like you know a mortal
jeopardy or his safety was in jeopardy
this guy was charged but he was not
convicted the state trooper I think he
was or the law the cop and he was then I
believe ultimately banned from being a
cop but that was about it there is a
video that has now been obtained by a
local television station I believe it
was a local television station that did
some type of Freedom of Information Act
it was the TV station is WFA
and or maybe they just did this through
investigating I'm not exactly sure how
they got the video but apparently was
the video on her phone that the police
and they really they released the
troopers dashcam video
but the the video that she recorded
makes it very very clear that he should
have had any reason to fear for his life
here is that video it's very short it's
only 35 seconds clearly what happened is
he's like telling her to get out of the
car and at that point she realizes like
I'm gonna videotape this and she starts
the video and you will hear him
basically pull his taser out claim that
he's gonna light her up and it is
I mean he's aware that it's a phone
because he's like stop recording so here
is this video now why am I being
apprehended you're trying to give me a
chance way to failure why am I being
apprehended you just open my car door
you just open my car door so you're
gonna you threaten to drag me out of my
own car get out of the car and then you
light you up get out Wow now Wow get out
of the car no you're doing all of this
for it over there right yeah yeah let's
take this to court let's do it
for a failure to signal me up for a
failure to signal off the phone my
school get on the phone I have a right
to ensure this is my property this is my
property so put your phone down right
now um now I guess this guy could claim
like somehow before that he field like
he was afraid for his safety but what's
clear is he did not pull that taser out
because he feared for his safety I mean
we can see the moment that the Taser
comes out and it's inspired not by her
doing anything that was threatening he
doesn't say drop the phone at that point
he doesn't say like he just says get out
of the car he was clearly not afraid for
his safety he was clearly mad
that this passenger of the car was
questioning the legitimacy of him
pulling him or her over and the family
is calling for a reopening of the
investigation
and it's pretty hard not to wonder you
know if the cop is that aware that he
was lying big time
if the police department was aware that
this evidence this video in some way was
problematic I don't see how they don't
how they don't reopen this investigation
and it's pretty shocking it's pretty
shocking that they've had this for four
years and didn't release it I mean it is
but also it isn't because we know how
things are in this country and the cops
have too much power over regular people
and we live in a fairy white supremacist
country still well I think you know one
of the things that we heard at that time
quite a bit from members of this
audience who were in law enforcement was
that the biggest problem is with the
prosecutors because you're always going
to have cops who are inclined to abuse
their power and cops who are racist but
you need prosecutors to basically say
you can't get away with it and this I
mean I'm it is shocking that they
thought they could keep that video from
getting out yeah and they should I mean
just societally speaking I think police
department should feel lucky that there
isn't more unrest because of this stuff
than there is
there should be more right there will be
more
speaking of unrest this is all so
disturbing Mike Pompeo has been out
there talking about Iran there's a video
going around I'm not quite sure where he
was talking about that but we know that
John Bolton issued a statement and I
spoke to a treat of Parsi who will be on
ring of fire this weekend briefly about
this and we have and he literally wrote
the book on on losing an enemy about the
negotiations that led to the Iran deal
and the implications of it and we have
seen over the past month
first the designation of the Iranian
National Guard the Iranian the Kurds
force I guess it was as a terrorist
organization
we then see the movement of another
carrier group into the Straits of Hormuz
and I think it was just a day or two ago
the waivers on some of the sanctions
that were granted expired
there will be more waiver sanctions
expiring soon and the theory is this is
that Donald Trump may not want a war
with Iran but he also didn't like the
Iran deal because Obama did it he may
see a war with Iran as being a hindrance
to his re-election campaign because he
supposedly ran on against dumb Wars
however there is a complete vacuum in
the White House and in the executive
branch in terms of voices that might
because you'll recall there was a lot of
peep
in the administration who were trying to
get him not to leave the Iranian deal
those voices are all gone
they were ineffectual there is no
Secretary of Defense we don't have one
we see more and more people leaving the
Pentagon those are the people who would
say hey we can't win a war with Iran
what you do have is John Bolton in Mike
Pompeo who are probably telling the
president this is what you need to do to
look strong and the only thing that I
could say is in terms of like like an
analogy here is Bolton is trying to put
this on autopilot
it's like he's taking a brick and he's
tying it to the gas pedal of a car and
he's saying it doesn't matter it doesn't
need a driver now
this is gonna go forward so we're gonna
put ourselves in a position where
something will go wrong and it will
force some type of conflict that will
spiral into a war because John Bolton is
a lunatic and this is something that he
this has been his project for decades
now here is senator angus King from the
Armed Services Committee I think not
speaking forcefully enough if you want
to prevent this type of thing because
King has got to convince at least some
members of the Republican Party that
this is not a this is not good for them
electoral II so that somebody walks down
the street and says to Donald Trump hey
I'm not sure that John Bolton is the guy
you can trust here I know he was on Fox
News and all but here is uh here's angus
King don't usually read things on
television but I want to read something
that I think may put this into important
context this is John Bolton in in 2017
two years ago just before he became
national security adviser he says the
outcome of the president's policy
reviews should be to determine that the
Ayatollah Khomeini's
1979 revolution will not last past its
40th birthday which by the way was this
past February the declared policy the
United States should be the overthrow of
the mullahs mullahs regime in Tehran the
behavior and the objectives of the
regime are not going to change and
therefore the only solution is to change
the regime itself and that's why before
2009 we here will celebrate in Tehran
you take that sentiment and add to the
fact that we've drastically increased
the sanctions on Iran we've just
declared the Kurds force a terrorist
organization we're moving carriers I
have this creepy feeling that this is
weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and
that there's their motions toward a
confrontation with Iran that it would be
it would be a very very serious conflict
when I was over there hang on one second
oh you don't think that Iran poses a
threat to US interests in the region
because if you're making the weapons of
mass destruction comparable posit for
one second posit for one second like you
know there's a lot of qualifications to
that statement right you don't think
Iran is posing a threat to US interests
in the region like first of all it's
pretty dubious as to what our interests
in that region are in the first place
second of all it is pretty dubious to
say that they're necessarily
expansionary as opposed to involved in a
surrogate war with Saudi Arabia and
nevertheless there you also have to
argue that there's no other means in
which to contain Iran's aspirations to
the extent that they have any other than
being able to sell their oil can I just
add to I mean just how unbelievably
dangerous and stupid that framing is I'm
just gonna quote briefly this is Paul
pillar and lo blog he's a former CIA
analyst he says basically naked
aggression as a means of starting such a
war it's a piece called Bolton's war
maybe too much for even bolton to pull
off so the strategy has been to try to
pressure and go Doron into doing
something anything that could be
construed as a causes Bella Bella so
like just even the frame of that
question leads directly to the scenario
they're trying to set up I would also
have you more dangerous I mean I would
also add you know the idea that bolton
and pompeii are going around saying
we're getting a lot of chatter that's it
there's a lot of chatter like well it
was the reporter from CNN who did that
credulous lee yesterday the same
reporter who said the Iraq Intel right
was her chatter bars
Barbara Starr yeah there's a lot of
chatter out there I mean it's we can't
be specific about it and it turns out
that the chatter was literally an
Israeli report that laid out possible
things Iran could do
that's not chatter that's a a rival
speculating as to what could happen but
here we go this is the way you this is
the way you if you don't march to war
this is the way that you back into a war
it would be it would be a very very
serious conflict when I was over there
hang on one second though you don't
think that Iran poses a threat to US
interests in the region because if
you're making the weapons of mass
destruction comparison there weren't no
I don't want to go that far clearly
they're they're a malicious actor and
they have Hezbollah in Lebanon and and
they're affiliated with Hamas I'm not
saying they're good guys by any means
but the question is are we taking steps
that are going to lead us toward a war
yeah are we taking steps is going to
lead us towards a war and I think that
answer is yes and also just even like we
need to start having an honest
conversation about Iran which is like
does do are their internal human rights
abuses absolutely they pale in
comparison to Saudi Arabia but sure they
exist and we should be able to talk
about them that's fine then there's like
the fact that yes actually Iran I think
along with every
when Alice has played a questionable
role in Syria but they're synchronized
with us a with us against Isis and in
Yemen
they've were barely backing a group that
Saudi Arabia has used as an excuse to I
think at this time you can use the word
genocide as to what's happened in Yemen
so even just like buying that I mean
mostly what Iran is doing is their
foreign ministers flying to China and
Europe and India to try to preserve the
greatest diplomatic success of our
modern time yep meanwhile Mike Pompeo
not enough to to help stoke a war or at
least stumble into a war with Iran or to
completely screw up even in their own
internal logic the attempt to for regime
change in Venezuela that did not go well
for Mike Pompeo I mean there's nothing
that I don't think America has nearly as
much of a problem with interfering in
other people's elections and leadership
says they should but the one thing that
America doesn't like is a totally
incompetent imperialist well at first
you don't succeed right exactly we're
gonna keep trying but Mike Pompeo has
some good news where others see a crisis
has in like the demise of potentially
civilization as we know it because of
global warming other people see an
opportunity here he is telling the
Arctic Council in Finland about such a
dynamic the Arctic is at the forefront
of opportunity and abundance it houses
13% of the world's undiscovered oil 30%
of its undiscovered gas and an abundance
of uranium rare earth minerals gold
diamonds and millions of square miles of
untapped resources fisheries galore
and it's centerpiece the Arctic Ocean is
rapidly taking on new strategic
significance offshore resources which
are helping their respective coastal
states of the subject of renewed
competition steady reductions in sea ice
are opening new passageways and new
opportunities for trade this is this
could potentially slash the time it
takes to travel between Asia and the
west by as much as 20 days Arctic sea
lanes could come before that could come
the 24th century Suez in Panama canal's
okay first off it's incredible because
this guy is reading it as if it's the
first time he's ever read this stuff he
is bragging about the melting of all the
glaciers in the opportunities that are
gonna be involved there because of all
this melting we're gonna be able to get
all sorts of like oil and gas and
minerals
there's treasures in there hidden by all
that damn ice and there's also where
we're all going to live at least some of
us the lucky ones isn't it I I can't get
them that's right me but like even just
I want to zero in on like isn't it
really commonly established that like
global fisheries are already like you
know mined and fished at such a rate
that fish is a species might be wiped
off of here because you're presuming we
won't be able to fish like we're gonna
think about all the places that'll be
thawed yeah that's what that was no I'm
not I know he's like an evil Chris
Farley character like if Chris Farley
played a real real evil son of a
that would be my point it's just like
the classic like look at this it's
February and it's 70 degrees in New York
City I think I'm liking this employment
that's the dumb like lunch pail version
of it that's right old days died
business you
yeah we went from first it's a Chinese
hoax to this the sad part is this
guy will never suffer any of the
consequence now do you guys want to talk
about new fishing opportunities you're
gonna ask me another friggin whiny
question about the journalists that was
buzz sword in the embassy
come on everybody call him from a nine
eight nine area code who's this were you
gone from nine eight nine what's up
who's this Bob how you doing good
where you come from Bob Saget all
mission but I'm wondering why this guy's
an about fish about which which
guy me or my club top right all right
Bob anything else to add yeah am i alive
yeah take your time
yeah Pompeyo
you talking about Mel nice racers and
default no I'm not live you're gonna
hang up on this guy look at you all the
people you let go on forever you can't
give him a chance
[Laughter]
yeah this isn't good you need you need
anyone you need to hear more from the
middle of the country get a sense of
what's really how people
Mines anything else you don't with you
guys man we were going toe to toe mama
chomping we've got a bunch of herpes and
now we're picking it out a little bit oh
yeah if this guy called up and he was
just so good I can't hear you saying but
kids should have food everyone climbing
over the water but this will be the rest
of the show he's ever said that
it's it's it's not even there's a barely
noon there that's come from a to a
that's not what I'm saying one area code
who's this - a one area code look hello
who's this from College Station
hi Anthony what's on your mind I know
kind of the standard position for
Democrats is to support net neutrality
but I'm wondering if any of the of the
candidates that kind of made it a
central issue no I know that I actually
haven't read it yet but I have a piece
tuck that that actually might even be
another question mark around Biden
that's all I know
yeah or well you know encouraging that I
think that'll come up but I just have a
feeling that that's not that's just not
a core issue in the Democratic primary I
mean there's a little there's a there's
I just don't I just don't think that
that is but but it Bernie has a great
history on telecommunicator knee speak
in college and he talked about the
ninety-six telecommunications act and
media monopoly is drowning out
independent voices and even arms
manufacturers owning conglomerates so I
mean I'm sure
you know Bernie's gonna have a great
policy shop on this stuff but yeah I
don't think that is a good take if you
would if you were to have more numerous
ISPs and that neutrality would be less
of an issue yep
my next question is I wonder so I was
visiting some family in East Texas and
they kind of stereotypically were quite
fixated on how much welfare was going
into into cities with my wife's my
in-laws and I'm wondering if anyone has
ever like kind of like like made some
sort of like comparative study on the
amount of money going like per on a per
capita basis like urban to rural areas
well I don't like sure I'm sure
yes yes I am sure that I mean well that
what you're talking about is is slightly
different dynamic but yes of course
cities subsidize rural things when it
comes to things like like internet and
whatnot because the dollar per per
capita is is much cheaper to wire a city
but certainly I'm sure someone's done
that study but certainly if you look at
the more rural states are far more
supported in terms of federal tax
dollars than the more populous states
and without a doubt it's not even close
and so that dynamic is it's clear but
good luck good luck with uh with getting
your I have a feeling I have a feeling
they are there they're saying the quiet
pirates quiet when they say they have a
problem with the cities getting that
money well I don't know how much time
you spend in East Texas but the quiet
part not always so quiet there well I my
guess is yes I was just being polite
generally appreciate it was about once a
month
stick to College Station yeah yeah
junction boys let's go to
here is here is the Fox folks talking
about Bernie Sanders interview with on
ABC this week you know they're the the
well the the way they've been spinning
this too there's there's also there was
a situation where he was asked like will
you commit to having a female president
vice president of color and he said well
I'm obviously you know more than open
about that but it's silly to talk about
it right now to commit to vice president
nobody's gonna do that correct answer
which of course of course but people are
trying to spend that in a way it's sort
of interesting to watch that but here is
the Fox and Friends crew bringing on the
expert of course I'm talking about
Stuart Varney to talk to them about what
socialism is meanwhile we're a
capitalistic you know some folks who
want to be President talked about the
wonders of socialism Bernie Sanders was
asked about that listen to this Stuart
okay Trump seems to want to run against
you and certainly he wants to run and
Republicans want to run against
socialism okay oh is it time for you to
disavow that that label the problem is
that on a television interview it's hard
for me to describe in depth what we mean
by that if he can't describe it can you
oh yes how much time you got okay number
one position the funny part is how much
time you got is exactly the point that
Bernie was saying we don't have much
time we're in its brief television
interview but here's Stuart Varney he's
gonna give a shot anyways here it is
okay number one seconds as socialism
means high taxes for everyone
socialism means the confiscation of
wealth have you listened to Sarah
Elizabeth Warren we're just gonna take
it off it no tax we're just gonna take
your wealth posit a socialist actually
no it is a tax we're gonna take your
wealth
a so far he's right axes do exactly it
socialism means a higher tax rate that
is true and socialism does mean that if
you are obscenely wealthy you will have
that money taxed away from you continued
wealth socialism means control of health
care Medicare for all
no private you're making the point why
didn't want to say composite that is not
control of health care that is control
of the payments for health care that's a
difference one's insurance one is
actually the delivery of health care it
is actually widening access and making
it cheaper and easier to get health care
control of education control of the
banks causes all control of Education
would be like something like public
schools and to the extent that Sanders
would get more involved in this I
Sanders or socialistic government would
just simply mean that we're going to
equalize the funding so that everyone
has access to good schools and
well-funded schools and that schooling
is not limited just to K through 12 but
it may be pre-k with an option to go to
university or college this is government
control over everything collective
control over our society as opposed to
what we've got
capitalism individual liberty and
freedom I've heard it described as
stealing you make good money and I would
feel it from you I would describe it
exactly so positive how is our current
tax regime not stealing if a tax regime
that tax is five ten fifteen percent
more of the wealth stealing that would
be the question I would ask if I was
allowed in that building which I am NOT
Elizabeth Warren senator Warren wants to
take 2% of your wealth over a certain
level you build it up
they know they think about
tens of millions of dollars I think it's
50 million dollars yes oh it wasn't ten
dollars and fifty yeah it was like no if
you even got 20 no ii know i want to
take that ass over a certain level over
a certain level i'm not gonna say the
number because they don't want to make
anyone vomit out there to realize how
much money they don't have but you built
it up she wants to take two percent per
year right off your skimming off the top
it's not a tax its confiscation just
wrap that socialist just missus get
worked up here it's amazing to see an
anchor try to push this bernie sanders
to disavow socialism why should he do
that yeah why he's trying to say well I
want you to win Bernie just give up to
socialism that's exactly how I would
read that interview was yeah karl was
saying you know Bernie I'm a Bernie bro
I want everybody to have health care
you've made obviously the moral case for
completing the New Deal and a fully
revitalized American democracy but I'm
just really concerned about the
socialism worried this but on ironically
and Brennan and Bernie was just like
look I don't think I have time to
explain why I want rich people to
personally suffer and then I resent and
hate all forms of work and then I admire
both Stalin and Mao as historical
figures we don't really apply for that
you know let me get back to why I think
we need to break up Agra monopolies it's
funny how they move from instead of
saying you know a collective control the
opposite of is controlled by capitalist
but instead they say individual liberty
because they know if you said controlled
by capitalists who just happened to own
this that would not be popular
right Liberty to have control over
others how much freedom do most of the
people watching this think they have it
work right like the it's not a choice
between the government controlling
things and you controlling things it's
being presented here yeah I want to I
want the ability to bump up the price of
EpiPens from 17 dollars to like 500
because I'm joe Manchin's freedom like I
am a libertarian socialist but I would
rather have the state deal with these
things than private companies and I
would rather have the workers control it
then anything but at least the state is
hypest
ethically Democratic now one of the
things I think is gonna make it very
difficult for Democrats to win in 2020
is there a vowed policy of infanticide
there's some people who would argue that
maybe we should expand this infanticide
to full-grown children depending on
whether they are willing to go to bed
when you ask them to did you repay the
will Rourke's policy proposal children
the first one he's on recognized and I
have to see him seriously lieutenant
Dennis Prager it's really getting
trotted out quite a bit is he on like
his last this sort of feels like he
might be on like his last hurrah
you mean like because he looks so ill no
it's like like we're seeing a lot more
he's trying to get out there I was just
like if I don't do it now I was thinking
this is the Dennis Prager come up he's
finally like becoming the star he oh it
was always destined to go it could be
yeah you guys thought I was a husband
but do you never realized that was it
never was and here he is look we know
let's try that one more time
we got tech problems with that we had
those okay we will endeavor to persevere
let's go to the phone's column from a 6
1 0 area code who's this where you
calling from six one zero six one zero
Bob that you gon go into a 703 area code
who's this where he calling from ah this
is uh Nathan in Virginia Nathan in
Virginia what's on your mind
I just I'm enjoying the conversation
today I was gonna eat in with this is a
daunting and a bit but kind of there I'm
glad you Tom you should go for it so
don't let's say I'm intimidate you
actually I
what I really want to know I or some
feedback from you guys I'm on the right
side of the political spectrum yes is
how I self-identify and I die along with
some other my compatriots do kind of see
systemic problems with unregulated
capitalism but to a certain extent there
is this weird like social idea does
stuart varney clip talking about
socialism sort of like we need to I feel
like there this is the conversation I'm
trying to have on my side here but you
need to really kind of drill down to I
think the like the that buzzword of free
market I don't know about you guys but I
don't think free markets exists because
markets have to exist in the context of
societies and then rules and laws and
you can't like sell cereal with rat poop
in it right so right I agree don't live
in a quote unquote did you guys talk a
little bit about that or well I mean
I've said for forever that free markets
do not exist that is a fallacy markets
only exist really because as a function
of government and there is once a market
is is created and and you know once you
you establish any like even the concept
of like hey if someone well first off
money exists because of government but
you know and the the idea that that the
money is going to have value is is
completely a function of government and
the idea all the rules around that
implicate the market and the access to
resources we you know there's some type
of assumption that because you have a
lot of money you should necessarily have
a lot of resources I mean that's just
simply a choice that we make that's a
political choice that we make and that
defines the dynamic in a marketplace I
mean you know if you're coming to me to
work on my show and you have no money
and I don't you know and I have been
there's a there's a large swath of
people who have no money I have a lot of
leverage that's not a you know
the idea that that somehow government
policy or you know other things haven't
implicated that dynamic is just simply
false and so it's really just a question
of of who we structure a market to
benefit in any given point and once once
once that is accepted then it just
becomes an argument as to you know some
people say we should structure markets
to reward a narrow group of people and
based upon you know these attributes and
other people say we should structure
markets in such a way to benefit a wider
group of people yeah it goes to the
fundamental question of what's a what
does a market exists to serve right well
what society exists to serve is really
what it comes down badly well yeah and
also how did we get sorry Jenny
good job if if right if capitalism is
supposed to be built on all these
voluntary associations and decisions
made by individuals operating at perfect
liberty wouldn't these people want to
give people things like housing and
health care so that they can make a
truly free decision of where they want
to work and what they want to do yeah
and I'm not sure how much of that if it
was you know some sort of idealized
historical fiction from my past that I
do remember being told that you know
when Henry Ford first started you know
kind of cranking things up people were
asking why do you pay in the average
Ford workers because they're more than
yeah because I wanted them to buy my
cars yes you know wait now Nathan did
you say that you are you are on the
right yes
yeah and it's what what makes you what
makes you identify that way what what is
it that what is it your belief that you
the that makes you identify that way off
because I I really think the term well
conservatives got kind of co-opted by
the launches and I didn't really like
using this term before but it's time
like by a bunch of opportunistic
fascists okay now this is originally
supposed to be you know like Teddy
Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln and we're
going to ensure that you know the
government's there to protect you from
that's going to protect the environment
that's going to protect the individual
you know it's it's supposed to because
like you just said Sam what's what's
Society for if it's not for the
betterment of everybody I you know I
so what income everybody as it is as it
is today I mean you know Roosevelt a
hundred years ago what is it in
conservative ideology today that makes
you identify in that way very very well
um I just and I guess it to me I I do
kind of I I feel that there's a lot of
space that's been created over
especially this you know the
administrator in administration in the
last twenty to thirty years to where you
know we can kind of leverage back the
Republic will hopefully leverage back
the Republican Party who are you
planning on voting for corporate raider
who are you planning on voting for I
mean I hope Ernie makes it through
I hope so you're not going to go through
the budget register as a Democrat so you
could vote for him in the primary and
help make that happen
yeah I'm done in the past down here in
Virginia you can I'm just not going why
you identify like who I mean who did you
vote for you know what you know I just
don't understand like what Hillary you
voted for Hillary I voted for Hillary I
voted for Hillary because she was simply
the most qualified candidate me any
personal problem that I ask a
conservative
thanks Terry do I understand I believe
me I understand that what what makes you
identify I'm still not clear what makes
you identify his conservative like where
would you agree disagree with me on
non-policy well for the same well I
would ask you if you identify as
do you think you know Obama's policy of
unmitigated drone warfare in the Middle
East is that is that a defining
characteristic of being a Democrat well
don't argue that Democrat is not an
ideology I mean Democrat is that
Democrat is simply a political party
there's there's two major political
parties I registered as a Democrat
because I want to have a say in the
primary and more than likely in most
situations the the candidate that I am
would support in the general is gonna
come to the Democratic Party so I want
to influence that but I have no
particular Allegiance you know to the
Democratic Party it's just simply a
vehicle I mean I would call myself a
leftist um but I you know part of it is
called part of it as cold calculations
because I feel like there's gonna be a
space for people like me in that
political persuasion maybe not you still
not end 15 20 years you're still not
defining for me what that what that is
like what do you a conservative
conservative verb well you know we want
to you subject the environment you want
to ensure individual liberty and you
want to protect people from the worst in
the worst kind of persuade like the
Hobbesian you got to protect people from
people because the natural state of
humanity is nasty brutish and short and
that's what governments there to prevent
that's what I view it you're a mom
you're a classical conservative is that
it sounds like a classical level to me
yeah I just I'm just not clear on how
that plays out you know because I it
seems to me there's nothing that maybe
I'm not maybe maybe my terminology yeah
can I give you can I give you a reading
recommendation
Rita George Orwell's essay on Rudyard
Kipling talks about a wretched Kipling
is sort of a conservative who also was
probably a little bit too easy on that
eras imperialism as Teddy Roosevelt was
but it talks about how conservatism
basically became fascism and there's not
really conservatives love so you might
check that out
appreciate a call okay thank you I wish
you well on your political journey
you're not a kid
seven if you don't help me leave
I was rude on Kitley roads it's true oh
that is absolutely true
well I'm going no more calls
I got hoodwinked we call Bob like the
Bob of God I need to call Bob next time
I'm really high on something I'm gonna
call him and give him a taste of his own
medicine
it's gonna be hilarious for everyone no
I'll do it
well well yeah let's do this we'll do a
Mylo update ladies and gentlemen as you
know yeah we'd do this as you know my
low yawn innopolis is selling off his
assets to recover from his massive debt
is part of his right-wing grift
and up on ebay right now Milo's throne
chair used now wait a second deposit oh
this ended April 16th so didn't we look
at this before okay so this was this
ended April 16th which was she's okay
two weeks ago and it was up for $1,400
there was unfortunately zero bit no bids
on and and so the way this works in eBay
is that when you have no bids then
nobody buys it from you and so the this
is the strategy that I learned from
Matthew film guy if you put it up and at
1400 and they get no bids what you need
to do is back off a little bit and go
back a couple of weeks later at half
price that's right ladies and gentlemen
Milo's throne chair now just for $800
$800
available and we are now only we only
have we have six days left ladies and
gentlemen and to get in on this bidding
all you have to do is actually place a
bid because there are no bids there are
no bids at $800 I also have to warn you
it's about $275 for shipping yeah
because it's a 5 foot chair 5 foot
velvet thrown Milo is also offering an
Instagram that he'll fly to your city
and eat dinner with you as long as you
pay for the air travel the lodging and
the dinner so Wow good offer for people
ok like no you need to apply for some
assistance of some some sir he's dead
talk to Matthew Lesko I think yeah
exactly
but there it is we will give an update
because we have 6 days and 23 hours to
go on this bidding a milos throne chair
will check in yeah over the course of
the next couple of days to see how it's
going it's quite possible this bad boy
may go for 825 or something like that
yeah or it may not go for anything
yeah don't buy it if you're a listener
of ours because it will it's funnier if
it nobody bids on it then if one of our
fans buys it I mean it's kind of like 10
bucks for it maybe yeah but here's the
problem is that you're gonna get people
are gonna be like I'm gonna bid $1500
and never pay no don't do that yeah
don't do that
just watch it go from 800 and have them
take it off after six days come back to
25 I mean really wait until this is on
Craigslist where it's like I will pay
you a hundred bucks to come take this
and get free shipping exactly no you
just come and pick it up and I'll give
you a hundred bucks that's where I'm
aiming for
it's a tough time having it tough all
right
sorry callers we don't have time for any
more calls let's go to the IMS here
depressive regressive thank you for your
coverage of the common misconceptions of
Medicare for all I really like my
prostate exam for my own doctor
now co-pays won't get in the way of the
magic Dan from
the Lempa hey Sam question for Michael
actually I'm visiting old San Juan
Puerto Rico another week just hoping you
could recommend a few museums
restaurants bars etc I was in Vegas so I
only spent the day in Old San Juan so
sorry I cannot recommend grandpa Sanchez
lavender sickness cough cough it's
terrible
Brock from VA finally saw the alt-right
documentary on Netflix thought it was
going to be watered down but the
surprise how good it was even had good
audio clip from chapo Trap House it's a
perfect movie to show friends and family
that don't follow this stuff Colin from
Nebraska Sam do your kids ever moan and
groan when you walk into the house with
the new sponsors product for them to try
yes Rackham Sam you got to start
checking the cross tabs on these polls
I've noticed at least four or five since
Biden announced where they have been
almost zero or literally zero voters
under 50 included I'm starting to wonder
if his team is pushing polls done this
way I hope you listen to John from San
Antonio Dawson from Minneapolis Sam
let's be honest asking Bernie whether
people will be able to keep their
doctors pretty much like saying well
what if someone's doctor retire or moves
yes no sorry
with more years in the service you ain't
movin you know I love it single-payer
doctors don't get to move anymore in the
moment that all of a sudden rads
nightmares are coming true
yeah little prick grudge 't tugger
Carlson Majority Health Advisory reduced
cross infection rates by rinsing your
microphone pop shields in a mild
antiseptic Listerine mouthwash
occasionally Nick from Manitoba hey Sam
how are you doing me still getting it
Jenny what I don't know Winnipeg Craig
very upset Sam stop John from San
Antonio from Wilding out about
statistics and survey construction my
man knows what's up
also when is the Winnipeg general strike
centenary content isn't that when is the
general strike next week I think we're
doing it on the day of the strike I
can't remember what it is but we're
doing it on the day of the strike
congressional where you thought we were
joking we're not
Congressional baseball fan as a
professional baseball fan and comedy
writer I'm on the road a lot which means
I'm not always home on those special
occasions with the family thankfully
Sherry's berries has been covered with
rich milk chocolate dipped strawberries
and they accept paypal all right Gleason
sorry Michael I'm gonna have to cut back
on your podcast to make room for the new
bill and Chelsea Chelsea Clinton podcast
me too
Jay Jay cool Chelsea that you wanted to
cover patreon.com bill and jelly totally
would do that they totally like we're
not gonna give it away for free now Tom
slash Clinton cash Clinton cash Pedro
that's all behind a paywall if you want
to here's a two-minute to today's show
sponsored by Goldman Sachs if you have a
portfolio worth $500,000 or more Goldman
will take care of your Roth IRA JJ cool
Trump appears to be setting up a story
for himself should he lose the election
do you think he tries to dispute the
results through the courts or other or
the Democrats will fight back
unequivocally I don't think he's gonna
try and dispute the results that I did I
just don't think there is a disputing of
the results except for rhetorically
because the if he loses if he loses the
protection will be from a big fan base
and it will be you know he will start a
media enterprise I mean that's the thing
is he's not gonna go away there's no
where this is not over Joe Biden wants
to think that he will come in and
everything will turn to the fairy dust
and that's just naive and you know
that's also I I feel like I could just
right I feel like I could go and write
every single candidates lines everyone
will take a different one you know in
criticizing his perspective on things
too
shows brought to you by third love I've
got a friend that tells me that real
nice problem problem is that style and
function all too often have not been
synthesized into a third way of braavos
the new triangle-shape
cups third way bras completely
triangulated three segments maintain for
too long there's been a false choice
between a bra that says I'm a I'm an
individual that's style the taste but
also I want to be comfortable and move
with ease and fluidity Third Way rejects
these false choices brings you to a bra
that equips you for the 21st century
information economy Kentucky Fried
comrade hey Sam during the call
regarding Medicare Falls effect on
administrative jobs I think it's
important to point out to under the
current system some percentage of those
jobs essentially make-work jobs
make-work jobs adding unnecessary costs
yes some of those jobs will need to go
for efficiency but that's why it's
important for the job training
transitions yes I mean I think that's I
think I made that point I mean I think
you know there's there's a whole host of
situations where you're going to lose
jobs and gain jobs in any major policy
but that's the in many respects that's
the point and yeah you got to make sure
that there's a program to retrain folks
but that that it's a make job for
somebody you know who's supporting a
family is not necessarily a comfort
telling them that it's not necessarily
something that's going to you know be
helpful to the economy in the short run
you need to be able to place these
people back in other jobs and you know
make them productive to the extent that
they they're up for doing that I mean
it's the same dynamic I
think with like coal miners you know
yeah people don't love mining coal just
like people don't love working for
insurance companies they like having
stable jobs and having all the things
that they need because of that so going
from that principle I think it makes a
whole lot of sense what Bernie's policy
proposals are yeah I mean I think it's
just I think I think that's probably
true in the main but I think that it's
from a rhetorical standpoint saying that
people don't like their jobs they'll be
happy to get a different job is not
necessarily you know I think do you
think that's interesting although you
know Lee Carter actually said that when
he was running for state Senate that he
did test out some message of like you
work too much for not enough and there
needs to be a backing for people that
basically not have to work all the time
it's not the same as losing but I do
write and then you know Jeremy I think
look yeah yeah yeah too hard is right is
a fundamentally different message that
frankly totally even Bill Clinton used
on some cycle you follow the you follow
the rules are supposed to do you work
hard but you still you know you don't
get what you deserve Chelsea never feels
basic yes and people don't want to have
to work like three jobs at once that's
another thing that they like about their
jobs but people working the insurance
industry aren't necessarily doing but
also I know could I just say read really
quick Jeremy Rifkin wrote a book in the
90s called end of work and he predicted
automation and actually people like Paul
Krugman said he was an idiot now all the
stuff he's saying it seems to be pretty
broadly sort of accepted but he was
proposing updating New Deal things in
the sense that his definition of getting
people back to work was so broadly
expanded that it could be like you know
you could pay people to be like
community mentors you could pay people
to be artists you could pay people to
build like it doesn't it can I'll tell
you what I would radically expand the
definition of supporting people
materially to do useful things I tell
you what I would do with people who are
working at the the point of delivery for
medicine who have been you know who have
been sitting in those offices you know
trying to do billing is I would make
these people in hospitals basically
doulas for patients I
like amazing like the the there is such
a desperate need it seems to me when you
get into you know the into into
hospitals in particular that the
processes are such that the procedures
are so often just a function about
running a business
and not medically necessary that
patients don't don't know what they
should be doing at different times don't
know how to exert their rights and also
don't know how to protect themselves
look being in a hospital is one of the
most dangerous places you can be in
terms of getting sick and part of that
is because these are businesses that are
run like businesses and they will suffer
some inefficiencies because it is cost
prohibitive in their mind to to to seal
those you know to do with those
inefficiencies that cause you know
people to die to get infections and
whatnot
I mean having gone through this with a
loved one and seeing the trade-off
between teams of doctors you know you
have this presumption of like Oh dr.
Jones and in dr. Smith they have they've
they've coordinated they know what's
going on there's the handoff between the
the kidney doctor and the pulmonary
doctor and they conferred no they don't
think they don't and you know it would
be great to have like patient advocates
who were there who know enough about the
procedure of the hospital know enough
about you don't even need to know that
much about medicine you just need to
know about the procedures of the
hospitals some basic stuff about
medicine to sort of say like this is
medically necessary this is a question
of procedure this is what you gotta tell
the doctor to make sure that the doctor
this information the doctor needs to
have in their forefront to their you
know as they come to your patient me
this is it's not that hard it's just a
you know there's the same dynamic of
like I don't know if anybody's ever
waited tables but I remember you go into
a new restaurant just like I'm never
gonna
for the first time you wait tables like
this is impossible and then by day three
you're like bored chug toad that grande
fool is gonna get us innocent Latino
folks hurt out here with his extortion I
live out here there no joke
come here shake my head those Eastern
Washington sheriffs are no joke they're
fascist
American look there's also that thought
that that in time of war he shouldn't
change the commander in chief yeah
iron Ches you thank you for all your
work and informing us would you please
sound the horn for my father was
recently passed he was undocumented
immigrant who worked tirelessly for very
little but still found a way to take
care of his family he paid taxes and
Social Security and loved this country
very much but he could not receive the
health care that he needed thank you and
peace to everyone I'm very sorry for
your loss Britain changed prime
ministers before World War two is
wrapped up and then got the NHS other
business
we we changed the presidents in the
middle of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars
the final IM of the day from henry henry
wodsworth
thick fellow not sure if my a IM handle
is better than Don dela Grande now I
want to change my I am handle to don
deluged el Grande see you tomorrow
[Music]
I was
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
