[Music]
that's very annoying
one o'clock oh that he's a coward
meanwhile sad brandon Straka is I guess
I'm mad that we what context did we talk
about him we devoted another whole
episode to talking about we're in love
with him what was what honestly what did
we talk about him initially initially no
just it was recently our queen wait a
second he announces that he's going to
no not primary election well he
announces that he's entering the
election and he faults us for mentioning
that that's very odd strategy for your
campaign common candidate tactic you did
I announced my candidacy keep your mouth
shut
in media keep very quiet about it but so
apparently it got him very very upset
and it's weird this didn't show up in my
timeline did I I don't think I muted him
I would be I wouldn't be able to see it
now would I wait what's the dude doing
at 1:41 a.m. he's going around googling
himself for something as I was I mean
that's maybe the most relatable thing
about him this is a guy who really needs
to get I guess maybe a job where he has
to be somewhere in the morning but
nonetheless so Sam cedar and his team of
crime-fighting grammarians dedicated a
fifth losing count episode of his show -
talking about that is a lot to do five
full episodes done it seems to be
Olympus you want a stronger report with
sam cedar or milton al-ahmadi
and just blinking you know like Milton I
promised him a Thursday we talked about
the new developments in north to south
and Sudan due to the Trump
administration's pullback from global
diplomacy but really actually have you
heard of this guy Brendan struck well
now all right let me finish I've always
had a soft spot for a nerdy guy with an
obsession for me but I think Sam's wish
was for his own daughter to be raped as
a kind of deal-breaker and of course
he's referring to Oh bad form brother
we've got a and of course he he posts
the the tweet that I put out in 2009 in
response to people who were apologizing
for Roman Polanski's rape a statutory
rape of a of a girl that he then was was
about to was supposed to make a plea
deal for and then skipped the country
where and I wrote don't care about
Polanski but I do hope if my daughter's
ever raped it's by an older truly
talented man with a great sense of meson
sin which many people in fact mike
Tsarevich one of brandon stratas
forbearers tried to make an issue of got
me fired from MSNBC then got me rehired
from MSNBC and one of the more enjoyable
periods actually of certainly of 2017
but your life don't in my life soft my
adult life my dollar I don't like and so
in honor of Brandon Straka being
concerned that we have done a now I
guess a sixth episode of our show
talking about him we're gonna make it
seven we're going to release the the
debate we've had it behind a paywall and
but instead in in celebration of his
candidacy where he is going to be
running against AOC in 2020 because he's
the only New Yorker who can take her on
we're gonna release that debate to all
of the world so they can they can watch
and we will be doing because
coverage oddly enough for the millions
of people who are in the walk away
movement I think that you only got like
three or four thousand hits on that
video I think so Andy maybe he needs to
get a signal boost and so you're welcome
Brandon cut to a OSI headquarters how
could he do that is he doing God direct
in the same week we found a gree do deal
guys the Boston College dancing video
was nothing but Brendan Straka is
everything he'll foil our whole plans to
turn America into a giant compost
collective I mean are there gonna be any
voters though that to vote for her by
2020 cos all gonna have walked away
aren't they yeah but he should have done
a little google research on them now
that last the last time I think it was
the best that he could do he must have I
don't know 140 but first was the best he
could do was the dirty guys who are
obsessed with me lying that was that was
fine should have finished it right there
