CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Elise
[Applause]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday August 12 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USM on the program today
journalist Timothy Faust on his book
health justice now single-payer and what
comes next
also on the program today Jeffrey
Epstein dead is a parent suicide
shrouded in questions and mystery also
on the program today Trump
administration continues its assault on
the administrative state and on
immigrants the administration announces
new rules to limit so-called legal
immigration meanwhile the Trump
administration weakens protections for
endangered species the Trump EPA will
not allow Monsanto to put cancer
warnings on their labels for roundup
because it's fine
free market meanwhile new information
about EPA's supposed scientific reversal
which allowed the Pebble Mine to Kwas
quote a complete loss of the habitat of
the largest u.s. fishery in the country
I guess oops oops is it bad meanwhile
dozens of arrests over the weekend as
protests against ice in New York and DC
including Jews celebrating tisha of a
conservative wins the guatemalan
presidency based on a repudiation of the
trump safe third-country deal and good
news that russian radioactive explosion
turns out not to be a missile just a
small nuclear reactor China claiming the
Hong Kong protests are terrorists II and
sadly Trump's ritzy Hamptons supporters
claim they have to hide in the
metaphorical closet instant analysis
good all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen welcome to
the show it is another week in this era
of great malaise ladies and I mean I'm
not gonna be you know they talked about
Jimmy Carter's administration there were
his era as being one of malaise and I I
was I guess about 13 or 14 at that time
maybe twelve you know at by the end of
the administration so I don't know that
I really was fully conscious of a
malaise per se and maybe malaise is not
the
but severe depression like emotional
like malaise uh you know it kind of
implies like an ailment of the privilege
to me the Malay a malaise yeah like the
90s everyone's so disaffected right they
felt mullahs cuz they were like bored
well I'm talking about the Carter era
was specifically considered there was
specifically a a Carter malaise and I
doubt that was referring to just the
elite at that time but we definitely
have a malaise of sorts in this era and
how many closets does the average
Hamptons home have I would say so many
that like I think hiding in hiding in
the closet in you know for these
Hamptons people I feel like would be the
functional equivalent of like our
vacation
I feel like malaise has been upgraded to
horror for most people these days it's
possible like I miss the malaise right
malaise is just a lot I think probably
just yeah you could deal with that
I know what song was number one during
the malaise speech blondie heart of
glass there you go it's a good song good
some fits the times to your with that
said we'll do our best
thank you for joining us Brendan and
Michael are not with us today Brendan
will be back tomorrow I don't know when
Michael Michaels gone on the lam
I guess that's the problem it feels a
little cash in his pocket and all of a
sudden now he's a jet-setting I don't
know if he's like in the UAE right now
or where is he probably like Carmen
Sandiego with your help and your
membership at joined the majority report
calm I will follow him around on his
private jet Jew in the majority
reports.com to check it out let's go
into this sound as you know there's a
big Iowa it was very big in the Iowa
County Fair was happening
I am a
big goer of county fairs I go to the
Dutchess County Fair I go the Columbia
County Fair when I can I've been to
others those are the ones that I
regularly go to and tons of fun funnel
cakes a lot fried dough type of stuff
rides kids like it I like it to see a
lot see a lot of sheep see a lot of cows
see a lot of horses pigs and in Iowa of
course this is where the politicians go
not for nothing
on Thursday this is from Edward Isaac
Devere I think is how you pronounce name
he writes for the Atlantic on Thursday
when he was second candidate to speak at
Iowa Fair this is a tweet Biden said
what do you think anybody draw a bigger
crowd don't be a wise guy
and and then people who have drawn
bigger crowds since then in rough water
Warren Sanders Harris Booker with
Klobuchar and Gillibrand about even so I
heard Kamala's middle-class tax cuts
aren't the applause line she was hoping
them oh is that right yeah well I mean
it's interesting I I don't know what you
can gain from that and garner from that
I mean the reason why there could have
been
Carolee cory booker gets really big
crowds but it's not showing up on the
polls my guess is is that the reason why
Joe Biden doesn't get big crowds is
because you either have no interest in
him or you don't want to know why you're
voting for them and you want to go check
out your number two and three Possible's
but but who knows we will see in time
but there has been a couple of stories
like this where Republicans because it's
just because you have Democratic
candidates there it doesn't mean that
you obviously there's Republicans there
as well and they'd still do their straw
polls for what it's worth and I've seen
a couple of stories like this where
Republican family says I will not vote
for Donald Trump and then a lot of it is
as long as the Democrats just need to
give me someone I can vote for it well
here's an idea just don't vote
you voted for Trump last time I got a
solution for you you let Democrats do
what they want to do you just don't vote
alright because you people brought this
upon us as a country when you voted for
and if you don't like him now here's my
suggestion to you don't tell Democrats
who they should nominate just don't vote
go home after work yeah go home take the
day off or if you really want to
complete your civic duty
go in vote for the most local race you
can find and then just none of the above
for the rest a lot of people did do that
last time around they did they left
yes but they a significant number of
those I think we're Democrats too I'm
suggesting Republicans only this time
but here is a an interesting exchange on
MSNBC where it's consistent with our
story of which we will maybe get to some
of the quotes of the folks in the
Hamptons who which is a ritzy area of
Long Island and in the summer who don't
have the freedom of speech to say that
they like Donald Trump if they want to
continue to sell their tchotchkes to
people and so here's this exchange from
MSNBC well in which people get to put in
a corn kernel for which candidate they
support I want to let you hear directly
from him what he told me posit now now
this is the way they do their straw poll
is actually a corn kernel poll promoting
corn corn of course is heavily
subsidized by the US government as a
decision where it needs the help right
this was a well in Iowa they wanted to
push it as much as they can
corn starred was subsidized certainly in
1972 when the Commerce Secretary had a
plan to create more disposable income in
the pockets of Americans and so the idea
was subsidized corn and then we got to
put in all our food and which is why we
we are unhealthy but going
you put in your corn kernel yes who did
you put it in for yes I'm white old they
call me all kinds of names and so you
think I would vote for come on
you're smart now let's see you fill in
the blank yeah no I don't have to fill
in the blank
everybody knows the bad people what did
they call you
operation
I went to school I shared my darn when
the colored guy I have nothing against
him I grew up in the East we grew up
with people do you think the bridge is
too racist though no I don't I really
don't do when he's here send them back
when you hear him talk about communities
of color do you see why people do call
him a racist
yes and no because some of those people
he's talking about it's just as bad
things him if you can't say on TV okay
so you've been to many estate fairs and
I know most of the folks there on your
panel have as well in the conversations
this year just frankly are not the same
conversations that I've had in years
past and this goes beyond the speeches
on the soapbox of these candidates this
goes to the heart of these conversations
with voters and I got to tell you these
are tough conversations to be had
because you're talking to people about
to bite and friendships divided in
family you're talking about racism and
white supremacy this is no ordinary
conversation taking place
yeah it's great this is a nice
conversation taking place there it's
awesome it doesn't sound like it's a
conversation I mean it sounds like that
guy is outnumbered at Thanksgiving now
yeah it does and he's a little bit
defensive about it
it's his grandkids fault that he's
voting for Trump that's right nice
they're getting to him I I mean the real
question at that at that time it seems
to me to be asked he's like why are you
voting for Trump like what what is it
that he feels Trump is doing for him in
terms of I mean we know farmers are
devastated of course there's a big slush
fund but do you think about the millions
of dollars would have paid out to
farmers because of Trump's actions you
imagine you know Barack Obama got blamed
for George Bush cellphone program or
Solyndra right I mean it's possible that
this guy is voting his class interest
because he is a business owner and he
has money I would imagine that if if
Barack Obama came up and promised the
same thing as Donald Trump in terms of
his class interest still we still would
probably be a little bit too a Trump
voter I mean because I mean look at the
way he said who am i voting for who am i
voting for he didn't say like look at me
I drive a Cadillac what do you think who
do you think I'm voting for I mean he
just told you why he's voting for Donald
Trump
cuz he's one of the bad guy
get whitey well those things aren't
mutually exclusive but it does seem like
the racial aggrievement is at the
forefront of his mind I mean I don't
know I had to say yeah I I think that's
be a safe assessment with that guy it's
tough being a white I mean he really
seems like he's suffering under the
weight of his white a hood I mean people
don't give that guy credit for having
room with a colored man in college it's
true he went he hid ormd with the
colored guy I just want to tell him like
you know who else is old and white and
gets called names Bernie Sanders there
you go
maybe go that way folks this episode of
where is this sun's out oh I got to do
that sun's out guns out thing forgot
about that wear a tank top yeah that was
uh well when you put it that way it
doesn't sound half as exciting sun's out
but you're in don't get stuck in the
office trying to find software folks
trade that office time for more Beach
time and find the right software fast at
kept are a.com slash majority capped era
is the leading free online resource to
help you find the best software solution
for your business it's got over nine
hundred and fifty that's like a hundred
they got extra one hundred and fifty
thousand reviews from the last time we
did this at I think nine hundred and
fifty thousand reviews of products from
real software users you'll have
everything you need to make an informed
decision and you can search more than
seven hundred specific categories of
software it's nuts
everything from project management to
email marketing to yoga students to do
management no matter what kind of
software your business needs kaptara
makes it easy to discover the right
solution fast look at this I like to go
through I've mentioned this a hundred
times before but I still love it I go
through these these categories they're
alphabetized this is a totally free
service you just go and you look at
software now as far as I know we don't
need any but
there are times I go through this like
lead generation software maybe we would
need that lead management software we
don't need that lead nurturing software
learning experience platform software
lease accounting software lease
management software legal billing
software legal calendar software library
automation software live chat live chat
software I wonder if they have I mean
they have so many different mailroom
management software martial arts
software marketplace software the point
is is that if you have a business even
if you don't think there's software for
this you should check this out because I
have a feeling there might be if you're
not using software get on it museum
software music school software network
mapping not nutrition analysis software
there's so many different things here
the only problem is is that whenever I
look at this I it's like I have these
moments where I imagine I have a
different career like I'm working a pawn
shop and there's pawn shop software or a
PDF software I'm not sure I do that
pediatric software don't want to deal
with kids personalization software pest
control software pet grooming pet
sitting and pharmacy software the list
goes on and on
visit kaptara dot-com slash majority for
free today and find the tools to make an
informed software decision for your
business kaptara dot-com / majority
that's kaptara CA p te r r a.com slash
majority alright quick break and we'll
be right back with Timothy Foust
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program healthcare
activist and author health justice of
health justice now single-payer and what
comes next
Timothy Foust to welcome to the program
thank you for having me so uh Tim let's
let's do this because I think to
hopefully by now much of this audience
is is largely familiar with the the
problem of our current health care
system and at least in terms of the way
they experience it and and largely
familiar with the concept of a
single-payer medicare-for-all system but
let's let's just let's review it briefly
before we get into more of this like
what what are the primary problems with
our healthcare system in terms of like
operationally now I mean if people
experience it now like they they're out
of they're out of plan or they're in
plan they've got to submit forms they
got to pay it's super expensive it
changes all the time but what is the
fundamentals of that problem so there
are two fundamental problems one is that
if you're an insurance company it's just
not profitable to insure sick people
because sick people can be really
expensive and if you cover sick people
or if you give them health care they can
afford where they need it you're going
to lose a lot of money for example
cystic is that half of all medical costs
are spent by five percent of the
population for example a person with
hemophilia can cost up to a million
dollars a year to cover a complicated
pregnancy it can cost hundreds of
thousands of dollars to cover and that's
because for the middle truth number two
if you're a provider like a hospital or
a corporate pharmaceutical company close
personal friend Martin shkreli it's
extremely profitable to charge as much
as possible to people who are set to
receive care that they need you've got
an inelastic cost people are very cost
discriminatory when it's their own
health care and for good reason so
that's been kind of got these these two
competing forces and the end result was
that insurance companies try to shift
more and more of the costs of sick
people poor people etc onto the federal
government while kind of squeezing the
remaining healthy pool for as much money
as they can get which is why your
premiums go up your deductibles go up
and all those the profit people ever
that be it that the pain I felt with
their insurance plan meanwhile hospitals
are also breaking arms and legs to gonna
make profit in the US and MRI scan costs
five times more than an MRI scan in
Australia literally the same machine
doing the same scan even within the u.s.
I think Sarah Kliff formerly a Vox are
now of Washington Post did a report
showing that within the DC area
MRIs can vary up to seven times in price
including the same machine at the same
hospital just based on whose insurance
company what the book was capable so
you've got massive cost discrepancies no
regulatory power no one like hospitals
needed sorry insurance companies need
hospitals way more than hospitals need
insurance companies they're committing
the extortion insurance companies are
rational profit seeking actors so they
pass on that extortion on to you with
the consumer and the whole thing's right
now I mean I the that that figure and
I've heard in the past twenty percent of
the people bear eighty percent of the
cost but if it's five percent that cost
fifty percent of our health care costs I
mean the it seems I feel like that's
like a business I could even run or it's
just like it's so clear what I need to
do is not insure those five people I
mean those five percent of the people I
mean if I I just got to get the other
ninety five percent and then I you know
and if I can eliminate the twenty
percent I could be insuring people if I
have the proper information for
something that I know they're not going
to need and that is that to me is like a
great business unless you're actually
the customer in that instance right it's
it's very easy to insure sick people who
never go to the hospital and never see a
doctor and you know and and everything I
think we've heard about the you know
Wendell Potter I think most famously
left that business and
has been beating this drum for for for
quite a while and and and to a large
extent I think there was a sense prior
to the ACA that we could have had a
Medicare buy-in at age 55 largely
because the industry understood that
they their business model could not work
and if they could offload people 10
years younger than they are now and when
they eligible for Medicare they could
offload a pre a significant percentage
of people who could be who have more
likely to be ill to help their business
okay so these are the the core problems
we have on one hand well let's talk a
little bit more about the hospital end
of it okay because the insurance end of
it seems pretty straightforward I mean
it's it is a completely unnecessary
player in this mix what on the hospital
end how would we do well I may I don't
want to get ahead of myself here so talk
about what needs to happen to deal with
both ends of that problem
so you pool all the money we currently
spend on healthcare into we build one
universal risk pool administered by
public entity that has a mandate to
cover in full all care for all people
you build a single payer and the single
payer can do a lot of things that these
fragmented insurers can't do we know
that and I'm sure your listeners are
familiar with how Medicare gets to
basically set its prices but it's
willing to pay now how it sets those
prices is of course tainted by group
like the AMA we have a larger than
necessary rolling I'm sorry am I
breaking Medicare today you break you're
breaking up a little bit tell us again
no how does Medicare how does Medicare
set those prices so Medicare gets to say
hey we're willing to pay $5 for a
band-aid $30,000 for a hip replacement
and this of course these prices are
wildly making them up right now right
probably more like $8,000 of replacement
we're going to pay that take it or leave
it and because medicare covers 40
or million people on suddenly the
hospitals need Medicare way more than
they need your random smaller insurer
and they gotta take these prices let's
say okay we will accept your your your
your billing scheme and we will
incorporate it into our into our
hospital and then they turn around and
build private insurers at a multiple of
that Medicare cost so bill at three
times Medicare five times Medicare seven
times Medicare two your Blue Cross's you
read knows your mother's arm so Medicare
acts as an anchor on prices what a
single-payer can do is use that
negotiating power but about three
hundred and thirty million people
instead of forty four million people but
s it basically say okay in the u.s. a
knee replacement is worth $7,000 or
whatever and hospitals can take it or
leave it and they're generally speaking
all going to take it all of a sudden you
create negotiating power that drives
costs down and Medicare can also look
out to make sure that regional hospitals
smaller hospitals are getting adequate
funding I believe jeyapaul's plan
includes a thing like global budgets in
which the the Medicare for all says okay
we're going to spend three point seven
trillion dollars this year or two point
nine trillion dollars this year
and we're going to allocate it to
hospitals and conveys leis to make sure
they can keep the lights on but suddenly
you've got monopsony which is a kind of
a monopoly in purchasing power and that
lets you do a whole lot more things to
affect cost than what we can do right
now okay so we've got this monopsony
that the the the the buyer the consumers
of health insurer of healthcare have as
sort of funneled through the
single-payer system the the Medicare
system and just to be clear when we hear
Medicare for all these proposals are not
really Medicare as we know it now right
I mean it's really almost more like
Medicaid for all yes Medicare right now
is premiums that is cost sharing has
deductibles if you go to unless you have
supplemental insurance
you go to the hospital under Medicare
you're paying twenty percent of the bill
which is of course unacceptable Medicare
also has Medicare Advantage which is a
private car built for privately
administered Medicare plans which is
extremely profitable but not
for people who need medical care they
cheran out I think at three times the
rate as they buy into these plans so now
we looking for an improvement I care for
all that removes all cost sharing and
covers all people including on people
who aren't citizens okay it's so the
what do you do when you have so you have
this monopsony what do you do when you
have the problem of hospital
consolidation so a monopsony works if
you're going in and i as a buyer have
multiple options as to who i'm going to
buy from right so medicare can go into a
you know place of like maybe like New
York City and say we're gonna give you
these rates if you don't want these
rates we're just gonna send all our
patients to a different Hospital what if
I'm going into something that's more
rural what if there's what if a one
company has bought up all the hospitals
what do we do in that that instance of
that type of consolidation that's a
great question and that's a pretty real
concern I think there are there are two
things a single payer can do one is a
single payer can say to that
consolidated company if you don't treat
if you treat anybody outside of the
Medicare for all you don't get any
medicare for all money and kind of
leverage the fact these companies are
spread across the entire US I'm the
guarantee that if they want to get the
money in in Philadelphia they got to
play nice in outside Pittsburgh secondly
I think the single-payer is uniquely
poised among All American programs to
invest in reopening rural clinics and
either administering them directly or I
which was a biographer or our
contracting them off because there are
massive provider shortages in rural
areas a lot of which have been spurred
on by the lack of Medicaid funds
available in those places because of
lack of Medicaid expansion but I think a
single payer is forced to consider the
question of okay do we just open our own
clinics to take care of people and I
think that's to me a really interesting
option so wait a second though I mean it
seems to me okay so we can leverage it
if they are taking they're taking
patients
an area where there's more competition
but let's say I'm a hedge funder and I'm
like all I need to do is go in and get
you know buy up all the hospitals within
you know I don't know big rural swaths
where I am you know I am the only place
where you can get medical care in these
areas I mean it seems to me that we're
gonna need some type of legislation
right there's some type of antitrust
legislation that is going to prohibit
because our monopsony does not work if
there if we bump up against the
monopolies or you know because at that
point the the single payer is
responsible for people who theoretically
have a you know a shorter time horizon
because they need healthcare immediately
or you know immediately or you know
overtime I mean so there has to be a
more robust answer for that right
absolutely I mean if if you want to
stick within the single pair that I
think you got the options that I
provided but I think there is a and
there can be a larger movement to break
up these hospital trusts I think there's
a lot of the hospital consolidation is
really wrecked havoc and a lot of
quarters even in urban areas I think
Pittsburgh's is a great example of how
hospital consolidation through um UPMC
has ruined both healthcare and labor
were really really damaged a lot of
workers and in a Pittsburgh area I think
a larger movement towards breaking up
the hospital starts breaking up the
hospital providers towards breaking up
the financial services firms that see
people's well-being as an investment
vehicle is essential I don't think
single payer could solve that by itself
there's a lot of things single-payer can
do okay I think the movement which
demand single-payer can also demand
antitrust legislation alright fair
enough
and and so let's talk about the question
of private insurance a lot has been made
of this what what is the the the the
principle here or I should say sort of
the I guess the the whoa structurally
speaking what is the problem with with
private insurance it's inefficient and
it costs a lot it costs a lot more to
ensure somebody privately than it does
through a larger risk pool through a
larger single-payer thing like Medicare
Medicaid and they lose a bunch of money
because they want to offload sick people
and it results in more sub cups okay no
but what I mean is in the context of we
set up a single-payer system everybody's
paying their taxes into this okay and
employers are paying taxes maybe
middle-class folks are playing more in
taxes wealthy people paying hopefully
much more in taxes the net to society as
we know is going to actually be we're
gonna we're gonna save money as a
society on health care and as
individuals I would imagine the vast
majority of us well over the vast
majority of us are gonna be saving money
net net in terms of what we pay for
health care over the course of our life
versus what we'll pay in taxes yet with
that if that is the case is there a
problem having if somebody goes out
there says well I'm starting a private
insurance company why would we care if
as long as our lis put it this way would
we care as long as people have to pay
their taxes and they can't opt out of
the risk pool I don't know why somebody
would start a private insurance company
but if they did what difference would it
make
or would it so ultimately that results
in stratified care which there's a
profit there's a track for the private
wealthy who are probably buying the
private insurance there's a separate
track of care offer to people in the
public plan a great example of this is
South Africa South Africa has a kind of
to stream model which there is a public
plan everyone buys into but if you've
got the money you pull out and you can
buy private insurance plan and that gets
you private insurance coverage which is
much more expensive at hospitals but
that means maybe you get a private room
or you get VIP treatment or you get
certain kinds of things that you want to
access to kind of the luxury model and
the result is that in South Africa I
think it's 16 percent of the population
spends 48% of sorry 43% of healthcare
costs and that population is
predominantly white and predominantly
wealthy they kind of created actual like
Medical apartheid
Africa all over again whenever you have
a kind of duplicative insurance model
it's going to tilt towards favoring
people who have money will get Tim I'm
sorry we lost you again you there I'm
sorry we we lost yeah we lost you right
after you said whenever you have a
duplicate 'iv model yeah you're gonna
you're gonna have people receiving logs
people receiving private luxury care at
the expense of the public options in the
public model how does that come at the
expense of the public model just because
people doctors will take themselves out
of the public program because there's
enough money there in the private one
yeah you create you create options you
create facilities just for private on
this for private insurance cuz hospitals
can build a private insurers more
because they don't have any cost in ours
and do you think that we would
immediately put it this way like from my
perspective I don't see that as we have
as much of an opportunity for that type
of problem as South Africa does right I
mean for some fairly obvious reasons it
seems to me I mean in South Africa you
have you've literally had a dual-track
Society for decades and in this country
it's there's certainly been you know we
already have that sort of high-end
wealthy stuff but there's just not
enough of those people is there for them
to drain that much resources out of the
system I mean I hope not but I also
don't want to find out right I guess
from my perspective from a political
standpoint I can't help but wonder if
that's not a decent trade-off but why we
know we can't uh we I know we can't
legislate a way people providing
supplemental care supplemental insurance
right like we can't a stop insurance
companies from existing to sell
insurance on top of a single player that
doesn't doesn't duplicate any of the
existing single payer insurance
coverages and I think that will probably
still exist and that will go to a
predominantly wealthy people I don't
quite know what it will cover but that
will surely exist after
Paris best and that is a thing that I
don't love but don't think we can stop
okay so when we talk about that
supplemental insurance that's if they
want private rooms or you know I guess
cosmetic surgery or you know something
like along those lines that we're
talking about yeah things not covered by
the single-payer and soon because of
both jayapala and Bernie's bills include
a provision that no in no provider can
provide care that it to a person not
covered under single-payer that is
covered under single-payer okay I see
what you're saying so if I'm going in
and I'm getting I don't know any to any
number of any type of treatments if I'm
going in to check and see if I have a
heart attack there I can't have a
private insurance that will cover that
because it's going to be covered under
Medicare right okay and how localized do
you will these programs be in other
words it's it's one thing to sort of say
that Medicare sets the rates or they're
you mean how will this money be
distributed with like what what would be
the mechanism here well I can tell you
what I want there hasn't been a whole
lot of like like in the jaya paul and
sanders bills there hasn't been a whole
lot of here's actually how we we pass up
the money but i can tell you what they
indicate and i think is a totally
essential to having a good single-payer
program which is you want the money
allocated as close to the ground as
possible simply because health care
needs are very different from place to
place health care needs in Manhattan and
Brooklyn are different health care needs
in Brooklyn and Birmingham are different
health care needs in Birmingham and I
don't know Boise in Dallas and Las Vegas
are all very different from each other
so you want to have a health care model
which determines how to spend money and
where they spend money and what programs
to fund that is as close to the ground
as you can get which is kind of a model
off the Medicaid program and be some of
the individual Medicaid grants that have
been investigated or explored over the
past decade
you want to give you want to cover you
want to set a standard for these things
are covered that is set to the federal
level and make sure all the financing is
federal financing is local your run
under problems even a little bit of a
cost or by the state becomes a great way
we can excluding care but I think you
want to let regional organizations
determine of how you invest how you
invest money in local ways whether it's
approving new programs for housing or
for food experimental programs for
coordinating care or hiring social
workers to work on a pregnant people or
applying for new money to try new kinds
of programs that can then be shared
across the rest of the country I believe
a Giles plan does include a local
component that includes local assemblies
and local councils although they don't
really define what local means it could
be state by state it could be even
smaller than that let's talk a little
bit about long-term care because as it
stands now I don't think most people
know this but like two-thirds my
understanding is two-thirds of most
people two-thirds of people who are in
nursing homes are there via Medicaid and
it varies state to state but the rules
for Medicaid eligibility for elderly
people are really draconian in a way
Admiralty yeah I mean you need to be
down to your last two thousand dollars
in assets you get to keep a car but your
your if you have a home that cuts
against it made it depends I think state
to state am i right
yes in some states actually I think in
most states Medicaid you can put a lien
on your house so long as you're in
long-term care if you're in it for over
nine months I believe and and then what
it does is it starts it basically says
you got to sell your house you got to
pay us off this amount I think it's
something like eleven thousand dollars a
month and so basically you have to spend
down all your money before and in some
states I think like even if you give
let's say five grand to your kids
or something like that at that point the
state caused that back if you have given
it within the five years prior to going
into a nursing home as my understanding
that would have surprised me
I mean I've met folks who had to get
divorced in able to afford long-term
care because there's a fax people with
disabilities as well did long-term care
for most of their lives and it's
absolutely barbaric the ways we find
that is because Medicaid is sponsored by
the state the states are very cost
sensitive they don't have a lot of money
relatively speaking compared to the
federal government and so they try to
find ways to determine like who's really
worth spending money on it's means
testing its means testing weaponized to
really affect the most vulnerable people
in America and long-term care is health
care long-term care must be paid for at
the federal level
no questions asked we know what's better
and cheaper which is often for a lot of
folks home health care right people can
receive the same senator care in their
homes it's more humane always where your
dog lives almost with your family to
visit you but it assembly forced them
into nursing homes now a lot of that is
because of corruption in Arkansas I
believe a state rep was found to be on
the payroll of a nursing home and
surprise surprise he pushed for a
nursing home friendly Medicaid
legislation you see that also when I
just let me just be I want to just be
explicit about this so there's two
options right that people have when they
get older one is they can get a visiting
nurse who will come you know X amount of
hours per day X amount of days per week
to make sure that people are eating or
they're taking their medication or that
you know you know check their vitals to
see how they're doing or if you're you
know you're concerned about your parents
and that maybe they're not eating or
maybe they're not taking their
medication or they're deteriorating
because of these things you put them
into a nursing home nursing home is
obviously far more profitable for
somebody than sending a get it then home
care and so the money basically steps
back and says we're going to manipulate
the system so that the system does not
pay for
home care because we're we're injecting
our profit motive into the public goods
system essentially yes
in fact home care often has to be you
could say opted into by a state but
default model is as nursing homes or
Smith's which is bad it's awful home
health is is a form of agency it's a
form of independent living and that we
denied to people who are old and people
of disabilities is really shameful I met
people in gosh I forget where Tennessee
who had to move to Colorado because
Colorado has home health for people on
Medicaid whereas Tennessee doesn't so we
plan to leave their families and friends
and loved ones behind just to go get a
chance to live a life that was fair and
just to them uh and so we understand
that whole mouth is a cheaper better
option it's more humane it's a more cost
efficient we also severely under pay
home health aides in the US but paying
them $15 an hour instead of $11 an hour
is we going to break the bake break the
bake wall to nursing homes but with the
refused to do it a single-payer right
now both the jayapal and finally the
Sanders plans as of April have a agreed
that long-term care is part of the
single-payer plan and must be covered in
full for all people who need it
alright so let me ask you this who takes
the hit I mean let's go I mean like like
somebody's going to home nursing homes
will take a bit of a hit in this
instance where you know we rationally
give care as opposed to based upon who
who has the largest profit motive and
the ability to lobby the hardest to get
that money redistributed to them but who
else in this context I mean let's go
through some of the the different people
like one of the things that we hear
often is you can't get rid of the
private insurance industry because
you'll be kicking anywhere from a half a
million to a million people out of their
jobs what what what do you say to that
critique
well that estimate of half a million
people is why
loudly inflated to a million people as
well inflated there's a lot of
conflation of health care staff with
insurance staff but I've got a couple of
things on that one is that a lot of the
jobs people do in insurance will still
be needed under a single-payer a lot of
the infrastructure of how do you put
together a claims pipeline or how do you
talk to a hospital still exists secondly
I think there's a lot of chances for
this single payer to create jobs the
single payer has to create jobs we have
not created nearly enough jobs that we
need to actually take care people long
time and most of the folks who work in
insurance probably work in a call center
or work as a nurse chasing down
hospitals talking to talking to
hospitals actually I've got an example
of a kind of labour that single payer is
poised to create that's an example of
kinds of jobs available to people on the
transfer to from insurance it's the idea
of the medical legal partnership medical
legal partnership is a medicaid clinic
there's a bunch of them in the US one of
them in Boston that I visited a couple
times in which a social worker helps
people of both get medical and legal
care if somebody comes in and they have
their kid has asthma
social worker doesn't intake it says
okay yeah Cato's asthma
let's get the person medical care but at
the same time the social worker
recognizes that asthma and kids is often
caused by home conditions the social
worker says for example what's your home
like is there mold is there water in the
walls what's going on yes it does okay
let's bring you down to a lawyer
here's learn all the information for the
lawyer because you and I have a lot of
Civic protections against the things
that make us sick but you live access to
those if you have representation or give
the time and fluency to do it yourself
social worker chordates that care person
gets a letter starting to see the
landlord must the home start up the back
to code and it is in the first gets
better care this kind of social worker
has a valuable function which is to find
people all the care they are entitled to
and if right now if you work at
insurance your job is primarily to find
people the minimum amount of care you're
required to give right how do we kind of
whittle down the hospitals and providers
treatment we can give this person a
single-payer is finally incentivized to
invest in this like more
a pathetic model of health which social
workers find more people more care for
more people and that's a these kinds of
jobs must be created a cross-section
whether it's patient advocates and
hospitals social workers who run
essential programs and that's a natural
fit for one of the other and the Sanders
plan and be Javal and those include I
think five billion dollars in job
training and job replacement for people
in the insurance industry but there's a
lot of folks who need to stay in to keep
the lights on
either we nationalize health care we got
to build our own infrastructure and then
other folks there's a lot of jobs just
begging to be filled in a more just
health care model I you know III don't
know but it strikes me as one of the
greatest gifts we could give to someone
who's been working at an insurance
company whose job it is to deny claims
to give them the opportunity to
basically go and help patients rather
than curtail their ability to access
health care I mean I I mean I just I'm
just guessing off the top of my head
that that would be a massive a massive
benefit to those folks all right well
let's talk about doctors because if we
have a monopsony and it functions
properly maybe we've got to kneecap the
hospital's a little bit obviously
hospitals are gonna be losers but when
we say hospitals are losers we're
talking about shareholders in hospitals
who are taking a hit not anybody who's
necessarily working there but but I
would imagine to we're gonna be we're
gonna be hurting at least in terms of
financial like some of the people were
doctors are gonna lose right they're
just not gonna be we're not gonna have
millionaire doctors well I think doctors
come in to very broadly lumped
categories you've got your primary care
doctors and you've got your specialists
and specialists are the ones that make
the most money and there's of course
like there's a gradiation there even
among specialists you've got some that
make millions and some that make only
you know four hundred five thousand five
hundred thousand dollars a year you know
well on them I think right now
specialists have really tilted the game
in their favor right now the board what
helps Medicare set its prices has for
example one primary care provider and
five different kinds of pan surgeons to
represent the breadth of hand surgery
and so as a result it tends to tilt
reimbursement models in favor of
specialists and so I think maybe yeah
some of these are hyper wealthy hyper
specialists might see a hit in their
reimbursement rates but I think we will
see a revaluation of primary care
because really primary care is the thing
that drives long-term health I don't
just mean preventive cares in the sense
of like oh it takes care of people now
and they'll be healthier the future I
mean like the kind empathetic work of
providing people health care as love you
know as close to the person as possible
is what actually makes a difference in
people's long-term health outcomes and
right now primary care has been utterly
devalued I think there's a parallel
fight not kind of like the one for
antitrust legislation that we got to
pursue along with a single-payer that's
free medical training for doctors nurses
on health ethics cetera because right
now you go to med school you come out
with $300,000 in debt if you look at
your job prospects and they comes way
more tempting to go into being a
cardiologist or a hand surgeon or
whatever where you can pay off your
student loans that it is to become a
primary care provider or a rural
healthcare provider right I'm meeting
doctors in rural areas who can't afford
to retire because nobody can afford to
replace them because it doesn't pay any
money to go be a doctor outside
Lexington Kentucky for example um and so
I think if we really want to kind of
seed the earth without with doctors and
make sure those doctors are reimbursed
fairly we got to also fight for free
medical training and that that's not
involved in anybody's plan right now is
there it is not I thought I I think it's
the kind of thing that's got to be
addressed and so if I heard you
correctly there's going to be some
specialists are going to get paid less
and some primary care physicians are
going to get paid more on balance though
there's gonna there has to be less right
I mean if we're gonna we're gonna take
well I guess maybe fifteen cents of the
dollar out of the equation in terms of
it being single-payer and there not
being a profit
probably a little bit more in that
context and we're gonna probably pick up
some money in terms of just general
efficiencies but there's got to be some
money that comes out of the pockets of
of doctors to write I don't know there's
a lot of bloat and a lot of fraud in
hospitals in Hendon Healthcare
corporations I mean just the fact that
there are skyscrapers of building
departments and in cities across the
u.s. I can Connecticut um kind of
indicates where a lot of that money is
going certainly there is needs to be a
course correction and some doctor
salaries but I don't think it's going to
be quite as catastrophic as some might
fear okay I could be wrong but that's I
think the the scale of the grift and in
corporate health care is staggering I
think that's the important thing to keep
in mind here there is it's it is
stunning
well I lastly let's just talk about what
you argue single-payer will lead to
because it's it's interesting
once the the US government once we as a
society have a and this is where almost
the skin of the gay in the game a sort
of equation is turned on its head once
it's really society we clearly the the
cost of keeping people healthy becomes
clear to society that's going to
incentivize society getting involved in
a lot of things that drive health
outcomes absolutely one if your people
get sick because they don't have safe
housing or they'll have any housing at
all for their housing is flammable full
of mold and so they die or they get very
very sick with long term conditions then
all of a sudden health care spending
becomes housing spending and you build
long-term social housing to prevent
healthcare costs down people get six and
I've asked with the healthy food eats
they get diabetes or comorbidities like
cardiac failure then food is healthcare
and you gotta invest in food safe
affordable free food options
to bring healthcare costs down right now
nobody is accountable for all the kinds
of we call them social determinants of K
oh we've lost you for a second you
understand that health care happened
sorry go ahead we nobody's nobody you
said nobody's responsible for the what
did you call it socially determinate
what social determinants of health okay
ah is the medical policy lingo form but
we understand most healthcare that
happens outside the hospital its way
your lives it's what you eat it's are
you safe it's do you have money it's do
you have community these are the things
that really drive people's long-term
health right now and nobody's profiting
off of them so nobody invests in them so
people get sick and die and my belief is
that once we force the single payer to
bear the costs of providing care and
bear the costs of what happened when
care is not provided it can finally be
incentivized and forced to reckon with
all these kinds of long-term suffering
and long term health conditions once we
once we basically say that society is
responsible at least for making sure
that everybody's healthy there there's
like a cascading effect one hopes
anyways let me ask you just one last
question just basically because of
what's in the news today the the
administration has basically set up a
new set of rules to to assess whether an
immigrant can get a green card or should
be eligible for citizenship etc etc if
you have had used Medicaid in the past
that can hurt your eligibility for for
citizenship or a green card apparently
it's my understanding and it was just
announced this morning but what what
happens if if I'm living in this country
I'm undocumented maybe I'm my family is
are all US citizens but I'm the dad I
came in late or I'm the mom I came in
late or I'm a child and I came in late
and I don't use Medicaid but what
happens when I get sick do I just stay
in my house and die what
happens in terms of like what anxiety
pay for right now or I mean let's just
assume I decided not to use Medicaid I
mean right now somebody gets sick they
go out and they try to do their best
while they're sick out in the world
maybe they get other people sick we hit
them and they and they suffer they get
long term conditions that drive them
into further long term conditions
there's a lot of spending there's a lot
of death is a lot of pain I'm denying
people health care when they need it
like creating those kinds of means
testing kind of harkens back to American
health care when it was racially
segregated and it was rationed by race
we're kind of bringing that back and
doing that again no it's it's utterly
barbaric and fundamentally inhumane to
deny people a health care they need and
an ultimately society will end up paying
the cost in some fashion won't it yeah
totally I mean like a person being sick
has a long term cost I mean also there's
like there's the pragmatic view which I
find a little gross which is that the
labor of undocumented people is already
being exploited and therefore
subsidizing much of the wealth of this
country and you're you're you're letting
your own workforce get sick but I prefer
the more I think humanistic argument a
word so that everyone in this country
did yeah Tim Foust
the book is health justice now
single-payer and what comes next thanks
so much for all of your your information
and the work that you're doing really
appreciate it I think I had me really
appreciate it
all right we're gonna put a link to this
book on majority dot F M health justice
now single-payer what comes next you can
hear Tim Foust a lot of times on Chapo
you can he's going around the country I
think he's still barnstorming basically
a lot of DSA events I saw him at one
last year in Williamsburg actually in
Greenpoint
oh yeah that's right yeah I helped put
that thing together actually and Tim
came and spoke at it and it was very
nice well look at that you two should
meet each other I mean are you and Jamie
oh oh how do you mean there you go what
a coincidence
yeah good stuff and I think I don't know
if you can find but I'm sure DSA has
breakdown of where he's giving his talks
and why not right
oh yeah he's also got some really cool
t-shirts for sale 30 sells I'm a fan of
healthcare t-shirts yeah they're like
heavy metal t-shirts about healthcare
that's a great idea yeah I like the one
that says abortion is healthcare I might
get one of those that does sound like a
good one folks
sun's out but you're in don't get stuck
in the office trying to find software
trade that office time for more Beach
time using kaptara the leading free
online resource to help you find the
best software solution for your business
with over nine hundred and fifty
thousand reviews of products from real
software users in more than 700 specific
categories of software you'll have
everything you need to make an informed
decision
visit kaptara comm slash majority for
free today find the tools to make an
informed software decision for your
business kaptara comm / majority kaptara
that's CA p ter are a.com slash majority
just a reminder this program exists
because of your support you can become a
member at joined the majority report
calm when you do you get extra content
nearly every single day of the year i
mean business days a couple would take a
couple days off from that but literally
a couple and you also are supporting the
the free show and you know every now and
then like maybe once every I don't know
24 to 36 months we give a super super
bonus to members I don't know what that
would be but we're gonna try and we're
rolling out all sorts of new things I
think we're gonna give like member
benefits on the calls like you'd like
the member line or something like that
we're still working on the technology to
do something like that but nevertheless
become a member today join the majority
report calm also check out the a.m.
quickie people are loving it I listen to
on the way into work this morning did
you now to catch up cuz I did not follow
the news really at all the ones girl and
I - there you go that's exactly why I
wanted to do this and when we're on
vacation at the end of the month we have
all new interviews but we won't have the
news of the day and we will have the
a.m. quickie yeah so maybe what we'll do
even will put maybe one on Monday show
or now it'll be in the feed well when we
do the intros for that will remind
people to go check it out
let's remember to do that a.m. quickie
it's available in your feed come
September we're gonna go off on its own
separate feed and we're trying to figure
out whether or not we'll do that
probably probably even four members
because this is an added this new
product and then roll it out and put it
on sone feed so check that out the aim
quickie and also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
supposedly Michael be back tomorrow from
his uh global jaunt in time for tea MBS
but we'll see we'll see you tomorrow
Jamie you're here the anti Fattah here I
am so this week on the anti Fattah
we have Simone Norman who you may know
from the hilarious praxis video that was
going around we're recording tonight
actually we're gonna talk I'm gonna have
a little girls chat we're gonna talk
about irony humor and its role in the
left and the role that it should not
play in the left so I'm excited about
that
also uh from last week we have an
episode brand new episode of vampire
castle wherein I talk with Leslie Lee
the third from struggle session about
actual vampires and this one we talked
about the very funny TV show what we do
in the shadows also still good from last
week Sean Nandi talk about the Manson
murders and lay out a very convincing
pair
political case for the government's
involvement in said murders so to cover
for Michael tomorrow night looks like
we'll have Elaine you of Jean Stefan's
pres AFP was like a freshman and she's
gonna be talking about what's going on
in Hong Kong which looks crazy right now
and I saw a tweet from I'm gonna butcher
her name sucking up to e-zine
absurd yeah and she's there she said the
airport does not its it does not feel
like all of Hong Kong is nuts right now
like we're putting she's she at the
airport I don't know it's worth checking
that out but nevertheless I mean that's
the way it is I mean you have
functioning societies in the middle of
civil wars I saw a bunch of trucks
there's a there's a video out maybe
we've played in the fun half of a just a
line of cargo trucks like getting into
formation as if they're gonna try to
like start clearing people out of the
airport but go ahead sorry oh and uh
patreon members of a literary hangover
will have gotten George Orwell's essay a
hanging we listen to the full thing and
talked about it and talked about spilled
the tea on his dad who was an imperial
policeman in the British Raj is
specifically the opium Department which
is things starting to come into clarity
understand what's going on
yeah well it's like those very hands on
those policemen were like got to make
sure the grow operations going well and
that accounted for one sixth of the
Britain's revenue from India selling
opium to Chinese addicts basically Jesus
we get into that alright gonna take a
quick break
head into the fun half and see you there
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous you're a little bit upset
you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint
yes do you feel like you are a dinosaur
 exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's a win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven eight
56:27 1/2 5/8 three point nine billion
Wow he's the ultimate math nerd don't
you see you're left with one ball
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my seat I'm hoping that
more moves to my repertoire all I have
is the dip in the swirl fine we can
double flip yes this is a perfect moment
no wait what you make under a million
dollars you you all right take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there take whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber lastic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to go Blair what's
such
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
yes ladies and gentlemen it is the the
famed fun half of the majority report
the the famous always famous let's go
right to the IMS calling from Nebraska
love Tim Foust last week I tried to see
my congressman but the Town Hall was at
capacity ended up talking to a trump
supporter was for kids is a plumber with
some health problems but has no
insurance he told me if the government
gets involved you don't know how how far
they will go I responded god bless you I
responded that we know how far the
private insurance has gone and he had no
response don't know if that's the best
way to respond but we know the horrors
of dealing with private insurance
companies there has been a multi-decade
well maybe more I mean in some ways like
the suspicions of the federal government
goes back to well I mean to a certain
extent to the to the founding fathers
but it mutated I think in the in the
run-up to the civil war right and it's
that it is that that remains like this
notion of federal government's gonna
come in militarily and take away your
property
remember that guest we had that made the
distinction as a academic older woman
she oh I don't know I can't remember but
basically said that I free on offense
oh yes so here it is I got it back
private government versus like actual
government right like you can be
governed by corporations you'd never
make the like people in America were
always like we're just governed by our
government the federal government didn't
like local police but we're governed by
corporations to a much greater and more
harmful extent I think I mean well one
of the dirty tricks of capitalism was
separating the political and the
economic or you know pretending to
separate the political and the economic
when in fact the economic is political
and dominates most people's lives the
most yeah I mean there is so much of our
economics are just a function of
decisions that are made and that are you
know in in the in the question then
becomes who's made these decisions and
why and what recourse do you have to
those decisions exactly and it's it's
just it's they've just done such a good
job in making people fear like I don't
know what I'm trying to think of like
what comes after the well I mean to be
fair Jim Foust has some ideas about what
comes after single-payer health care
improved housing improved food etc etc
now I did be healthy when you don't have
a place to live well I mean the idea
being that you're incentivized as
society to because you're paying for it
now and but the fact is we're paying for
it now
it's just that it is so disaggregated
that we don't realize that we're paying
for it we're paying for it in higher
premiums we're paying for it in higher
co-pays we're paying for it in higher
taxes we're paying it in all different
direction for it with our lives for all
in all different directions but by
paying for you know 35 cents here and 35
cents there and 35 cents there it seems
like we're paying less than if we were
to pay 50 cents in tax in taxes but I
don't know you can convince a couple of
those people but I think the key is just
to beat them bronze plan well were the
environmental provisions of the TPP
intended to be enforceable statutes in
themselves or they simply requirement
that member countries need to adopt in
their own local legislation in order to
join the deal in the first place
I don't know water boat from Kashmir
it's been a while since I looked at TPP
to be honest with you what about from
Kashmir I'm not sure I can do all of
this but the UN secretary-general says
the history of Indian abuse and Kashmir
is troubling that he hopes it won't
happen this time I mean seriously sure
it won't happen this time when there is
near information blackout complete with
impunity declared intentions after we
kalique stick detailed what we knew
about torture and systematic systemic
rape in by india and kashmir multiple UN
reports detailed abuse after multiple
human rights organizations including
those from within india described
systemic rape and torture and murder the
world hopes it doesn't happen with
fascists at the helm the Pony Express
age from news from Kashmir all political
leaders arrested regardless of party
affiliation political civil society
leaders are missing arrested I've seen
some footage of protests when they were
supposedly none I mean I think there's
horrible things going on there and I
don't know
Pakistan moving heavy artillery to the
ceasefire line as of 36 hours ago he
just goes to one thing should be talking
about is how to avoid it happening in
2020 who is going to be the Jill Stein
of 2020 her totals covered the gap in
swing states
I mean look our totals covered the gap
in swing state that's true technically
speaking but that does not necessarily
mean that all those people would have
voted for a Democrat in the absence of
Jill Stein I definitely think some would
have and to be honest with you frankly
I'm less concerned about the well let me
put this way I I find it less
problematic people voting for Jill Stein
then advocating a vote for Jill Stein
because um we don't blame the voters
here well
I blame the voters but I don't blame
necessarily Jill Stein voters I mean I
blame all voters but equally but my
point being that the the real problem is
the selling of Jill Stein as an actual
solution and depressing the turnout for
Clinton you know specifically in 2016
I mean voting is not you can you can do
whatever you want with your vote go in
you could you could you could you could
shut the curtain you could take a poop
on the ballot in fact then you could rub
the feces all over your body I mean you
can do whatever you want
but the fact of the matter is is that a
vote is worthless except as a tool to
get to in some way tiny tiny tiny as
thin as your ballot in fact influence
the American political system to vote
for Jill Stein I mean you could do it in
a state where it's not contested
completely meaningless act to vote for
her in a contested state is not a
meaningless Act you are making a
decision that you're going to empower
possibly someone who's who's worse who's
the worse of the two candidates that's
it there is no such thing as expressing
yourself through the vote that is the
dumbest most naive I don't even think
naive is the word ignorant thing that
you could believe that your vote does
fantastical is an idea
everyone who's concerned about the dumb
dumb left voting for Jill Stein in a
swing state right we're always saying we
need to be practical we need to be
practical I guarantee you if Bernie
Sanders is the nominee that fewer people
will vote for
Jule Styne in those swing states and
you're not gonna convince the dumb-dumb
left not to vote for Jule Styne if
Hillary is the nominee well well I'll
tell you what you can do and don't do
everything you can to make sure that
Bernie's the nominee well there is you
can do I tell you what you can do you
can say that people who are telling you
to go vote for Jill Stein are dum-dums
and that you are wasting your vote and
you are not absolving yourself of the
bad things Society does you are simply
saying I am not going to in any way
contribute to the end of that I am NOT
going to make a decision an adult
decision because you don't get the vote
until you're 18 I'm not going to make an
adult decision on this I'm going to sit
on the sidelines and decide I'm just
going to critique it and I'm not going
to critique it in a way that actually
has any implications I mean the whole
point of voting for Jill Stein as
espoused by those who suggested we do it
was to teach Democrats a lesson and
presumably the way this worked is we
vote for Jill Stein we deny the Democrat
of our vote the Democrat loses then they
learn their lesson well all those people
who said that before the vote then
denied that it was their fault that the
Democrat lost making it impossible for
their whole plan to succeed never mind
the fact that there is no team Democrats
who sit go like oh we had trouble
getting those votes that time no that's
not the way it works either but even if
there was but they then turned around
and said it wasn't our fault in other
words we have no agency whatsoever it's
well the dumbest thing in the world and
no one can convince then people can go
out work for Bernie go out work for any
candidate but and in and I think that
less people would vote for Jill Stein if
if Bernie was the candidate I I
don't know if you would lose maybe some
people will vote for Bloomberg if he
runs who knows in that instance we don't
want those people well you you will if
the election comes down to it I mean
look this is addition this is not the
personality of people voting it is
numbers it is sheer numbers and to
contemplate the you know the personality
of those numbers is is also silly so I
mean that's that's basically it but I'm
also thinking about how do we build a
new working class coalition and it's
going to involve shrinking the tent in
one direction it has to I that's all
well and good but I wouldn't reject a
vote I weren't sure if the if people
with money want to vote for Bernie they
should absolutely do that and in fact
like all the dumb-dumb left who voted
for Jill Stein they're not gonna listen
to any of the very rational arguments
you just made which is why I think I'm
no I'm making but that's the that's
that's let me restate this I'm not
talking to the people who have over Jill
Stein I'm talking to the people who tell
people to vote for Jill Stein and I'm
not even talking to them I'm talking
about them so that when what I can do is
discredit those arguments and discredit
those people and that's what I'm doing
fair enough I just think some of the
Liberals who are so quick to blame
everything on the people who voted for
Jill Stein I don't know if they're gonna
be willing to support Bernie Sanders
this time around which is the thing that
would need to happen to convince some of
those dum-dums to come along I think my
take if we were in a psychoanalyze third
party voters right now is I think Tulsi
fans are basically where the Jill Stein
people were last time and I think every
single one of those Tulsa supporters
would still vote for the ticket if Tulsi
was Biden's vice president so I don't
know like I feel like the only thing you
can think about though I mean that's
what she's setting herself up for and I
mean I don't know that yeah we've said
it all before set a square Sam I do
remember when Milo is about to be born
how nervous you sounded you did really
good and also by example pushing this
Boulder up every day another last week
Horrible's Brenda have not heard your
calls in a long time hope you're well
Steff ed caleb kane says that lefty
should try and get in the right wing
algorithm by engaging with them in the
media however left he seemed hesitant to
legitimize right-wing outlets by
appearing on them how can lefties
infiltrate right wing algorithms without
legitimizing deplorable programming well
first of all I have no problem going on
just about any show now as you know I
did not go and I never really actually
said I wouldn't go on
Gavin's program I would have if the
person that they had initially told me
would show up would now I don't want to
be a jerk about this I know people want
me to spill the tea and the tea will be
spilt I assure you the tea will be spilt
but you need to what do they call it
when you dump the tea in there what is
it when you copper dip in the tea bag no
but there's some other Tong brew there's
another deep steep you need to steep the
tea before you before it's tea and then
you can't so I want this tea to be fully
steeped but I would go on Gavin show
under these conditions gotta be live or
I got to be able to tape record the
whole thing and be he's not the
moderator I go on to talk to him he
doesn't get to be the official in this
situation no no no no no no that's why I
wouldn't go on that show if it was just
Gavin and I in any context you don't
have to pay me $5,000 100 mana or 250 I
only 250 is the cost that it takes me to
go on that show to say he's enough he is
the neutral party that's how that's why
I need 250 for that but I will not get
invited on to those shows if I do like I
want on Peter Shiff show on the radio
who else's show I don't know whenever
they whenever I
and invite I go if I am Jessica Peterson
Jesse Lee Peterson I didn't know who
that dude was I think there's plenty of
people out there who'd pay good money to
see you teabag Gavin McInnes I think you
got my metaphor confused but I am also
it would depend on how much money we're
talking about
Elisa's is it convenient you don't have
an interview on the Epstein story today
first Seth rich now Epstein yeah
attorney Andrew Sam on the trade-off of
allowing private insurers to offer
offered duplicate 'iv insurance to
Medicare first they don't do that now
with existing Medicare save Medicare
Advantage in fact I wish Bernie would
invoke existing Medicare more on this
front he should be saying the millions
of Americans that currently move to
Medicare every year don't pine for
private insurance option to duplicate
the exact thing they get under Medicare
second why would you want to keep alive
a constituency that has an incentive to
lobby to make Medicare worse as long as
private insurers exist they were trying
to undermine the publicly funded
provider that encroaches on their rents
well my point is is that it would be the
opposite dynamic that you don't
necessarily you could say like offer
these duplicated services and I just
don't think like you say there would be
a market for it and to the extent that
there was I think it would be extremely
extremely narrow and there wouldn't be a
the type of money that you're talking
about I mean the idea of like a Medicare
Medicare for all at that point versus
these sort of very narrowly tailored
private health insurance for super
wealthy people I am because I'm just
talking about how you get Medicare for
all in the first place but I don't I
don't have any desire to maintain
private health insurance I'm just
thinking about like what's a decent
what's a decent like plan to get
Medicare for all what's a decent
trade-off to get Medicare off for all
and then like I just don't know you know
what kind of business you would get if
you're a private insurance you just
paying for billions I asked Twitter what
specific things people that could think
of that would be covered in certain like
Cadillac type plans they column over
that's aren't covered in single-payer
and it seems like it's like chiropractic
and like like basically like alternative
almost like alternative types of
medicine well I got a Cadillac plan and
it's not that great even like I have the
best health care of probably anyone
through Shawn's Union and it was really
annoying to find a therapist that took
our health insurance and I still have a
bunch of bills from the cancer scare
that I had last year so even though
really good Cadillac plans are not all
that well I would imagine what it would
be would be to make sure they're just
excluded from the riffraff when they go
see the doctor that the doctor is only
seen super millionaires because that way
you don't have to wait in line behind
you know the hundred thousand heirs and
then the riffraff I would imagine it
would be well we're in special wards at
the hospital like I'm paid for the
luxury you know rooms up there I mean I
if if that is the price that you have to
pay to get it that's all I'm saying is
that you know this whole outlying
private insurance stuff it's just a much
bigger cudgel than I think it is problem
in practice inter political color well
it's the point that it'll just reveal up
and wither away because nobody's using
it well that I think that's what would
happen that you don't necessarily need
to outline that's a bit yeah that's my
back anyways but maybe I'm wrong I know
Michaels not here but there's this Lula
clip that I always referenced because he
talks about this it's sort of the zero
sum miss I guess to baby talks about how
the prot the problem with the elites had
with Lula and Dilma was that they made
airports look like train stations
basically by leveling up and I think
like when you talk about people wanting
for in healthcare based to keep him away
from the riffraff like this is that
dynamic basically it's not whisper a few
seconds of it
that's because publish clip 0% omentum
eyes for ya
una cafes you come a friend come on that
was a DeVito few aeroporto do galeão
know a report on the convoy yet how a
reporter Padma what of the idea that
Santa Barbara killed a dead Kemosabe na
flick potato in cup yeah
that's global yep the DX fool so you can
read I am once a week don't be that way
hello proletariat's I hope authorities
will investigate the death of Jeffrey
Epstein as thoroughly as they did the
death of leyline Polanco of the house of
Extravaganza the dominican woman who
allegedly died from an epileptic seizure
on Rikers Island incidentally according
to splinter news the Dayton shooter
didn't kill a sister he actually killed
his brother who was a closeted trans man
only that man's companion who still in
the hospital knows what transpired
before the toosh got shot by the shooter
yes I did read that and I wasn't sure he
wasn't out apparently as trans but we
don't know to whom I mean obviously was
out to someone to some people but not
not to supposedly not to his family but
I don't we don't know yeah there's a lot
more to be learning from that I think
cosmic yawn hey Sam did you see the
stories of Bernie's polling drop in Iowa
is this more mainstream cherry-picking
or is there something to it I have not
seen those stories Chuck Schumer shroom
er Mac do you make Sam saying sucking it
to Fe what
Dexter Washington shoutout from
Australia gotta say stay up to five am
but worth it love you guys keep it up
Australia has Medicare for all in
private we get no waiting list for
elective surgery like neat
reconstruction in private rooms it's not
used by young people it's not making
money the CEOs are calling for going to
the US current private system dr. chaos
MD my ability to watch live and comment
has been diminished recently because in
addition to my day-to-day workload I now
sit on the board of a small or thought
Manufacturing company I work for I get
to help craft policy that determines the
direction the company goes and my focus
being on improving the lives of our
workers in fact we're currently working
on a potential profit share for everyone
I want to thank you all for what you're
doing you doing and contributing to my
leftist outlook and providing me with
data reporting an analysis that helps me
drive policy to make sure our companies
sound make sound financial and moral
decisions left is best oh that's that's
great Thank You barb Bob Carmody why
doesn't any reporter asked Trump where
we're after the billions from tariffs
going not sure I understand that
question Oh folks I have a correction to
make and we should have done this up
front last week we talked about these
raids at Koch food and I mistakenly
attributed those cokes to the Koch
brothers it is not the Koch brothers
it's a different family Koch family who
are horrible when it comes to things
like immigration and apparently they had
some problems with race in the past you
don't say I'm I know how shocking them
was that's a good hiding spot though
you'd be the second worst Koch family in
the America yeah or that yet they could
be the worst but who knows it's a high
bar so uh you remember Ken Cuccinelli he
was of the I think the vaginal probe
regime in Virginia he is now the Acting
USCIS which is the chief immigration I
guess
executive Citizenship and Immigration
Services acting head and he announced
today new trump administration policies
to limit this is to limit legal
immigration right and it is obviously
cruel and inhumane but it's also to
specifically limit immigration and
terrorize family
now no when you talk about immigrants
who are on for using u.s. services
they're available to citizens understand
that I don't know what percentage it is
100 percent 90 percent 80 percent no
less than that of these people have
family close family that they are more
often than not living with and so
there's opportunities there's no
evidence that people stay on these
programs forever multi-generational and
to the extent that any of them does it's
significant numbers in terms of what we
spent I mean we spend an insignificant
number on on these programs anyways far
more for you know I don't know one
one-fifth of the basis that we have
around the world
one-sixth one-tenth of the basis maybe
but here's Ken Cuccinelli this is
understand what the politics of this are
this is something that Steve Miller's
been pushing for a long time they
certainly believe if we can prove our
muster in terms of causing pain for
immigration we're gonna benefit with our
base but also we're gonna create a wedge
issue we're gonna make Democrats because
we know we have a very helpful press in
this way start asking questions why
should someone who's not a citizen and
they won't phrase it this nicely who
just has like a child here or a parent
here or a spouse here why should they be
eligible for Medicaid health insurance
or why should they be available why
should why should they be eligible for
you know 75 dollars a month in food
stamps 1996 the law has required foreign
nationals to rely on their own
capabilities and the resources of their
families sponsors and private
organizations in their communities to
succeed however
Congress has never defined the term
public charge in the law posit I
understand what he's talking about here
in 1996 the law was changed to say that
if you're an immigrant coming in your
ability to become a citizen get a green
card working visa whatever it is is a
function of the likelihood of you
becoming a public charge public charge
is basically a way of saying like oh you
know not quite a ward of the state
but like supported by the state and the
way that that was assessed and what that
means yes is there someone at the door
open the door the way that is assessed
and what that means is up to
interpretation and the Trump
administration has decided to interpret
it in such a way that is highly narrowly
tailored or I should say or broadly
tailored as to what constitutes you
being a public charge so as to limit the
number of people who are allowed to
enter this country legally and stay in
this country legally like charged in the
law and that term hadn't been clearly
defined by regulation well that is what
changes today with this rule through the
public charge rule president Trump's
administration is reinforcing the ideals
of self sufficiency and personal
responsibility ensuring that immigrants
are able to support themselves and
become successful here in America our
rule generally prevents aliens who are
likely to become a public charge from
coming to the United States or remaining
here and getting a green card public
charge is now defined in a way that
ensures the law is meaningfully enforced
and that those who are subject to it are
self-sufficient so there it is Ken
Cuccinelli
making it sound mean it sounds
reasonable he wasn't going like we
really don't want too many brown people
in here
we don't want people who
are you know so-called low-skilled we
don't want people who speak Spanish we
don't want people who have been driven
from their farms because of violence or
they've been driven from their cities
because of violence we don't want those
people here and you can't say that so
basically what he says is we are
changing the regulations so that they
are more stringent and we're gonna mold
them in such a way like this is an
exaggeration but more or less what
they're saying is like if you come from
a city let's say that has a one of the
top ten museums of modern art in the
world then you're in then you get a
green card I mean that's basically
that's I mean that's the way that
they're gonna determine these things
here is here is a reporter asking
Cuccinelli if you want to take the
huddled masses language off the Statue
of Liberty because of course that was
the the whole point and we have another
another a headphone over here if you
want but that was the whole point right
the whole point was are you gonna take
the the huddled masses because bringing
in people who have graduate degrees in
engineering does not you know you don't
they don't tend to huddle together in
masses this will be it for two questions
and we're gonna go to one but I said yes
you go ahead ladies have also been
almost as long the words at the base of
the Statue of Liberty
give us your tired your poor you were
implementing a public charge rule for
the first time is that sentiment give us
your tired your poor still operative in
the United States or should those words
come down to the plaque come down off
the central well I'm certainly not
prepared to take anything down off the
Statue of Liberty we we have a long
history of being one of the most
welcoming nations in the world on a lot
of bases whether you be in the sy Li
whether you be coming here to join your
family or immigrating yourself this rule
will cover for USCIS almost four hundred
thousand people a year whose
applications to become legal permanent
residents will include a meaningful
analysis of whether they're likely to
become a public charge or not I do not
think by any means we're ready to take
anything off the Statute of Liberty yes
ma'am in other words we have no problem
pretending that we're still taking your
tired your poor your huddled masses but
the fact of the matter is we're not
going to if you if you are one of those
things that will count against your
application in fact that is probably
where the threshold will be give us your
huddled masses that are huddled around
enough money to get by without becoming
a nuisance but it's also to be clear
there was already you had to exhibit a
likelihood that you would be able to
take care of yourself or that someone
was going to step forward and take care
of you
but this is just raising the bar and of
course at the end of the day it's gonna
be subjective and it's basically you
know it's not unlike when the DoD had
prison guards in Iraq and just said like
shackles off that's what we're looking
at ice and now we're looking at those
officials who will determine your
eligibility for a green card well this
is one of the fundamental contradictions
I think between the desire for a kind of
a generous welfare state which
obviously these Republicans don't have
but there are right-wing parties in
Europe that really are sincerely
committed to it and the idea of a hard
mortar that is militarized and
securitized and guarded right and and
even Bernie Sanders has kind of
continued some of this language saying
oh we want a generous welfare state here
but we have to have borders we have to
enforce the borders because there's a
lot of poverty in this world and
everyone would come here and take
advantage of it which is one reason why
socialists are calling for a softening
of borders in combination with a welfare
state I'm not sure I follow that like if
you're going to do a welfare state
within the bounds of this nation-state
right if you're going to have a generous
one
you bump up against problems because
people in other countries a lot of
countries which have been exploited by
the US or messed with via our foreign
policy are going to come here and
they're going to want to be a part of it
and they're gonna want to take advantage
of it and I think that that's a good
thing right it should be open to
everyone but as soon as you have the
idea of you need to protect the economic
security of the country or whatever keep
people from coming in don't you see how
that could lead to this kind of state
violence I don't I I what percentage do
you think of people who are coming at
the border are coming because they want
food stamps or because they want
Medicaid they want security in general
they want to be able to live and survive
right but that's different from a from
from a welfare state that's different
from being a generous welfare state I
mean the you're talking about people who
are coming from some of the most violent
places in the world I'm what percentage
do you think are coming here I mean if
you think it's a contradiction to be
able to offer this stuff because it's
going to attract more people I mean what
percentage of those people do you think
are coming here for that I don't know
probably some they see that America to
some degree provides for citizens
although less and less so I mean I would
think it's pretty low I would think it's
it's pretty low I think I would like to
see actually I would like to see more
statistics on it because I don't
actually know yeah I mean I think I
think before because I think that's a
right-wing frame this is a logic that
people on the left
also parotid which which logic there's a
lot of poverty in this world if we don't
have strong borders everyone's going to
come here like that was a bad answer
that Bernie gave on the question of
borders I think yeah I didn't I didn't
hear that but I do think that's that's a
bad answer but I just don't think that
the number of people who are coming to
this country for that is particularly
high I mean I think it's I think the I
think people come here for economic
opportunity I don't think anybody's
coming here going like we're gonna get
what a hundred yeah I don't think the
bucks I don't think the caravan would
have been twice as big if we had
Medicare for all well whether or not
they're coming here for that it is
certainly a part of the rhetoric that's
being spread by both the left and the
right right now and I'm pointing out
some problems with that but what part of
that rhetoric you said it's a
contradiction to offer a extended
welfare state and also to have
decriminalized borders no I think those
two things actually go together like
it's if you know what we could talk
about this later okay I just wasn't sure
what I just don't think that the number
of people who are coming here for these
benefits is particularly high I think
people who end up on these programs when
they come here it's because their plans
have not worked out because of the exact
same reason why or very similar reasons
why other people end up on these plans
they've had some type of misfortune they
go they got unlucky they didn't find a
job there someone had a health care
problem
yeah the contradiction comes way down
the line I agree with that
all right let's go to here is now Ken
Cuccinelli saying that basically the
Terrorism that we saw from ice this week
following the shooting in El Paso they
decided to bring their own more official
fully jacked armed guys to a to a series
of factories in
Missouri and here is his promise that oh
this is just the beginning folks and you
know it is right they're going to right
now they're sitting down and they're
saying we're gonna do one of these a
month till the election maybe we'll ramp
it up in the months before the election
here there were recently workplaces
immigration rates and of course
president from his first prison
commutation went through a man who was
arrested after his business build and
[Music]
did that decision to print a person
commutation to this man sent a message
to employers I'm not really prepared to
speak to that I don't think so the
president does those one person at a
time I think what you saw ice do this
week and enforcing the law meaningfully
with seven operations across the state
of Mississippi and of course
investigations still ongoing criminal
investigations growing out of that is a
is a growth for ice from the previous
year their enforcement efforts are up
and I think you can expect to see more
of that as part of the message of this
administration we're going to enforce
the law so what what that reporter was
talking about was that Trump had
commuted decision this is back in 2017
the end of 2017 there was a guy who this
guy
Ruba shaken or Rubin who had served
eight years of a 27 year sentence for
bank fraud and money laundering during a
raid of his Agra processors plant ice
officials arrested 400 undocumented
Mexican and Guatemalan immigrants that
he had a slaughterhouse basically he was
never tried on the immigration charges
because he didn't want to let his
employees to testify about their
treatment at the plant he got acquitted
of 67 misdemeanor child labor laws but
Trump let him commuted this guy even
though he had hired 400
people who were supposedly illegal
meanwhile they'll go and arrest these
people and separate them from their
families the hypocrisy thing just
doesn't work right what is it about like
meatpacking that's just always super
abusive ah watch Fredrik Wiseman's meet
just to get a little hint
these meatpacking facilities working
there is extremely extremely hard for
people that Upton Sinclair got they at
least used to have strong unions but
those have largely been broken now it's
it's an extreme I can't remember who had
written about this but the work in these
plants are disturbing super disturbing
let's go to the phones call them from a
972 area code who's this where he come
from uh this is Chris from Texas Chris
what's on your mind um so I I kind of
saw let me start over I saw your tweet
quote tweeting steven crowder
insinuating that you had some sort of
dirt on him whoa whoa whoa whoa how did
that tweet start I I'm not sure I'm gone
for a second let me see if I can it let
me see if I can pull that up it would I
think well I think that quote yes I
think the quote was started I mean the
tweet my tweet started with four
Crowder's eyes only yes I have it right
here can you pull that up it says very
clearly for Crowder's eyes only I'm
sorry did you read that
how how could you be so sure that I'm
not steven crowder okay I heard I'm fair
enough
wouldn't cough okay but anyway did I
spell your name correctly that's how I
do the test
your first name did I spell it correctly
uh
well I'm sorry what was that did I spell
your first name correctly on the tweet
sure no I did not I spelled it
incorrectly but go ahead what's going on
okay so I kind of I I kind of I have a
an anecdote about my experience with
steven crowder okay and not that not
that I think that it in any way like
completes kind of the puzzle but I think
that it has a lot of little nuggets in
it let's know yeah I'm sorry what's your
name again Chris Chris okay go ahead
Chris yes so I'm a student at the
University of North Texas and this year
on a Friday morning I just kind of woke
up I was still a little high from the
night before 6:00 and I open up my phone
I'm sorry excited you mean right yeah
yeah I was I was elated okay be awake
and I didn't have any class that day so
I slept in a little bit and so the first
thing that I see when I get up is
everyone's tweeting about oh my god
Steven Crowder's on campus and no one
had any prior knowledge of this he just
the way the way that he sets up his
change my mind segments I guess that he
just kind of doesn't doesn't really
allow it to be known until like he's
there and he's got everything set up and
so I you know I'm I'm kind of interested
and so I decide to go down there and see
what's going on and so I'm there with
I'm there with two of my friends and one
of my friends we're standing kind of
right behind it because we kind of
pushed our way to the front ease
up in front of our library in front of a
little fountain and the fountains not
running and so we're actually standing
in the fountain so we're right we're
kind of like right in the we're right in
the foreground kind of of his bitter in
the background and so and then my friend
points out to me she's like she I see
the I see the producer who is letting
these people come on to do the segment
and she points him out to me because she
knows that I want to go talk to him and
so I so I kind of I kind of when I get
the opportunity I kind of wave at the
producer and I I didn't mention the
specific change my mind that he was
doing the specific segment that he was
doing was about abortion which isn't
isn't the issue I'm the most well read
on or the well spoken on but you know I
figured that it was my only opportunity
to kind of get in and talk to it okay
and so I I go to the producer and so
he's kind of vetting me to see whether
he's kind of vetting everyone you know
to make sure that I don't know to kind
of see who they want on and who they
don't wanna and so he's alright you
gotta get a pick it up pick it up just a
little bit a little bit more let's say
okay yeah yes he asked my position on
abortion and so I kind of explained it
to him and he just kind of he just kind
of says to me like oh yeah your view
your view sounds really nuanced and it's
really interesting but really we want
kind of more people who are like nutjobs
who will and I'm not pretentious enough
to think that what he's saying is like
you're too smart to go on steven crowder
show but like they're really like
fishing for content you know what I mean
of course they're not actually they're
not actually going to college campuses
and trying to like oh let's let's have
polite conversation with students and
actually see if
we could have like an exchange of ideas
it's literally just like for content
sake yeah I'm not surprised to be honest
with you I mean I'm not surprised by
this of course yeah he doesn't care
about he doesn't care about doing
anything real of course not
the dude is a charlatan and I know for a
fact that when he has the opportunity to
have an actual debate with someone not
on on neutral turf that he in in fact
not just neutral turf on turf that by
all accounts could be considered not
necessarily home turf but friendly turf
and I will be more specific with that
because you do not roll these things out
until September right I mean that is the
oldest everybody knows that marketing
standpoint so I would just tell you stay
tuned because like I say the T has to
steep before you can smell it appreciate
why why would you why would you steep
tea before your if you're gonna steep to
you why wouldn't you drink it I'm gonna
sip a little bit of it and then I'm
gonna pour some of it on the spill some
of it all right I'm steeping a lot of
tea but good question now I could see
why crowd I didn't want it day yeah yeah
getting the weeds with that guy yeah
exactly totally on top of this stuff we
call it from annex 804 area code who's
this where he come from hey this is
William from Richmond Virginia William
from Richmond Virginia what's on your
mind right first of all I'm wondering
what kind of tea is the best state but
being serious right on August third in
Brazil the military police entered and
monitored a yellow women meeting hey
what
and I think this is a what - didn't get
much coverage oh do you need me to
repeat that yeah hello Oh kiss ello as
in the Brazilian West party okay okay
okay
yeah the whole scenario military police
monitored the women's meeting seeing
they were monitoring for anything
suspicious
and so this is just more of a sign of
the descend into clown fashion clown
fascism in Brazil yeah I mean things
have moved in the past week in a fairly
positive way
I mean fairly measured yeah well the
Lulu story and I know but also the the
Supreme Court was the Supreme Court that
said you can't investigate Greenwald I
mean there was a comment yeah there was
a couple of I mean you know but yeah
there's a huge problem there I
appreciate the phone call but yes that
is these guys are not going to be any
less fascist they're just going to do
different things at different times that
and sometimes the the state apparatus
will both are narrow will stop them but
other times it won't come from 307 area
code who's this where you come from
hey how's it going guys Rob from Wyoming
Rob from Wyoming what's on your mind oh
not much you guys brought up everybody's
favorite OD the dog and impersonator and
just happy to be here guy wink and
Chaffey the other day and interestingly
enough he's landed out here and declared
himself libertarian I just thought you
might find that funny oh is that right I
had no idea yeah yeah I assume the move
is uh you know for NZ's feet since he's
retiring probably hoping to run for Mike
Enzi feet that would be great because
he's running against probably Cheney
right uh no I think
it's gonna be Cynthia Lummis really I
thought I thought Lynne Cheney would be
running I thought so too but all of the
everything around here sounds like
Lummis Wow well it would be great to get
Chafee mumait jure upgrade you don't
feel competitive with another
libertarian enter in the sort of really
he's not running another senator no I as
a potential candidate for the
libertarian presidential race I saw work
that's kind of the reason for my call
Democrats out here and we kind of have a
growing left we have other plans so and
we don't get much press out here and we
have 500,000 people and we're going to
get one Senate seat which you know we
can discuss that all we want but you
know we need help so um if everybody
wouldn't mind checking out jana for
wyoming ye na she's great Medicare for
all $15 minimum wage she's a great
candidate do you really use the help out
here do you think that Chafee would
split the Republican vote I you know he
may he's very well made that's a that's
a possibility or you know you alluded to
it earlier if enough people just stay
home you know we're 70/30 out here but
if enough people just stay home we could
have a legitimate shot to do something
what is the what is the county is it
Jackson County in Wyoming I don't I
don't think it's Jackson County I can't
remember off the top of my head what
they're in it might be Teton County no
but I'm talking about Jackson County I
think is the most is is wildly blue
county it's the only one out there right
right that's Teton County that's where
Jackson okay okay okay yeah yeah I don't
expect anybody to know that I mean my
understood that Jackson has the highest
wealth disparity in the country yeah
third because people can move there and
the residential requirements in terms of
income tax are virtually nil like as
opposed to Florida you need to live down
there
six months in a day to not pay income
twice and my understanding is in like in
Wyoming that if you just buy a house
there you or and maybe you got to go on
a couple of weekends or something like
that you can maintain residency and pay
no income taxes so if you're super what
rich what you do is you go and you buy a
house there but what it's done with the
housing stock there is everything is
either like super super expensive or
just someone still live there
right right and I think it's really it's
really hard for working-class people
yours too you know because apartments
are sky high and whatnot but yeah I
believe that's how lives Cheney I think
she just rented an apartment there a
condo there bought one there for a
little while you know before she ran
right because she's never really lived
here I mean and it was so funny because
the whole public discourse was
carpetbagger liz and then she gets a lot
dude yeah well anyway that would be
great if Kathy split that you know ya
know for Wyoming like I said we could
use all of the help we could get all
right folks check it out Janna for
Wyoming dot-com right all right
appreciate the call yeah or why oh hey
thank you so much love you guys
thank you Janna for why oh why why wo uh
oh
w-why Oh sir w-why oh here is a bill
Bart now apparently the latest I mean
folks obviously there's a lot better
places to go if you want to get
information on Jeffrey Epstein and I
don't know what happened it is shocking
that the guy was in a position that he
could commit suicide that is I think
obvious what I have seen is this this
seems to me to be the both sort of like
lays it out here this is from the
Washington Post
corrections officers had not checked in
on financier and registered sex-offender
Jeffrey Epstein for several hours before
he was found hanging in a Cell Saturday
this is a person familiar with the
matter now you know who knows who these
people are officers should have been
checking Epstein who is being held in a
special housing unit of the Metropolitan
Correctional Center in New York City
every 30 minutes and under normal
circumstances he should have had a
cellmate so there was like a perfect
storm of things that showed up here it's
really weird but a person who had been
assigned to share a cell with Epstein
had transferred on Friday before the
weekend probably when they're
short-staffed and for reasons that
investigators are still exploring he did
not receive a new cellmate that left
Epstein who had been previously placed
on suicide watch the guy who was placed
on suicide watch
two and a half weeks ago what what is it
what did it prove so much in his life
from July 25th to August 9th that he's
like we don't need to put us we don't
need it we do
he doesn't need a suicide watch anymore
he just seems so much more chipper now
that seems to be a weird question why
there was no cell mate put in there why
was that cell mate transferred in the
first place apparently his suicide was
was listed as an apparent suicide
they're still waiting for the more
information from the coroner I mean I'm
not surprised if the guy committed
suicide would that surprise anybody the
question is is like how was that a load
how was it he allowed I don't think he
committed suicide you don't
nope I think a whole generation just got
read pilled about this everybody has
conspiracy theories and I agree I do not
have a conspiracy theory but I it would
not surprise me
someone who had tried to commit suicide
before would try to commit suicide again
he had every reason to think that he was
not going to escape this situation
without being in prison for the rest of
his life and I don't think you want to
be known as a billionaire child molester
in prisons probably not the best
situation to be in the question is was
this just a total like coincidence
incompetent like look people commit
suicide in prison all the time but the
idea that there wasn't a special watch
on this seems very odd the two
corrections officers assigned to watch
the special unit in the detention center
where Epstein was being housed were
working overtime one forced to do so by
management the other for his fourth or
fifth consecutive day is according to
the local union the correctional center
is functioning over less than 70% of
needed correctional officers Epstein was
not on suicide watch Saturday before he
was found but because he was held in the
facility's special housing unit he
should have been checked every 30
minutes and that procedure was not being
followed
cameras are prevalent in the facility
but they generally don't see inmates
cells he was taken off a suicide watch a
week later brought to the special
housing unit where there was supposedly
a higher level of security but not
constant monitoring and union officials
said that he and other officials had
long been raising concerns as the Trump
administration had imposed a hiring
freeze and budget cuts in the federal
prisons Bureau of Prisons in other words
mission accomplished so I don't know
here is Bill Barr he is just outraged
that this could happen shocked
right shocked before I begin I'd like to
briefly address news from the Manhattan
Correctional Center over the weekend
regarding Jeffrey Epstein this sex
trafficking case was very important to
the Department of Justice and to me
personally it was important to the
dedicated prosecutors in the Southern
District of New York and to our FBI
agents who investigated the case and
we're preparing it for trial most
importantly this case was important to
the victims who had the courage to come
forward and deserve the opportunity to
confront the accused in the courtroom I
was appalled and indeed the whole
department was and frankly angry to
learn of the MCCS failure to adequately
secure this prisoner we are now learning
of serious irregularities at this
facility that are deeply concerning and
demand a thorough investigation the FBI
and the Office of Inspector General are
doing just that we will get to the
bottom of what happened and there will
be accountability but let me assure you
that this case will continue on against
anyone who was complicit with Epstein
yes specifically he's probably talking
about was it wasn't George Mitchell and
bill Richardson's like their names came
out was it George Mitchell well you
double-check that I think it was
definitely bill Richardson's were named
by one of the alleged victims as having
been around I don't know exactly what it
was that came out on papers I think it
was on Friday
and I'm not sure who it was was Virginia
agira free sack you zation by a woman
who was allegedly vol trafficked one of
F's teens victims and also I think she
mentioned Bill Richardson as well I mean
I think there's gonna be a ton of I
think there's gonna be a ton of names
thrown around but I the question is you
know will they really genuinely pursue
this going forward I I mean I I'm not
aware of there should be an ongoing
investigation into who supposedly told
Acosta in the first place yeah I want to
know that answer I mean cuz Acosta came
out and said I was told by higher-ups
that's right or whatever it is that he
was told to lay off like who would have
the authority over him like that and who
would have the authority to say like any
co-conspirators can walk to it's all
ridiculous it really is and I don't know
anything for sure obviously we don't and
we probably won't but he was about to
tell on some of the most powerful people
in the world so the fact that it seems
like something fishy was going on
whether he was actually killed in jail
or whether they just stepped away and
let him kill himself it seems like
there's more to it here I think there
has to be well just to have that like it
seems to me that it's malfeasance not to
have like let's just assume that the MCC
is that dysfunctional which it could
very well be they don't give a crap but
the idea that there wasn't someone who
says like hey this is get our act
together for this we better get our act
together for this like we're gonna send
a special emissary we're gonna have a
federal representative there you know
what I'm the guy who's gonna say
overtime for one guard to sit there and
anything short of that looks an awful
lot like an oversight yes very
convenient oversight that's all I'm
saying
right I mean
it would be ridiculous not to have
questions about this I don't know what
the answer is but it would be ridiculous
not to have questions about this very
strange very very very strange oh this
is uh good and Jamie you were involved
in some of these protests over the
weekend too right I was what tell us
about what you did this weekend in terms
of the I stuff okay
so close the camps NYC had a non-violent
direct action on Saturday where there
was a rally then there was a March we
marched to the ice office which is on
the West Side Highway and a bunch of
people who had signed up to get arrested
blocked the West Side Highway for a
little while until the cops arrested all
of them I did not sign up to be arrested
this time around because I was actually
meeting my mom afterwards but I was a
marshal
which means you kind of keep the line
moving together you get him in between
people in the cops you make sure nobody
gets hurt
oh my god that's my friend Emmy ah those
are some of my some my friends in there
really awesome people all of them we
were chatting close the camp's shut down
ice no nations no borders thanks of that
nature and it was a really good action
almost a hundred people got arrested
there were a few hundred people there at
least three hundred which is pretty good
considering that the main organizer is
behind this one movie me and choke on
set Jeff is only like 20 people right
now well but they really need to get
more people involved so if you see this
and you want to help out you can go to
close the camp's NYC calm and get
involved and then on Sunday there was a
protest at an Amazon store in New York
City by some Jewish community groups the
Jews for racial and economic justice
JFR EJ and they
they went to Amazon to get to basically
protest tech helping people helping
these ice raids they did it in in in DC
and in New York there was other Jewish
groups that were also involved the
specifically yesterday was Tish Bob and
Tish Bob is basically a catch-all
holiday where they they observe like
Jews observe like the destruction of the
temple back like to where are we mm 20
some odd years ago and no wait that
would have been actually like 30 years
later or some somewhere around there the
destruction of the temple and and then
also subsequent tragedies hit some
people fast I never we didn't really
celebrate Tish buff but and here are
some pictures from there and then this
audio to a lot of people got arrested
and they didn't anticipate it so here's
this was a this is a little fun fact
sometimes the the the cops can
commandeer an MTA bus so there are so
many Jews who got arrested at the Amazon
flagship store protesting their
connection with ice that the NYPD has
brought a bus they've commandeered a bus
to take the plea arrest I've never seen
that before ever there you go and I
think it's taking them to the sea
Phantom of the Opera yeah I wonder if
Phantom of the Opera people like their
advertisement used on a bus those
commandeered to take away the protesters
against ice of all things - oh and I
should mention two friends of the show
were among the arrestees who's up on
Sunday Molly crabapple and Ella Valley
oh great well I mean great also
solidarity with Ella Valley because he
got his Twitter account mass reported by
a bunch of Nazis so back soon Jewish
Voice for Peace was also big in the in
the action on Saturday and I met a lot
of those people and they were really
cool um hold on for one sec are you
asking me if you want that soda the what
the spent rip the seltzer yes you can
have the seltzer it's warm my daughter
is in the studio and she apparently
really needed two parts her thirst
okay everybody welcome to my sister
Betsy and my daughter well who are in
studio guest today this is great
da-ad Anne Bonny what is he doing these
days
Fox News hit space Oh does he do fight
does he have his own show or does he not
have his own show oh I don't think he
has his own show no no not anymore ever
since the NRA stuff that's too bad
nobody wanted to pick that up but that's
really that's a real shame but here he
is the brain and there was a fencer guy
who fences a gold medalist I guess in
the pan-american games who took the knee
during the playing of the national
anthem good for him
and apparently this guy
according I guess he was interviewed
later he knelt to protect a protest
racism gun control mistreatment of
immigrants and president Trump there was
another guy too named looks like Gwen
Barry who was a hammer thrower who
raised his fist good so yeah all right
well here's Dan bond G know who's really
offended by this on Fox infer guess you
know Griff I saw this story and I'm
really tired of these people and I think
a lot of America is too you know we
share nothing in common with them number
one it's all about their own
self-promotion it's rarely about them
engaging in any kind of a positive way
to to change things for the better
you know kneeling is a positive positive
one second
we have heard Dan bungee no really
really go out there and praise people
for positively trying to change things
in this country Reverend barber fan
right exactly yeah I really you know
like I you get to take some time from
praising Reverend barber and you know my
work in trying to reestablish acorn
which really represented a lot of
underprivileged people to just say hey
guy come on come on can't predict right
you know kneeling is a sign of
disrespect to our flag which many of the
patriotic Americans who watch this
network know shuts the argument down
right away so whatever you're trying to
argue for you know what would a Capra
dick say you know social just this or
and I believe his this kneel or at the
pan-american games
I believe his thing was he was
protesting some systemic racism those
are all horrible things we should all be
trying to combat these things but you
shut the conversation down immediately
when you disrespect pausing for one
second I hope people understand and
appreciate the irony of the fact that
that's probably the first time I've ever
heard a clip of Fox News where someone
said like racism is bad like we want
social justice right like guess what Dan
it it looks like he's successfully
started a conversation going but let's
go back a little bit
I don't you think he realized it's like
oh my gosh I'm defeating my own point
I'm doing what he want
right Dan pon Gino is really a
conversation ender roll the tape let's
listen to more damn bond Gino said this
Neil or at the pan-american games
I believe his thing was he was
practicing some systemic racism those
are all horrible things yeah we should
all be trying to combat these things but
you shut the conversation down
immediately when you disrespect our flag
what what would you know people have
come home and boxes for this to support
this and it reminds me again one more
thing either we share almost nothing in
common anymore with liberals you know
this was once a common space sports
where Americans could go for you know
refuge from the back and forth and the
friction of politics and liberals have
to destroy cuz they're a forest fire
every single thing they touch and
they've now destroyed this - by the guy
the guy by the way the guy was
representing the United States get up
and put your hand over your heart and
then give a speech later about how you
want a protest racism that's great well
I'll be with you for that but you don't
do it this way
Wow first off I don't know if this is
the first time that Fox has ever even
acknowledged that systemic racism exists
and damn bond Geno is saying that he's
gonna be given speech is that right
damn budging
dude I mean how many episodes do you
think of his NRA TV covered systemic
racism in this country a little bit zero
he's gonna start now right now remember
the conversation with Tomsk oka about
ventriloquism yeah on Friday this part I
think rings back to them back to our
flag which many of the patriotic
Americans who watch this network know
shuts the argument down right away yeah
there you go yeah
and the fact that the flag sends people
home in boxes maybe isn't a great
argument for it
well that was also weird he I think he
was saying they have the right to go and
participate in sports and that's why
guys get sent home in boxes
wait they've they go and sacrifice
themselves for free speech apparently
and this is how you're using your speech
to like kneel during the national anthem
it's it shuts down the conversations oh
it's just down the conversation to
exercise the the
right to free speech or I don't know if
he's saying like did the other teams
that were there that they all have to
have sent home people in boxes to to go
play like a min if it's if it's really
pan-american games they all need to like
you don't get into those games unless
you've sent a certain number of people
into war and they've got the truth is it
was just a spasm of like sort of patriot
patriotism whatever it is means and Dan
bungee knows heads so you just let's
just mentioned you know soldiers coming
home in boxes right men we win the
argument right you know what they're
pissed about that mentioning people
coming home and boxes does not shut down
the conversation anyway that's what
they're exactly it's still so weird to
hear them say like lead with that when
they're talking about why we should
uphold this country right
they're just pissed because it doesn't
work because it doesn't make any sense
here's an idea let's see if we don't
send home our men and women in the
military if we don't send them home a
boxes if we still get to go play in the
pan-american games we can we could test
that problem that premise right there
let's go to the phone's come from a four
seven area code who's this where he
called from oh we doing much time Josh
from Chicago how are you Josh I'm good
how are you doing good I just found out
that opening day and my part white
doctors Red Sox in 2020
yeah well looking forward in the White
Sox beat the Red Sox against in Kherson
anyways I want to talk about
single-payer health care
yes that's what we discussed in the show
today and I always discussed and my
experiences and also my experiences
paying for I guess senior care here you
know um so I mean I sort of talked about
this with you before but my dad is
currently we had to put him in an
assisted living facility last year and
the cost of it is around eighteen
hundred dollars a month which is pretty
astronomical and that's not even taking
into account like having to get an aide
to take care of him having to get
medications having to get him to his
doctor all that stuff and
really isn't going to cover a lot of us
right and so I think for me the two
things that need to go into especially a
single-payer system the one thing that
and I'm glad to see Bernie talking about
both these things is Senior Care I know
my ex-girlfriend when I lived in England
she was a aid in the NHS so she she
actually went and helped look after
she would go and stay the night with
seniors in their homes when uh if they
were like you know disabled or had
things like picaud dementia or something
like that and that's free in England
although it's getting pinched by the
Conservatives right now but it is free
and it is covered in the NHS and I also
think the thing that I really like what
Bernie's actually started to focus on
especially given the gun the tragedy as
we've had with all these mass shootings
is there was a video that he put up
recently with a woman talking about
having PTSD and not being able to see a
therapist I know Jamie talks about this
as well most therapists I've tried to
get in to see are out of network which
means it will cost you anywhere between
75 or a hundred dollars a session and I
think what Bernie's doing and talking
about the fact that mental health has to
be covered under a single-payer system
to me is really valuable and again the
NHS is being pinched right now with
mental healthcare it's becoming
increasingly harder over there to see a
therapist under the NHS system and
they're starting to means-tested a
little bit but for me like that those
are the two biggest things a senior
chair and mental health care I know you
talk about senior care obviously yes but
it's just not affordable anymore to be
able to see a therapist
especially when you have these not only
mass shootings but you also have people
just dealing with every their everyday
lives and things going on
I appreciate Bernie's talking about this
but I think these are few things that
absolutely need to be covered in a
single-payer system agreed appreciate
the call Josh
let's take one more phone call and then
we'll take some items and get out of
here come from a three four seven area
code who's this where he come from
hey this is Jonah calling from San
Francisco Jonah from San Francisco
what's on your mind
yeah you know I watched a video the
other day from Michael I was talking
about Sam Harris's kind of reaction to
the mass shootings and kind of what did
what a joke he is but uh you know I was
thinking about how everyone is sort of
like doing the whole debate Sam but I
think you guys should expand that to the
whole IDW crowd cuz in my opinion they
all seem like cowards and none of them
kind of want to mess with you or Michael
so this you know whole debate Sam cedar
you coward I think you should expand
that for the whole IDW put some pressure
on them and see if any of them will step
up to the plate yeah I mean I've I've
certainly you know August I think we all
take a little bit of a vacation from
that maybe but yeah I think that it's
going to be more of that I mean the idea
really again is is is to is to just make
it you know and we're gonna play this
interview with Caleb Kane during our
vacation that I that I did actually
about a month ago now where he basically
said the way that he sort of was
prevented from smiling further into his
into sort of the alt-right Universe
Online was when lefties got into the
algorithm and by debating them and to
the extent that we can't get into the
algorithm by debating them we can get
algorithm adjacent by presenting as if
we were debating them slamming them
exactly and that's basically it that's I
mean you know that's a little bit
painting with a broad brush
that's largely the strategies to
basically say we're not going to allow
you to have unfettered unfettered
pipeline to deliver your toxic stuff to
to the American ute as it were and and
and you're right I appreciate the call I
mean if they're not going to engage
happily have the engagement but we're
too rude or we're too not nice or we say
things that shut down conversation we
should that's racist like that's racist
we should have a cage match with all of
them I would love to see yeah I agree I
mean I any of them they don't want that
seems like their conversation still
continues though of their conversation
well I'm just the ones they've had with
the same people over and over exactly
like I don't think that shuts it down
that much alright folks that's it for a
phone calls we have run out of time
apologies a lot of people holding on for
over an hour
I apologize for that we took the ones in
the front there all right let's take
some IMS then we'll get out of here
retcon did you see Michaels debate with
destiny what were your favorite parts
just kidding Michael told us to say that
to you I did not see it know Scott from
Evanston hi I'm mark Roe Ainsley's
friend chicken salad sandwich store
provides limitless creative
opportunities to expand their product
line it reminds me of an essay L skit in
the 70s about a scotch tape store
located in mega mall indeed Empire
burlesque I've been to the
government-run DMV and the
government-run post office both of which
at their worst we're far far more
pleasant than dealing with a cable
company a bank or a phone company indeed
but not Putin on the fritz not listening
live but I hope you guys covered the
southern Yemeni separatists who turned
their backs on the Saudi coalition
seized the city of aden over the weekend
no I didn't even see anything about that
at all goes to show how big of a
disaster this war is for
Riyad no side turns their back on a
coalition with imminent victory Saudis
have spent half a decade and billions of
dollars committing mass atrocities and
genocide can't even win the confidence
of factions inside the country that they
even have the ability to win this
conflict that's fascinating annoying
pendant morning quickie is misspelled
today uh-oh you send a message to the
proper authorities
Frankie B hey Sam I had a horrible dream
last night where Donald Trump won
California and ultimately the 2020
election and welcomed me up and made me
realize that we're actually living in a
nightmare I'm now motivated more than
ever to make sure that I get as many
people to register to vote as possible
good that's getting me as many people
voted a registered vote is something
that's going to be good for well beyond
Donald Trump local pizzeria pizza
historian cancer survivor checking in I
wish the federal government would take
away my health care I'm still the
installments paying off my cancer in
their defense I got about seven hundred
fifty thousand dollars worth of bucks of
care for a low price of just eight
thousand dollars can you imagine if I
didn't have the insurance if I didn't
have a solid job a wife with a second
income i'd be dead it's actually easy to
imagine sorry
I'm glad hopefully you're doing better
paying off my cancer cares yeah
Chupacabra
should we start calling white
supremacist neo Nazis I think the term
white supremacist doesn't communicate to
the general public how dangerous their
ideology is but the term neo-nazi will
catch everyone's attention and I'm a
maybe I don't know communist dolphin why
do you always talk about the difference
between war and Sanders as a negative
for her I wouldn't say you're guilty I
don't think I'm guilty that she's Pro
getting rid of the filibuster he's not
indeed she was a head of the entire
field on impeachment Sanders wasn't
indeed she's got plans of universal
pre-k gun control etc that he doesn't
I'm not saying all the differences are
positive her they are also are negative
Bernie's plenty bad on foreign policy to
see his drone stance I mean um I don't
think Warren's drone stance is terrible
you know I think Warren on foreign
policy
is I think definitely not better than
Bernie's but all those other things you
say is right I certainly don't feel like
I'm guilty of that yeah I think her like
pharma nationalization thing is some
generic drugs as far as I know he
doesn't have one where she would produce
not nationally produce right right Pope
of the Jews hey Sam great interview
today sadly hit a little too close to
home my mother-in-law who is 98 is going
through hell right now fighting her
assistant living facility as they keep
trying to raise the rent and Medicaid
will not cover any increases in addition
they want a place her in a nursing home
because she sometimes needs a walker
which they are not insured for every
nursing home within 25 miles of her
family still in New York says her assets
are too high those assets or whatever is
left for my father-in-law selling their
lifelong house to pay the medical bills
up until that point huh they're hoping
they could use whatever money was left
to send the grandkids to college
sorry about that that's horrible final I
am of the day book recommendation for
Master mat beautiful democracy 2007 by
Russ castronovo a historical study of
academic aesthetic theory and curriculum
in America during the late 19th and 20th
century the police function of urban
beautification global imperialism has
attempted realization of the can't in
Econ Tinian Universal shaping of popular
civic identity etc filtered through
American literature strikes race
aesthetics 101 lesson plans fascist
ideology amazing read assigned in my
politics and aesthetics program at
Evergreen State
you're welcome lek hell yeah evergreen
peace and love to the crew see you
tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know sir
I'm gonna get there I was
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
