I will cop to the fact that we are a
little bit cynical about Howard Schultz
around here and maybe the Syndicates ISM
isn't isn't warranted here is Stephanie
ruhle on on MSNBC she is a former note
was a hedge funders okay yes she spent
14 years working in the finance industry
she interned for Merrill Lynch Wall in
college we all want to be successful
I mean look she comes from finance that
doesn't necessarily there's some really
decent writers and people who have a
interesting perspective they come from
finance that's not necessarily
disqualifying but I think sometimes when
you're surrounded by people who have a
specific patta tudi bout anything and it
could be anything that sometimes you you
get a little bit sometimes your thinking
gets a little bit myopic and here is a
Jeff Stein on MSNBC making the case that
or at least pointing out that maybe part
of the reason what's animating his
problem with the wealth tax is that he's
so wealthy what do you make of Howard
Schultz criticizing these tax plans well
if some presidential candidate was
proposing a Jeff Stein tax that went
after my income specifically in that of
eight hundred thousand eight to 80
thousand friends in my income group I
think I would also oppose it and
question it isn't it fair to say that he
could criticize it and not think it's a
good plan far beyond how it's going to
affect him personally isn't it sort of
naive to say well he wouldn't like it
because it wouldn't be good for him I
mean I don't know I mean
hold on a second he would make a whole
lot more money sitting around as the CEO
of Starbucks than he would being present
in the United States okay that's true
I'm not sure how it's relevant man
doesn't mean it's because it would hurt
him personally no I'm not alleging
necessarily that that's why he opposes
it but it's at least worth asking the
question I'm looking at how would he
personally benefit from attacks on the
rich that would take up a fair share of
his wealth that seems like a perfectly
legitimate question to ask well now wait
a second um it's it's beyond legitimate
because I can explain why someone might
not want to be CEO of Starbucks anymore
because you don't want to work anymore
that hard but what do you say butBut
being president would be hard work yes
it would also be the most powerful
person arguably in the world receives
its title on the planet because it
comfortably this is gonna be you know
once you've got your billions and you've
been a CEO it's a-you know maybe you
want that experience and that's a
trade-off for money but I don't know if
you'll find too many people who like mmm
the difference between me paying five
hundred million dollars or not paying
five hundred million dollars is just
simply public policy and I opted for the
thing where I'm not paying five hundred
million dollars but beyond that beyond
that where's the argument that he's made
that this is bad policy
I mean I've watched all of these
interviews he hasn't made a single
argument that this is bad policy you
could say it's not fair on American you
could say it's unamerican on American
multiple times and it's not gonna but
this guy has not made the argument that
it's bad policy he's actually totally
caught you know not cuz if you took
literally is there anything about the
deficit they would do that there is no
argument that it's bad policy there
simply is not there is not one iota of
evidence that anyone alive or dead could
produce that someone who has multiple
billions of
callers will be anyway less productive
personally or for society if they pay
several hundred million dollars more in
taxes there's just no evidence there's
just nothing there's you can't even make
the argument theoretically because these
guys have no difference there's no way
for them to contemplate the difference
between having 12 million billion
dollars or six billion dollars well the
the argument would be that they would
just take their capital and flee
somewhere else where they're not
imposing that many taxes on them but
that's even not even the argument that
he's making well the I guess the
argument would be you know what we could
also pass a law that says if you're
going to do that capital flight enjoy
yourself you can't come back to America
yeah simple boom there you go and then
we could see how many people are willing
to leave the country and have their
capital leave I would hide it in
offshore accounts well you're like you
clearly if we that we would also make a
law to repatriate that money right
that's not a policy argument the
argument that you can't raise a wealth
tax because people will break the law is
not a policy I know you know awesome
Howard Schultz press conference so it's
like look we're just gonna break the law
anyways right I'm stealing money from
the Treasury right now like it anyways
I'd like to talk about how my first
venting machine taught me about
leadership if I may if anything that's
an argument that little laws are not
strict enough yet and we mean need to
make more right that's an argument that
we need
foresman better enforcement I hate to do
it by your logic though but even on
these really really narrow I mean this
guy said that the deficit is the biggest
domestic threat we face which is
actually really says something because
he's been saying so much nonsense that
that's escaped notice that's an
incredibly irrational and sane thing to
say by any measure whether you're
talking like mmm tea or ecology whatever
but if you took that literally which no
one ever should but these idiots on
these TV shows should because
are always you know babbling about the
deficit even still they should say well
if that's true shouldn't there'd be like
a patriot tax to take care of the death
of course blah blah blah blah blah right
you're saying that the country is on
fire and you're the only one with a huge
water tank I mean of course we wouldn't
tax you to give everybody health care
and free college obviously we wouldn't
want that for general well-being we
gotta get the deficit down here as you
can do right yeah there you go
