[Music]
this is treci Macmillan cotton who we
had on this program not too long ago
right
was this a vacation show folks if you
haven't heard this interview with Tracy
McMillan cotton you trusty excuse me
trusty McMillan cotton go back and
listen to it I can't remember the date
we'll have it in a moment but she was
talking about for-profit colleges and
why Wall Street exacerbated this problem
I've mentioned on this program many
times in the past that if you were to go
look at like an E ETF electronically
traded or whatever they F T it's
basically a fund of you can look at a
fund for just about every industry but
one for for-profit colleges you will see
a slow drop over the course of the last
Trump excuse me the Obama administration
when they started to really crack down
they basically said there are certain
colleges or certain accreditors that we
will no longer recognize and because
for-profit colleges make 90% of their
revenue at least off of student loans
provided by the government if the
government as the first lender says we
will not lend to students who go to a
university that is accredited by certain
creditors accreditor accreditation
companies because they're not legit and
it caused I think ITT and one others to
basically go bankrupt because they were
not real in terms of what they were
providing their students you can see
like a slow drop in the value of these
for-profit universities and literally 24
hours after Donald Trump is elected they
shoot up like a rocket and many of these
institutions
are picked up a hundred percent in their
valuation on the stock market over the
past couple of years but here is trustee
McMillan cotton I think she's testifying
to Elizabeth Warren this is the Senate
I'm not sure which committee this is but
let's listen to you've also written
about what turbocharged the rapid growth
of for profits over the past couple of
decades mm-hmm Wall Street that Wall
Street investors and shareholders always
on the prowl for the next money maker
realized that for-profit colleges were a
gold mine because in our system of weak
accountability which dr. Looney was
referring to just a minute ago as long
as they kept enrolling more and more
students especially low income students
more and more federal aid dollars would
flow straight into their pockets since
for-profit colleges are by definition
the only colleges allowed to make gobs
of money that can be pulled out of the
school and distributed to owners to
shareholders into Wall Street investors
without strong federal accountability
what market incentives do for profits
have to deliver a high quality education
at a low price Oh at a low price well
there did complicate the question
senator Warren so there is a market
incentive to be fair that students can
vote with their feet is what we say that
if that a students do not get a good
education that they can just not enroll
and that is supposed to be the market
feedback loop that again takes for
granted that those students have other
choices so one thing that I have learned
is that poor students and women and
women of color have gotten the message
you we have done a wonderful job over
the last 25 years of a public messaging
campaign that says that everyone needs
to go to college that everyone needs
some post-secondary education it has
been extremely successful what has been
less successful is that we have not met
the success of that message with a
plethora of high-quality institutional
choices for all students and so in the
gap what happens is that the market
takes advantage of the fact that
Messaging takes care of a lot of the
quality branding problems for higher
education for for-profit colleges and so
that student voting with their feet
option is not nearly as practical as
perhaps we would like for it to be and
so other than the student voting with
their feet the market doesn't have many
incentives to offer for keeping costs
low because the point is to maximize of
course the difference between the cost
of instruction and the price of tuition
and so there are not many so I
appreciate this you know I just want to
say mr. chairman I really worry that
we've got this entirely backwards we
tell people especially women low-income
people people of color that the only way
to get ahead is a college diploma we
watch the creditors rubber stamp the
schools that are giving out those
degrees we pour billions of dollars in
federal money into those schools no
matter how poorly they educate their
students and then we let Wall Street get
in on the gravy train by raking in the
cash from these outfits so we ultimately
ask for money back with interest not
from colleges not from the employers but
from the students with no regard to
whether or not they got a return on
their investment and so I mean this is a
it's it's it's largely a scam and people
who are stuck in a position that they
feel they are precluded from moving
forward in their profession because they
lack a degree get sucked into a lot of
these programs and there's just simply
you know these programs do not offer the
data to establish that it's worth it
there are some programs I've heard that
are actually oh you know that that
seemed to me to be okay that you they
defer the cost of of the tuition too you
know and narrow your responsibility to
pay back to the Delta between what you
were earning and what you ultimately end
up earning after you graduate but those
type of programs are few and far between
the real moneymakers and these are big
big companies they are big corporations
making a lot of money they are publicly
traded corporations are basically geared
towards selling the idea that this will
help you without any data to that to
that effect and just holding people over
until they get there basically their
second installment of their loan it's
super messed up and this was something
actually that the the Obama
administration was was doing quite well
on in the second term and they knew the
day after Donald Trump got in because
Donald Trump is a Republican and the
Republican Party if it's if there is
really any genuine heartfelt policy at
the heart of their policy program it is
to take public money and put it in the
hands of put it in the hands of private
entities and that's what this is about
