welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
Eric Levitz he's a staff writer for New
York Magazine Eric how you doing thanks
for being here I'm doing alright there
are you sorry sorry about that Eric now
you hear welcome welcome Eric Levitz
thanks for being here you know good to
be here Eric you as is your way have
some very smart pieces out that people
can read at New York magazine the first
I want to touch on and I I'm gonna play
a clip for you for us that is not
exactly you know will expand the
conversation but it relates to what
you're talking about because well first
there's some irony here in people like
Eric Holder Eric Holder who recently
apparently is gonna be involved in a
Netflix show about prosecuting big
bankers which okay yes better in fiction
than not at all but this is also Eric
Holder he's campaigning for Stacey
Abrams who is running a really
competitive race for governor of Georgia
she can win the Republican Party there
and her opponent specifically is
aggressively going about vote purging
and attempting to suppress the
african-american vote as his Republican
strategy nationally and he had this to
say about how to beat Republicans I want
you to respond to that and then connect
it to your new piece Republican protest
Republicans protesters are an unruly mob
and unless they're heavily armed and
support us let's play this holder clip
and then I'll throw to you Eric
Democrats to be as tough as they are to
be as dedicated as they are to be as
committed as they are Michelle always
says keep her name out your mouth
which says you know when they go low we
go no they go low we kid
that's what this new democratic we're
proud as hell to be Democrats we're
going to fight for the ideals of the
Democratic Party we're proud of our
history we're proud of our present and
we're proud of the future that we can
create for this country and we're not in
this just to make a statement we're in
this to win yes all right
and the reality is if we don't win
people who are less committed less
idealistic less imbued with the values
that make this nation really great will
run this country now I see all these
great Stacey Abrams t-shirts think about
what the message would be to Donald
Trump to the nation and to the world
[Applause]
about our country and how our country
was perceived when Barack was elected in
2008 and this would be much the same
thing you know this would be a rejection
of all the negativism all the divisive
nacelle games they're trying to play it
would say that here in Georgia we're
better than that
you know and the reality is you are
better but the thing is we never get our
people to the polls if we vote we win so
uh there was a gnat's pretty mild stuff
it's correct stuff it's good or a ssin
and of course Republicans immediately
had a bunch of spasms about you know
apparently when when they go low
I guess Republic s Democrats are
supposed to I don't know help them up to
accelerate the velocity of the punches
and two Democrats midsections yeah I
think that what you're seeing in the way
to say every package that holder cliff
is similar to it's connected both to the
way that Republicans have responded to
the Cavanaugh protest
a casting you know feminists liberals
labor activists as this less wing mob
which is simultaneously fanatically
left-wing and totally mercenary and
doesn't believe anything because they're
just the hired hands of George Soros who
are just doing this for money mm-hm
but it's connected that end also to that
sort of infamous clip of Veda O'Rourke
addressing a black church about the
police shooting and in Dallas that Ted
Cruz shared as though this were some
sort of negative and revealing moment
where a rock was simply saying sort of
what we would take is anodyne sentiments
that you know what police officers
should not be able to shoot black people
in their homes at will in in both cases
it's both better this this demonizing of
the left but also specifically without
saying that this is what they're doing
raising the specter of black political
power as a tool to mobilize their bases
paranoid fears and resentment right um
and in in in all these instances is
really there's just not a lot the
Democrats there isn't anything that
Democrats can do to stop these lines of
attack you know it's not the case that
it's every Democrat in Congress stood up
and said you know we revile these
immigration activists who are calling us
calling for us to abolish ice we love
ice we just think that it should be a
little kinder and gentler whatever you
know if Democrats yeah
no matter triangulation Assaf the
problem last week Donald Trump announced
the Dianne Feinstein was the lead author
of an open border still the reality of
what Democrats stand for does not matter
because fundamentally Republicans their
entire electoral strategy is dependent
on portraying the Democratic Party as a
radical left-wing organization that you
know resembles something much closer to
what we would wish the Democratic Party
was rather than what it actually is
right
ever want to feel happy about the
Democratic Party watch a Republican
rally yeah
and so bidding they finally they can't
run on their fiscal agenda which is
incredibly unpopular and they really
don't even have that big of an advantage
like if you actually put in very dry
terms the culture war stuff to the
Republican base a large majority
Republicans think that undocumented
immigrants who've been in the country
Ohio and having committed crime
shouldn't have legal status you know
they they believe that we should have
universal background checks for guns a
majority think that Roe should not be
overturned
there's the activist base of the party
which is genuinely conservative but your
average Republican doesn't even have on
issues really that strong a cultural or
position it's it's the it's their fear
of the other side the other tribe who
the Democrats are who they represent
it's paranoia fundamentally they rely on
and so they're going to campaign on that
whatever Democrats do and they're not
constrained by fat you know which means
that Democrats you know the upside is
that we aren't really constrained in
what we do you know we're going to be
called socialists whether we do the ACA
or we do Medicare for all and so it's
really up to us what we actually want
right
