oh here's a flashback Friday Bernie
Sanders you know they're digging up all
sorts of stuff and we're gonna see my
understanding is supposedly supposedly
and I have a I'm a little suspicious of
some of this I'm sure there's some of
this but they have like you know Bernie
as a as a 27 year old or a 30 year old
or 35 year old basically you know
carrying Daniel Ortega's semi-automatic
weapon or so that's a good thing we're
supposed to have done that but what
support you suck whatever just do a
30-second here some people yes the right
went after Bill DeBlasio some people in
2016 who shall remain nameless in
defense of Hillary Clinton became
borderline contra justify errs and I
would say that that actually does have a
present relevance to how we understand
ourselves theory I
I agree I agree but I am talking just in
terms of what is going to get you know
what they're going to throw at Bernie
Sanders the Republicans supposedly have
you know all sorts of tapes like this if
you don't you know like where a Bernie
is you know dressing Chairman Mao or
something I don't know whatever I'm over
that whatever my point is bring it
the remove the idea that we know about
this and you know it hasn't surfaced yet
I find a little bit suspect that to me
sounds like you have no idea how the
Republicans starting in August of 2020
our 2009 2020 are gonna unload on Bernie
and to that all I can say it's like
that's not enough time like this it's
not enough time if if Bernie wins the
you know I don't want to give anybody
any free advice here
but if Bernie wins the Democratic
primary and they start rolling out tapes
of Bernie you know
like literally dressing Chairman Mao and
carrying you know some type of a K as
he's guarding Daniel Ortega that's just
that's that's not gonna be enough in
those three or four months first off
you're gonna have to go back and find
people and and re-educate people because
I can assure you the vast majority whose
mouths they don't know and they don't
care hey man that's a cool gun literally
it might be will tell you what looks
like he knows how to handle a firearm so
my point my point being that these
stories I'm a little suspicious of
because I just I think that people would
cry and knock him out in the Democratic
primary you you you know if the if the
Republican Party has this material it's
hard for me to imagine that Bloomberg
doesn't have this material right okay
like just for an example so I get very
suspicious about the the dire you know
dumps that they have of material for
Bernie but as people are digging in the
pack in the past right like because this
stuff maybe these are you know Pro
Bernie supporters who find this stuff
maybe it's not but here is a flashback
from 1989 this is the year that Ronald
Reagan or I should say George Herbert
Walker Bush a year after he assumed the
presidency in what you know some
consider the third term of the Reagan
administration here's Bernie Sanders I
don't know what show this was on but he
was on c-span c-span and because that
was probably the only place that would
allow him on television to be honest
with you certainly and that they
volunteered there too yeah right exactly
yeah Bernie the scandal is that he was
actually an intern working on the
cameras on he's talking about these
strange things called greenhouse gases
we face as all people know an ecological
crisis and I find whether it's acid rain
the destruction of the ozone layer
the
house effect one would think that the
CBS's and the NBC's of the world will be
doing primetime specials on these
programs having different scientists
talking about the issues involving
people and understanding what's going on
in terms of our planet they don't the
function of television is to make as
much money as possible for the owners of
the television station and for those
people who advertise the 30-second ads
on television so I would say that we're
not going to bring about serious
political change in this country until
we deal with the media which more and
more is being swallowed up by large
conglomerates there yeah this is uh this
was all incredibly prescient and in and
within five or six years like I said
earlier in the program the
Telecommunications Act consolidated the
media outlets even even more and the
only interesting thing that I would
suggest in that is that the ozone layer
that we ultimately repaired it because
of international binding treaty and be
international binding treaties and
because of work I mean and and that's a
story that does not get enough attention
because it runs contrary to the entire
narrative of like we can't impact
climate change we fixed by by by cutting
down a chlorophyta chlorofluorocarbons
excuse me and you know by government
regulation we healed I should say
probably is the word the hole in the
ozone layer this is just another example
of mansplaining bernie is like
whether he was getting arrested as a
student because of housing
discrimination or speaking about climate
change on c-span 1999 or endorsing Jesse
Jackson or being a single voice against
welfare reform or on inequality or
opposing the Iraq invasion he's always
just been in it for himself on a
narcissistic Joyride yeah like it was
denying a woman the right to get hit by
a car right unlike you know somebody
like Joe Biden who had the courage in
1993 to say I don't care what the causes
of crime are they just need to go to
jail that's the type of unvarnished
truth telling that we really need and if
you look by the
at Bernie's I movements there he's
clearly not really sincerely concerned
about global warming we have a face
reader now at MSNBC gonna buy the next
house
although see you then has a face reader
has MSNBC been knocking Bernie or there
have been some knocks on brother
you guys gotta check out his public
access show from when he was mayor of
Burlington it is very boring
he's just going around to different
government agencies including a school
and ice-skating rink and just like
interviewing people about the most
boring day-to-day it's very
charming he's like walking around being
like how so I was cleaning the ice rink
going it's like cool we're gonna throw
in the gulag segment brilliant kids I
heard that there's a landlord that needs
to be rounded up at shot latest the
public works department a clip for that
what do we need more people reading
