[Music]
all right but there really is nothing I
want to talk about Sudan so this
movement in Sudan has been going on for
almost a year and it was sparked by a
massive increase in bread prices and
other cuts and austerity protest
movement began as such Milton and I went
in depth on this along with what's
happening in Uganda on TMDs on Tuesday
and that will be clipped on the Michael
Brooke show YouTube channel and also
we've done other segments on Sudan as
well the big things to remember
contextually are its anti-austerity Omar
al-bashir who's ran Sudan since 1989 was
finally dislodged this guy was a major
liberal cause celeb when he was
committing crimes in Darfur almost 10
years ago and of course all the human
rights activism here obviously it didn't
understand all of the geopolitical
complexities but it was right in the
broad definition that of course on the
brush of baarish Omar al-bashir was
absolutely a gangster and a thug and a
war criminal and so on it is astonishing
the profound lack of interest until
quite recently of a incredibly
resourceful smart brilliant bottom-up
Sudanese movement that mobilized in some
of the very creative ways that Brian
Mayer was talking about in terms of
people's councils in terms of youth
movements in terms of the traditional
labor unions and professional classes in
Sudan and the so there that's one note
the other note is Omar al-bashir is
actually sort of brought himself back
into the international system somewhat
by being quite helpful in blocking
people from migrating to Europe as an
example and cooperating in his own
authoritarian wave with the
authoritarian wave in the Western world
countries so there's always that
relationship between capital and between
other and the West and the third thing
as we've learned from Egypt it's never
just the figurehead it's the system that
they've put into place
from their crony capitalist networks the
military and also gangs and
paramilitaries that are subcontracted to
do the dirty work so the sooner knees
have stayed out in force because this
military transition council they knew
was not what they wanted they want
actual change they want a removal of
autocratic leadership and the old
ineffective official opposition parties
and now the crackdown has started and it
is so ruthless and murderous people are
getting shot people are getting murdered
then they the gangs that are and
military that are killing them are
blocking the roads to the hospitals so
people bleed out so people can have
their injuries treated the john joey
which were the group that was a
household name maybe not quite a
household name but a george clooney name
when they were in Darfur committing
murder
they're part of what has been unleashed
in Khartoum to prop the military so
that's the context this clip on Amy
Goodman on Democracy Now is with a
Sudanese activist marine al Neel that's
at marine L Neil M a are I am L follow
her on Twitter and here she is
explaining the state of the protests
with Amy Goodman on Democracy Now can
you talk about the numbers of people
have been killed why people are sitting
in and who did the killing the numbers
are saying that it's more than hundred
is actually a gross underestimate
because still the citizen is not a safe
area it is difficult to go and find that
the dead bodies of the protesters that
may still be there there are also news
of people being still stuck in buildings
within the certain area they cannot
leave because the streets are full of
rapid support forces this is the the
forces that have attacked the Sitton and
are still terrorizing Khartoum Khartoum
is for oh intensive purposes currently
under military occupation by the rapid
support forces previously known as the
ginger weed under his leadership and he
is still calling for
attacking the people who are barricading
the streets around her to him he's
saying that they will pay the price
many believe that when he Matisse's
paying the price he's only talking about
killing and there's a explain who he is
tamati is the leader of the rapid
support forces he is currently the the
vice-president of the military council
and he's the person who's leading all of
the attacks that are happening that have
happened all at dissident and are
happening around Curtin in a significant
step the African Union has suspended
Sudan over the violence against
protesters
