[Music]
let's do a little history for us here
and I will say that you know there have
been some who have likened the abolish
ice you know movement if you will to
what the Republicans have done in terms
of the IRS by hammering away at
abolishing the IRS you know ever no one
was like we're gonna abolish the IRS but
it apparently made it much easier to to
shrink it down to the size of I mean the
idea that there's half nearly half the
enforcement mechanism that there was 10
years ago is just nuts but but walk us
through when did it start it started
during the Gingrich Iria era well yeah
that's the first time that I think we
identified it kind of even back to
Reagan there's sort of this notion that
ever could agree on that you know yeah
we've got to collect taxes we've got to
fund the government there's a
conservative argument to me for that and
then if you want to cut taxes you need
to know that what the tax is you're
quitting on people is actually what's
going to happen as opposed to what we
have now or you just don't know in terms
of how much tax people are really paying
but yeah gingrich comes in and really
the senate hearings in 97 and 98 that
they have there's a very dramatic sort
of hearings with people behind like a
black curtain you know from the boys you
know tell me about that and you know
abuses of the IRS a lot of them focused
on around collections but then this
reform deal comes up in a passes almost
unanimously in the Senate clinton signs
it and it had a major effect in terms of
how much revenue the IRS was able to
collect in the following years because
basically we organized the entire agency
so we need to revenue hit from that i
don't think that was quite realized at
the time but you like you mentioned if
you look at the numbers in terms of how
much audits the IRS was doing how much
revenue was bringing in in terms of what
you would expect an enforcement revenue
it really does increase starting about
twenty two thousand two it's like three
four years at this big reform bill is
passed it's it does recover those
numbers do recover
particularly Democrats getting the
powers in midterm elections and in 2006
the budget goes way up so that the peak
is 2010 when you have a unified control
of Congress and the presidency under
Democrats the Democrats didn't increase
the IRS budget quite a bit and you saw
that and the numbers there were returns
on that and that's that's where the
common sense case for funding the IRS
click the only one of the very few areas
of government where it could give them
more money they will give you even more
money back right I mean that is let's
just make everybody should be very clear
about this there is no there is
absolutely zero debate in terms of the
return on investment on what you put
into the IRS it necessarily gives you
whatever you put in if you if you fund
them X you will get X plus maybe it's
plus one
maybe it's plus two maybe it's plus five
maybe it's plus ten and just to go back
to that to that Gingrich era so if
people remember there was all these sort
of like dramatic testimony you know that
people were afraid that they couldn't
show their face because they were they
were blowing the whistle on this and and
this was also during an era where there
was like a heightened amount of
anti-government you know which every
time we have a Democrat in office we
seem to get on some level right this
anti federal government sentiment and
then after these reforms are passed and
signed by Clinton the the Inspector
General comes out and says ya know none
of that was true right yes the GAO did
reports and kind of went through and
looked at the accusations and a lot of
it yeah was was not true as well vastly
overstated but nevertheless you know the
reform bill was passed too late right
and so and so during the the Bush years
in particularly during the the late
stages of the Bush years when the
Democrats take control of the house they
they really are s budget and then
obviously
tax receipts increase and since since
and you walk us through is basically
since the Republicans took control the
Congress again in in 2010 that things
have sunk well here's the question
though is that is there
a material difference in the destruction
of and the assault on the IRS in this
era right starting in this uh you know
period in which the the the Republicans
controlled the the budget process with
the IRS
versus the first one so in other words
is there an and is there a more or less
capacity for the IRS to bounce back as
an agency yeah so it's a much much less
and the reason is that what happened
back then is like you basically we
organized everyone you had a whole lot
more requirements and processes they had
to follow so a lot of retraining had to
happen that slowed everything down so
everybody was still there right so once
they learn that stuff once they knew who
the repeat - or they knew the new rules
they had to follow they could get back
to it
whereas now those people are gone what's
been happening is there was never like a
you know dramatic day where people were
laid off and math people been retiring
in and up and replaced so that that's
what happening across the government so
and they've been cutting back on
training they're cutting back on travel
so not only they're vastly fewer people
there
the training has gotten worse and
talking a lot of IRS people the big
concern is like there's no one there to
train the new people so even if you were
to turn around you know tomorrow and say
like we're gonna give you a billion
dollars more if first of all it takes
time hire those people and then and
they're not going to be the same people
that left and I think we'll get to in
this conversation the people who have
left their most valuable are these
people who were doing the complicated
audits which is the people that you know
auditing corporations auditing you know
the billionaires trying to sort through
that it's extraordinarily complicated
and complex they're investigators and
they're gone and you can't you can't get
back that experience overnight so we
don't have that institutional knowledge
and I would also imagine that
the the multiple government shutdowns
have also made it fairly toxic place for
people to work and this is all presuming
that the Democrats in the house are
going to up the IRS budget address the
first part before you address the second
part of that in terms of yeah there was
nothing indeed one of these job search
sites was like sharing something and
showing that you know government
employees were searching for jobs and
higher numbers and IRS was by far the
highest that I saw I'm I believe in
people are like I mean having talked to
IRS employees you know they think of
themselves as public servants that's
more or less to eat though so I see
looking at making a lot more money
outside the IRS the ones who are
talented and so there's already kind of
a aspect of personal sacrifice for the
people to deeds will be working for the
IRS but they usually believe in the
mission but now you're you know you lay
them off basically for so should them
they on for half and for a month they
don't know they will pay their mortgage
like you know the costs start to that
way the benefits for some people and you
look to leave it that you know it's
something not going to help in terms of
the budget coming back so this year the
you know the Democrats cut that deal
with Trump to get to government back
open and it's actually constantly to cut
another cut for the IRS so that didn't
happen so now we're talking about 2020
physical year 2020 in which you know
what started like this I guess October
but you know that we're talking about
next year maybe the budget is going to
bounce back up that there was some
openness from Republicans that we talked
to in the hill on background that's
basically saying Trump has got his guy
in the IRS now and if he comes out and
says we need a lot more money then maybe
the Republicans would come around and
support a budget increase but that
hasn't happened yet and there's some
reason be skeptical that's never going
to happen so walk us through okay so and
just lastly all right we we reduce the
enforcement mechanisms of the IRS by 40
percent what in a in a qualitative way
what does that mean in other words who's
what enforcement mechanisms are gone
is it are they taking it out of the oh
they're no longer looking at you know
low-income people as to whether they're
cheating because they're low-income and
if they cheat 10% and they're and
they're only paying you know $10,000
then you know why go after a thousand
bucks right I mean is that or let me let
me ask you that and also ask is it is it
just a question of like the cheating is
the same and the difficulty to find it
is the same but you might as well go
after the big dollar folks because
there's more money to be found there how
does that work yeah so I think the
simplest way to think about it as I as I
worked on this overtime is basically if
you are middle income or down for the
most part you're audited by a computer
so they just run your w2 through there
and other stuff and the ends it's very
high hard for a wage earner to hide
income from the government all the
studies that have been done about this
show that people who are hiding income
are people who are on their own business
because a lot of that stuff is not
separately reported to the government
and people have like passed through you
know like partnerships and LLC's and
that kind of stuff so that that's who
would benefit the most in terms of audit
rate going way down because that sort of
stuff is not going to be caught by a
computer it doesn't know how much your
business is making so through the audits
that are not being done because if you
know the skilled auditors someone has to
go through your stuff need to be some
flag for audit and then you have to take
to start going through your stuff to
find that kind of evasion
whereas in their studies that have shown
this that compliance of people who get a
w-2 is like 99% and the big area where
there's there's basically cheating
happens is hiding income so and that's
what dot it's make a big impact on that
and so yeah I would just say let's sort
of a built in I guess is a regressivity
of tax administration other words
it's much easier to catch like you know
the bottom eighty-five percent of
taxpayers then it is the top 15% and
that's what you really need the bigger
resources for in terms of just headcount
of people trained and trained personnel
and and the fact of the matter is though
for every dollar you spend there you're
going to get back how much so the the
general overall like ROI that's often
excited it's four to one but I think
that's like way too low basically like
all the money that you put into the IRS
that includes like everything right but
if you were narrowly to target to two
enforcement's you know I've seen them
make Testaments of ten to one on
something and you know I mean I've
talked to IRS people who are working on
audits that have hundreds of millions of
dollars that are at issue it's the most
impossible to count the IRI those on
those cases you know someone who's
making one hundred twenty thousand
dollars a year and it's gonna come out
with an audit that results in tens of
millions of dollars in tax so it
sometimes is just off the charts in
terms of what comes back all right well
it's it's fascinating stuff and it
doesn't seem like it's going to the I
mean it's not going to be till 2020 and
I would imagine every year or two that
goes by with less and less institutional
knowledge is that much worse right yeah
no it's going to get worse before it
gets better but I mean it would be a
really big deal for that process to turn
around and for it to start to rebuild
itself but that is something that I
think definitely has to happen if you're
looking at you know these big you know
tax proposal that you mentioned are
being put forward I mean I guess the
good news because there isn't good news
is that a lot of this is easy money in
terms of it's an easy solution right
it's like there's no there's no downside
to it funding the IRS so there's
something that you know the Democratic
administration if there is one time in
2021
could look forward to in terms of
increased revenue
