breaking news are you all right we have
breaking news this is day-to-day and
stepping in with breaking news
we just reported at the prospect that
the United States is as early as Monday
we'll be signing an agreement with
Guatemala that will force asylum seekers
from the northern triangle countries to
process their asylum claims in Guatemala
oh Jesus
this is called a safe third country
agreement and it is done on the grounds
that Guatemala is a safe country for
asylum claims processing even though it
is wracked with violence and has many of
the same qualities as Honduras and El
Salvador and is one of the main
countries where asylum seekers are
fleeing from but now we are going to
push asylum seekers from Honduras and El
Salvador into Guatemala for the purposes
of asylums claims processing it's
basically outsourcing the camps that are
in El Paso and whatever into essentially
black sites in Guatemala and and I would
imagine also there's a massive
opportunity for not just corruption but
real violence like you've got to pay
before you get into the door to apply
for asylum
I will pay because there's no there's no
there's no oversight essentially I will
read you the quote I got from senator
Merkley on this subject the the whole
idea is that we can take people from
Honduras and El Salvador and fly them to
Guatemala where they're absolutely in
worse shape they don't have friends they
don't have family they don't have funds
so they're going from desperation to
desperation and that is the plan to
effectively outsourced our asylum
responsibilities too and and and put
these people are already in trouble
in
even even more of a hazardous situation
just really let me ask this though does
that in any way I mean just because
people could get asylum theoretically
from Guatemala does that mean that they
can't apply to the United States in
other words like why wouldn't people
just say okay but I'm still going to the
States
it is a geographical impossibility if
you are from Honduras or El Salvador and
you're poor and you're not gonna be able
to fly right if you're going over land
you have to go through Guatemala first
so they'll under this Agreement the
first country you set foot in is the
country you have to apply for asylum in
that that is the notion of a safe third
country agreement so the u.s. can
effectively say well you came in through
Guatemala and we have an agreement with
Guatemala that they process claims of
whoever sets foot in their country first
and so you're gonna have to do it but
but but does that implicate u.s.
legislation I mean don't you have to
change US legislation to make bilateral
agreement between two countries it does
not
no but ever mind require any kind of
legislative agreement or from Guatemala
but why would the the law that says that
if I stand
if I get one foot in the United States I
have the right to apply to apply for
asylum just because I doesn't let me go
through Guatemala I will tell you this
the ACLU and other organizations are
looking to challenge this agreement on
the grounds that it violates
international law violates of 1954
Refugee Convention it is it is clear
that first of all Guatemala is not a
safe country right for asylum and second
that you know that may implicate some of
the things you're talking about we have
an agreement of a safe third country
with Canada right now that's obviously a
little more
along the lines of reality because
Canada is indeed a safe country for
asylum seekers and in fact that helps
usually what that means is more people
are having to get asylum in the US than
Canada since they're coming up from the
south but the way this would operate is
it would take all of those migrants from
the north and triangle seeking asylum at
the border and ship them down the
guatemala it's it's really a harrowing
situation experts have have said that
this is this is a serious problem I can
read you some more we're gonna end up
hearing about and I suspect we're also
going to end up hearing about a lot of
people dying going by boat right but
that's true that's probably trying to
emote migration and and what you're also
going to see is essentially an
invisibility cloak placed over this
entire cruelty and in the camps because
instead of having the done in El Paso
that's subject to US law it'll be done
you know somewhere in Guatemala that
isn't so yeah I mean here's some quotes
Eric Schwartz the president of the
refugees International said that this is
a violation of US law says the law
requires that the US signed this
agreement only with companies countries
who have a full and functioning Asylum
system which Guatemala actually does not
and it also says the US can't return
people to place where their lives are at
risk where they patently are within
Guatemala
he says the distortion of a concept of a
safe third country this Agreement uses
an arrangement designed to provide
protection for people in the most
cynical and grotesque way and so that's
that's what experts are saying about
this you can expect a legal battle to
come out of this but it's happening the
president of Guatemala is flying to the
US on Monday and the rules check likely
be a signing ceremony this is a guy
Jimmy Morales who ran on an
anti-corruption platform but as soon as
the UN agency looking into corruption in
Guatemala implicated his family he
suddenly turned into an anti
anti-corruption President and yeah
there's probably something going on
Guatemala inter
Stingley was one of the few countries
that agreed with Trump in moving the US
Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem they were
trying to get on on the US as good side
maybe to help the UN back off get the UN
to back off on this anti-corruption
stuff and now here's the quid pro quo
Trump's calling in the chit he's trying
to get them to take all these asylum
seekers Michael you got something on
that yeah just really quick I mean yeah
that specifically in 2017 Morales
expelled this Colombian Yvonne Vasquez
who was the head of the International
Commission Against impunity in Guatemala
which was what David mentioned that's
sort of like how relentless the
corruption was there that there was a
specific autonomous UN unit he threw him
out after they began investigating
connections between his party and
cartels he also has had brother brother
arrested he's been accused of all sorts
of personal misconduct and you know the
Israeli stuff I would say going back to
the 80s actually you know the Israelis
were involved in training death squads
and some of these hunts of countries as
well so he's a very right-wing leader
with terrible human rights and also a
navin Jellicle for what it's worth so I
mean totally aligned with Trump all
right well David Dan folks can head over
to a prospect org to read the whole
piece and find direct breaking news over
there breaking news over there we're
doing it we're getting it done
all right well David thank you all right
they're coming and let us know all right
