you know usually I should say when we we
do the last show of the year we look
back on the year and and make a an
assessment that the the end of the year
and summon up and get a notion of where
we're going to be headed and frankly we
you know we don't have enough time to
even do the this past week never mind
this past year in the first hour of the
program we were talking about the
potential or the ongoing government
shutdown we're recording this Thursday
night it appears that the government is
going to shut down the unless did Donald
Trump you know unless Ann Coulter calls
up Donald Trump and says hey don't worry
about the wall or you know apparently
you know Trump was was calling around
called Rush Limbaugh to try and you know
explaining to Rush Limbaugh and Donald
Trump is playing to an increasingly
narrow segment of the population let's
hope that continues for the next two
years and it was with the backdrop of or
I should say in the foreground was this
question over shutting down the
government but in the background seems
to me was Donald Trump I mean and this
is my question is that you know we were
just talking about the Flynn situation
where a federal judge saw what Muller
knows not just about Flynn
you know but at least you know centered
on Flynn and and where it leads and what
Flynn did and this federal judge
basically said I'm not going to accept
your plea deal and I'm and if you don't
come up with some way of mitigating your
crime here I'm gonna send you to jail I
don't care what the prosecutors say and
Donald Trump I think you know feels like
you may be on you know shake your ground
because of that but here's my question
to you like well what do you think was
going on with the prosecutors like are
the prosecutors being too soft on Flynn
that a federal job I mean I guess this
happens but
it seems to me to be pretty rare that a
judge will say like you know these it's
not like these are low-level prosecutors
right I mean these are theoretically the
the best in the biz and the most
aggressive and I you know I think a lot
of these prosecutors in the past
probably have done things that I don't
terribly approve of in terms of being
this aggressive and this judge is
telling them you're not being aggressive
enough with this guy what's going on
with that angle of it before we start
talking about you know its relationship
to Donald Trump basically driving the
federal government off the rails well I
don't know but I do know that this is a
question that people have been asking
for a while because if you look at the
you know look he did the Muellers threw
the book at Manta Ford I mean they went
after him with everything they had and
they stand they strong-armed Rick gates
you know as hard as you could strong-arm
somebody but Flynn and by the way
Michael Cohen to the to you know the two
most recent sore stars of this drama hit
the motor team has been very very
generous to them to say the least in
terms of their sentencing
recommendations now Cohen had separate
problems with Southern District New York
but with Muller it was they recommended
probation for him for line to Congress
and the fact that they even put that in
there that they even charged him with
that it's kind of interesting just to
sort of it was almost like they were
just putting a marker down I I don't
know obviously I don't think anybody
really does but there is a big strategy
going on with Muller I mean you can see
in just this past week we had this weird
story bubble up about how there's a
mystery witness out there that was
refusing a grand jury subpoena and they
went all the way up to the appellate
court which ruled that they did have to
cooperate with the subpoena it turns out
that it was probably was a foreign
sovereign foreign corporation of some
sort most people presume it was a bank
nobody knows where but that just sort of
everybody kind of stepped back for a
minute went whoa you know there's some
stuff going on here that is way
complicated I mean
foreign banks being subpoenaed by the
grand jury right I mean well okay
so I don't think anybody knows what the
full strategy is on the Muller
investigation and I think all this
reporting that we see all the time even
from top journalists was well is getting
ready to wrap it up I you know I don't
know maybe but whatever he's wrapping up
is not exactly what we're seeing it's
not just about Jerome Corsi and I don't
even think it's just about Mike Flynn
and I think that what people don't
recognize about stuff like like Flynn is
that it's possible that you know I mean
he committed a bunch of crimes there's
no doubt about it that that there was a
Turkish indictment that came down this
week that were his business associates
and he's named in the indictment he was
not charged with that which is very
strange I mean they could have thrown
the book at him too you know for for
doing that but because of his
cooperation they did not throw the book
at him they let him off the hook
entirely on that because he's apparently
the one who offered the information
about without scheme which was kind of a
weird nefarious scheme with with Turkey
and a money-making scheme by the way and
that's the part of it I think that
probably Emmet Solomon sullivan saw was
all the stuff that Flynn had done and
maybe part of his cooperation in those
charges but you have to remember that a
conspiracy charge does not require that
everybody be aware of all pieces of the
conspiracy yes all that matters is that
they knowingly were involved in their
piece of the crime they knew that they
were doing things so it may be that
Flynn essentially offered them
information that was exceedingly
valuable in terms of you know giving
them the breadcrumbs to follow for the
bigger conspiracy but that his own
particular part in it was more along
these lines of you know his own ryerson
all corrupt right Flynn may not even
know exactly how his man fits into the
bigger picture and and people should
understand this like Flynn was the top
national security adviser to the
president while he was plotting to
kidnap a Turkish national living in the
United States send him back you know and
and and I guess uh sure I mean it's like
some type of like bad
movie see action film and the idea that
the prosecutors are like okay this is a
little fish like that guy is the little
fish yeah there's not many other bigger
fish to fry here right like I mean if
they felt they were running out of like
opportunities to get people that they
wouldn't let Flynn off the hook and
people gotta remember whitewater went on
for seven years yeah we are two years
into this there's already it's been far
more productive in terms of criminal
cases and convictions and whatnot than
whitewater but the idea being that
you're going to at this point you are so
confident in what you have that you're
going to let this guy not go to jail
right because prosecutors are aware of
the politics of what they're doing if
they thought this is where it ends we
have nothing else we're gonna send this
guy to jail for 15 years so that we
don't look like we've been on some type
of wild goose chase know they feel like
this guy's you know when we're done this
guy's gonna be irrelevant that's the
message that we got and the judge was
like no this guy is relevant which
suggests that the next step up that they
make could be you know super dramatic I
mean I think it's it's gonna be it's
crazy yeah I mean I have to agree with
you that it does seem like there's
something more in it and it has
international ramifications or we
already know that when he dieded a bunch
of Russians already and there's there's
you know there's this turkey angle
there's stuff happening in the Middle
East there's a lot yeah I mean this is
so this is a very very wide-ranging
conspiracy investigation at
counterintelligence so let's take let's
take a quick break I want to talk a
little bit about that I also want to
talk about something introduced
happening this whole question of D
platforming 2018 was very much about D
platforming and I want to talk about
that we got to take a quick break
Sam cedar ring of fire radio I'm talking
to the great Digby
