[Music]
okay let's get to the third leg of the
forum look Joe Biden has no serious plan
on climate
he has no serious plan on anything and I
mean honestly I don't even want to make
a joke out of this this was disturbing
to see frankly I mean he's the physical
questions are going to come up because
things like this are happening in front
of our faces so he basically started
bleeding from his eye the blood vessel
which can happen because of stress or
certain other reasons I hope he I mean
honestly I am honestly I hope that that
is okay he drops out no I really think
he should drop out to take care of his
health yeah um this is the guy ask him
about this Goldman and then this is
important because about the fundraiser
today Joe Biden after this summit after
this forum where again he spoke a lot of
platitudes into his credit he's very
honest he's not gonna be in fracking
he's not gonna move aggressively to make
the planet inhabitable just as he told
billionaires your life won't change
Ender me so he got a question from isaac
Larkin who's a doctoral candidate
Northwestern University about who he's
fundraising from have to ask how can we
trust you to hold these corporations and
executives accountable for their crimes
against humanity when we know that
tomorrow you are holding high-dollar
fundraiser hosted by Andrew Goldman a
fossil fuel executive and the fact of
the matter is that what we talk about is
what are we going to do about those
corporations what have we done and a law
everywhere along the way for example
I've argued and we've been pushed for us
suing those executives were engaged in
pollution those companies were engaged
in pollution the $4,000 fine yeah $4,000
fine
all right this is a everybody check out
in general Kate Aronoff she's I've
interviewed her before I believe yep
socialism and ecology a really good
reporter here she is on Democracy Now
she I guess has a clear understanding of
who Joe Biden's raising money from then
Joe Biden does as my colleague Killa
Lacey at the intercept reported shortly
before the debate as it seems like Joe
Biden may not have been briefed on
before before he took the stage he is
scheduled to go to a fundraiser tonight
with Andrew Goldman who is the
co-founder of a company called Western
LNG and so what the debate ended up
being about last night and that Anderson
Cooper ended up talking about was
whether or not
Andrew Alban is technically in the
management of this game the day to day
operation the day to day operations and
so there was there some back-and-forth
online and at the end Anderson Cooper
sort of corrected but you know as
Splinter dug up and as you know I think
my colleague that the intercept really
sort of affirmed Andrew Goldman is a
co-founder of this company just last
year in a filing in Canada he was listed
as among the senior senior management of
the company
I think there's it would be very hard to
argue that Andrew but it's not very well
bound up in in the natural gas industry
and yet Joe Biden has taken the no
fossil fuel pledge what does that mean
and what was your assessment of last
night yeah so he's taken the no fossil
fuel pledge and what groups like oil
change international in the sunrise
movement had said especially will change
international is that you know while
technically while Andrew Goldman does
not sit on the board is not in the SEC
filings of Western Illinois as a fossil
fuel executive the you know going and
going to a fundraiser with him certainly
violates the spirit of the no fossil
fuel pledge so I think by my guess would
be is that Biden did know enough to lie
in that forum well Joe Biden is a liar
he lies all the time Joe Biden is not
honest and Joe Biden has a thoroughly
awful record across every major domain
of policy and all
he's been recently lying about his vote
for the invasion of Iraq which and I
just have to say I'm gonna be covering
this more Joe Biden not only and it
seems insane to have to make this
distinction but there were clearly
people like John Kerry or Chris Dodd or
they were and this is not exculpatory
it's disgusting
okay frankly was disgusting voting for
the first authorization and the only
person who voted against it was barbara
lee but particularly iraq there were
people who clearly knew that it was a
stupid idea and did it out of a
political expediency and he could take
your pick
joe biden was a was it was a hawk among
hawks and he's lying about his time line
in changing with regards to iraq now i
know for some people they think that you
know going and killing over a million
people and probably even just the
broader sweep of all of the deaths we've
caused from Afghanistan to Iraq and so
on oh that's just history and focus on
the future but I'm sorry it's it's still
pretty recent and the guy didn't say I
was categorically fundamentally wrong
and to reach a my and it changed my
worldview so let's be real you're
calling from
