[Music]
oh well let's just do this rush limbaugh
so that we can get this out of the way
and then we're gonna do a little debate
preview Wow Russia's done theirs he's
had some work he's looking a little
oh my god oh boy a handsome fatso oh
yeah I think Bernie's smooth damn and he
right excuse you
now listen ever listened listen this is
a spirit matters whenever whenever
you're looking for someone to defend you
from charges of racism who better to
defend you from charges of racism than
Rush Limbaugh that's great and I'm not
racist asked by Fred Rush exact all that
great Jesse Jackson buckshot material oh
he's obviously not racist that's like me
saying I'm super patient I never lose my
cool asked my friend Sam cedar that's
right that's right there you go and
guess who's running these place is not
just Baltimore go to any place you know
there's certain things you're not
supposed to say you're not supposed to
criticize anything the Democrats run
you're not supposed to criticize
anything where minorities are involved
because that's automatically labeled
racist but I want to tell you right up
front the president is not a racist he
didn't say anything racist he didn't
call anybody well he called Cummings or
racist after Cummings reacted but but
folks look Detroit Flint Los Angeles San
Francisco massive homeless problems
wherever you find this decadent decay
posit just something right Flint
incidentally was is the city where white
governor's white state officials
poisoned poisoned thousands of children
giving them future neurological problems
that they'll never be able to recover
from because of a combination of their
desire to save money and their refusal
to listen to the people like a
fundamentally anti-democratic move so
Flint
very hard to say the mayor had no
control incidentally I would I would add
no and the notion of deindustrialization
being a function of democratic policies
in these specific cities is absurd it's
just absurd
San Francisco massive homeless problems
wherever you find this decadent decay
you're going to a bit redundant but
whatever decadent decay find Democrats
having run the operation or the city the
state whatever it is the county for
decades I'll remind you I mean what
would a load of hogwash this is the idea
that Democrats create homelessness let's
say as opposed to just don't arrest
people for being homeless I'm looking
now at the Rockefeller Institute for
government it is the who gives and who
gets page explore the balance of
payments between states and the federal
government there are the balance of
payments there is there are some states
that contribute more to the federal
government than they get back
those are Massachusetts Connecticut New
Jersey New York Illinois Washington
state Colorado a couple others the vast
majority of the ones that are taking
payments that are actually gay are are
controlled by Republicans where money is
coming in I mean so the the idea that
you know that that that there is
problems as measured by sort of how much
revenue is generated versus how much is
spent that there are problems with
places specifically as a function of
being governed by Democrats is absurd
there are urban environments that we
have
have been systemically denied or have no
political power and they've been
systemically denied the support
structures that that wealthier places
have bottom line poverty has been
allowed to fester it has been enhanced
by racist policies going back decades in
terms of housing in terms of jobs and
these are severe problems in some of
these cities also exist in rural areas
it's just that you have fewer people
there yeah that's exactly right but you
see also a parallel and it's it's
fascinating because I mean obviously now
we're in a major upsurge back thanks to
certain people in the IDW of racism and
IQ stuff but if you properly understand
charles murray more broadly than just
the the racism he's trying to be the
public intellectual that justifies class
stratification and so his books after
the bell curve he started writing on how
poor white people in the cultural losing
ground was all about how people in
Appalachia and so on were we're decking
it and living in decay and didn't have
the intelligence and the discipline
discipline to succeed in capitalism
because that's what all this stuff is is
first you D industrialize the press and
everything else these people and then
you have to build a narrative to justify
so that's actually all Trump's doing in
his like crude demagogic way and I just
want to say that he's not also all the
trumps that's why he got there and
that's why he got there cuz it's the
flip side of we said this many times
during the it's you during the campaign
that when the Republican Party says
you're immoral and that's why you're
poor the flip side of that is if you're
the richest person on the stage you are
the most powerful and everything and
deserving and that's why I met Romney
and Donald Trump for the same thing in
that respect exactly and it's why when
Jeb Bush said anything Donald Trump was
like I'm a billionaire supposedly and so
to the entire principles that you've
established around the Republican Party
in a worldview of conservatism I'm
better than you right I think that that
and and also I just this is less
important but I mean the idea of calling
Elijah Cummings obviously I have very
different politics or significantly
different politics and logic companies
but I happened he's definitely my
favorite member of the House Democratic
leadership by far and just going back a
couple of months when there was that
whole melodrama
when Rasheeda to Liv did the whole like
you don't I forget what she's basically
made a point about racist attitudes even
if you don't have it you know even if in
your own awareness you're not explicitly
racist and that guy on the committee
cried and had a meltdown I don't know if
people are remembering this of course
and of course it came out that he had in
fact said multiple birth her and racist
comments but Elijah Cummings I mean in a
perfect distillation of all of these
dynamics basically comforted the guy and
the guy had a whole meadows mr. chairman
you and I are friends and all the stuff
and Cummings actually was like in fact
yeah we are friends but he had to
psychologically comfort and protect this
guy because he had a meltdown about her
making a basic point about entirely race
painting exercises which was all they
were doing by literally having a woman a
black woman from the Trump an
organization stand mute looking into
space while they were like look here he
can't be racist meanwhile
