[Music]
there's two stories that just adding to
the body of work just talking about how
a repulsive are our disposition our
national disposition towards immigration
is particularly coming from the
administration one is that on Wednesday
the body of a seven-year-old girl was
found 17 miles west of Luke ville in a
remote desert area officials believe the
child was from India she was trying to
cross from Mexico into the United States
with a group from India Tucson Sector
border control agents spoke with two
women from India who said they had been
separated from three other people trying
to come across the United States with
them a woman and two children Border
Patrol agents believe human smugglers
dropped the group near the Mexican
border where they were told to cross the
terrain into Arizona alone agents
searched for the missing people north of
the border in remote terrain about seven
miles west of quit to be Quito's Springs
they eventually found the little girl's
body after a few hours the area had a
high temperature around a hundred and
eight degrees officials said
searchers found footprints that suggest
the woman and child returned to Mexico
they're continuing the search with
Mexican authorities my understanding is
this is very close to the area that
Scott Warren a man who has been whose
trial just came to a deadlock jury who
is on trial but on trial by the American
government for leaving water for
immigrants trying to cross the border so
they would not die in the desert
[Music]
it's grotesque meanwhile the New York
Times has done a story on the youngest
child separated from parents I mean this
is kidnapping
this is kidnapping
the child was four months old and spent
the next five months of his life
separated from his parents he's now
almost two still not able to walk on his
own or to speak kids develop at all
different rates but the idea that this
kid was not traumatized
one day taken from his parents by US
authorities here is a Caitlyn Dickerson
and Brian Staedtler I guess talking
about this story it took me months to
find Constantine Mootoo so I mentioned a
federal court case earlier that had to
do with family separations and that
prompted ultimately the reunification of
separated families and while I was
looking through those court records last
summer I found mention of a four month
old baby I've been really interested in
separated babies in general and
immediately thought this is probably the
youngest child and and quickly learned
that he was but because all of the
individual records in that court case
were sealed and because you know as we
talked about the government data was
really limited it took a long time to
find him basically just calling
everybody in the country to see if
anybody heard of a four month old baby
had been separated and ultimately we did
he spent five months separated from his
parents
he's almost two now and he's still not
able to walk or or to walk on his owner
to speak four months old when he was
separated
and you think about the parents and why
they decided to come and you think about
the government that broke them up
kaylynn thank you
you can tell youtell Statler probably
has young children I mean I think
certainly it's it's problematic for
anybody with any sense of of conscience
to find this problematic but I think for
parents to contemplate their 4 month old
baby being taken from them for 5 months
and the trauma that would represent for
that child is not an expert on
developmental like so the issues but I'm
pretty sure those are pretty important
months not to be traumatized Oh I mean
without a doubt without a doubt I mean
look the reality is is that I think the
vast majority of your disposition of
life is going to take place from
probably month three to age five and the
younger the more relevant in terms of
shaping that I mean this if you've ever
planted anything or grown anything I
mean it all just makes total sense
physiologically there are things that
you can do at that age in terms of
repairing things you simply can't do the
amount that your eyes can get fixed and
repair and generate new cells even until
age six or seven is just there's nothing
you can't replicate that it's torturous
it's it's just it's it's brutal and you
know I mean I look when you go from
basically doing this horrific things to
children people overseas threw bombs
through tanks through drones through
guns and you make a population that is
paying for it
with their tax dollars just accept it
the doing this on your in your own
country you know just becomes just a
slightly marginal you know becomes much
more acceptable and every time we allow
anything like this to be okay we are
enabling another atrocity and horror
that is yet to come
and so everything that's happening to
immigrants now it's just gonna make it
easier for it to happen to other people
it's really just horrible
