in Kansas there was a Commissioners
meeting last Tuesday and Leavenworth
Kansas
or I should say Leavenworth yeah just
outside of Kansas City and apparently
this county commissioner - Lewis Klemp
had taken issue with a project that was
presented by a planning consultant who
also happened to be the only black
person at least that we can see on
camera in this video and you know
apparently this guy Lewis clamp had an
issue with the development project that
he only had an issue with the
development project itself and he wants
to make that absolutely clear to this
consultant he was recently we should say
well go ahead listen to this see how
convincing is oh don't you think I'm
diggin on you because we're part of the
masteries deck you know you've got a gap
in your teeth here the masters don't
ever forget that I'll pass that out the
other day and that lady said you know I
I didn't think of that I almost start
passing that around so I don't like a I
don't like be there you go he just
basically told this woman I don't want
you to think that I'm picking on you
because we're part of the master race
you know you got a gap in your teeth
you're the Masters don't ever forget
that
a little master race you imagine I mean
just like I mean obviously there's a lot
of people in our audience who can
imagine we've gone through this type of
stuff but you are in what is
theoretically not just an extremely
theoretically professional environment
but one that is public and this guy is
projecting all of his creepy racist
 on you
there to do a job this is a guy who a
month after he was appointed to fill a
vacancy on the Commission this is a no I
guess maybe last year he went on a
according to reports a meandering
disjointed soliloquy about a number of
racial racial ly incendiary topics like
slavery the civil war wherever and
Martin Luther King and exactly which
historical figures are deserving of a
national holiday not everybody does them
all because we have robert e lee who god
robert e lee wonderful part of history
is part of the gap-toothed guys you know
we don't we don't have a Washington
anymore
you may be removed anyway because he had
slaves welcome to Trump's America ladies
and gentlemen let's go to the phones you
come from it's
