[Music]
but here this was fascinating and this
was this morning there is after the
interview with Joe Scarborough a couple
of days ago where Hickenlooper from from
Colorado refused to say that he was a
capitalist which was just an absolutely
bizarre situation and I think indicative
of what the candidates in the race must
be aware of particularly a guy like
Hickenlooper is that the Democratic
Party the the primary voters are have
moved to the left and if you want to at
the very least be part of the
conversation you need to project that to
the rest of the the party which is you
know the problem that Beto is gonna have
however this is set off alarm bells for
a lot of people across the board not
just on the Joe Scarborough show but I
would imagine in the Democratic Party
but certainly a guy like Donny Deutsch
who is what's happened to his own a
little freaked out and it is a
fascinating exchange - this is um this
is Joe Scarborough and Donny Deutsch
Donny Deutsch just boom owning the fact
that and these terms are thrown around
capitalists socialists I mean the in the
context of our politics they don't
really mean that much in terms of when
we talk about all the candidates who are
running in this race and to the extent
that we talk about anything that is
actual practical politics within the US
these two terms don't mean that much
frankly but here here these two Joe I
take it one step further because this is
how dangerous socialist I find Donald
Trump reprehensible as a human being
what a socialist candidate is
more dangerous to this company country
as far as the strength and well positive
for one second
first off and we should go back we live
in a country not a company yeah indeed
but there is no socialist candidate who
is running in our election maybe there
might as someone from the Socialist
Party might be running I don't know if
they're gonna get on the the ballot
anywhere but I mean Bernie Sanders I
think for the vast majority of his
career identified as a socialist but in
in terms of like what he is running on
and in terms of the way that he's
identifying himself today he is not
proposing a socialist country I think in
the way that Donny Deutsch wants to make
it out to be a maybe is because Donny
Deutsch I think has a very sort of wide
range of what he considers socialism I
would say if it's if it's economic
decisions are made democratically and
not by capitalists Donny Deutsch would
consider that socialism maybe maybe what
let's listen as a human being
what a socialist candidate is more
dangerous to this company country as far
as the strength and well-being of our
country that Donald Trump I would vote
for Donald Trump a despicable human
being and let me tell you something
yourself look let me correct myself
thank you Joe a bigot a guy that's made
thank you for thank you for correcting I
stand corrected that I will be so
distraught to the point that that can
even come out of my mouth if we have a
socialist attack because that will take
our country so down and we are not now
we are not Denmark I love Denmark you
know that's not who we are and if you
love who we are and all the great things
that still have to have binders put on
the side please step away from the
socialism study let me correct myself I
will never vote for Donald Trump thank
you Joe okay very good at fools Russian
Donnie video
by the way yeah that's how it is is
so-so but I mean this is I mean it does
raise this question down so you know I
presumably die annoyed she's talking
about Bernie Sanders right I mean who
else would he be talking about yeah and
the idea let me just finish what I'm
saying and the idea that Donny Deutsch
is threatening to vote for Donald Trump
until he's you know told by his
television guy like look we're not going
to go there in the context of this this
is yeah right that we were going to make
a marketing decision here this is this
is you know the argument that needs to
happen now like there needs to be just
like there was a for more or less
pledges across the board now is the time
to make these pledges will you support
the Democratic nominee because to the
extent that people talk about Bernie
Sanders supporters abandoning a Clinton
in the in the general election the
numbers are in was it Stokes in
Washington Post as shown we're talking
about 12% of Bernie Sanders supporters
from the primary voted for Donald Trump
more almost double depending on which
study you look at Hillary Clinton's in
2008 somebody sent a you know tweeted at
me do you think it's possible that you
know nine percent of Barack Obama
supporters in 2008 voted for John McCain
yes there was a big push and maybe this
makes up for some of of Hillary
Clinton's votes as well there was a big
push in 2008 by Rush Limbaugh called
Operation chaos and literally and it was
for Republicans boss over in in these
elections in the primary elections where
you did not have to declare your party
and I'm quite convinced that at least uh
you know half of those maybe maybe third
those Obama voters went and voted for
John McCain because they were actual
Republicans but also you got to remember
John McCain was and this might this
might also contribute to why you had so
many Clinton voters who voted for John
McCain John McCain was considered by a
lot of Democrats to be much more
reasonable I think then Donald Trump was
and but nevertheless the numbers don't
lie but the question is here is how many
of Donny Deutsch Democrats are going to
vote for Donald Trump are going to
basically vote for some third party
their version of of a Green Party
candidate to avoid voting for the
Democratic nominee if it's Bernie
Sanders and these people need to be held
to account in the same way that we would
hold any the people who in 2016 would
have gone and voted for someone other
than Hillary Clinton and so this is a
this is a good moment to look in both in
to like well you know how Joe
Scarborough wants to brand himself but
also into what could be a significant
problem unless it's addressed early and
also I would just add to that
Jamal Bowie has a tweet out because
there's this new you know of course
totally delusional piece in New York
magazine and then the spin from the
Howard Schultz team is the backlash must
mean we're on to something and you know
of course it's and all the quotes are
obviously either from just enabling
friends or the same advisors who want to
make a run on this guy but Jamal Buies
quote is basically I forget in
paraphrasing but something effective I'm
increasingly convinced that his that he
just wants to get the president
reelected and I think that I agree that
Howard Schultz does yes and I because I
think there's degrees of it I think
you're right I think Donny Deutsch is
saying Bernie Sanders and obviously the
piece where the Wall Street guys said
they named it they said Sanders are
Warren right but I think in a in a shell
case and what some of these other guys
they are such big
these that they're living enough that
you know a Booker or a Harris is even
migrating with where the rest of the
party is and they might want to just
spoil the whole thing because they're so
bratty entitled and delusional I mean I
find that hard to believe but I also
don't find it hard to believe that they
are delusional enough to think that
they're going to have a you know they
could save soldiers saving the country
if they throw it to Tromp I don't like
that the fact that he come he said we're
not Denmark when he was trying to
explain socialism tells you all you need
to know about this guy's ideology I mean
Denmark is not a socialist country it's
not even the most socialist of the
Scandinavian countries by the way like
people in Finland think Denmark's the
flicka
bunch of free market wage cooks but like
this is what that's what the prime
minister of Finland said at a recent
NATO's exactly but this is what I talk
about when I talk about fish hook theory
like the quote/unquote Center will break
for the right if forced to choose
between the left and the right and it
doesn't take a real socialist it could
be a social democrat who just threatens
writer
that's exactly shale interests and it's
not just voting it's when you talk about
people with this much money in power you
know they they make donations they use
their outsized platforms and all of that
stuff there's no doubt in my mind the
but the I think you know to the extent
that anything can be done about it now
it is to nip this this meme in the bud
as it were right like because Donny
Deutsch is out there saying this part of
it is so that it becomes a talking point
as to why you got a vote against Bernie
Sanders in the primary because as if
like there's an inevitable back you know
there's an inevitable chance that people
are going to abandon the party because
of Bernie Sanders and it's not
inevitable it's simply the choice that
Donny Deutsch is trying to make no one's
forcing him to do that so well here's a
fight take maybe if he's willing to
abandon the party over mild so
democratic reforms the party shouldn't
have him like if we want to realign the
Democratic Party to be more of a Labour
Party more of a left formation like the
interests of the bosses conflict with
the interests of the workers right and
there's some good-faith bosses who are
welcome to come along yes sir but how
does how does the party say we don't
want doing it Donny Deutsch like the
party can't kick him out he's just a guy
going on there speaking who would be
presumably I mean so yes I don't care
about Donny Deutsch being a member of
the Democratic Party he has no influence
on the Democratic Party he does hasn't
been influenced with a platform every
day on the media where he's arguing that
there's going to be a backlash if you
nominate and he's basically arguing the
same thing that Howard Schultz is
arguing and the reason why they're
arguing this now is not because he's
gonna what he's going to do in the
voting booth the reason why he's arguing
this right now is to is to on the ledger
of why you would vote for or against the
candidate to put this on the ledger so
that's why at this point there's nobody
in the Democratic Party who comes down
and says Donny Deutsch does not remember
the Democratic Party doesn't matter
officially evict you yeah it's it's the
the point is is that now is the time and
good for Joe Scarborough he did exactly
what should be done in that instance and
I'm surprised because these are
Republican
