[Music]
yeah well that leads to my question very
well because basically what I wanted to
say was that well first of all I I'm
someone who has a doctorate and a lot
and that's like my circle there's an
academic circle and so I have a lot of
grant supporters in my sort of Facebook
feed my friend group right and so what I
would what I would say is just to
preface this by saying that I am 100%
with you on all sort of arguments of why
Bernie Sanders is the number one choice
but I've noticed that there's been a
huge uptick of actually quite unfair
attacks on war and in you know in terms
of like the online left bar give me an
actual example of that what is that but
I'll give you an example yo so I
understand that like Chapo Trap House
subreddit is not a reflection of society
but but like that I go guy work it
totally say is true even the people who
host yeah yeah I don't I don't like I
can you maybe go for something that's a
little bit more because I I'm just my
ground I can't do that yeah because look
I literally I saw you know I can do you
like getting that way if you like it
connects though sorry the way I feel
like it connects is that that that
there's sort of like a downplaying of
certain aspects of Warren whereas like
one thing that gives her that helps me
sort of feel more positive about her is
the representation argument and that I
feel like is being downplayed a little
bit and I get I guess my larger question
is up getting around my larger question
is of course how do I convince how do I
convince the people in my circle who are
generally pretty well informed kind of
you know Warren's target demographic how
do I convince them that Bernie is a
better candidate without kind of you
know on their terms I suppose how about
the makeup of their
which would be that's when I'd start
with he couldn't hear that okay guy I
have something but Brendan and Matt are
gonna go I'd say the makeup of the
coalition's like Elizabeth Warren is
just like white professionals with grad
would graduate from college like that's
not gonna be good in the primary we've
been talking about this in the office
and I don't think it's exactly I don't
think Bernie supporters need to be
targeting Warren supporters because
Bernie is not their second choice across
the board in polling I think we found
and I think there are I mean we should
target them insofar as we want as much
support for Bernie as possible but they
are not the next people in line that we
should be going for we should be
expanding the electorate as Bernie
supporters uh let me all right I'm gonna
just be really blunt with you okay I
think every per every you know obviously
I spend a lot of time ragging on tell
seen yang supporters and I totally see
how Bernie Sanders their son Bernie
sander everybody can be annoying online
okay
but the thing that I'm getting from
Warren supporters is and it does reflect
the class positionality is just stunning
entitlement like I'm sorry
like I don't support Elizabeth Warren
and if I said in a cot like there is no
analogous rhetoric with Bernie Sanders
you can criticize him and don't and
maybe not vote for him but you need to
make sure to say something nice about
him every other word you need to make
sure that I feel comfortable in you
criticizing him look as far as I'm
concerned
baseline issues for mayor things like
single-payer health care universal
housing and things like the Green New
Deal and I also care deeply about
foreign and military policy which no
Warren supporter who ranks her as the
first choice has any care about I've
even had people bluntly tell me that
that's not something they're thinking
about I is the most narcissistic
position imaginable
so I'm going to articulate what isn't
isn't better if some of your friends
actually care about every single human
being having health insurance they care
about not increasing the military budget
they care about an actual green New Deal
they care about those things in a
substantive serious way they'll go to
Bernie Sanders because the argument is a
slam dunk if there are primary and
overarching concern is the identity one
then there's nothing to discuss I just
respectfully disagree I it's a it's a
it's a fair thing to consider also
Bernie's Jewish Bernie and that is by
the way I'm not gonna hang my hat on
that but it is stunning the degree that
is totally erased from the conversation
but I will just say erase because it's
not really people who say it's about the
representation thing it's not really
about that person how many Clips do I
have to see if some there's a new one
going of a woman saying it's a woman's
time but my first choice is Budaj edge
but I can't vote for Sanders it's
 it's nonsense
right I'm sorry and I know and frankly
it's blue I don't know any single person
look there was a there was somebody who
wrote in 2008 I forget her name but she
supported Sarah Palin for vice president
because it was time there was somebody
in 2000 you know look if that's it yeah
well vote yeah Carly Fiorina vote like
that's fine but there's nothing to talk
about I there's isn't even anything to
push back I honestly I think that's the
most honorable argument but I saw but
there's a lot of people that don't I've
the other luxury of that argument
frankly cuz like they need health care
they need housing yeah that's important
that stuff is more important they need
Lulla needs to be out of jail they need
to do something with the military
hey and and if you don't if you're not
there with it then that's fine we just
respectfully disagree we're doing
different things
that's it it'd be one thing if the
frankly if the representation side meant
electoral victory but that's ambiguous
itself so like it's material less
important and electoral II like you
can't make the arguments orally it's a
totally danger it's about the narcissism
of the class that's supporting her
frankly and that is what's
to be really sickening about you know
that's why my irritation level with
Warren supporters is increasing because
there's no there isn't a substantive
case to the left the electoral case is
enormous ly dangerous and you're erasing
the material needs of millions of people
including people in other countries who
get no cut in discourse which I find
disgusting frankly so you know that's it
and you can either accept those
arguments and be serious about it and
actually engage on real terms or again
just cleanly say you know if somebody
just says hey look I want to enjoy
getting to be President we haven't had
an asian-american president that's what
I'm voting on I don't care okay I want
you know I want first black woman
president
I'm voting Kamla Harris I don't care
about a record okay but then that's it
that's a great second conversation I
think for all the people it's one it's
one aspect among many issues maybe the
last thing I'd say was that that for
Warren now like again I actually agree
with everything that you're all saying
but one thing that I think about in
terms of you know Warren being okay if
it ends up turning that way is that
thinking back to Bernie in 2016 he was
not the Bernie of now like the Bernie
today is much much better and I would
hope that that that Warren has it could
be pushed in a similar direction and be
part of what makes burn on foreign
policy partially what yeah but that's
Bernie reverting to type that's Bernie
going back to the 1980s again like I
can't there are people who are getting
elected to Congress and positions of
power in a completely changed political
environment who are already
significantly more compromised than
Bernie in being in power for you know 16
months like again if you have left
politics if you have left politics
this is it this is the choice
now there's especially watching this
show there's a broad set of people and I
know a broad set of people that's great
I know people who are Republicans I know
people who frankly they don't really
care about poor people right I know
people who don't really you know
democracy okay but technocracy me a
right though there's they're warned
supporters that I know yes that's true
if I'm being blunt and there's people
that you know I think have very sincere
politics and we argue it out but we
argue it out on the merits and I and I'm
not willing and and also I'll just say
one other thing that will you know this
will piss everybody off I'm somebody who
supported Hillary Clinton in 2016
general election I said you need to vote
in such a way as to prevent Donald Trump
from being president and I say that as
somebody who again especially because I
also care about the world and have a
understanding of foreign policy Hillary
Clinton is like contemptible not just
like oh that isn't my preferred choice
if you look at the policies in Honduras
and Haiti and so on contemptible and I
absolutely without a second hesitation
would say you vote to prevent Donald
Trump from being president period so I
say again in 2020 if it's Elizabeth
Warren if it's Joe Biden if it's Tulsi
Gabbard if it's Andrew yang if it's Pete
Buddha jej I will say if you are voting
in Michigan or Pennsylvania you vote for
the candidate that will defeat Donald
Trump period case closed I've not
revised my thought on voting preventing
a greater evil at all case closed right
now we're in a primary and there is a
generational opportunity candidate verse
a decent ish technocrat on domestic
policy with bad foreign policy candidate
and then a whole bunch of really bad
candidates so I'm gonna go to the mat
for him and you know people should know
that and if I get anything factually
wrong or anything like that then people
you know I'll apologize to Biden
forgetting something factually wrong or
yang or any of them but nobody gets
special treatment
it's funny I often tweet out not because
I think the vote itself matters but just
the propaganda value of saying if Joe
Biden's the nominee I'm not gonna vote
for him in New York I'm gonna vote for
some third party thing or I'm gonna do
that and people that really get upset by
me messaging that right I think you
should read the centrist authoritarian
literature because it would be like
looking in a mirror 100% but i you know
but i do expect people just as I did in
2016 with a with a just an awful
candidate a truly despicable candidate
and Hillary Clinton have the maturity to
you know recognize that like you're not
a dreamer right so you're going to vote
too / - not have people's you know
additional people live savage so I am I
am still totally of you have an insight
you have an outside approach and part of
politics at times absolutely requires
voting in an ultra pragmatic way and so
that point still stands and yeah before
we get into that point we have a primary
we have an opportunity to elect somebody
who's actually really good and you
better believe I'm gonna take that
because I don't see this opportunity
coming again for decades and also this
isn't just about opportunity anymore
right but actually right are you still
there yeah yeah no well I mean thank you
thank you for taking the call I mean I I
guess that I guess some people just
can't be convinced in terms of my
friends I'm talking and they're not
they're not there they're they're not
committed to these things they're
committed to a different set of things
and I think you know that's and that's
the thing word I mean what yeah sorry
what sorry one one thing I might add to
it I think there's also there's a lot of
like trauma that was involved with the
2016 election and so political discourse
has become like it's sort of difficult
to go hard not least with not having
health insurance for most of your life
there's trauma associated with being
homeless there's trauma associated with
rape rafer done blowing your
family up I look I get it I understand
and on
and I wish in general people could be
much more emotionally intelligent in
general but I'm sorry this is an
election this is not built around
certain subsets feelings and experience
of how arguments are made online it's
ridiculous there's serious stakes here
if you're not for it if you're
fundamental issues aren't things like
giving everybody healthcare great own it
and make your argument I'm here to do
that I don't care about if I cared about
every single person's narcissistic needs
and fixations who would I criticize I
mean look at look at look you know
everybody laughs when we talk about yang
and Tulsi fans acting like a cult and
they absolutely do well I'm sorry I see
the same version of it deal with it and
if you have an actual criticism of
Bernie that isn't like I feel like I
didn't like the intonation of how he
said something I've heard it I
criticized Bernie but it better be real
because I'm talking about real stuff I
haven't said anything about Warren that
is in policy focused and isn't a
fundamental values focused and you can
either deal with that and if you can't
deal with it then you know I don't know
yeah I'm kind of curious to make a Harry
Potter I'm kind of curious why I did it
well thank you for taking my call thanks
man appreciate it
oh wait Bren I hit a question for them
I'm wondering what it is you're hearing
from them exactly like if there's like a
moment that you've had with them you
mean Warren Warren support reason with
them yeah what is in like well trying to
get down well it's like you know things
like for instance with working families
party announcement it's like you know
there's gonna be a lot of people really
mad about this and like sort of not
taking the issues with it that's the
principle of what are counts right yes a
lot of people are holding on they say
yeah a lot of people will be mad that
they are not releasing a vote that
Arianism yeah that's authoritarianism
that's that is people's who have
personal comfort and emotions are more
important than a democratic process and
I'm sorry I'll just I don't respect that
and that's a distinction I see between
Bernie supporters and Warren supporters
and it's drawn very clear
in like the you know professional
distinctions of who supports these
people is that it's really highly
educated people don't always exactly
believe in a true democracy I'd rather
just let the smartest people in the room
run it really read the proposals either
of course they haven't and they're
entitled I've read some of the Elizabeth
Warren's medium posts okay and I've read
Bernie's and I you know it's like the
line it's like warns identity politics
for journalists I you know it's like
look and there's and I you know again I
people's BIOS do matter so some of the
things that I've seen experience in life
are gonna affect my perspective on this
but it's also like an ability to say
talk to a broader set of people and
again look at the numbers I mean yeah
why is it that you know why is there a
broad working-class coalition for Bernie
Sanders and why is it that it is a glut
of over educated white people for Warren
I mean I'm sorry and and it's all of the
thing like everything you're saying is
all of the vacuous nough sand
entitlement that I can't stand and I
don't have anything for right but I'm
sorry but then the scary thing is her
numbers seem to be gradually going up as
Bernie think beholding well yes a scary
that's why people well I'm gonna reach
who I can reach and I think that there
is a big subset of the Democratic
electorate that you know that are the
you know they're the wine track the Bill
Bradley Howard Dean sort of thing and I
think it's a question of picking enough
of them and maybe some of them really
are you know can actually be persuaded
on the actual merits if they actually
care about things like single-payer and
then beyond that it's a question of can
the multiracial actual working people of
the Democratic Party still prevail over
the technocratic class and it remains to
be seen and then the next thing that
becomes an even bigger danger is that
demographic might it certainly dominates
in the opinion and profession
classic Democratic Party but it is
absolutely you know certainly
geographically not the roadmap to
winning a general election which gets me
to my genuine terrified practical
concern because I am NOT a socialist or
a leftist who in any way downplays the
necessity of beating Donald Trump I
think that's an absolute necessity and I
am increasingly terrified of someone
like Warren going up against them
because I think there's huge
vulnerabilities there precisely because
of this coalition that's being assembled
and maybe that's what you say to them
maybe that's what you say to them yeah
thanks for the call well thanks for
taking my call and also Justin Trudeau
is an idiot thank you
oh yes definitely he is a idiot I mean
that's not to go off a little bit more
but that's what upsets me about the WFP
thing like a lot of people told me you
know you're going on about it too much
and fair enough about emphasis but in
terms I did not and I've tweeted a lot
about this I did not have a single
Warren supporter or WFP supporter able
to defend that the way that they handled
keeping that vote unified as I say a
secret as I would say right of course
and so what you're asking me to do is be
disingenuous about it like like it's
it's an affront against democracy that's
just what it is and frankly if you're a
warrant supporter you shouldn't want to
see that happen either because really
it's what it's doing is setting her up
to fail because if she actually like if
she gets like the boost off of this
endorsement that which is frankly
subsidized by coupling her vote with
Bernie Sanders as local one to thing
like and she ends up like not being as
supported by a grassroots movement as
that might make it appear then she's set
up to fail you should want to know what
exactly like how many people are behind
her if the people were behind her it'd
be great to know that you know Sanders
people can be annoying and combative
like everybody but what I don't see as a
matter of structure and I know all the
lies and all of the you know Bernie bro
a blah blah blah blah but I do never see
anything that is a either a substantive
contradiction I see people saying hey
I'm supporting Bernie
because I don't have healthcare I'm
supporting Bernie because you know I'm
committed to X Y & Z and I never see I
see Bernie people saying like hey could
you not lie about a pole could you not
you know do use an anti Semitic
character in a headline could you you
know any number of other things that
they can point to I never see like you
know and maybe it's just the base line
but I just never seen the
presumptuousness is like hey I'd like
you I even if you don't support my my
candidate I'd like you to never
criticize him talk about his record like
I honestly only I mean yang and Tulsi
people it is like gets extremely cultish
and it's kind of its own thing but they
warn people the ones that I actually
just hear like ya know Warren she's
great so even if you're not voting for
I'd appreciate if you didn't say
anything about her record or policy
proposals because I find that like
unfair oh that is the level of delusion
and entitlement in that is is mind
blowing
or are they ventriloquist other people
saying I'm not personally you know
uncomfortable with you bringing up
policy substance or you know the truth
about what this like vote is right but
other people are off-put by it and it's
like I don't I don't care about
ventriloquist's it's the same thing with
the Tom's Coca thing we talked about
like everybody likes to do that to like
to venture Lacroix's some other third
person besides saying like I actually
believe this I think you're attacking
Warren too much like yeah right
owned by that and also like I mean I
that's the thing too it's like I
remember one time I was I was on i-24
talking with some some some I was about
to make a super-intense Sopranos joke
I'll step back from that and we were
debating torture and he kept saying I
did I had people who died on 9/11 and at
first it was like okay that's horrible
alright it's not really the point but
that's a strong visceral appeal I can't
really respond to it but then it was
like he had friends in the intelligence
community he had friends in the military
and I just started being like well you
know my friends and intelligence say
this here's everybody can play that game
here's everybody has somebody who said
something
statement from a Warren supporter Warren
just signals a greater degree of
competency Bernie will just will say
anything and then leave the details
kicking the can down the road where you
go yeah so first of all and again I
guarantee you that person has not read
the policy proposals from either of them
like I would I would bet thousand bucks
you know that before that tweet nobody
has ready full policy proposal from each
I am totally confident of and also we're
gonna kick in the can down the road on
the main policy proposals right the her
prime her prime can kick is the biggest
domestic issue we face and incidentally
all of Bernie's plans are fleshed out
and also let me just like and I'll just
say look I don't care that you lie about
Bernie like that but I've heard from a
lot of people they find it off-putting
and I wouldn't do it because it hurts
you
