so let's play a little bit of sound then
we'll go to the fun half I really let's
just do these these a pair of a OC in
Olano Mar reaffirming why they've
endorsed Bernie Sanders so when is he
going to do you know when he's going to
Detroit with Rashida I think this is it
this weekend yeah I don't want to say
that unlike screwed up I'm pretty sure
because they can like actually
officially put out yeah on her social
media accounts I mean it's not hard I
mean you know the same research skills
that let you to look up know Mickey's
feet it's crap he used an endorsement so
uh
5g5 mil a year huh I had no idea yeah
well they are I mean the funeral is
taking place and I saw them at the
funeral and that doesn't mean they can't
jump on a plane but wait for Elijah
Cummings yeah oh did we miss the clip I
should have asked about this there's a
hysterical clip I don't know who the
gentleman is we have it of the guy
skipping McConnell all right yeah we'll
get to that later
all right here is AOC and ooh they don't
like to hear this on MSNBC whoa this is
painful
oh how dare she be committed to her
political commitments these endorsements
are part of the work that we have to do
in the house very frequently someone
will say oh we can't pass a green you
deal we don't have support for that Oh
medicare-for-all is quote unquote
and fees unfeasible because we may not
have support in certain areas of the
house well if we want to change that
then we need to be changing we need to
be changing the math of the house and we
need to be protecting those folks who
are leading and are taking political
risks in order to serve the people of
the United States of America and so my
work first and foremost informs the
other work that I do to organize the
electorate but it's it is important to
acknowledge that in order to pass a
transformative agenda for working-class
America
we gotta have the numbers and we gotta
have the leadership in place and so we
have to play in both if we're really
gonna change this country and if we're
serious about that absolutely and here
is Ilan Omar
she was at this is the Progressive
Caucus Action Fund and you know there's
also a clip which I guess we didn't pull
pull
with Mehdi Hassan where she really made
this point very strongly as well and she
actually even acknowledged her own gut
check when he told her that she was
basically singing a little bit of a
different tune a year ago this is Olano
more along side and for marginalized
people in this country for many years
and I believe that he and I share value
and a vision for the America that we all
deserve make you what do you think about
these endorsements I think they're um
you know they came at a perfect moment
when the press was really trying to
shove it down our throats that there was
no electoral path for for senator
Sanders which is abundantly you know
false it's just I mean the polls are all
over the place they're not it's not you
know one day like Pete Budaj is winning
Iowa which makes absolutely no sense mmm
so it came at a really good moment I
mean at the end of the day they're gonna
need folks to turnout in states like
Iowa New Hampshire and they I believe
that it's pretty tight I don't think
there's a big margin there I think they
oversample older voters I all the polls
pretty much over sample of older voters
and some of them are a little bit more
skewed you know he needs the young you
know young voters new voters to register
and I think that these endorsements from
the squad are motivating to young people
and you know and hopefully they'll be
surrogates that can run around the
country and you know not just campaign
in their districts but other districts
encouraging young people to register to
vote encouraging young people to get
active however they can
tell their friends and families of
course you know tell your parents that's
I think key so it's your parents have a
talk with your parents I saw somebody
push this out on Instagram have an
intervention about Biden even
intervention about other candidates to
tell them you're not coming home for
Thanksgiving unless they vote for Bernie
