[Music]
sky out of here so lastly Justin Amash
has left the Republican Party and the
question is is he hoping to siphon votes
off of and from whom in the presidential
election he is not a member of the
Republican Party maybe he will run as a
for the Libertarian Party I don't know
it's unclear to me who he would take
votes from at this point to be honest
with you
but here he is with Jake Tapper the only
Republican to come out at the time in
favor of appeasement claims that behind
closed doors Republicans are actually
good people what about the possibility
of you're running for president as a
libertarian or some under some under
some other ticket I asked you about that
a four or five months ago and you didn't
rule it out is it possible you would run
for president I still wouldn't rule
anything like that out I believe that I
have to use my skills my public
influence where it serves the country
best and I believe I have to defend the
Constitution which in whichever way
works best and if that means doing
something else then I do that but I feel
confident about running in my district I
feel a close tie to my community I feel
I care a lot about my community I want
to represent them in Congress when do
you think you'll make a decision about a
possible presidential run well it's it's
something people talk about all the time
it's not something that's right on my
radar right now so I couldn't tell you I
mean I suspect that he's probably gonna
look at the polling and see if he would
take votes away from Trump or he would
take votes away from the Democratic
nominee there is there some procedural
thing that he can't run as a Republican
well he's if he's just resigned from the
party Ryan ajan he we could but I'm
saying it would have been I mean just
thinking through it myself like just
challenge Trump as a Republican not to
this independent value way more
but then you're only in the primary and
not in the general so all right folks
