[Music]
remember how I would do impressions of
Ronald Reagan being a bigot because it'd
be pretty easy to deduce that a guy who
denied the AIDS crisis and vetoed a
sanctions package against apartheid
South Africa and ran against
quote-unquote welfare queens and young
bucks getting welfare checks yeah that
guy was probably a bigot and now we have
some archival evidence of the absolute
frigging obvious this is a phone call
from 1971 with Ronald Reagan to Richard
Nixon and guess what
it's Reagan saying all the racist stuff
not Richard Nixon saying his usual
racist stuff I will say this is someone
who is read and I've read more on Nixon
to heaven Reagan I think Reagan was more
of a racist than even Nixon totally I
totally accept that because Nixon could
still probably recognize like you know
like someone like God how'd you get rid
of Nkrumah there was a darn fine
strategist
[Music]
[Music]
yeah Ronald Reagan was a great American
who really restored our optimism we
should all respect him
this is kind of a funny little yeah here
the LOB at the underscore underscore boy
well boy that's right if you think
you're bad at your job there's a Ronald
Reagan biographer who didn't realize he
was a racist and a week ago Bob Spitz
author of Reagan and American Journey in
all of my very careful research into his
private papers I never found an instance
where I felt Ronald Reagan was raised
what about his public veto of a
sanctions package against apartheid
South Africa that's some good reporting
to like to go to the Republican writer
of Reagan to say hey you never thought
of this there's a lot of nervous
biographer that guy really learned from
Reagan though you could tell like in my
examination of his public of his private
papers in my heart and my heart I
thought it wasn't racist the facts say
are there are vexing oh I always thought
that Curious George was a delightful
character and I meant nothing by it to
the great African people and that a
Donald Trump is a nothing new Under the
Sun folks and a lot of people today like
to say they go up without shoes because
it's good for their arches it's good for
their arches that's why those earth
gripping shoes are so pop an important
point to make on this about of national
security or privacy so I I've listened
to a lot of Nixon tapes I've listened to
probably that call but that was not
available earlier because it was beeped
out if you listen to a lot of the Nixon
tapes the first thing I always do is
load them up and then look and you can
see visually how much is just beeped out
with this tone right and it's huge parts
of all these conversations we don't know
half of this stuff and this was beeped
out for privacy of Richard irva of
Ronald Reagan which
in diabetes breathe that out for privacy
yeah privacy a you know privacy public
talking about a private medical
condition or revealing that the Governor
of California is a ranked bigot yeah
while the president chuckles along you
know privacy privacy becomes a euphemism
for public image indeed
