[Music]
and so Donald Trump went down to El Paso
and I don't know you know we haven't
heard from him in a in a rally in quite
some time
but I think he's getting a little bit
more nuts and it's not I don't know if
he's actually any more crazy than he's
been in the past but he certainly it
seems to me that his rhetoric is going a
little bit further and I have a feeling
it's gonna keep going in this direction
there's no reason to believe it won't it
is it's annoying to hear him but I think
it's important too that we have at least
the sense of you know just some sense of
where it's going because there's I think
there was like 7,000 8,000 people in
that venue and it's important to sort of
hear what 8,000 of your fellow Americans
are talking about oh now wait is this is
this oh this isn't the clip of what he
was saying before that we were listening
to earlier is he saying Red Rover Red
Rover since in Mexico he was saying some
pretty nuts yes Oh murder murder murder
murder
wait is that part of this montage I
thought assaults forty thousand forty
forty thousand Larson 'yes thirty
thousand sex crimes twenty-five thousand
burglaries twelve thousand vehicle
thefts eleven thousand robberies four
thousand kidnappings and four thousand
murders murders murders
killings murders
[Applause]
if we cut detention space we are cutting
loose dangerous criminals into our
country
slashing ice detention is the first step
of many for the far left I call them the
radical left we will never abolish ice
they want to abolish ice so there is
writing about the cutting of the
detention centers it's not actually a
reduction on the tenth detention centers
it's just not letting them grow
exponentially we have a net zero
basically of immigrants entering the
country at the border which these
detention centers hold so there's
there's no reason for it we heard from
Ronald Reagan the other day yesterday I
guess it was that they fill the seats
that's what their agenda is they don't
care if there's 10,000 beds or 40,000
beds the policy is to fill the seats so
there is no rational assessment as to
whether someone is a threat there is no
rational assessment as to whether this
person should be allowed to wait in
within the population for their their
trial there's no there's no rational
barometer at all it is simply if we got
the beds we fill them that's the policy
well on the bright side like having
Trump get up and say we're never going
to abolish ice like hopefully I think is
helping to get more liberals on board
with the idea of what used to be like a
fringe leftist issue right yeah the more
that becomes a a Trump talking point I
think the the better it is for those who
want to get rid of ice here is a moment
where apparently one of the Mogga
had an issue with a reporter from the
BBC another obviously a non-american
maybe or at least a non-american outfit
[Applause]
got a plug there just like that numbers
in him he flashed the white vote three
other white powers and
he was the one who salted the BBC guy
were they cheering let him go
probably I can't understand what they're
saying oh yeah
let's see what they're cheering the kind
of diss on the credit as Lakers
Wow hey that's sort of gross sort of
just sort of gross I thought that sign
meant okay I'm okay
they bribe me but I'm okay I'm fine he's
not he's not American
