calling from a 631 area code who's this
where he come from
hi it's Maya I wasn't sure if I like
answered everything right it was best to
talk to you I'm sorry I said it's Maya I
wasn't sure how to call in this is my
first time so I'm like really happy to
be talking to you oh well thanks for
calling what's uh where are you calling
from Maya
I'm calling from Long Island I was I
wanted to call in about the interview
that I saw yesterday with Becca
Tynan about human trafficking right okay
because I'm I'm an actual sex worker and
I'm a doctor recipient so I was smuggled
here when I was five so interesting
getting her input although it's really
it kind of tells me everything that's
kind of wrong with people who are
fighting for human trafficking because
I'm obviously agencies like ice they
they kind of operate on that whole
mentality - of like we're it worth
saving people from human trafficking and
the prevention under which they have
that are very violent yeah well I mean
what so what I mean well get more
specific about what Tim had said because
I I felt that I felt like we were going
around in circles a little bit that the
that it was problematic to go after
these outlets because if you're
successful all you're doing is making it
harder for people to track who has and
has not been trafficked yeah she spent a
lot of that time to sing right I don't
know it's very young and so you can't
really judge FASTA system because we
just started it and it's kind of the
justification every single agency that
fights trafficking kind of kids like Oh
give it a chance of so young you can't
judge it what again just talking about
how they need what's your perspective
on on the potential for efficacy by
Cessna FASTA uh yeah I don't it's been
having like a really bad impact on me I
actually did a Vice special cuz there
was a Australian reporter that was
talking about the impacts of Rasta
system globally because it's not just
impacting women in the US but it's just
horrible now because these platforms
that were made in the US they reach the
global landscape so now people from
overseas that have legalized next work
and the criminal sex work are feeling
the impacts as well so what I wanted to
talk about okay good um I also wanted to
talk about something she said she said
that she wanted to take away the tools
of traffickers which is a really common
thing that police and other government
agencies used so like a jail a prison
said that they were going to ban books
because someone might smuggle drugs so
or they're going to ban all immigrants
to prevent trafficking like we need to
take the kids away from these parents um
from their parents because these parents
are criminals they're traffickers
there's things like that
take away the tools is it taking wait
with resources obviously these people
are just like us
what they don't understand is that a lot
of or you know a lot of internet
provider services and stuff like that
like arrows is a full-on prosecution
website escort website and when you go
on there they actually try to screen you
to make sure that you know you're
concerned into this and there's a whole
bunch of processes they go through so
they take your ID and they make sure
that it matches your face like all that
kind of stuff they really want to
prevent human trafficking and you look
after our own but unfortunately the
system has made it to the point where we
are afraid to report cases of actual you
know abusive tower because we will be
persecuted
you know just it extends much more pass
sex work - you know why are laborers
exploited so much why are immigrants
exploited so much it's because the
system has criminalized us as a whole
well I mean I will say this I mean I
think you know the the construct of of
taking away the tools is not I don't
think I think it's a mistake to say in
all aspects in the way that you're
making analogies to different situations
it's bad right I mean I want to restrict
access to guns because it's the tool for
mass murder and in that instance I think
it's it's an effective one but I think
the idea is that there needs to be a
greater awareness of the the need for
rights for sex workers and a just a not
a knee-jerk response to dealing with
trafficking but one that actually is
more practical and effective and it
seems to me that in terms of like those
ads it it it's the only way that we have
as a society of tracking down folks who
have been trafficked and we need to be
able to assess sites like you say that
are effective in screening you know we
need to be able to sort of recognize
that that's possible and that's
legitimate I mean and to me it starts
first with what you need I think is to
to legalize sex work more broadly so
that we can then begin to you know
regulate in a in a rational way in a way
that protects sex workers in the same
way that we want to protect workers more
broadly yeah I yeah if you think that
ellipses online like all the online
places they they turn over any
information they have when it comes to
an investigation over to police so it's
not like that was never in place before
and obviously if you're gonna persecute
you know someone for a crime you would
persecute the trafficker you would
persecute the person doing the thing
the person running the whole website
unless they were like somehow involved
but they have this weird idea that I
guess traffickers are going to the
person running the website and they're
like yeah man I'm gonna sell children
and you'll get a cut of the profit and
we're we're on this together
so the FBI report on Backpage the
evidence that they had of this happening
was that Backpage had rules for what as
they allowed up so if you said things
like you know child or something like
that or if you put that in the ad they
wouldn't allow that up on their ad and
they like looked at that and there was
like see this is proof that Backpage
knows that their children are being sold
on here but every website has that right
yeah I mean I think it's it's
unfortunate I'm not sure I think you
know there needs to be a a comprehensive
addressing of this issue so that you
know sessom FASTA would not make sense
in the context of a structure where sex
work was protected like like other work
well I appreciate it on in mind
