[Music]
you know Eddie cloud is we've had an
eddy on the show many times and over the
years really I think but he's you know
getting more to airtime on MSNBC which
is great because he's uh he is uh has a
very strong passionate voice about these
issues of race and I think like he just
delivers a message very well that you
just don't hear on television that often
frankly and he's like one of the few
pundits that you can watch and it just
feel like he's just operating with a
different set of rules that he is set
for himself like I don't care if you
fire me
like on some level like you know this
level of passion you know is I think
generally there's a just you never get
discouraged to do this but there's never
sort of like any type of encouragement
even in the context of like where you're
sitting around the desk
everything's so antiseptic but here's
Eddie cloud on on Nicole Wallace's
program I mean you know America is not
unique in its sins as a country we're
not unique in our evils to be honest
with you I think where we're where we
may be singular is our refusal to
acknowledge them and the legends and
myths we tell about our inherent you
know goodness to hide and cover and
conceal so that we can maintain a kind
of willful ignorance that protects our
innocence see the thing is that when the
Tea Party was happening
we used people where we were saying
pundits oh it's just about economic
populist it's not about race when people
new people new social scientists were
already writing that what was driving
the Tea Party were anxieties about
demographic shifts that the country was
changing that they were seeing these
racially ambiguous babies on cheerios
commercials that the
wasn't quite feeling like it was a white
nation anymore and people were screaming
from the top of their lungs you know
this is not just simply economic
populism this is the ugly underbelly of
the country see the thing is is this and
I'll say this and I'll take the hit on
it there are communities that have had
to bear the brunt of America confronting
white Americans confronting the danger
of their innocence and it happens every
generation so somehow we have to kind of
oh my god is this who we are and just
again another here's another generation
of babies think about it that
two-year-old have his broken bones
broken by two parents trying to shield
him from being killed a woman who has
been married to this man for as long as
I've been on the planet almost lost her
lost our husband so what and so what we
know is that the country's been playing
politics for a long time on this hatred
we know this so it's easy for us to
place it all on Donald Trump's shoulders
it's easy for us to place Pittsburgh on
his shoulders it's easy for me to place
Charlottesville on his shoulders it's
easy for us to place El Paso on his
shoulders this is us and if we're gonna
get past this we can't blame it on him
he's a manifestation of the ugliness
that's in us I've had the privilege of
growing up in a tradition that didn't
believe in the midst and the legends
because we had to bear the brunt of them
either we're going to change Nicole what
we're gonna do this again and again and
babies are going to have to grow up
without mothers and fathers uncles and
aunts friends while we're trying to
convince white folk to finally leave
behind a history that will maybe maybe
or embrace a history that might set them
free from being a white fine
I mean you don't hear that kind of stuff
on cable television very much seriously
incredibly impressive and I and that's
the case the country has never come
close to sort of acknowledging this
reality and then sort of reconciling it
and trying to even move on I mean
there's really nothing else to say it's
just an incredibly impressive people
should send that around incidentally he
was just send that around put that far
and white and tomorrow I'll have a Chris
Matthews mashup of that right all right
folks we only have time for
