[Music]
okay so here is a blaze correspondent
who is as far as I can tell is not being
metaphorical here I mean we've talked
about how some people say that that
milkshakes are a metaphor or somehow
like a diagram or like an implication of
assassination I'm not quite sure that's
the case
but I am down for some type of
restricting who can get milkshakes maybe
some type of background check when you
go to McDonald's but let's move from the
metaphorical realm to the less
metaphorical realm and that is blaze
correspondent Lauren Chen is upset with
Teen Vogue for railing against forced
pregnancies and most recently and in my
opinion upsettingly there is this piece
as well just a few days ago Teen Vogue
released this article which detailed how
to get an abortion if you're a teen
without your parents knowing
I honestly find it really really hard to
defend what the West has become
sometimes just on principle I think
right now a crusade may be exactly what
we need all right well just let's get
let's just catch people are caught up
part of the news and we put up the
definition of the Crusades just so that
people can see exactly what we're
talking about here these were religious
wars that took place in the first couple
hundred years of the new millennium or
the last millennium and it was basically
some Christian on Muslim action
a lot of people died because they use
swords and other instruments and what's
super weird she's talking about the West
where is she thinking that there are
like who's she talking about now she
talking about like she thinks that we
should have Muslims attack Christians
I'm not I don't quite follow I mean in
China they're not abortions are not
illegal are they in fact in many others
they are mandatory yes um they're highly
favored where is it that who's she
hoping where she's disappointed with
West I mean she's disappointed with just
the world they're illegal in Iran well
they started really strong by killing
all those Muslims and now they've gone
soft well I mean where who's she hoping
this war between who are the
anti-abortion folks that the the forced
pregnancy folks that she thinks are
gonna take on those of us in the West
who think that we shouldn't force
pregnancies on women who is it like is
it gonna be literally the Vatican blaze
membership just sounded good at the time
the Mudd Club that's well I am I for one
think that we can avoid this next round
of Crusades and basically just allow the
blaze to go to that other side the the
non west wherever it is that where they
will be comfortable I'm happy to to do
that but this is they're all looking for
their own they want to restore the West
to its original theocratic character as
they understand it that that direction
is gonna be leaned on so heavily I think
for the next couple of years the
monarchy no the West it brings us all
together this is we all everybody when
we say the West that's gonna get
everybody on board from the our far
right wing listeners to normal people
but she's saying that she has a problem
with the West
but she's like no because they're
letting it you're letting it get soiled
yeah let the West let the West get comma
C we need that lens of the West and that
is the West is getting is getting
tainted by a lot of ideas from I mean
that's what happened I don't know if it
I don't know my monarchies but I think
that was the Spanish crown was like look
at what's happening to the West we're
letting too many Jews and Muslims here
yeah I think well and that's also by the
way there's a book what's oh man what's
the guy's name who went to jail for
illegal campaign contributions who makes
weird Obama documentaries Dinesh D'Souza
Dinesh D'Souza wrote a book years ago
where he suggested actually and this
would be more coherent that what people
in the United States should do is they
should look to partner up with
right-wing Muslims because they shared a
backlash to gay people essentially
