[Music]
um there's a water crisis happening in
Newark we discussed this recently on TBS
and there's an incredible contrast
between the specific wealth
concentration of though of course it's
totally not distributed fairly at all
but there is an enormous wealth in New
York City and an enormous poverty in
Newark which is just you know miles away
we're gonna be seeing this nationally
the infrastructure upgrades of the New
Deal that delivered a lot of water to
people and was an incredible achievement
they're coming to a head
60 70 years is about the lifespan of
these things of these pipe systems and
of course because of austerity and
neoliberalism there hasn't been public
investment into upgrading and keeping
them safe and updated and this is you
know this is a serious national crisis I
mean this is lead in water this damages
people's brains for life one of the most
depressing and cynical takes that I saw
I forget who but somebody said on
Twitter maybe we'll take another like
violence outbreak like the 80s to get
serious about this one of the most
compelling arguments about certain
spikes and violent crime could be
coordinated with correlated with like
lead pollution this is from Democracy
Now this is Eric Olson from the Natural
Resources Defense Council really
explaining the scope of the crisis in
Newark which we all need to be paying
attention to we all need to be talking
about Cory Booker is pretty much
irrelevant in the presidential race but
I do want to say tonight he's gonna be
posturing and preening a lot and talking
about justice and this and that when he
was mayor of Newark he was able to get
hundreds of millions of dollars
leveraged from Facebook hedge funds and
all of these other enormous sites of
resources essentially to terrorize
teachers unions and do a Betsy DeVos
public education agenda
I've not I didn't hear him a single time
when he was mayor of Newark say we need
to get serious about the water crisis in
this city basically what we have is a
public
health crisis in Newark unfortunately
the lead levels in the drinking water in
Newark are some of the highest in the
country that have been recorded in
recent years for any city so basically
what's happening is bottled water is
being distributed to some citizens in
Newark because the filters didn't look
like they were working there's more
tests going on to figure out why that's
the case but we've got a lot of people
across the city especially children
we're really put at risk the best
estimates from 2017 are that at least
700 kids in Newark have elevated blood
lead levels we don't know how much of
that is from the drinking water but the
bottom line is that we've got real
health risks in Newark and we need to
fix the problem and the city has been
pretty slow to getting around to taking
action on it there's no problem with
holding the city leadership accountable
the mayor should be held accountable
I've heard some criticisms of the mayor
but the notion that you're framing what
is first a federal problem and then even
inside New Jersey these cities that have
been started and of investment in in in
in in you know Chris Christie's reign
was a atrocity in terms of
redistribution to wealthy people and
austerity so I don't like the frame at
the end of it but he's framing that
correctly in terms of the scope
here's another crisis
