[Music]
we got a pretty fun segment coming up
right now
now I want to be very careful here
because there are I've had two projects
going on simultaneously that I have been
waiting to on on unfurl for you and they
intersected at one point and I'm not
going to reveal the other project it has
been an ongoing project consistent
listeners of this program have heard me
reference it and other context --is and
we will get to that later it's always
best to roll these things out in the
fall however the other project that I
was working on seems to have basically
unfurled itself come to fruition come to
fruition now as you know or as you might
imagine very often when progressive
hosts go down to the commissary of their
YouTube channels they bump into each
other and or sometimes they just text
each other and say hey what's up with
this or are you doing this are you uh
contemplating going to politican this
year are you gonna go to that conference
hey if you go can I borrow your
microphone or your lanyard you have
chats like that well we've been going
back and forth I have been a little bit
with David Pakman about a month or two
ago I received an email
and it was an invitation to go on to
someone's YouTube show I don't know if
it's a YouTube show but it would say
it's a a video streaming show and now we
get these type of things all the time
and sometimes I got to be honest with
you when we get you know emails that
purport to be offers a lot of times I
get a little bit suspicious I'm not
quite sure about this because we have
times where you know right-wingers like
to uh you know fish around and looking
for stuff like this and well so we got
this invite and I will leave it there
for a moment well I should tell you
right now it was for the Gavin
McGuinness show and I will read from
that now hold on I'm trying to get that
here we go bear with me this is a an
email that we got and I got actually two
of them I got one email from what
purported to be shoot what is going on
oh I know it is
 you forever that's my common quote
I say it's you forever we're done
the that was not the email but it was
from you know if that was the email I
would give nothing but props the Gavin
McInnes have you guys I thought I'm
pretty close to not ironically using
that I think so pretty good back in May
we got an email hello Sam cedar team my
name is Jim and I work for free speech
TV this is a new network being launched
on June first we were wondering if Sam
would accept our invite to be on the
show
the show is a panel discussion that will
have a conservative and a liberal on
every show to discuss the current events
and politics for about an hour the show
is called free speech and will be hosted
by Gavin McGinnis now what I'm about to
the line I'm about to read to you now I
don't know if you're going to appreciate
how completely nuts this is to get an
email like this we can pay for Sam's
travel and stay plus pay him $5,000 to
be on the show we have a lot of big
names on both sides of the aisle have
agreed to beyond we're hoping Sam can do
we'll be filming two episodes a month
for 12 months so we can work around Sam
schedule Thank You Blanc or Jim what's
his college now let me tell you
something about getting offered $5,000
to do a show available I went out to do
Marc Maron's TV show a couple years ago
called Maron I did not make $5,000 I
have been a paid contributor on MSNBC I
go on four to five times a month some
months six times some months three times
something like that I've never made
anything close to $5,000 in one year I
mean excuse me one month on I don't know
if I've made $5,000 in six months on
MSNBC so when someone offers me $5,000
to come do a one-hour show that's going
to air on youtube or on some paid
streaming thing I'll tell you what I do
I think something's BS
and when something's be ass around here
what we do is we send it over to Patrick
he is the producer hands handles all the
BS stuff so Patrick went back and forth
a little bit and said hey Jim can you
tell me more deets where's a shoot how
long would Sam be required to be on
location is this a cable show YouTube
show makeup etc because Sam loves makeup
oh if each makeup I'll be there I'll
pass Thomas I like makeup and money
hello Patrick thanks for getting back to
us the show is being filled in a
professional studio in downtown
Manhattan like it's cable there will be
makeup about 30 guests in the audience
she'll be shown on free speech TV but
putting up some interesting parts of the
show on YouTube goes on to say that I
saw Sam's interview with Glenn Greenwald
the other day it was really good and we
want the viewers from the right and left
to be able to listen to both sides and
not feel like they're growing Gavin
would be host of the show and the two
guests will be a liberal and a
conservative on each show and now I'll
tell you what I'm thinking at this point
I don't want to be involved in something
that is going to allow Gavin McGinnis to
have some type of re-entry into the
world of of being able to host a show
with you know people who walk amongst us
do you know what I mean
like I don't want to be involved in
lending my my credibility and just walk
on a show with him I know I'm not
interested in that
then they write is there a particular
conservative guest Sam would like to be
on the panel with we could make it hug
now uh-huh
now we're getting interesting and now
things are getting a make up in money
eggsy arises an idiot exactly now this
is part of the second project so we're
going to skip this
I was contemplating if they could
deliver this person that I would do the
show I would not take any money for it
because as Michael said the compensation
would be coming from my being able
psychic capital exactly and I will say
this the idea that I would go from
Brooklyn to Manhattan for $5,000 is
still bizarre like I no way I'm not
taking that money not everybody clean
things it's bizarre I want to be clear
but I think it's pretty interesting
actually I want to be clear about
something before you start thinking I
have a tremendous amount of integrity
here I do have a price and I said I
would definitely do it for two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars and it stands
that's Dan I would do it for two hundred
fifty thousand dollars I'm sorry if that
is such a random like why that number
that would dramatically implicate my
life okay but that's just so like why if
you're going for a completely I would do
it for five hundred thousand - but I'm
saying 250 or that's just such an
interesting all right so you what's
amazing about your particular psychosis
is I feel like you actually did like the
broader point is I'm not gonna do that
you know because I don't feel
comfortable with it doesn't feel good to
me and then you might say like yeah you
know million bucks but you actually sat
down and count yeah I said no no I say
200 I said that's it I'd do it for a
million dollars and that was like you
know what I'd do it for half a million
no actually I would do it for $250,000
not gonna do it for 200 you feel
literally thinking like this will go
into this account this would be spread
here there would be a little bit of
college planning action and then when
it's all said and done I would take a
vacation
yeah I I is great 250
you want to be honest with myself so so
I I mean Patrick then basically come
back and credible the patch rest the
deal with oh I know Patrick so and him
unzip recruiter divisive recruiter so
then he goes then so then he writes back
I get some news
Roger stone just committed from May 31st
filming and just those would you do it
Nessus and and so let's see and and then
and then Patrick responded a little bit
later
hey Jim sorry to drop the threat on the
Sam was in and out over the past couple
of weeks he'd be really interested in
appearing with blankety-blank Roger
stone did not seem interesting to him
and so this isn't an 80s Jim Jim wrote
back that's awesome guys we'll get that
set up we just had an awesome shoot with
dr. Cornel West and Milo it was very
civil and enjoyable conversation I'll
get some dates to you I believe Gavin
just reached out to blank yesterday for
dates yep and blank is on board for the
show and Patrick's amis they'll be Thank
You Patrick and be in touch soon and and
they say and then Jim writes back what
work what night's work in June for Sam
and Patrick wrote back hi Jim Sam says
whatever night blank is there works for
him
Jim says awesome thank you and back to
you soon with dates and then a couple of
weeks go by and Patrick writes back to
Jim Jim Sam just asked what's up do we
have a date yet
Jim said thank you for following up I'm
sorry it's taking so long I'm working
hard on it and we're in dialogue with it
over with blank I'll know more in coming
days
and then a couple of weeks go by and
Patrick writes the gym.again hey Jim any
word Jim says yeah made some progress
over the weekend hope to have an answer
for you soon I want this just as much as
you and Sam want it and then Jim call a
wrote back a week later we tried hard
man but he just won't do it with Sam
very disappointing
is there this other person is for the
secret project can I just say there are
tremendous cuck yeah is there anyone
else that Sam might want to be on the
show with just a couple ideas we can
Coulter what about Jimmy Dore we've been
talking with him and and what does this
Patrick writes back oof oof
I'll ask him about the others what
happened with blank he won't do your
show or won't do it with Sam
now he's and why Sam's gonna be cranky
with me that was what I was gonna say is
it now Patrick knows he has to deal with
yeah yeah seems like the one
thing that was exciting for me exactly
Patrick came on tell me that like I was
livid and so Patrick ended up writing
back two days later hey Jim so now Sam
thinks I messed up somehow on the blank
thing and that's why it's not happening
you didn't really react what I mentioned
any of the other names I can press him
again though well I mean the other names
are not that exciting and then Jim came
back and laid out the whole thing which
were gonna save because that has more to
do with the others but finally when I
heard that this video we're about to
play went down yesterday I told Patrick
get in touch with Jim again and he wrote
hey Jim sorry about the radio silence
that's a pun folks Sam didn't seem to
want to talk about it after I told him
about blank but this morning he came in
and it was a big but after a trip and
the first thing he asked was who
else they have and what's the best
number they can do pretty sure he meant
appearance fee parens he was on a bit of
a manic tear this morning and I
generally know better than to get in the
way of that sure you can relate let me
know sign Patrick and Jim said no
worries I totally get it
and so our compensation package has a
few things a that it's going to give Sam
a bunch of exposure and egg and then
secondly weird he would do that we would
offer Sam a VIP Town Car pickup I'm
gonna drop off in the venue thirdly we
can offer $5,000 and free drinks at the
bar yeah there you go
and and then oh and then he says I think
when Blanc sees the show with Sam he's
gonna feel quote-unquote one-upped from
Sam I think you might already feel oh
yeah I think that there might already be
well alright so here we go
and so it was only 5,000 it was not
$250,000 had it been $250,000 I got to
be honest with you right now I would not
have done this video but so here's the
thing what's clearly going on is someone
either gave Gavin McGinnis a tremendous
amount of money like an extraordinary
amount of money and didn't care what
Gavin did with it at all because to
spend $5,000 on getting me as a guest
down there I've got news for you well
for Gavin it would cost 250 but for you
I will do it on the phone more or less
for free but he desperately needs some
lefties on his show to get back into the
community in some way to get back into
the YouTube like to get back and be able
to be seen as as non-toxic the zeitgeist
into the site guy
he just wants to be he wants to get
normalized and so he also asked David
Pakman and had offered David Pakman as
far as I know a similar compensation and
that was it
we were just strolling along and then
all of a sudden somebody called in to
David Pakman show okay let's go next to
our caller from the two-five three area
code whose calling today from two five
three hey David it's Jim and I just
wanted to say a longtime listener
first-time caller love yeah and I just
wanted to talked about the green new
deal and just see what ideas you had
about maybe getting that pushed through
and also a guy I despise came up on my
YouTube the other day on the commercial
Gavin McInnes on this new show free
speech and I was trying to click out of
it right away and then all sudden I saw
dr. Cornel West and Marc Lamont Hill on
the show yeah and I actually checked it
out and it's a cool show in regards to
just liberals nailing Gavin and it was
so awesome to watch especially Marc
Lamont Hill I cancelled my subscription
because I saw all the shows but I just
thought it'd be awesome if you could get
on his show and destroy him so hold on
you canceled your subscription to what
Oh I signed up just to watch the doctor
Lamont Hill oh I see and Cornel West
sure I I will have something to say
personally that I'm involved with that
affects me with regard to this new Gavin
McInnes show at some point soon like I
don't I can't talk about it yet but I'm
gonna have some positive about related
to it that is pakman referring to the
fact that he had been invited on this
show and continue because I've had like
a personal run-in with this program and
I think it'll be an interesting story as
far as that's it and Pakman had that
call last Friday
and over the weekend people in the
reddit threads I guess said that sounds
a lot like Gavin McInnes
certainly does and now I know Gavin
McInnes I've watched him on YouTube and
whatnot but I've hung out with him a
couple of times years and years ago and
I have some good friends who used to be
good friends with him and I passed it on
to those people and they came back with
that sounds a lot like Gavin McGinnis
and pachtman
cut a video yesterday where he was
convinced that it was Gavin heard from
some excuse me uh David heard for some
other people too who were close in orbit
with Gavin McGinnis who said that that
sounds like Gavin McGinnis now the name
Jim that also struck me as odd what's
with all the gyms in Gavin mcginnises
world now here's one other element that
you should know apparently sometimes
when people call you they have caller ID
and these numbers sometimes if you
google them they come up with something
David Pakman told me what the number was
and I took it and I put it into the
Google machine now I'm not gonna say the
name of this guy but I will say his
first name was Jim and it turns out that
he had run for office in 2017 he had run
for what was it a County I'm not gonna
say where the location was what was it
yeah a County Commission seat and used
over a hundred thousand dollars of his
own money he had to withdraw from that
seat because apparently he was on
Twitter writing nasty things about black
people very weird that this Jim
has become liberal all of a sudden and
wanted to see Gavin bashed by Mark
Lamont Hill now I have some speculation
about the relationship between Jim
because maybe somebody wanted to use
Jim's phone maybe Jim is actually a
producer who's actually a fan of the
show even though he had that problem I
mean who knows let me just say that I'm
not some you know overfed comfortable
cushy gen Xer and I will very offended
that my guy tom has not heard from this
program and I'm available for 50,000 oh
the guy who works for you Tom correct so
there you have it
Gavin McGinnis is either getting money
from a wealthy friend I'll tell you this
Jim is only 37 right yeah to pay people
to show up and it's basically a
whitewash him or it's possible Gavin's
quite wealthy himself hi this is Jim T
what is spend money and it's totally
reckless hey the idea that he would call
in to Pakman show to try and convince
Pakman and that was all to convince back
when it go on right and please go on
there and handle them but that was
pretty crazy let me just go to the
phones you're calling from a three five
three area code uh hello uh uh
where you calling from watching it am I
on the program yes okay like I got
through this is a a bob fan tella first
time long time
Bob fan teller and where are you calling
from Bob I'm coming from the west coast
the west coast west coast
okay I wanted to talk about why Donald
Trump is is like a racist yeah well like
I mean what yeah like really really bad
he's a racist right but I was on the
YouTube the other day and you know how
the algorithms are
and so this guy really hate hate him
yeah right-wing Mandela came up as a
recommended right-wing and I guess he
has this new show called total speech TV
total speech total speech TV and and I
was clicking off it so fast but then I
saw that Atlantic contributing writer
Peter by dot was odd and so I clicked on
and at Peter by not just destroyed him
oh it was Peter my dad who is a
contributing writer he also edits the
forward right it's a great progressive
and then Michael Isikoff was on too and
and they just trashed them about all the
topics anyways I was wondering if you
would consider going on total speech TV
to talk about you know to show that
liberals are better and and what not
right - okay so like oh you and so you
were watching it with is a coffin Peter
by not Peter by not really he's a
contributing writer contributing writer
for The Atlantic Peter by dot well and
he just and he took right wing Mandela
and he said no you're wrong about 67
borders you're wrong
and he owned him when you go on the
program alone and dunk on a right wing
Mandela well I will I will do that I
mean I got to say you also you have a
you have quite a bit of an accent
yourself Bob yes well it's what it's
from where I where I grew up
I'm a person of color which I know that
you love you're totally jazzed by that
right that's right that's true well I
will definitely put it under advisement
thank you for the call okay
looking forward because if you could to
what is a cop did then they would he
would be a heap on the floor
glad to okay Allah ou akbah Oh God
there it is folks
it only gets crazier ah I will finish
you I will end up putting out those
emails together and we will go over
those in a more cohesive way when we do
the larger story here I subscribed then
cancelled it's a bit just so we did lose
that beat
I watched Peter Biden Michael Isikoff
dunk on and owned him and then and then
I clicked unsubscribe unsubscribe don't
want to watch any more of him
that's right doing that I don't like him
at all I tried to click off but the
algorithm got me let's go to the phones
