[Music]
tort lawyer conference so but we will
endeavor to get you as much as possible
I mentioned at the beginning at the top
of the show the a.m. quickie it's a good
way of just getting a rundown of some of
these top stories that we we don't
necessarily have time to get into but
you should be aware at least because
these will be ongoing narratives in a
lot of instances the impeachment stuff
but like I said we could impeach right
now there's no doubt in my mind that
there is sufficient evidence for I think
multiple articles of impeachment but why
stop now
because there I mean if if this is the
way he ran the relationship with Ukraine
just to get dirt on hunter Biden and to
prove this wild conspiracy theory from
2016 what about when when we're talking
about like his him filling bags of money
like I mean dude does anyone have any
sort of sense of like oh the reason why
Donald Trump is essentially selling out
the Kurds not essentially is selling out
the Kurds and remember how hurt he was
about the kids when he remember was the
kids when he thought about like we're
not gonna bomb Iran because of the kids
I realized that there might be a kid who
died does anyone think that he is
selling out the Kurds this way because
of some ideological or geopolitical
notions that he's been harboring for a
long time I mean it's not
as if there are entities in the
Republican Party who are necessarily all
excited about this he's opening the door
to full ethnics cleansing and you have
to ask yourself why I mean Lindsey
Graham he's he's running around he's got
busy I mean he is his hair is on fire he
can't believe this from Donald Trump who
could have imagined but he's he's even
lost Brian Kilmeade on on Fox and
Friends now there are times where people
even like Brian Kilmeade can be correct
about things maybe not necessarily for
the same reasons as we may have maybe
sometimes for the same reasons but but
it can happen but if anybody thinks that
Donald Trump is doing this because he
thinks his base is like when are we
gonna let turkey go in there and rouse
the Kurds or if he's had you know from
his days back in I don't know dabbling
with you know foreign policy people like
some notion about the balance of power
in that region is really fundamentally
arrests in Turkey's ability to undercut
any type of threat from the Kurds I mean
he's getting something from someone or
some entity or maybe multiple ones yeah
he wants to open a Trump Tower in
Istanbul I mean it could be that it
could be that straightforward it could
be some other bank shot
there were armed steals oh yeah I mean
they're there I mean who knows but an
impeachment not only allows you to
impeach him for the things that we
already know about it gives you the
ability to say to anybody who's gonna
withhold documents from you that this
that that act in and of itself can be
construed as obstruction and an article
of impeachment
which makes it a lot harder for people
to hold back information and so you use
this power to dig up the other rot that
exists there in the meantime I mentioned
Brian Kilmeade can sometimes be right
here he is but it's one of those
horrible awkward situations where
apparently Steve Doocy showed up late
for work and just rushed in and did not
get the talking points of the day so
he's very confused just what a disaster
I mean the president's statement through
Stephane Grisham is you know we defeated
the the Caliphate the caliphates
destroyed we would not have done that
without the Kurds who did all of our
fighting while our guys the reason why
our casualties were so low is because
Kurds did all the fighting posit you
remember over the past couple years
where Brian Kilmeade would always give
credit as he was talking about Donald
Trump getting rid of Isis where he would
say it was the Kurds right we all
remember that but if you've forgotten I
understand because it never happened but
here we go of our fighting while our
guys the reason where our casualties
were so low is because Kurds did all the
fighting now we're saying okay Turks go
wipe them out or force them out what
kind of message is that to the next ally
that wants to side with us meanwhile
we're taking Sunni prisoners and giving
them to Sunni Turkey who's been nothing
but irresponsible though technically a
NATO ally a disaster a series of events
I hope the president will rethink this I
think the president's doing exactly what
he's wants to because he has made from
the get-go very clear to release ISIL
fighters campaign promise to end and you
know the country and our allies that's a
campaign promise and in the people that
got the Caliphate destroyed I think when
people find out that somebody else is
willing to take over the fight against
Isis they're gonna be okay with taking
it well Turkey's not gonna fight Isis we
have given turkey permission to do that
and to take and the quote was Turkey
will now be responsible for all Isis
fighters and Kilda and wipe out the
Kurds are you kidding me again we're
banning our most loyal allies who did
all our fighters all we did is arm them
and they did all the work and now we say
good luck good luck surviving well it
looks like that's the attack the White
House and the president is going to take
we're gonna have more
words from Washington DC what do you
think about this fact that it looks like
we're gonna pull out and turkeys gonna
take over email as friends Fox News
comment abandon okay let's talk about it
wow they're gonna have things at the
commissary and Fox are gonna be a little
bit uncomfortable today what the hell is
going on over there well no I mean kill
me it's it's pretty straightforward
I mean he's first of all you have to
feel for Brian Kilmeade because he's
watched two Republican presidents do the
exact same to the thing to the Kurds
multiple times starting with George HW
Walker HW Bush back in 1993 where he
basically called for the Kurds to rise
up in northern Iraq and after you know
in the sort of they did wake of in the
wake of our invasion of Iraq the you
know part one based upon a series of
lies that were perpetrated by some
spokespeople and talking about Kuwaiti
babies et cetera et cetera called for
the Kurds to rise up in northern Iraq
and then when they did was like actually
I'm sorry I didn't realize what time it
was we've got to go and caused a massive
slaughter of of Kurds in Iraq and now
we're doing it again with people who
even Brian Kilmeade concedes have been
fighting against Isis basically Donald
Trump's greatest victory and he has sold
them out the question is why in fact not
only does the statement not even say
that the Turks that that Turkey is going
to be fighting Isis all they're gonna do
is get a hold of the Isis prisoners that
we have captured and in that statement
that they're referenced President Trump
spoke with President Tayyip erawan of
Turkey by telephone Turkey will soon be
moving forward with its long planned
operation into northern Syria the United
States Armed Forces will not support or
be involved in the operation that's very
nice of us the United States forces
having defeated the
the ISIS territorial Caliphate will no
longer be in the immediate area
but we haven't really been there anyways
so it's not like any type of we're not
pulling back our troops it's like a
we're just basically pulling back our
promise to the Kurds we're basically
just pulling back our diplomatic powers
and saying okay fine head in the United
States government has pressed France
Germany and other European nations from
which many captured Isis fighters came
to take them back but they did not want
them and refused I'm quite convinced
Donald Trump wrote that sentence maybe
he dictated it yeah it almost reads like
a tweet of his the United States will
not hold them for what could be many
years at great cost of the United States
taxpayer turkey will now be responsible
for all Isis fighters in the area
captured over the past two years in the
wake of the defeat of the territorial
Caliphate by the United States I mean
maybe this is just the deal like it's
worth it we're going to allow for the
the ethnic cleansing that will take
place they undoubtedly tens of thousands
of Kurds who will be killed in that
region maybe more maybe a little bit
less who will be killed in that region
so that we don't have to deal with the
prisoners that we supposedly have in our
custody and I don't even know what that
number is but it's it's I want to say
it's unbelievable but it's totally
believable
