last night if you want to know why the
Republicans are so relentlessly obsessed
with aoc and frankly the media is too
it's because she there I mean you could
see this set out last night Donald Trump
goes on he gives a five-minute speech it
appears and I haven't seen reporting
specifically to this effect but it
appears that they they must have
chickened out about declaring a state of
emergency because if there was a time to
do it it was last night like you can't
go up on a mutt on them on a Tuesday and
say things are really bad at the border
and then expect to come back on Friday
linked in fact it's a state of emergency
you can't do that right like if it's not
a state of emergency last night there's
no way it can be a state of emergency on
Friday now look they can do whatever
they want and they're going to but that
doesn't explain why they didn't do it
last night because the only thing is
going to happen going forward is that
and you have now already I think it's
three or four Republican senators who
are already starting to wave the white
flag and Donald Trump last night could
have said it's a state of emergency I'm
going to take money from the military
and I'm gonna build the wall somebody
along that process and I suspect it was
either the military themselves or
members of the Senate who represent the
military or the somewhere along that
line somebody said something serious
enough like you can't do this and so
they didn't and they were left with this
hollow shell of a just jibber-jabber
nobody cared
nobody cares I mean if Donald Trump's
not off the teleprompter it's not fun
and if he's not doing anything what's
the point just to prove that he could
read a five-minute speech get everyone's
attention I proved it I mean the was
there anybody in the country who was
like wow I've never seen him so
emotionally invested he was really upset
about that like at one point he said
some like I held the hands of I can't
remember who he said he held the hands
others of mothers and nobody believes
that who would want to hold his hand
germs he's never held a hand in his life
horse and I actually touched the cadaver
once and so he went on there now Pelosi
and Schumer did exactly what you would
anticipate they would do anyone in here
could have written what they were going
to say and they delivered it you know
about his inspiringly as you could
expect I did have people who texted me
we're like Chuck Schumer really hit it
out of the park I was like seriously
okay but the bottom line is they did
they just they basically did what you
need to do in those rebuttals not
embarrass yourself and you know just
show up so that there's some semblance
of like and and from a polling
standpoint it's working slowly working
I suspect that Mitch McConnell is afraid
of bucking Donald Trump right now
because he's got a run in 2020 and this
is exactly the time that somebody would
say hey I'm gonna run against Mitch
McConnell people forget in 2016
Mitch McConnell was the enemy in the
Republican Party and if he was to cross
Donald Trump right now and capitulate at
this point to those Republican senators
and actually bring a bill up on the
floor continuing resolution I think he's
afraid of Donald Trump calling saying
mean things about him and inspiring a a
challenge to him but in Mitch in the
absence of that this is why what ALC
does is so important because Chuck
Schumer and Nancy Pelosi are going to
play four corners they're just going to
make no mistakes because that is
generally been the Democratic recipe for
attempting to do something really
stakeout almost no position and wait
until you know the Republicans
overstepped their bounds now it has not
been terribly successful long term it
might be in the short-term moment but
here is AOC on Rachel Maddow and I don't
get the census was terribly scripted
because at one point she just sort of
she just goes off and this is frankly
this clip is probably going to be the
one of the three address addresses to
the what's going on at the border which
really is relative to at any other time
nothing this is going to be the one
that's going to travel the most and has
the most poignant and really is most on
point and no one should feel unsafe in
the United States of America and that
includes our amazing and beautiful and
productive immigrant community and
moreover the one thing that the
president has not talked about is the
fact that he has systematically engaged
in the violation of international human
rights borders on human rights on our
border he has separated children from
their families he talked about what
happened the day after Christmas on the
day of Christmas a child died in ice
custody the president should not be
asking for more money to an agency that
has systematically violated human rights
the president should be really defending
why we are funding such an agency at all
because right now what we are seeing is
death right now what we are seeing is
the violation of human rights these
children and these
families are being held in what are
called yel eras which are basically
freezing boxes that no person should be
maintained in for any amount of time let
alone the amount of time that they are
being kept on and moreover even if you
are anti immigrants in this country the
majority of immigrant overstays the
majority of the reason that people are
undocumented is visa overstay it's not
because people are crossing a border
illegally it is it is because of visa
overstay which mind you he's talking
about legal immigration he's trying to
restrict every form of legal immigration
there is the United States he's fighting
against family reunification he's
fighting against the diversity Visa
Lottery he's fighting against almost
every way that people can actually
legally enter this country forcing them
to become undocumented and then he's
trying to attack their undocumented
status this is systemic it is wrong and
it is anti-american and again those
women and children trying to come here
with nothing but the shirts on their
back to create an opportunity and to
provide for this nation are acting more
in an American tradition than this
president is right now I mean it's sort
of amazing she's driving the new cycle
for like three days in a row
and it's not hard to do that when you're
the only person on the mainstream media
who's acting like a human being right
well I mean it I haven't seen it I mean
it doesn't happen too often I mean I
think you know Bernie got to prominence
after running for president prior to
that he would never ever get on the news
he also had of his response to was also
very effective in his own you know also
direct kind of no BS way I don't know
more exactly I picture um Schumer sort
of like if this was a if they were on a
basketball court
like AOC is just out sinking threes and
then Schumer saddles up he's like take a
look at this then proceed like my guess
not be able to single my guess is that
they're happy with this at least on this
topic on this tub it definitely they're
happy what she's doing because they get
to have their
they get to you know be the reasonable
middle honestly I watched what they said
and I the only thing I can remember
about what Pelosi and Schumer said was
nothing the only thing I remember was
Schumer looking like he is like he
wouldn't even acknowledge that Pelosi
was next to him as if she was talking he
was just looking very straight forward
then I noticed like he moved a little
bit like he was like I could I've been
in that situation how much how am I
supposed to acknowledge about what she's
saying and it just looked very odd you
don't learn gothic you don't understand
how the camera works missed the Sex in
the City I had a credit in the 90s and I
go on and on about it you stare into
space and you let us speak I'll see you
in 2020 oh you prick
I'm sure he's quite I'm sure he's quite
happy that she is is pushing one end of
this argument
I mean she's they're calling for the
abolishment of ice this is the good this
is where the center-left thing works for
everybody yeah in that and what the
Democratic Party is which is really a
coalition of part of parties that's what
it would be in Europe and this is an
example of you know how that actually
works in concert together because right
now of course the longer term goals are
abolished ice and so on but the short
term goal right now is crush Trump and
do anything you can on things like
temporary protective status for Haitians
and daca and they're actually in concert
on this right now
