hey Donny Deutsch has a real problem
with Medicare fraud now remember he had
said in the past that if Bernie Sanders
is the nominee he will vote for Donald
Trump and that for a branding guy did he
did not appreciate that Morning Joe is
trying to pretend like they actually
there they're just just watching all
this stuff happened from from afar and
you're not supposed to say that you
would support Donald Trump even though I
think there's a lot of those people who
at the very least argue they will now by
a lot I mean tens of thousands in places
like New York in California or Florida
to be fair Florida they might have a
little more implications there a lot of
people go down there they oddly spend
six months out of the year six months in
a day out of the year because of the the
Sun gives you vitamin D and helps you
fight off certain cancers and also it
allows you to escape income tax state
income tax vitamin D means decreased tax
exactly vitamin decrease taxes but here
is Donny Deutsch on the Real Time with
Bill Maher program talking about
something he doesn't seem to have any
clue about might be seen as a way to
help more Americans that they can't have
their choose their private insurance
you're gonna lose an election right and
these people are smoking crack you know
forget about not even pill not even
paint being able to pay for 34 trillion
dollars my grandfather was a cop okay
and my mother was a schoolteacher and
they worked really hard to put me in a
position where I can buy the kind of
insurance I want and if I can't or the
people on this panel I can't buy for my
children we are going backwards we're
 Denmark okay but remember the
problem okay pause it for one second
first off there is the best
healthy air in the world of it is
not there is not a policy expert that
you could find that wouldn't say well
Denmark actually has I think objectively
speaking far better a healthcare
situation that we do a BAE you know for
all of Donny Deutsch is toughness with
his his dad it was a cop my
understanding is to thee also by the
time that he ended was left at 92 which
millions of dollars in and some Wall
Street stuff he started to kompis now
where you finished necessarily and I
will also tell him that guess what your
father when he was a cop guess what he
didn't have private health insurance
let's give it thro his Union and his mom
who was a teacher let his teacher right
okay both of them making money off of
the public dole but whatever that's good
I'm glad they were you have to be so out
of touch to think that that hundred and
sixty million people are gonna be upset
because they're not gonna have their
private insurance I I mean I have a
buddy who is a drug counselor and he
sees that on both ends he sees it with
his patients and he sees his home family
he's like I've heard you talk about
private health insurance it's saying
it's horrible and this and that you're
underselling it it's he says he sees so
many people turned away who desperately
need the treatment and he also in his
position where his private employer only
pays his health insurance so he's gonna
pay for the rest of family out of his
pocket
nobody likes well-nigh shouldn't say
that I am a 100 percent sure that the
vast majority of that hundred and sixty
million people could give two F's if
they don't have private health insurance
they just want health insurance in fact
they probably don't even want health
insurance these won't be able to go to
the doctor and see the doctor
and not have to deal with the tremendous
amount of hassle that's involved and the
expense that's involved deal you know
questioning whether they're gonna get
their health care it's absurd and
Denmark yes fantastic health insurance
so including steadily increasing life
expectancy
I think woman's a life expectancy is 82
years old as of 2015 in Denmark yes yes
I wouldn't want to live in that
situation if those broads could have the
same health care that my dad worked so
hard to bequeath me as a trust fund baby
right exactly like like like we should
have you know it's one thing to say like
my dad worked very hard for that castle
and he wanted to pass it down and keep
it in the family but the idea that like
your legacy is being able to provide
health care for your kid
what kind of effed up society we living
in like that's like put like I give you
the family coat of arms you're gonna be
able to get 85% of your of your surgery
covered guess whatever exactly the
vaccines are fully covered is this
something that we want as a society my
grandfather was an Aetna man a father
wasn't a man yeah no but this is it this
is this is exactly it's just the early
version of this sentiment this is from
going green well it's interview with
Lula where Lula says you know we made
everybody made strides under my
leadership but because the airport's
became more egalitarian rich people had
a problem with it yeah for unique moment
when I started in kills my spa buddies
the very incremental percent to ow
Aseema those my hips now to Zeke was no
guy Adam that's close published Chris 0%
omentum eyes for your unique a face you
come a friend come on that was an every
toe feed on my report to do gale√£o
Airport of the Congo yet how a reporter
Perez novel of the idea that shady
Palmer killed on Justine Fabian ethnic
potato in cup yeah that's the same thing
that's Donnie do it tomorrow
a similar attitude
[Music]
