so Heather obviously the the news this
week has been rightfully dominated by
the to mass shootings and murders that
we saw over last weekend one in El Paso
Texas
involving a self-styled foe of
immigrants and immigration and white
supremacy white supremacists who wrote a
screed and it explained why he decided
to take a semi-automatic weapon and kill
20 people injure
two dozen he was taken into custody and
then within 24 hours maybe even 12 hours
we saw another mass shooting this one in
Dayton Ohio where nine people were dead
another two dozen or so injured the
shooter killed his sister it's unclear
yet as to why what was his motivations
but he apparently did have a kill and
rape list according to people who went
to high school with him ten years ago
and so obviously a you know both of them
are at some baseline disturbed but one
is motivated by something that's quite
clear this white supremacy another were
not going not we're not sure of at this
point there's been a lot of rumors about
it and I don't think until we get some
more clarification but we should also
say later in the week we also did hear
that the Gilroy shooter at the Gilroy
Garlic Festival in California was being
investigated for under domestic
terrorism because he turned out he had a
kill list that apparently the
authorities feel indicates that he was a
political extremists and it could very
well be very similar to what we saw in
El Paso so we have two different issues
here right we have the gun control issue
because it gives people the the lethal
means to carry out their their their
deed and then we have the white
supremacy issue which is increasingly
being a motivating factor in these
killings and they don't always end up
being mass murders they can be other you
know sort of hate crimes but so we have
two different issues here and you know
the gun control thing I mean I don't
know I mean is that how you see it dig
me it is and I actually think that
there's a an interesting sort of dynamic
in exactly what you just said we've had
mass shootings for for you know the last
decade has really been seen a tremendous
escalation in these events there's been
terrorism you know from Islamic
extremists you know for a variety of
reasons there have been people with you
know personal grudges there have been
workplace mass shootings schools
churches you know have for any number of
motivations and you know obviously the
one that immediately comes to mind when
you start talking about this is the
Newtown massacre of those six year old
babies by a young man who obviously had
serious mental health issues and he was
able to get a hold of an automatic
weapon and for reasons inexplicable went
in and shot these little children and if
that was a moment you know that I think
that everybody thought was going to be a
watershed in this gun you know this gun
control issue
the idea of unfettered access to to
these you know killing machines came to
the fore I think everybody thought
something that had to happen no
civilized society could tolerate that
sort of thing it just seemed obvious the
president got behind it the Republicans
they had 55 senators that were ready to
vote for background checks and some
other you know long hell
you know needs for some kind of gun
control and the NRA people thought they
had been they stayed silent for a good
week or week and a half after it
happened and then Wayne LaPierre came
and gave a speech before the Washington
Press Club and he basically threw down
the gauntlet that's where he started
talking about the only way to stop a bad
guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun
and we need to arm teachers and that's
when that whole thing and he just came
out swinging and Mitch McConnell
followed in line he filibustered the
Senate bill for gun control and that was
the end of that and you know ia was
stunning it was a stunning show of
political force with the NRA leading
away but let's face it Mitch McConnell
didn't have to do that but of course he
is the top recipient of NRA money in the
Senate and he also truly believes in
this because it's a that this is a
source of tremendous power for the
Republican Party and you know for the
next few years we had more and more and
more of these these mass shootings and
you know it's just one horrifying
massacre after another and I think for
me I kept thinking well yeah at some
point escena the body count has got to
have an effect here you know the NRA
cannot continue to justify this the
Republicans can't keep running on it
it's it's absurd and I thought after Las
Vegas that that where six hundred people
were wounded and you know fifty nine
people were killed and it was a bunch of
country music fans who you know I can
assume that many of them may have been
Trump voters you know they were and they
were in this public place out in the
open in you know in in Las Vegas the
premier tourist destination in the
United States and I just assumed that
this was going to have to be the one
that broke and when it didn't I think I
lost a little heart as something in me
sort of snapped a bit and I went you
know what nothing is going to happen
until the Republicans are out of power
altogether they this is this the only
thing that will stop this is that so I
don't lay all of that at the feet of
Trump he is of course you know you know
a primary
you know sort of recipient of the gun
culture love but the gun part of this I
feel is definitely this is a Republican
problem now the white supremacy part of
this well hold on I want it let's hold
off on the white supremacy thing for a
moment because I think this this we
should we should sit with this for a
moment because I think this is
absolutely right the the the the problem
that we have with guns and let's also be
clear here we have twenty to thirty
thousand people who die every year
because they kill themselves with a gun
and all of the research is completely
clear on this it's clear that killing
yourself with a gun it's far more lethal
than any other way of killing yourself
it's clear that if you fail the first
time to commit suicide the chances of
you actually committing suicide go way
way way way down but if you if you try
and commit suicide with a gun you're
gonna be 95 to 98% successful and so we
know that it contributes and we know
that when you have longer waiting
periods when you have better background
checks the number of people who die by
suicide goes down we know all the data
that we need to know about that aspect
of it and we know the same thing about
in areas where there have been some type
of of a gun reform the number of guns
don't necessarily diminish but the
lethality of the guns do because it's
harder for different people to get the
guns this is all true in the rip iock I
couldn't agree with your point more on
this in fact I was saying this all week
on the majority report the bottom line
is I cannot guarantee you some form of
sensible gun control if it if the
Democrats are in power because who knows
it's likely but who knows and who knows
to what extent the supreme court won't
quash it but the one thing that I can
say with a hundred percent surety is
that as long as Republicans control
either the presidency or
one of the houses of Congress we will
get no type of gun control we got to
take a break we'll talk about more of
this on the other side I'm Sam cedar
ring of fire radio here with Heather
pardon
