I didn't see that did nikki Haley when
you head up earlier I did not even see
that one that's a remarkable document of
the age oh yeah okay let's let's do this
so Elijah Cummings I don't think it was
related but who knows Elijah Cummings a
home was we can't know I mean we really
have no idea i i i would actually my
first i would be surprised if it was
related because you would think that
they weren't coming in to steal anything
as much as like vandalize or something
like that yeah but who knows in this day
and age the FBI incidentally has come
out and said that conspiracy theories
are highly problematic in terms of
domestic extremist group it's a new
extremist type of thing like that guy
who shot the the mafia guy yeah and
everybody thought it was a mafia thing
and so you know who who knows right so
Elijah Cummings at 3 in the morning
apparently hears somebody in his house
and he goes to the edge of the whatever
it is the balcony of his house and just
yells down God knows what he said to get
him out but they laughed so he was bait
I mean who knows what could have gone
down in that situation and the president
ID States tweeted out really bad news
exclamation point the Baltimore House of
Elijah Cummings was robbed too bad I
think he was being sarcastic yeah and I
also think he didn't even really have a
point beyond just wanting to go on
Twitter and say try to say something
gotta say something about it cuz I don't
go there he doesn't I don't think he
does he's not making an argument he's
just sort of being like too bad like
just directionless meanness yeah i think
that he knows his peeps yeah he want
that yeah i mean you know i get in
twitter fights with people and i know
that like you know part of our audience
wants me to dunk on on certain people
and that's what he's doing I'm not the
president adage and I would frankly even
even the people
that I dunk on on a regular basis I
would never sort of say oh hey you got a
home invasion yeah are you serious yeah
and so nikki Haley wrote and this is
pretty bold stuff this is so unnecessary
I'm in the rolling eyes rolling eyes
brownie face it's presidential very very
statesman like nikki Haley let's just go
through see what else we got
elegans are speaking out they're really
really not afraid to and ben shapiro of
course what the WT AF want the actual f
trying to push his bona fides Eli Lake
ways in your the president United States
what are you doing I mean I wonder if
yeah Ben Shapiro retweeted Ben Shapiro
loves these moments because he can cite
them the next time he's mentioned in a
manifesto of some sort right exactly
I have been very very explicit I wrote
WT a F in regards to the Elijah Cummings
thing I don't know how much more I could
have done that's American that's gonna
be nikki Haley at a debate eight years
from now right
exactly if you checked the record I
think you'll find I you but Donald Trump
sarcastically said he was happy that
Elijah Cummings house and I said this is
uh yes we need it we didn't emoji of
that guy who said have you no decency
sir exactly exactly
is this really necessary sir
unbelievable
