[Music]
CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous in their hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday March 26 2009 teen
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
managing director of talk poverty
dot-com Pat Garofalo on the billionaire
boondoggle how our politicians let
corporations and bigwigs steal our money
and our jobs also on the program today
Trump administration seeking again to
repeal the ACA this time through the
courts meanwhile House and Senate Dems
demand full Mullah report McConnell
blocks in the Senate and the house will
try to override Trump's veto on the
emergency wall powers bill Republicans
will stop them there
1.3 million puerto rican residents will
have their food stamps cut this month
amongst other austerity measures
pentagon hiding google's work on drones
stephen moore set to destroy our economy
bank drops a money-laundering suit
against felix aider
and Obama on the case tells freshman
Dems green new deal too expensive
sorry world thanks Obama
all this and more on today's program yes
ladies and gentlemen it is Tuesday
Michael is at a dentist appointment
everyone else is here just a reminder
you can support this show by going to
join the majority report comm pennies a
day you can support this program we give
you extra content every day stephen
moore when i get into and i will mention
that like that
felix seder thing just because i think
people know that's my my pet my pet
theory about that
felix satyr plays a big role largely in
part just because ii and some odd years
ago wayne barrett just kept telling me
over and over again it's all feel like
seder and with the Muller report having
dropped maybe we will see it I suspect
we will see at least parts of it don't
know how much he sounds like a white
collar criminal Felix seder
oh yeah well he's I mean what we do know
about Felix seder is seems to be some
type of FBI CIA asset to the extent that
Loretta Lynch former attorney general
but when she was back at the Eastern
District of of the US Attorney's Office
wrote an affidavit on his behalf
after he stabbed a guy in the face with
a broken glass dam which is a weird
thing for someone to do but apparently
he's been an asset to the FBI supposedly
there's reporting that he was the guy
who got the CIA bin Laden's phone number
which is in the way that they tracked
him
and there's this lawsuit that basically
claims he ran off with the another I
guess it was a mayor's family in Kazak
with four hundred some odd million
dollars that he was going to launder
this is what the lawsuit alleges he was
going to launder through the Trump Tower
in Moscow as well as other places around
the world and also coming back to Trump
Soho Tower and so this guy was a money
launderer and a special advisor to
Donald Trump and like the antagonist
from a Bond movie yeah exactly honest
without even knowing any of that stuff
you just said well he says I think he
was a he was a stoolie he was an asset
and and he was probably run out of the
New York FBI office so I know you start
to get you know you obviously I mean
nothing I've said is is speculative it's
all been reported there is a lawsuit
there is an affidavit that Loretta Lynch
put in there what the meaning of it is I
don't know but there is some intrigue
here and it suggests you know the in
terms of the the genesis of the
investigation that Muller ultimately
took over from Comey after Comey was
fired by the president the president
said I fired him because he was
investigating I mean that's you know I
there's no doubt that I can see our way
to look past this right I mean look
there's no doubt that there were people
who used this investigation for their
own purposes ranging from you know
people who want to be on TV quite a bit
and to people who thought that maybe
would help them electoral II we know the
Democrats didn't run on that
particularly but you know on some level
it's in the background
I think it was used at times that it you
know when it looked like Donald Trump
was in serious legal jeopardy that it
may have made some legislators more
hesitant Republicans to push certain
things but in terms and and and
certainly there were people who have I
think who used it for you know to
inflate their podcast numbers or to
promote a a foreign policy I mean that's
what happens in politics people use
different things that are happening but
as far as the genesis of it you have a
campaign where they bring on a guy who's
been monitored by spy services you know
Carter Paige who I met and I think is
it's just a rant a raving lunatic and
I'm not sure you know I would trust him
to lead me out of a you know building
with two sets of stairs frankly but this
is a guy that they had been monitoring
because of his behavior and then he
joins the Trump campaign there are other
connections they I don't know to what
extent you know you see Felix Seder and
if you know he's an asset at that time
well then it makes a lot of sense if you
don't know he's an asset and you start
to wonder like why is all this money
coming into these uh into these Trump
Towers why are all these meetings I
happen to think Donald Trump did not
think he was gonna win and in those
situations like you promised people
stuff if you think it's going to help
your relationship that's called business
right I mean come making deals yeah hey
Brendan I may get a TV show so why don't
you hang out here and put in a couple of
extra hours and when I get that TV show
you're gonna be a producer I don't think
I'm gonna get the TV show but Brendan
comes in and puts in extra hours and all
of a sudden I get the TV show and like
oh damn it I've got a I've gotta let
Brendan work on the show now
I screwed up but I'm not convinced that
wasn't the nature of it but from the
perspective of investigators who are
looking into this in the summer of 2015
or 2016
and then the president fires the lead
investigator and announces I needed to
get him off basically like a didn't like
the fact he was investigating me you
know like I'm not sure what people are
supposed to do at that point did other
people run with it absolutely and and I
think people have to be held to account
with how far they got out in front of
this story but the story was real the
investigation did exactly what it should
do and in the meantime it also found a
lot of malfeasance by a lot of different
players which has been going on and and
and I don't think that excuses it though
I think we should be rounding up more of
them and I don't you know whether it's
you know whatever firms were we're doing
crap like this
I don't know why they weren't rounded up
in the first place I do know why they
weren't so I don't you know I have no
idea what's in the report at this point
I don't know that we have an accurate
reflection from William Barr who you
know but I imagine we're gonna see parts
of the report I don't know that I should
believe William bars assessment that in
fact Russia interfered in the election
but you know like I said up from sin
from day one of course they did it would
be malfeasance for them not to we do it
I mean how could we not be doing this
that's what's done and there's a
fundamental problem with the country
that you know allows for that level of
interference to even be considered to
have any implications on the outcome of
an election there were you know 20
different things that I think had gone a
different way
the outcome would have been different
but yes there's an underlying problem in
the country that
that it would be so close and you know
I'm not gonna we can have other
conversations we've had millions of them
as to what the underlying problems are
but that aside you know the idea that
this was a hoax from the beginning is
absurd yes there were people who who got
out in front of where the the
investigation was but to suggest that
the whole thing should have been
completely ignored like I mean I even
think like the first Benghazi hearing
probably was worthwhile it was the
eighth one that became you know
somewhere along that spectrum where
became ridiculous and to spend your time
covering it would have been a joke but
to have to completely ignore this and to
assume that it was initiated because of
like these weird that these other sort
of like narrow agendas like and it may
be the case that this was exploited to
achieve other goals definitely I mean
that's that's what happens all the time
right I mean it's it's that explain my
interest in it well I mean it it it does
all things people try to use in politics
people try to make a case from Donald
Trump's win that we should have a
different type of Democrat win and we
make those arguments or you know be the
nominee people look at you know I mean
this is this is the this is the way that
politics work and you can I think it's a
perfectly legitimate criticism to make
of the way that this was exploited and I
think we did a fairly decent job over
the course of this to not you know
reward those who were I think
transparently or even less transparently
trying to use this investigation and get
out in front of it and sub wait now I
happen to not think that any of this is
resolved in any way
I think there's you know from the
beginning I think we were talking like
most of this is gonna come down to
financial I mean I think we were saying
that and you know they want literally
that it was just gonna be stories about
money laundering but that was basically
all based upon you know some discussions
in an interview that we did on this
program with Wayne Barrett who's been
following Donald Trump in this whole
stuff for a long time but I can
understand why people in Washington
might been like hey we're investigating
him and a fairly routine thing and then
he fires the the head of the FBI that's
weird
it's a little bit weird and but yes
we're there politicians and media
figures who basically thought like I'm
gonna ride this yeah of course and you
know they've got to dig themselves out
of a hole but hundreds of thousands of
people did not die
millions of people were not made
internal and external refugees we ended
up not having World War three if we
haven't at this point I don't think
we're going to at least as this is a
foundation I'm not saying there weren't
bad things that came out of this but
certainly no worse than you know what's
happening to people in Puerto Rico for
God's sakes
there's no comparison right exactly
the to the extent that there's been any
damage done by this it's that maybe we
don't see as much about what's going on
in Puerto Rico but you know to the
extent that we do know a stuff about
Puerto Rico there's there's a decent
crossover by you know look and you know
I don't to the extent that I saw the
most coverage of Puerto Rico it mostly
came on Hayes's show and and then you
know know me con it's going down there
and you know with the the Democracy Now
and stuff like this but it's not like
Fox News was covering a lot of stuff is
going on
go they were doing white national yeah
Chuck Carlson was not featuring the the
the plight of Puerto Ricans and and
their lack of electricity so that is the
media is bad folks yeah and and and and
here's the thing I think that is also a
media here's the thing that I think is
also good well III think hears that the
Emmy but we don't do any you know of
firsthand reporting and and everything
that we do on this program is contingent
upon their being reporters and so make
no mistake about that we're we're not we
are not reporters we are aggregators who
assess and essentially curate and
editorialize based upon reporting that
exists and anybody on YouTube who tells
you they're reporting anything it's full
of garbage and to the extent that we
provide any service it's you know we
read it and we make assessments so that
you don't have to in overtime you judge
whether our assessments and what we
present is relevant and at least sound
in some manner and that's the way you
should approach all of your your media
and when you find that it's not then you
theoretically act accordingly yeah the
amount of funding that it takes the
amount of overhead that it takes to go
out there and do real reporting in the
world is a lot it's too much for a
podcast certainly and it scares me that
it's drying up yes
it's very problematic and and I will add
that the the power of cable news is
greatly diminished from where it was
just even 10-15 years ago certainly 20
years ago in the run-up to the Iraq war
if you looked on page 8 or 10 of the New
York Times or The Washington Post or
maybe you saw
reporting from McClatchy you could see
tells that this the run-up to the Iraq
war was full of crap but it was
overwhelmed because there was no
mechanism like there is today to amplify
those stories to push back but social
media the growth of YouTube which did
not exist at that time but to basically
social media allowed for people who were
you know small groups of people smaller
groups of people to amplify counter
narratives so it is true there was a lot
of people who anticipated mulher to go
in there I guessed an arrest Donald
Trump even though we knew early on that
you can't that according to the DOJ of
which he is a part of as special in
vessel you can't indict a sitting
president but there was a lot of
motivated reasoning there and that
motivated reasoning was certainly not
inhibited in any way by various
commentators and newsreaders in cable
news outlets but the bottom line is is
that cable news does not have the same
power it did then and it did not lead to
the and it did not lead and I don't
think there was ever a danger it seems
to me of leading to you know people who
speak Russian getting beat up in Coney
Island or and and people make a decent
argument that that news outlets various
news outlets were punished in the wake
of this but I will remind you they were
punished or you know singled out and D
ranked
or smeared in some way not because of
the story that Donald Trump was
colluding with the Russian government
but that the Russian government was
interfering with the election which it
did 40 times
well I mean I don't know what I'm not I
don't know that it brought about a
different result but if you're gonna
believe William Bar they did and just
like we should not be doing this with
Venezuela or any other country and I'm
not shocked that they did but they did
and so that becomes a pretext to to
punish different media outlets I
understand that sucks when there was
white Nationals
you know AT&T was ended up through
YouTube advertising on on on Nazi sites
we got demonetised for months it was
scary but the you know the at the end of
the day the investigation ran its course
found that there was no criminal charges
that could be pursued we're not going to
know one third of this story by the end
of it I'm convinced too that there's
gonna have been fuck-ups there's gonna
Bend cover-your-ass situations that's
always the case with this we always see
the shadows we see the reflections the
the outlines but I don't see how the
government could have reacted the
apparatus could have reacted any
differently I mean at any at any
juncture and Trump was obviously very
worried about an investigation and it
turns out he was probably worried about
it for a different reason
because of other criminal activities
he's been up to that we're a lot more
banal but you started acting that way
you know they think you might have a
body in the trunk and it turns out all
you have is like ten kilos of cocaine
but if you speed off as the cops coming
after you they're they're going to act
as if they think I mean they thought
that you might have a body in the in the
car and you drive down the road and you
speed off they're gonna chase you so I
mean I think that's a lot of what we we
saw in this instance and then definitely
guilty of something well I mean we know
like you know we and that's you know
that raises a whole nother set of
questions it's like how is it that this
guy got away with all this stuff in New
York for so long when you have some very
ambitious prosecutors and that is a
story I also don't know that we will I
think they look to service their
ambition elsewhere yeah well the
question is why and I think it's
probably a different answer depending on
who it is I mean look we know why let's
say a guy like Schneiderman maybe who
maybe for reasons like he didn't feel
comfortable going after Trump because
maybe maybe there's a whole host of
people he didn't feel comfortable going
after because of of aspects of his
personal life and that you know but New
York does have a long history of
corruption indeed which you know brings
up questions once again of the level of
influence that money has in politics and
oligarchs and all that stuff indeed all
right
well we got to take a break Oh before we
do folks there's no need to suffer
through another sleepless night even if
you're me thanks to calming comfort by
sharper image the luxurious weighted
blanket is made with supersoft Velveteen
material and designed with high-density
comfort Phil to promote a sense of
calmness
just broadcast yeah no kidding I should
actually we should do that plus by
applying an even amount of pressure over
your body calm and comfort helps the
production of serotonin and melatonin
and mimics the soothing feeling of being
hugged for a restful night's sleep I can
tell you that honestly it is it's made a
world of difference for me let's cut my
sleeping time the only I mean and I need
it when when Saul comes in and tells me
he's peed his bed at like 5:00 in the
morning I've got you know an hour of
sleep left if I can get back to sleep in
like 15-20 minutes which is very
difficult for me to do and the calming
comfort weighted blanket that that I
have makes it a lot easier it
immediately just like aa common comfort
way to blink comes with a 90 day anxiety
free stress for a best night's sleep of
your life guarantee from the sharper
image right now our listeners can go to
calming comfort blanket calm use the
promo code majority at checkout to
receive $15 off the displayed price
again that's calming comfort blanket
calm promo code majority because you
can't put a price on a great night's
sleep
calming comfort blanket calm promo code
majority also you should know and you
probably well maybe you don't know how
often but every two seconds there's a
new victim of identity theft which means
a criminal could be spending your money
applying for loans in your name even
damaging your credit the good credit
you've worked so hard to build
unfortunately you can miss certain
threats to your identity by just
checking bank statements and monitoring
your credit good thing there's life lock
identity theft protection life lock uses
proprietary technology to detect and
alert you to a wide range of identity
threats like your social security number
for sale on the dark web and if you have
an issue involving identity theft one of
life locks identity restoration
specialists will work to fix it of
course no one can prevent all identity
theft or monitor all transactions and
all businesses but with life lock you
get identity theft protection and
additional features to help protect your
devices against cyber threats
for as low as $9.99 a month don't waste
another second visit LifeLock dot-com /
majority now to save 10% on your first
year
that's the LifeLock comm / majority for
10% off light flock comm / majority
quick break and we come back Pat
Garofalo on the billionaire boondoggle
our politicians like corporations and
bigwigs steal our money and jobs right
back
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome the managing editor of Talk
poverty the author of the billionaire
boondoggle how our politicians let
corporations and bigwigs steal our money
and jobs Pat Garofalo welcome back
longtime I think uh to the show thank
you so much it has been a while it has
now look I wasn't going to start with
this but I just saw a story that just I
don't know how I came across this but
the American dream
the Megamall of in New Jersey which I
have been following through I think this
is the 8th name that they have given
this thing the opening and this is gonna
come as a huge shock is likely push back
to the fall apparently a mega at the
mega mall and the Meadowlands was
supposed to open I guess like any day
now or something but now it's coming in
the fall of 2019 let's start there
because you write about a a dynamic that
covers Amazon it covers the building of
sports arenas it couple covers the
retail enticements it covers film and
movie stuff which is where I really want
to start but I had to start with the
American dream
tell us the story of the American dream
since you are a New Jersey I yourself
yeah one more sad trombone for the
American Dream I'm stunned they pushed
it back again so this is a project it's
supposed to be a sort of New Age mall
it's gonna be this giant mall thing with
like amusement parks and ski slopes and
all sorts of stuff inside it and the
idea was that people are going to
actually leave New York because they've
become bored there with the few things
to do in that city and go out to New
Jersey and shop at this giant mega mall
in the met lands and New Jersey's been
trying to get this thing off the ground
for literally years they started it
basically just as the financial crisis
hit hold on I just got to ask will there
be a
GIF there because if that's it that's
gonna seal the deal for me I mean I
don't know maybe maybe you have to go
pitch them on there we go so this
through various iterations and and it
just keeps getting pushed back and back
and back and it's one of those things
that I write about in the book where in
cities and states get themselves in
trouble on these sorts of projects and
instead of saying well maybe this is a
bad idea they just keep doubling and
tripling and quadrupling down on them so
all right so and at one point it was
called Xanadu I think that's the way it
lands does it launch that Xanadu but I
if I remember correctly Chris Christie
who was governor at the time threw a ton
of cash at this thing while
simultaneously saying we're not going to
build the the other tunnel they wanted
to build another tunnel between New
Jersey and New York they were getting a
ton of federal funds to do it and he was
like the state can't afford it of course
we are
you know the idea of the one tunnel
going Akron eath the Hudson River
shutting down for any period of time
would be catastrophic for like the
economy of New Jersey and frankly in
many respects of New York and for
people's daily lives but yet they sunk
money into this like what what is that
dynamic yeah so so chris Christie really
loved him some corporate tax breaks he
gave out more than any previously Jersey
Governor at something to the tune of
four billion dollars and and yet not
just to be the American dream mall sorry
excuse me sorry what was the question
I've totally totally lost my train of
thought well I mean the whole idea was I
mean just like what the dynamic they're
like what was it supposed to do well you
you give that kind of money to the mall
what is it supposed to do the idea is
that this will be an economy booster
right people are gonna come and they're
gonna shop and they're gonna have a good
time and that's the theory behind not
just malls but sports stadiums and
hockey arenas and bringing the Olympics
to your city and all that good stuff and
all the economic evidence shows that
this is totally bonkers and none of the
effects that you say are going to happen
at
happen and a jerseys actually a really
good instructive place to look at
because the new governor Governor Phil
Murphy initiated a review of all the
corporate tax incentive programs that
were going on in New Jersey and found
that there was literally zero
accountability going on these programs
were chugging along for years and years
and no one was going back and checking
to see if they were actually effective
when they finally pulled all the numbers
up there was something like 3,000 jobs
that were showing up on one ledger and
not showing up on another ledger and no
one could figure out what happened and
that's emblematic of these programs all
over the country cities and states spend
tens of billions of dollars annually
throwing money at corporations with
little to no idea if there's any impact
little to no accountability and
oftentimes just no transparency to the
public something like half of the cities
and counties that do this literally
don't whisper the recipients of the tax
breaks they just say hey we gave twenty
five million dollars to some folks so
all right so walk us through the
taxonomy of what we're talking about
here are we talking about direct
payments are we talking about money that
was not collected and how do you measure
like the cost of that I mean that was
one of the arguments about the Amazon
thing that we hear from people is like
the this is money that we're only
collecting based upon the activity that
Amazon does and if they aren't here
we're not going to collect that money I
mean what's the what's the what's the
response to that there's a lot of
different ways these things happen the
most popular one is actually just
property tax breaks you say to an amazon
or to a sports team owner hey if you put
your thing here you don't have to pay
property taxes on the land but a lot of
times they often are just cash grant
sometimes they're cash grants per job
created sometimes they're just hey
here's the money build a thing
oftentimes their infrastructure
supporting whatever the thing is in
question which is a big problem with
Amazon you know the helipad and all the
stuff that they were going to build up
there so this money comes in a variety
of forms but my main point of contention
I guess is that there's a huge
opportunity cost here right but even
safe has to balance their budgets
they're not the federal government they
can't print money
most of them are constitutionally
obligated to balance their budgets so
every dollar you spend on one
there's a dollar that you can't spend on
the stuff that actually matters to
people on your education system on your
infrastructure on delivering clean water
the sorts of things that cities and
states are supposed to do so all right
but but we're I mean walk me through
this dynamic alright let's take the film
business because I've always like you
know I've looked at you know there
there's there's two sides but they're
well I mean you can tell us about the
types of subsidies that that that the
film business gets but if I'm in
Michigan right and for instance and or
Louisiana or wherever it is these these
happen all around the country there's no
film business here and I'm the governor
and I say well we're gonna we're gonna
give you these these guys a tax break if
they come here I mean what what happens
with the film people and yet and then
we'll talk about the result totally so
there's they're too big dynamics to talk
about here one is you're paying
companies to do things they would have
done anyway and that's what happened in
the case of Amazon right there are
really good reasons for Amazon to be in
DC and New York and you don't have to
pay them to do that but on the flip side
of that coin is something like film and
TV tax credits wearing you say hey we
don't have a film industry let's pay
some money to producers to put their
productions here and we'll create one
the problem with that latter plan is
that particularly a movie business but
lots of industries are so transient and
so they will just chase the money and so
you end up paying higher and higher
amounts just to keep whatever you have
Louisiana was the first state to do this
in a big way in about 2002 they went
whole hog on movie productions and for a
while the most feature films made
anywhere in the country were made in
Louisiana which is wild if you think
about you know the advantages that
California and New York have but then
other states started piling and after
and said hey stop filming in Louisiana
come to my state and now actually most
feature film production is in Georgia
because they were willing to pay more
for it and because these productions can
basically go anywhere and make anywhere
look like anywhere else you don't need
to be in New York to have your set look
like New York you end up in this
competitive economic purgatory where
you're just paying more and more and
more and then literally being held
hostage by these productions I was
living in Baltimore when the Maryland
legislature paid a ton of money to
house of cards and veep filmed in
Maryland and California came along and
said hey veep will give you five million
dollars more than Maryland will come
film in California and they were gone
poof there's nothing left and so that's
the problem with these film things is
the business is so transient that you
can just move it whenever another
someone comes along willing to pay more
money that's not the that's not the only
problem right because and I remember
this dynamic you know back when I was in
the business there was like I was e
peeing a show that was supposed to be
shot in New York and they're like we're
gonna do it in Vancouver because they're
gonna give us huge tax breaks and
incentives and that's where you know
we're gonna maybe Toronto I guess it was
Toronto but but the the problem is I
mean it's one thing if you give them and
it's we're talking about tax breaks
right or tax credits like and I want you
to talk about how those work but the
bottom line is the there you give five
million dollars to a production the
problem is is that it doesn't create
what it's supposed to create in terms of
like activity absolutely yeah that's the
second big problem with these things in
addition to being constantly held
hostage if you think about it these jobs
are going to be by necessity right sort
of short term and they aren't going to
last for years on end the production is
going to be there for a little while and
then it's not and so what oftentimes
happens with these programs is that the
production comes in and they maybe hire
some off-duty police officers to work
security or they hire some hairdressers
from the nearby salon to work on doing
folks hair and those get called jobs
created right but they're not really
they're just jobs shuffled around so
some percentage of the quote quote
created jobs will just wind up being
that you're just renting positions for a
little while and maybe that off-duty
police officer gets a little more cash
and that's nice but that's not a new job
so that is one of the major problems
with this and and the second major
problem is that some percentage of the
money you spent is inevitably going to
go to out-of-state folks right some of
that money is going to subsidize Ben
Affleck's salary some of that money is
going to subsidize flying in producers
from Hollywood to work for a few weeks
and then leave and that just doesn't
create very much you can sort of see how
the
not building anything long-term and
sustainable even if that money does
circulate in the local economy for a
short period of time which I am dubious
of I don't think it really does it's
just a sugar high and and you're not
building the foundation for long-term
sustainable growth okay so why doesn't
that I mean I it makes sense that the
the nature of a film production could be
so flighty that literally flighty that
it's not going to provide any long-term
growth but what about you know like why
doesn't it work with the mall is it just
that the numbers don't give up or is it
that like there's an opportunity because
here's the dynamic that that I think you
know I I want you to tease out here is
that if it is just taxes not collected
how do we know that there would be
something else there that would generate
taxes yes totally so a couple other
problems that we haven't talked about
one is when you end up paying a
corporation to do things some of the
money ends up inevitably leaking out of
the local community right so in the case
of an Amazon some percentage of the
money they collect is going to leave the
community and go back to Seattle or go
to Jeff Bezos is tax haven or whatever
right so some of that money is going to
go out but the other factor to get at
here is that there are things you can do
that build long term sustainable growth
for everyone that will get you that
revenue in the end right the problem
with some of these deals actually had a
guy from Memphis write to me the other
day to complain about his city's
penchant for doing these deals and he
said to me it was really striking was
what these deals say to me is that our
leaders think we have no value as a
community and there's really something
to that right what you're essentially
saying what your lawmakers are
essentially saying when they engage in
these deals is there's literally no
reason to corporation would ever want to
be here unless we pay them a bribe and
it really a dynamic should be flipped
you should be doing the sorts of things
building up your educational system
building up your infrastructure having
the highest quality of life possible
whether that's through child care or
paid leave or whatever the case may be
and saying no it's a privilege for your
business to be here we're not going to
go begging for scraps and those are the
sorts of things that will over the long
run entice businesses in and get you
that money and create the sort of
widespread growth that's for everyone
not just for like some tech pros to come
in and work $125,000 jobs which is
for them but doesn't really help
everybody in the long term and again
you're not building anything sustainable
you're just building some stuff until
the next guy comes along and you ain't
stick with a higher tax subsidy but what
do you say about the the the fictional
Memphis right that doesn't have the cash
and you know so Amazon is gonna come in
we're gonna say you don't have to pay
any property taxes we're gonna we're
gonna spend you know some amount of
money to build better roads around there
so that you know your executives will be
able to drive and not have a bumpy road
and you know you guys will be able to
flush your toilets in the the building
that you build and all at the same time
and it won't explode that type of thing
and I'm a politician now and I'm selling
it to you as a constituent and what's
going to happen is not only are they
gonna hire people but they're gonna
create you know they're gonna give money
to workers and workers are gonna go out
and buy more stuff and then they're
going to be other businesses that will
come and will charge them taxes I mean
what what's wrong with that scenario
yeah the problem is that that just
doesn't happen in the real world every
academic researcher who has looked at
this has found that that's just not what
occurs the money doesn't circulate that
way those taxes never wind up coming in
that's a real problem with these things
is that that story you just told that
sounds right right like that in your gut
feels correct and then you have like you
know pointy-headed econ Long's coming
along and being like oh well no actually
there are all these ancillary affecting
it don't want prom prom prom prom take
into account and and we found ridiculous
so that is the difficulty of trying to
argue against these things is saying hey
everyone who's gone and looked at these
deals over and over again cities and
states across the country that effect
just simply doesn't happen you don't end
up getting that money you don't end up
attracting new businesses you just end
up shuffling workers around from job to
job and not really creating anything new
but it's a really hard narrative to
fight back against and we've been told
for you know decades from Democrats
Republicans everyone in between that
this is the way to build an economy so
we're really fighting against this myth
that's been built that the way to create
growth and prosperity is to rain money
down on big corporations and then
they're going to be really nice and hire
some folks
and it doesn't work that way and one of
the one of the the there's another
reason that you write that the that this
myth is so durable is that it actually
it gets you votes if you're a politician
yeah this is the most surprising thing
that came up in my research for the book
is that these things work as a political
incentive lawmakers who engage in more
attempts to work out corporate tax
appeals get a higher share of the vote
one researcher looked at elected mayors
versus unelected mayor's at the city
level expecting that unelected mayor's
would be a little more profligate with
these sort of things because they're
less accountable and it actually wasn't
the case it was the elected mayors who
were who did more of these details and
the unelected mayors who chose the line
and said no that doesn't make a certain
amount of sense if you think about it
because there are political things worth
having that come out of these deals
right you get to send out the press
release saying hey Amazon's coming here
it's going to create all these jobs you
get to have your photo taken and put on
the front page of the local Times
Gazette whatever you get to go out and
shake hands with Jeff Bezos in the case
of movies you get to go out and you know
parade Ben Affleck or Kevin Spacey free
scandal or ran on town which is exactly
what has happened with house of cards in
Maryland and so those things are really
worth something in political capital and
then you can Punk the long term costs
down the road to the next guy I mean
that's basically the story of Foxconn
isn't it and Scott Walker definitely
that's it that was all basically this is
how I'm gonna run for president this is
gonna be the part that makes me look
like a job creator
yeah actually actually that was an
interesting example because the flip
happened right he did this job he did
this thing and people actually looked
pretty closely at it not just because of
Walker but because Trump got involved
and said hey this deal actually looks
really shady and it's not great and then
when Foxconn itself came out and said oh
hey we're not actually going to create
all those jobs you know things really
did fall apart for Walker you'd argue
the same thing in Amazon where and it
was so high-profile that it got a lot of
political attention and therefore
increased in New York the deal got
scuttled that's really a typical that
doesn't happen with most of these deals
most of the time if anyone finds out
about them at all it's years later I
would compare the Amazon case to what
Google has been doing
which is just going around the country
hoovering up tax breaks using shell
companies not really admitting that
that's that it's Google that's behind
all this and no one pays attention to
that and that's the sort of stuff
happens every day all the time
I am mightily encouraged actually the
Trump keeps sticking his nose into the
middle of these things it's not just
Foxconn its carrier because he is
bringing scrutiny just because of who he
is and because he has this like deal
maker in chief stick and the deal keeps
falling apart he's bringing a level of
scrutiny for these things that really
didn't exist before when I started
writing this book in 2016 I was much
more discouraged about there ever being
a solution to this I'm actually feeling
much better than I have in years about
these sort of things Amazon really sort
of provided all of the elements of your
argument on some level didn't it I mean
just like including not just from a
politician standpoint but also that that
question of desperation as they went
around just let me talk about that
dynamic because there are some places
that are just like they will literally
do anything to have something different
happen absolutely I think you can't
discount the economic like context that
we are in right there are lots of places
that because of bad industrial policy
and bad trade deals and bad antitrust
policy letting these giant corporate
monolith get created really are
desperate and really have nothing and if
they're one company towns that are lucky
they're oftentimes zero company towns
and so even the people the local
officials at that level who do
understand what's going on and do get it
and like realize that this means in 20
years that the playground is going to
fall down and the school's roof is going
to collapse and they're not gonna have
any money to deal with it say you know
what but right now if we give a bunch of
money to say Bass Pro Shop to come here
and create 30 jobs and a 30 more jobs
than we had yesterday and and we'll
figure out the rest later so there is
that element of desperation a lot of
these deals even amongst the people who
acknowledge this is bad and it cost us
in the long run but like darn it we need
something today
what what about like a place like
Detroit like you know like I mean and an
Amazon I mean now I think the proof is
in the pudding to a certain extent
Amazon had no interest
as a company and I think you know people
will attest that this in Seattle they're
not they don't want to be the company
that's responsible for building a
community for supporting a community
they and I think you know going into
Queens the they can they can hide in
terms of like their their court their
their citizen responsibilities to the to
the community and of course they would
argue they don't have them because it's
it's completely a fiduciary one but but
what about like if you're Detroit like
could something like that work for
Detroit where it's just like come in
will give you land I mean Detroit seems
to me like a maybe a special case and
would it be problematic there you know
they just tried it and it was a sports
thing so it wasn't like an Amazon thing
they just tried it with the Detroit Red
Wings arena which was supposed to turn
into this whole downtown business
district um Mike Ilitch I believe his
name is the owner of the the Red Wings
got this deal in motion a long time ago
and it just hasn't worked and I think it
goes back to the problems we were
talking about before when you end up
sort of laundering public money through
corporations and expecting them to be
nice and create all this stuff but I
Nanak is just don't work the way that
our sort of gut tells us that they will
I wouldn't say never for a place like
that that really needs something
anything what often times those deals
end up as the worst because the
corporation realizes it sort of has this
you know it has the city over the barrel
and can and can get the best possible
terms and that's the problem with these
deals writ large right if there's always
going to be a race to the bottom as long
as they exist and there's always going
to be someone who's willing to give a
little more and so that's like even a
place that's super desperate winds up
giving you a store the farm or whatever
your you know analogy of the moment is I
guess it's possible but the history of
these things has been that it just
hasn't even if you're talking about
really economically distressed areas
they just end up giving away whatever
little is left of their tax base and
then not seeing the benefit so what what
is the solution is it just simply a
changing or introducing people to the
reality as opposed to the narrative I
mean we see this still with sports
arenas you know and I gotta admit like
you know there was a
the the Pawtucket Red Sox are coming to
Worcester and they're gonna become the
the whoa Sox or the whoo Sox or
something like that and you know I mean
I I don't live in Worcester anymore I
have family there and but I'm excited
and then I'm like oh what's this giving
them I don't know 20 million dollars or
something like that and that just seems
ridiculous to me but I'm torn because
I'm a you know I'm a Red Sox fan but
what what what is the solution to this
is it just simply raising the awareness
of citizens or is there is there
actually some type of like some type of
policy solution yeah I'll get back to
the solutions in a second but I
definitely feel you on that dynamics
because here in DC where I live we paid
on to the fifty million dollars to build
DC United State in which is our major
league soccer team and I'm a huge soccer
fan and the new stadium is beautiful and
I really like going but you sort of have
to try and disconnect that right from
from the wider policy like this is
really good for me but I really wish we
could have put that into the metro or
the healthcare system or any of other
disease many problems um we're actually
having a fight here over the one public
skating rink in the city and they can't
find the money to fix that up yet they
managed to find the money to build the
stadium for not just DC United but also
for the Washington Nationals so I feel
you and sports is the really hard one
because these teams are supposed to be
right part of the fabric of the
community and you know a civic
institution and sports owners do leave
if they don't get their stadiums built
so it can be really hard you never want
to be the mayor who loses
you know the Baltimore Colts or who
loses the Seattle SuperSonics or
whatever the case may be so those are
tough ones you know you love your sports
team and your sports team doesn't love
you back and you just got to remember
that as to the big solution so in theory
Congress could knock this all off
tomorrow if it wanted to if Congress
passed a one-page bill that said
henceforth all the state and local
corporate tax incentives are hereby
taxed at 125 percent boom unforgettable
states you have to compete on something
else I am NOT super optimistic that is
going to happen
so honestly I do think the best remedy
is awareness and it's like a sort of
said on the sexy answer just letting
people know that this happens and the
reason I wrote the book as I did and
focusing it mostly on entertainment
titans was because I really wanted to
drive home that this is your favorite
sports team this is the TV so you watch
at night when you're on Netflix this is
the mall you drop in you know this is
the hotel your mom's basement when she
comes to visit this is the stuff that's
in your community all the time and it's
your officials who are giving it away
and yeah that's just a pretty
unsatisfying answer but but the Amazon
thing has given me a little hope boston
saying no to the Olympics in 2020 gave
me a little bit of hope the way that
things happened with Foxconn gave me a
little bit of hope so you know you just
got to fight these deals one deal at a
time unless and until Congress comes in
and got the whole thing pat Garofalo the
book is the billionaire boondoggle how
our politicians let corporations and
bigwigs steal our money and jobs we'll
put a link at majority dot F M thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it hey thank you anytime
all right folks heading to the fun half
just a reminder you can support this
program and join us in the fun half by
going to join the majority report com
join the majority report calm for just
pennies a day
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate use the coupon code
majority get 10% off today is Tuesday
Michael's not here but I'm sure he'll
show up for a show and Matt Taibbi will
be here today he'll be on will you ever
I think in a pre-recorded interview with
him and then Ben Burgess also on there
you go
and Jamie the Intifada yeah so out
tomorrow we have an episode breaking
down what's going on with Bragg's it I
think a lot of people in the u.s.
probably don't understand it that well
and I learned a lot actually I'm talking
about the brexit with Sean and our guest
knurl and also we recorded a bonus
wherein we talked to some of our patrons
over the phone
that was really cool and really special
and we just hit our goal of 666 patrons
so yeah you're gonna gonna do a sound
effect yeah so I feel I feel very
special and very happy that we have been
able to do this for about a year now
that's great
thank thank you to everyone thank you
thank you Sam thank you Matt for helping
us get set up
Matt literary hangover just recorded a
barnburner of episode last night with
Alex Alex my regular co-host and David
Griscom of the Michael Brooke show the
soul of man under socialism by Oscar
Wilde which it's gonna be a long one but
look forward to that so check out
literary hangover kit caught up before
that comes up yeah he better folks cuz
that's a barn burner yep big socialist
Oscar Wilde
all right he's actually more of a
socialist is the anarchist hey you
actually appreciate that although is
less utopian then that's why he's always
burning down the barns well he says he's
more he's an anarchist but the dynamite
policy is absurd so alright folks see
you in the funny
you
well you're back Sam cedar on the
majority report let's go to the phones
come from an 8 for 5 area code who's
this where you come from
845 hello hello 845 who's this where you
come from it's Jeffrey Jeffrey where you
get from Rockland County Rockland County
and what's on your mind Jeffrey come on
I want to talk about the Ilan Omar
situation it's gonna be fairly quickly I
go to work soon but I wanted to say that
do you guys think there was some sort of
I mean I don't think it's just started
with Ilan Omar with the holes you know
accusing herv's anti-semitism for
criticizing Israel I think it started
also with what happened I mean I see
like this like a there's a line to it
it's like it starts with you know Mark
Lamont Hill right and then all of a
sudden they all said news that came out
I mean it was on I remember rollin
Martin I don't remember rollin Martin
yeah yeah I do he has a show on I think
it's a network one I'm not sure what
we're but like internets ya know I'm
familiar with it we've tried to get him
on which said scheduling issues but yeah
go ahead yeah yeah and then he there was
something else with Angela Davis she was
like a famous person yeah yeah so there
was that situation and there was a
Tameka Mallory thing right and I noticed
that there was this thing that it's
almost like you have to look at those
three to see like the pattern because
one of the reasons why I think also like
work with the whole you know Omar thing
she got defended over by in Congress
because I think it was but I think the
Congressional Black Caucus yeah
basically like Archer and with Nancy
Pelosi saying like why are you why are
you attacking her yeah and I think that
was one of the reasons why the Democrats
sort of just backed off and did the
resolution has my aim as it was Breyer
because the Congressional Black Caucus
were realizing and they just simply
asked I don't know if I don't know if it
was all I don't know if
was all the CBC but they certainly were
out in front but but I mean I'm saying
I'm saying like I think there was also
push back from from non CBC members I
think there was just like broad push
back from members of the caucus but but
yeah go ahead so what's your what's your
point
no I'll just I just find it interesting
that the people that the the people who
were accusing of anti-semitism all
happened to be you know they're all
black folks and it was it was kind of
strange
that especially what happened with the
Angela Davis situation because they try
to get her award rescinded uh-huh and I
know that they changed it back because
it was because you know they saw the
backlash of what happened right so so
yeah I mean I would like to say that
with the Elan Omar thing I just thought
that do you guys think like it doesn't
just start with hurls no I agree I agree
I can't continue look I mean first off I
think there's there's a couple of
dynamics going on here the the Israel is
worried that it is losing support in the
United States and rightly so yeah we saw
this going back to when and part of it
was even just like when you know the
Republican Congress invited Netanyahu to
speak and you started to see like
defectors like guys like Tim Kaine
saying I'm not gonna go to Congress and
this is it and that was the beginning
and certainly through Obama and you know
we've done enough interviews where we
understand that Obama the the existence
of a of a black president
you know racialized a lot of things for
a lot of people you know which is not to
say they weren't racialized before but
even more so as as stunning as that
sounds at least that's what the data
suggests and Donald Trump certainly you
know he made his political career his
bona fides were on that very dynamic you
know you know claiming that Barack Obama
is some type of other because he was
from a different country so you had this
dynamic that's floating out there you
also have
this dynamic of Israel worried that its
support is starting to falter and
frankly the the reality is is that in
the context of our society it is much
easier to pile on a black person you
know in public I mean that's just it's
just it you have not only do you have
you have the momentum that comes and you
know there's a lot of anti-semitism
that's floating around now I would argue
it's coming from the right but it's
there it's in the consciousness and then
you have people who are attempting to
speak up for you know in particular
Palestinian rights or they're speaking
up about the outsized influence that the
Israeli Lobby has in this country and
and you know as an example you know like
this is what and and I'm gonna cover
this right now actually but I appreciate
the call I think there is something to
this because it is it is easier to
leverage the this argument that
critiques on Israel are anti-semitic
almost de-facto if frankly a person of
color is providing the fulcrum in our
society that's the sad truth and so you
get stuff like this Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer going up listen to how
Nancy Pelosi mischaracterizes and this
keeps happening over and over and over
again
Ilan Omar never never ever said anything
never said the words dual loyalty never
said not loyal to America she never said
you know would dual filty or whatever it
is
there was no dual she was saying that I
do not have to pledge my allegiance to
another country and she was specifically
specifically referring to that's our one
senate resolution one the first bill
introduced in the new Senate in January
which was looking to federalize the laws
in 27 states around the country that say
you as a contractor who is looking to
get money from the state your speech
therapist who's going in to teach kids
in a school you're a newspaper that is
taking ads from a State University you
need to literally sign a pledge saying
that you will not engage in an organized
protest against Israel this is absurd
and there's every reason to believe that
it's unconstitutional but they was the
first bill introduced in the Senate so
when she says I don't need to sign a
pledge to show my allegiance to another
country she is referring to the literal
pledge that Marco Rubio wanted to
introduce as what did introduce as the
first Senate resolution that federal
contractors need to sign a pledge to not
protest against Israel and it has been
mischaracterized over and over and over
again because when you complain about
having to sign a literal pledge I don't
care what the country is do you pledge
not to protest Saudi Arabia are you
kidding me
that does not fit into an anti-semitic
trope but dual loyalty does so they
change it to dual loyalty even Nancy
Pelosi does that policy that reaffirms
Israel's right to self-defense
[Applause]
in our democratic societies we should
welcome legitimate debate on how best to
honor our values and to advance our
priorities without questioning loyalty
or patriotism
[Applause]
this month the full house came together
condemned the anti-semitic myth of dual
loyalty and all formas bigotry with a
resolution that quote rejects the
perpetuation of anti-semitic stereotypes
in the United States and around the
world including the pernicious myth of
dual loyalty and foreign allegiance
especially in the context of support for
the United states-israel Alliance all
right so now she's slippery here in the
way that she's doing this but she is not
spending an iota of effort to clarify
the situation she is allowing and perper
and perpetuating this myth that Ilan
Omar had anything to say about dual
loyalty she had nothing to say about
dual loyalty she was saying I should not
be forced to pledge to pledge to another
country and there was a literal law
resolution on the Senate floor calling
for just that well that's pretty gasps
lady it's super gas lady and I'll tell
you something it's literally like it is
it's a liable here's Chuck Schumer going
on at the same a PAC conference
spreading the same stuff and it is an
easy look the reality is I don't I'm not
saying this of all the people in that
room I'm not maybe saying it for the
majority of the people in that room but
there is there is a an openness to a
certain amount of a little Islamophobia
that I can assure you is in that it is
in action in this room so you're gonna
crap on Alana Omar then you you're okay
you're not gonna bring up Thomas
Friedman saying the same thing about how
AIPAC their money will help you in a
race you're not going to talk about that
because it's not gonna have the same
it's like I have the same stickiness in
that room well they have to dehumanize
Muslims in order to do what Israel is
doing
right now that's right is Chuck Schumer
when someone names only prominent Jews
as trying to buy or steal our elections
we must call it out when someone says
that being Jewish and supporting Israel
means you're not loyal to America
we must call it out posit the first
instance happened the first instance
happened by a member of Congress several
Republican members of Congress the
second instance never happened not by
anybody who said it in public not by any
member of Congress so ik waiting the
hypothetical with the literal is very
problematic here well to America we must
call it out when someone looks at a
neo-nazi rally and sees some very fine
people among its company
we must call it out when there's someone
suggest that money drives support for
Israel
we must call it I posit First Instance
Donald Trump
maybe there's nice people in there
people can decide but the fact that
money does not drive support for Israel
or at least edify the inability of
people and this is what she said she was
talking about her inability to critique
Israel and why was she inability to
critique Israel because of the lobbyists
that come up and literally end up
getting her censured or an attempt to
for critiquing Israel so that's the
dynamic that's going on this false
equivalency and I'll tell you something
again I've said this many times as a
supporter of Israel of its right to
exist this is the stuff that is going to
be the most damage
to those prospects this is the stuff
that's going to end up isolating Israel
more than anything else you don't allow
criticism is the United States for a
very long time functioned as a bulwark
against the worst inclinations of Israel
because they're there in every country
right every country has some bad
inclinations and some good inclinations
and the United States was often used as
a ballast by the Israeli government of
like what was constraining them despite
the fact that some elements of their
society wanted it despite the fact that
they have a parliamentary a system of
government and more often they had to
have right-wing elements within that
that government during the Bush years
that fell apart because the bush
administrator is actually pushing the
Israeli government to do worse and we
are now seeing the implications of that
and when you don't have the ability to
allow for critique when you try and
suppress that critique bad things happen
it's not going to end well in terms of
Israel I mean if you want Israel to get
support from the United States this is
the worst type of situation that you
could want because this is what this is
how this is I mean and and it's been
clear for years that this is where it
was going well when that is your first
priority like a blindly pro-israel
policy you end up a lying yourself with
some very bad bedfellows right like the
Trump administration and the right wing
in Israel and all kinds of really really
creepy right-wing authoritarians who
openly espouse anti-semitism even if it
wasn't even if it wasn't that's true and
but even if it wasn't ending up
associating you with them any type of
blind any type of blind support is
problematic because
you know you you're not seeing what's
happening so you have no way of course
correcting for a long time prior to the
Civil War there was a rule against
debating slavery in the in Congress and
look how that turned out dampened those
abolitionists down yeah that's a mean
that's very apt go to the phones come
from a360 area code who's this where you
come from
hi Sam it's uh John from Ferndale
Washington um love the show I've
listened to you since you know back in
the day and everything um
I'm 57 and ex-military but I'm gay so
you know I'm kind of liberal but uh the
talk of anarcho-communism terrifies me
as much as like right-wing Hunta you
know we got what 3035 years left before
global warming kills us all I'm down
with socialism but honestly I think
you're scaring away people when what not
you but the show is when people
mentioned anarchy and communism um and I
think it's something to like we think I
I would vote for Bernie tomorrow I'm I
would have voted for him four years ago
you know socialism I mean we already
have Social Security we're a democratic
you know society but this this stuff
about anarcho-communism and Jamie I love
you I think you're funny
I love your podcast yeah and people
thing but man you got to lay off that
because it's you're gonna scare people
right into the arms of Trump I think all
right well first off I can tell you just
from a just a pure I mean I can make it
pure assessment as to I don't think that
the hearing the words anarcho-communism
and I you know I am NOT an anarchic
communist I think Jamie is but I don't
think hearing the words themselves are
scaring people I mean if
people hearing a word on this program
scares them away from the program then
they don't it's the concept Sam it's not
just the word I'm anti-constitutional
well but I listen I'm I I am not in
favor of anarcho-communism I do not
think that we are even remotely in if
you're you know in danger of becoming an
anarcho-communism
I think that in a society where we can't
even get a single-payer health insurance
program the concern if anyone out there
in the sound of my voice has concern for
the the eminent rides imminent rise of
anarcho-communism I would tell you that
you are worried about the wrong things
that is not happening anytime soon I
think when Jamie talks about this in her
aspirations for that I have a feeling
that they are that's a rather long
horizon but I will let Jamie address
that but I I think honestly like I I
think your you might be overreacting a
little bit to it I don't think that's
everything
I just fear I fear that Fox News is
gonna take sound bites from your show
and whether she's serious about it or
not or you are I mean I love your show I
listen to it every day I love your
tedious talks about social security I
really do happen to the show no I
understand I mean I just I get out of
contact if scare away if Fox News wants
to come on and have me on to discuss the
anarcho communist nature of the show I
am perfectly happy
don't pull sound from the show they
won't have you on because then it would
be fair and you can explain your ideas
but they'll pull sound from your show
and whether it's kidding or not I'm
telling you anarchy and communism skin
old folks you know you know I got my toe
in in that door Bing Bing Bing 57 right
I can tell you the hearing there has
been over the years I understand but
there's been enormous research over the
years expended granted some of this may
be a little bit older that show that my
cue rating with elderly folk is quite
high in fact that's my that's my key
demo and so if they show pictures of me
on Fox News and with some notion of
promoting anarcho-communism I am quite
confident that what will happen is it
will maybe maybe make some of the the
demo from Fox News you know be somewhat
a narco communist uh curious I mean I
just honestly like I understand what
you're saying but I do think that the
concern is is overblown but I am wearing
my special shirt today I don't know if
you can see on this camera don't show it
I will I will not show it on the camera
digitize that I listen I understand what
you're saying and but I I think III
think I think there are other things
that are probably more pressing to worry
about and I'm pretty good when it comes
to having to defend myself in those
situations so so question are you
yourself afraid of communism or you
think other people are afraid of it
because you you listen to my show the
anti Fattah right so what do you like
about the anti Fattah it's a it's a
communist podcast well I
mmm maybe I haven't heard as many
episodes I'm I'm for antifa
III because that's just anti anti
fascist and so you know but communism I
mean it's never worked unless it's like
you know a kibbutz in in you know we're
like 120 people communism is a scary
thing for I'm because you use you think
of Soviet Communism you think of Chinese
communist
I wish you can just drop it all I'm down
with socialism but anyway I love the
show and I don't want to take up all
your appreciation
so I just want to say like I am very
very aware of the pitfalls the state I
mean really they Tom real communism has
not been achieved yet these societies
we're talking about we're really state
capitalist but I I'm very aware of the
issues that come along with more
authoritarian top-down bureaucratic
forms of a centrally planned society
that's why I am a libertarian socialist
or an anti state communist or you know
I'm still we're all still figuring it
out I don't really like to pin myself
down too hard to labels I'm an
anti-authoritarian basically and I
arrived at this via basically the
process of elimination right because
capitalism is in my opinion a very bad
inhumane nonsensical and unstable way of
arranging production and society I
believe that everybody deserves a humane
life and everyone deserves control over
their own life which can includes
control over their work situation I mean
we just had an interview with a guy who
said people are much happier when they
have that sense of control so I believe
that some sort of socialist or communist
society is the best way to get that now
we've seen it go pretty badly in the
past and I think we need to take these
these these issues seriously as we try
transition to something better but okay
but you you like things like Social
Security right because I wanna yeah
alright wait I would put this in
historical perspective for a little bit
I listen I just want to address the the
fear I don't want to have a debate about
communism but I just want to say like
perhaps by identifying myself openly as
a communist I'm trying to make it less
scary I'm trying to tell you what we
actually believe in
to combat some of the negative negative
propaganda that's been put out there
through the years but just one example
okay social security really important
right we all favor social security that
was patterned on a mutual aid model it
was partially pattern on a mutual aid
model pioneered by anarcho-syndicalist
unions to take care of their people
after they retired also like a lot of
the New Deal reforms that you're talking
about we got as the result of a strong
strong left movement outside of outside
of the mainstream electoral spirit
outside of it it was it was anarchists
and it was communists and they went on
strikes and the government was really
afraid that we were gonna have a
revolution and then we won these things
as concessions in a larger fight so even
if you don't believe in an
anarcho-communism you need people like
us to keep on pushing the envelope and
keep on pushing the Overton Window
because if your horizon is Social
Security you're never gonna get there
all right appreciate the convict your
intellect and you guys are very smart
and I learn a lot I also know what what
people fear and you know you're right I
mean frankly this ever could go to
college right so it's so it's like you
know yeah
socialism great communism never right
well personally tell keep fine keep on
the agenda maybe well I appreciate the
call and I I think like you know the I
think two things one people should not
be afraid to hear words and discuss
concepts and let us worry about the idea
of people pulling us out of context and
and making hay of it I have some
experience in this context believe me
you know I
I made a joke about the idea of of a of
my daughter ass at a satirical point on
Twitter about my daughter and about
Roman Polanski and I am here to tell the
story with that said and keep in mind
the point that Jamie makes which is more
often than not the vast majority of
progressive advances that we have made
in this country have been as a means of
co-opting a movement that is far more
radical and so at the very least from a
completely practical standpoint in a
utilitarian standpoint Jamie is very
important for us to expand Social
Security or to me to to do to get any
type of progressive movement more often
than not the people who will ultimately
have to agree to it will be doing so
because they're afraid of what will
happen if they don't and so that's
basically it and so there is huge value
and and not even just huge value there
is a total necessity to have people to
your left as a means of getting any type
of advances and so you know even Jamie -
to achieve her goals is going to need
you know like communists dolphins who
frightened all of us people who are
walking around the sea comrades yeah i
think matt has a book he wants to show
us oh this hammer and hoe we've had
Robin DG Kelly on for this book actually
this full book is available on Lib calm
org it might be good reading if people
wanted familiarize with theirs with some
history of communists in America that is
less scary than Stalin calling from a
nine one nine re/code who's this where
he calling from this is a pulse
I'm from Boone North Carolina Omar from
North Carroll
what's on your mind I want to talk to
you guys about the conversation you got
you had with the ex-muslim caller yeah
and I mischaracterized me but he said
the Mohammed was like a bad guy and like
violent and did you say that Mohammed
didn't kill innocent civilians in that
conversation I did not I don't I don't
know the foe ha Mohammed did or did not
kill innocent civilians I can tell you
that the passage that he cited did not
call for the killing of innocent
civilians in fact the passage that he
cited there is a scholars will give you
a completely different read of that
passage right
I've also but I've heard you in the past
say that like well that when it was
brought up that Mohammed like is like a
child rapist you said that a lot of
people back then and we're involved in
their early teens so I don't know maybe
I'm mischaracterizing but it seems like
you kind of like the suicide the fact
that like a lot of these like religious
prophets or like actually really
horrible people I haven't met any
religious prophets I I don't I don't
really know I am NOT you know I am NOT I
think there was a lot of horrible people
that we various societies praised in
retrospect right I mean we have our
founding fathers arguably we're also
rapists - right and but I guess my point
is is that the stories that people tell
about Mohammed or the the inferences
that people make from passages in the
Quran are you know are simply those
they're their stories and their
inferences and they do not define Islam
and the the they certainly do not I
you know I think every religion is
problematic in the means in which it's
practiced and how religions are
practiced is not just a function of what
is written in a book that was written
you know 1500 years ago it's also tied
to like what are the economic
circumstances what are the political
circumstances what are the what is the
context of society and so I think it is
a foolish endeavor by anybody to you
know in fur and certainly from that
passage you know apparently in context
it means a completely different thing
than the caller suggested what well I'm
not talking about I just say that like
the wolf Act I want to give about
Mohammed like during another no no no
see wait a second wait a second you're
gonna give me a fact about Mohammed yeah
how do you know this guy because I just
eyes from a book a long it's from Tariq
Ramadan in the footsteps of the Prophet
Oxford University Press
page 141 you know I mean it's I'm not
trying to like smear puzzles but here
here after he uh after he has a battle
with Mecca
a lot of people probably remember he won
and it pissed off a lot of people in the
area and a lot of more Jews and they
basically must have a force of like ten
thousand men and that force of 10,000
was like repelled by Mohammed he was
defending Medina and after that Mohammed
was really upset certain Jewish tribes
in the area can you thought that they
are like betraying him which they might
have but as a result of that battle
aftermath after the Battle of the trench
the Jewish tribe the bandeau Carazo hmm
which were South you know he killed all
the men in that tribe and then it's
slave the women but then the people who
converted to Islam he be spared so the
point that that is why see he
historically was a really bad guy and
then people go around and say that he
was like buddies with God and the
creator of the universe like like
sanctions he was like the best person to
ever live and that on it
face the despite if Muslims today want
to ignore it in like like practice our
they want that's better than being a
fundamentalist but it's just a rationale
on the face of it hmm so you're telling
me that so you're saying that other
religions are rational as well and I use
the facts about the Vatican exactly I
mean you must you must be gone crazy off
of this stuff about the Catholic Church
right what about these Romans who are
going around apparently and crucifying
people are you aware that these Romans
were pretty bad and then so when you
take someone from the past you the moral
and then you say well wait sideways like
I mean these Romans though these Romans
what about these rapists who founded the
country do you believe that we have not
Rushmore dude are you strapping are you
strapping dynamite to yourself and going
up to Mount Rushmore to get those faces
that means that what you're doing I mean
come on why are you sitting there why
are you sitting there why are you
sitting there and paying taxes to a
government that would put these people
literally on a pedestal but don't we but
don't we do the same thing with
Confederate statues like we said you
shouldn't celebrate bad people from the
past that are like it's try to
rationalize it today like I can kind of
open that arguments and I get you're
kind of pointing out my autocracy there
but like yeah that's exactly what you
are and and I can tell you I can tell
you we have a lot more established facts
about those Confederate soldiers then
you got I mean we don't just need page
141 and white supremacy is a lot more
active than whatever likes I don't know
Islamofascism or how would you
characterize it in America well how we
crushed it know around the world but
listen I appreciate the call I wish you
a good luck in all of your endeavors but
I mean this is it was to convert baby
this is really just absurd
yeah you just can't I mean you know if
if you want to call in and say I think
religions are ridiculous
because we're worshipping people who you
know are we're bad or immoral or this
and that you know what you may be right
I don't think it's appropriate to have
multiple wives as all of the religious
figures do I also find it hard to
believe that people should be going
around turning water into wine I don't
think that's healthy like stuff like a
problem with that yeah regulatory
problem who gave you the right I think
you got you don't know the bacteria
exact was very concerned could be very
dangerous
and why was he doing that why was he
doing that you're in the desert people
need water I don't like this our idea of
like privatization I mean look you know
it's like arguing over these things is
just silliness yeah it's silly silliness
it was so cold we rolled up in there and
he was just like you got 20 minutes
convert or enslave or the most inspiring
historical anecdotes I've ever read
white boy call again look forward to
your tea Hey best-case scenario eternal
damnation or be my ideal scenario I got
the bad yo in a couple years I honestly
think this a lot of the time comes down
to idealists versus materialists where
some of these explanations are concerned
because if you think the ideals are the
primary driver of what goes on in
people's lives in a society you might
you will blame a religious text for
spreading this like set in stone version
of the ideals of a certain religion and
that's what's at fault when anyone who
subscribes to that religion does
something bad what I believe is it's
never it's it's it's never that almost
never that it's a combination of factors
it's the culture it's the politics of a
given place in time it's what
going on in a person's life that creates
the their interpretation of a religion
of an ideal to perform acts that are
good bad or both what do you call though
the person who doesn't just judge in
terms of ideals or materialism but only
drudges ideals with one specific type of
person and one specific type of religion
like this guy could have called up and
said like how is it that you don't
dedicate your show to the organized
religion that has been literally for
decades hiding and protecting people who
are preying on children destroying
thousands of lives I mean why doesn't
why do we never get those calls from
these people who are so worried about
religion like how is it that you can sit
there and do your show on a daily basis
where you are not being critical of
people and there are people every single
day who pour into these places these
churches which have been systemically
systemically as an organization almost
the central premise of the organization
is to protect these people yeah I would
say the Catholic Church in just
Pennsylvania alone is probably more
important to focus on if you're an
atheist then Muhammad's biography I
gotta tell you what though there's a lot
of innovative ideas out there people are
talking about declaring caliphates are
talking about bombing new shiite sites
but we got to be honest about the price
tags I mean these are ambitious
proposals it's stunning by the way some
of them are real good ideas that
somebody is focused on a supposed child
predator from you know those of you
there's a 2000 years ago went around the
corner I have it was undoubtedly I call
my dad the Harris has given the
information I'm jaded to cried there was
300
it's just look look look at yourself so
why you're calling in and talking about
it's so simple and honestly people who
are doing work whether they be Muslims
but trying to change political
situations or atheists and Saudi Arabia
or Pakistan or whatever like trust me
your your calls are not helping their
efforts I don't think that's the
intention to be honest with you I know
but that's always the top starting
that's always the compound so it's like
oh you guys don't stand in solidarity
with Rights Act racism probably mixed in
when people focused on Islam to the
exclusion of when Muhammad went on a
tour of the cosmos with an angel I cried
at the revelation but my favorite parts
of that was when they beheaded the
other tribe amazing how the dude
gets to marry whoever the hell he wants
I'll take your daughter thank you very
much oh well out there who think that
all religion is bad and blame it for
things that they needed right and you
know I I am I am I am more sympathetic
on some level to that level of naivete
then I am one that is so selective so
conveniently selective when there are
quite substantial targets for that are
living in this era right where you could
actually bump into on your daily walk to
work a victim of that of that oh oh damn
they getting the scepter out the head
exam world star baby world star well
it's not bad let's go to vows are
calling from yeah I mean here's here is
a Catholic priest
you know abused a thousand children in
Pennsylvania report says and I imagine
if you dig down into that story you will
find out the multiple times that that
that priest was protected by the the
system do I think that means that there
is something you know fundamentally
wrong with religion I think this is an
institution a human institution that was
corrupt and I think that happens with a
lot of institution look why people are
Devils wherever they go calling from a
to10 area code what an auspicious way to
take your phone call who is this and
where are you calling from
good afternoon for San Antonio
each midsize thank you thank you for
calling and for providing us with this
palate cleanser what is happening okay
one of the best bank shots of vernie's
2020 run is that it'll be an inspiring
progressive potential candidates from
down ballot races for down ballot races
and they can ride on Bernie's coattail
I've talked to two I've talked about to
close House races last fall the they
both had justice Democrats are our
revolution and endorsements Kara Eastman
long lost by two points in the breath
the second district in a Mar camp in the
jar who lost by three points in
California's 50th district they both
decided to run again in 2020 so I
support them the best political moments
of 2019 have been the Bernie campaign
and the great fresh women like AOC
Rashida to leave and Ellen Omar I'm
looking forward to supporting more
progressive challengers to two
incumbents in 2020 I'm bit taken aback
by a story in the National Journal yeah
it says quote the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee is
making an early mood to deter primary
challengers against sitting incumbents
in the caucus with a new policy aimed in
part at protecting the new majority the
campaign arm on Friday sent out a list
of hiring standards to more than 100
political firms including one provision
that made clear that only their contract
nork recommend to house candidates any
political vendors that worked out
sitting members of Congress the new
protocol and initially debuted early in
the the offer before most campaign
hiring begins
presents a stark financial deterrent to
the country's top firms that provide
essential services ranging from polling
to TV advertising to strategy this could
 would be primary opponents
ability to entice top talent to join
their staff the d-triple-c independent
expenditure arm doles out millions in
contracts to consultants and drives more
revenue towards them by contracting
campaigns with vetted operatives the
d-triple-c
is oftentimes the gatekeeper for
consultants to get to the candidate yes
said Ian Russell so my point is that you
know there's an extreme generational
divide in the Democratic Party between
voters under 45 who support progressives
and over 45 who are do support centrist
and conservatives young voters are
appalled that their candidates are not
given a fair shot at winning and I agree
with you that progresses best shot at
gaining powers through the Democratic
Party but the establishment is pushing
them out and eventually they will become
disengaged or join a third party and
ensure Republican rule here's a quote
from Erika Levin's article in New York
magazine called the house democrat
establishment declares war on democracy
the principle problem with the
d-triple-c policy is that in a political
system where interplay inner party
competition is already severely limited
suppressing inner party competition in
all house races and is an unforgivable
infringement on democracy no well I mean
I first of all I think it's outrageous
second of all I think the the impact of
this is not going to be as dramatic as
you would think at first I think this
has been an unofficial policy for some
time as my understanding and there are
different power dynamics for different
players in this space right so like a an
act blue that's not gonna fly with that
blue they're gonna they're gonna
continue to do what they're gonna do and
nobody's gonna walk away from them
because they have a different power
dynamic without a doubt though there was
a story in the intercept where a
candidate is contemplating dropping out
two vendors dropped out from in from her
campaign I think the intercept has this
story
maybe it was up yesterday so yeah this
is bad and I think they're still going
to be upstart vendors digital vendors in
particular who are going to be servicing
these candidates but yeah it's I mean
it's a protection racket and it I you
know I think that I can understand on
some level where your party's gonna
protect your incumbents right that's how
you get some you you create some type of
party discipline but this is outrageous
and frankly what its gonna invite is
somebody with a lot of money to come in
and do what the Koch brothers did to the
Republican Party and that is to
basically build an infrastructure and
fund and I don't know if there's
somebody out there with money who is
inclined to do that in the way that the
Koch brothers are for the right because
a lot of your primary candidates are
going to be you know - are gonna be
could be seen as hostile to someone with
that kind of money on some level but
it's bad it's it you know it there's the
same dynamic I was talking before you've
you unfairly
attempt to quash dissent it ends up
creating all sorts of different problems
and so I don't know if this will will
stand but you know I think it's going to
be if it's done properly it'll be a way
in which to create a business model for
some people like we only do primary
challenges and we have a strategy to
raise money no that's actually a really
good you know because that's the thing
that primary challengers can get money
now in a way that they couldn't just
even five or six years ago and so the
you know I don't think it's successful I
think it's very problem
and I think it's gonna be I think it's
gonna be it's gonna leverage more
primary challenges actually so well I
hope you're right I hope it does because
I mean you know people you know 20 20 he
was you know really something that I was
looking forward to I mean you know I
still AM I mean I'm dealing don't get me
wrong but I mean you know just all the
primaries and all of the the
progressives that are gonna come out I
mean this movement there's a reason why
Chris Hayes is having a OC on this
Friday in no other freshman you know
Congress person you know are getting the
same kind of publicity like to live like
Johan Omar and you know you can say that
they're being attacked which is true but
I mean the passion from the left for
these people is extremely strong yeah
and and so you know I'm just you know
there will come a time where they're
gonna regret this
you know we think all they're thinking
about is is you know in the moment but
you know five years 10 years 15 years 20
years down the line they're gonna think
where did we go wrong that's this is the
thing well they're not gonna think that
you're right in terms of what the
outcome but these people will just be in
a different job then they'll just be
protecting their asses in the same way
and they'll probably be successful I
mean that's this the reality of the
world but it doesn't matter the bottom
line is you know rather than you know
how are these people going to regret
this decision rather like you know how
can those of us who want to support
primaries how can we leverage it that's
you know that's the key appreciate the
call junk right okay folks are some
weird stuff going on at Fox News right
now and who better to uncover this this
is the one America network the one
America network of course
who better to network your nation your
news own
I think it's oay n owned owned and this
is an own exclusive that must have been
pretty tough
they got Bill O'Reilly to talk from his
living room they managed to get him in
like once a week at least it seems like
yeah well it's an exclusive they have an
exclusive ability to do that so Bill
O'Reilly brought on own to try and
figure out what the heck is going on
there what why why do we have this
situation Maria Bartiromo asked some
tough questions of the president why why
are we seeing like some measure of
dissent from fox on what's going on bill
you haven't been there in two years can
you tell us in your mind what's going on
at fox right now are the others
they have a boycott situation you know i
don't think there's an organized cabal
and fox news and management that says
well let's go left I'm not there I'm in
there for two years but what I do know
is that the boycotts from the far left
Media Matters move on all of these
horrible organizations that are in
business to hurt people with whom they
disagree
I've been effective in boycotting God's
and I just you know just just want to
plant the flag here Bill O'Reilly used
to send out his reporters to harass
people who had no idea what was going on
Bill O'Reilly demonized an abortion
provider until the day he was shot dead
just to remind you of this
Bill O'Reilly used that platform to hurt
person after person after person his
entire show was modeled on some type of
sadistic you know cosplay that actually
wasn't cosplay was horribly sadistic if
anybody was in any way responsible for
creating this type of dynamic Bill
O'Reilly is probably up in the pantheon
they're in business to hurt people with
whom they disagree
I've been effective in boycotting the
Fox News Channel and they've lost a lot
of money right so what I believe is
happening and I again I don't have
access to people Patrick but I know the
organization I worked there more than
twenty years is that in order to make
the sponsors more comfortable that Fox
is trying to get out any kind of real
strong heart rate hard right
presentation they want to de-emphasize
the hard right presentation to make the
sponsors feel that oh we're not in any
place where we can get boycotted it's
all about the boycott it's all about the
boycott now I have a theory that now
that they have sold off a lot of the
assets of Fox to Disney made something
like I don't know eight nine billion
dollars selling off of all a lot of Fox
assets not Fox News
I think it's conceivable they want to
get out of that business a little bit so
the Fox News business and one of the
ways you do that is you you no one's
gonna buy it I mean no one unless you
find another lunatic who wants to be
associated with that despite the fact
that it's pretty cash it's it's it's
quite a cash cow now that the the money
is getting a little bit dried up they
need to move and change their stripes a
little bit if they want to sell or or
continue to make that kind of cash
that's basically what's going on there
but how long has took her contract
Tucker Carlson's contract for I have no
idea because I feel like if that if they
really want to do that pivot he's got to
go yeah well yeah and I think you know
obviously like a Laura Ingraham would
have to go and whatnot but they can also
it is yeah but that's the thing is that
they these are these they are all
capable they can all make their shift
I'm saying something different if the
cash is there
there's no doubt in my mind they're all
capable of doing that and that's you
know look look at look at the pirouettes
that Glenn Beck has done I mean
literally don't don't
logical journey his ideological journey
his his I mean I just the idea we did
this this this video I guess
last week or something the idea that two
years ago almost to the day there's a
half a dozen pieces you know thoughtful
pieces in the New Yorker magazine or New
York magazine in New York Times I don't
get credit we need to come together to
defeat Donald Trump and then two years
later he's on Hannity shengshou saying
we need to come together to re-elect
Trump I mean it'll similarity it's about
the being Club Becca's Sam what's that
Devils Devils what
speaking of gavels ladies and gentlemen
there are reports that Donald Trump was
mad that the economy is not hitting the
growth marks that it was they had
projected following the tax cuts and
apparently his chief economic adviser
who has been really really beset with a
lot of health issues apparently Lawrence
Kudlow rolled out of bed saw Steven
Moore on television saying that well the
reason why there's not growth is because
the Fed it's not dropping rates went to
Donald Trump and said you should think
about Steven Moore that's my best
impression of them and apparently Donald
Trump is thinking about Steven Moore who
has been a longtime TV economist there
you go and semi pundit what's the best
guy who is and you can really I think
you could probably turn on any cable
news outlet to see an example of him
being completely wrong and not just
completely wrong and projection and
conjecture but like just making up facts
just telling lies and getting called out
on it and yet he continues to return and
he gets fired from one place gets hired
again and then he ends up at the
Heritage Foundation which is sort of
basically a genuine welfare job and here
he is let's just add to that that the
pantheon of things that Steven Moore got
horribly wrong he was brought in as one
of the consultants for the Kansas
miracle the one true experiment of the
Laffer curve in fact they even brought
in Arthur Laffer Sam Brownback did
here's an interview that he's giving
back in 2014 on the Kevin price show
talking in 2014 about the Kansas miracle
that is about to be unleashed
they have just cut taxes in fact the tax
cut was very similar to some of the
things particularly when it came to s
corpse that that was passed on a federal
level but in Kansas of course you can't
deficit spend so their whole idea is
we're going to cut taxes so much that
economic activity is going to explode
and so we're gonna cut taxes but on a
volume level we're gonna make more in
tax revenue that's what growth does and
so here he is on this is clip number six
where he talks about Brownback this is
all from the same same wait which one's
the first one in the brendan is six the
earlier of the two okay so this is
number six Sam Brownback is you know you
don't want to make Kansas look like New
York you want to make Kansas look like
you wanna make Kansas look like Texas
yeah so Sam Brownback cut tax rates
they've got some growth going on there
but the left he is under complete
assault from the left and they're
creating this fairy tale that it's ruing
than a state
you know and we cut taxes quote for rich
people and you know we're defunding the
schools there is no truth to any of that
but you know what's really interesting
about this is that the unions are just
pouring money into this race because
there's a big election as you know in in
10 days but Sam Brownback has been one
of the top governor's I think he's going
to win he's going to defeat these
left-wing interest groups that are
trying to run him out of town
yeah well that's interesting of course
that is our posit let's take a look at
that assessment this is in 2014 and his
true Brownback went on to win by three
point six nine percent within 12 months
and on to 24 months of that election his
approval rating was 23% why was that the
case because after passing those tax
cuts Moody's downgraded the state bond
rating in 2014 the SP downgraded its
credit rating from AAA plus to AAA in
August 2014 due to budget that analysts
described as structurally unbalanced
again in 2017 from AAA to AAA - by 2018
overall growth and job creation in
Kansas had underperformed the national
economy neighboring states and even
Kansas's own previous growth years
Kansas jobs growth lagged behind at
neighboring Missouri Colorado in
Nebraska the by early 2017 Kansas has
had nine rounds of budget cuts over four
years three credit downgrades missed
state payments basically a rolling
fiscal crisis that started 30 seconds
after more was done talking on that
radio program so not enough tax cuts to
make up on the budget shortfall despite
the fact that all the tax cuts we're
gonna create growth and increased the
revenue that came in
had to tap into state reserves that were
set aside for future spending
construction projects were postponed
pension contributions and Medicaid were
cut and since approximately half the
state's budget went to school funding
education was particularly hard hit the
the state university which used to be
pride of Kansas severe cuts Kansas is
still roiling so much so that in 2018
lawmakers reverse those tax cuts they
gave up on the whole thing and Sam
Brownback knowing that he couldn't rerun
for election knowing that his political
future in Kansas was over got a job with
the Trump administration as the
Ambassador are you ready to this of
faith or to faith to literally an
ambassadorship position somewhere
hovering over the planet I guess he's
securing thoughts and prayers securing
thoughts and prayers floating in a
bubble hovering above amongst us as like
a like an ethereal object but let's hear
more of Steven Moore talk about the
great Kansas miracle that was happening
his entire economic paradigm falling
apart as he's speaking on there all
those lies that he was talking about
lies our friend Governor Walker in
Wisconsin is fighting for his policeman
yeah let's go to number seven
oh yes Steven Moore also said that the
Scott Walker this foxconn deal is really
gonna help him with re-election
incidentally oh no in the presidential
election that's where he thought yeah I
should remind you Scott Walker
first guy to drop out in the 2016
election year what you know what are you
seeing in the numbers that should make
people excited about what's happening in
Kansas yeah this well they are starting
to create jobs again in Kansas you know
and that's a big deal you know they're
starting to see jobs come back and
they're starting to economize on their
services they're trying to visit you
know economize
their services do you know that sounds
very good you know what that is
holy they're having to cut their budget
because the revenue is not coming in
they're trying to make you know allow
taxpayers to get a bang for their buck
you know not the Union cause having it
do you look bang for their buck means
we've cut the prices of services so that
they're more cost-effective yeah I want
to give you know bucks for no bang right
exactly you know not the union's hate
that
Kevin is you know they aged that idea
they want government to be as wasteful
and bloated as possible you know so that
more money goes into their coffers and
funds the big labor bosses that's what
this fight is all about yeah I'm looking
at some of the numbers and they're
pretty startling actually and you know
and they look small but on the other
hand you got to look at it contextually
you know for example Illinois's four
times larger than than Kansas yet it you
know meanwhile Kansas has created more
private-sector jobs in the entire state
of Illinois
that's a me as a startling statistic
yeah because you know I raise their
income taxes you know I'm from Illinois
I think that you know coming and you
know I'm from the Chicago area and
Illinois does all the wrong things when
I was growing up there the income tax
rate was 3% then Governor Quinn raised
it to 5% and now they're gonna raise it
up to the union's want to raise it to 7
or 8% it's unbelievable there's never
enough money for these unions never
enough money never enough money never
enough money
yeah these numbers are startling and
it's very important when you're talking
about the Kansas miracle to talk about a
different state and to talk about unions
who are not involved in any of that
these unions get their money they get it
from some type of secret well and then
we funnel it to the very bottom the
government they want more and more and
more
that's how they do really yeah and if
you had bigger tax cuts that you would
have bigger jobs and that dude maybe
sitting on the Fed Steven ma great guys
literally get their money from the dues
people pay really climbing does it on TV
so it's weird so bernie is this is this
is California he had a big rally he had
a couple in San Francisco it was LA and
San Francisco swing and here is Bernie
California's gonna be a very very
important stage for Bernie because
Kamala Harris is and I think you know
haven't heard too much of it and I think
we're gonna get back to hearing more
about this as we get as we move closer
to the debates but there's gonna be a
big expectation game in terms of Kamala
Harris if she cannot win decisively in
California she's gonna have a problem
right because this is her home state
this is where she launched her campaign
she had 20,000 people out there that's
what created quite a stir
if Bernie keeps it close or even could
win California it's gonna go a it's
gonna be that's gonna be a signal to the
rest of the field that they have a
problem I'm here rallying the people
she's rallying a pack well we will get
to that wood in just a moment but here
it is without a bad life here is uh here
is Bernie Sanders calling for this hoax
report to be released before I begin my
remarks I want to mention to you I think
what most of you already know is that
the Bob Muller investigation was
submitted to the Attorney General
now I haven't read the report yet it
hasn't been made public I think I have
something in my email box right now
we're reading it after this but what I
know is that it is a summary of the
report well I don't want a summary of
the report I want the whole report
because nobody especially this president
is above the law there you go the first
time we Brady's been bleeped on this
show I really made it sound like a worse
swear that we actually wasn't just damn
report I I thought I want to read the
 told everything I think he
should
I think he should even use certain
adjectives I think he should just bleep
himself because it sounds good
every good ripoff every single
die a day that was but that's perfect
I don't to me that that circles the
square of this whole little argument
about it I mean yeah you know I'm a
critic of a lot of aspects of this that
we kind of went over yesterday but are
you kidding me
that's our report where she to really
and not only that you also need to
immediately go in the counter offense
because whatever else this story played
out Trump is using this in an attempt to
consolidate his authoritarianism so the
only issue right now for people is
release the thing that's our report
buddy that's our report like the
literary kid says I want to we're gonna
we have a couple more clips of a pack we
have Mike Pompeo there but I first off
want to start by congratulating Kamala
Harris on two things one I want to
congratulate her she came out with a I
think a pretty decent proposal that
hopefully will get more will get this
issue more in the the popular discourse
which is a proposal to close the pay gap
for teachers calling for the estate tax
to be raised and the federal government
providing two first 10% in a raise for
teachers across the board and then a
matching funds with States I I applaud
that she's going after the the the
teachers unions endorsement and good I
hope there's a huge race for that so
that we support public education even
more than we do now which in depending
on where you live because we know that
that education in this country
is funded in a completely self-defeating
way the biggest challenge to education
is what happens in the home and if you
send and kids coming from a household
that is living in poverty or near
poverty underperformance school and
schools cannot fix that so you need to
provide funding and well I should say
schools can only fix that so much you
need to provide a address the underlying
problems and then B you need to provide
earlier schooling more competent
schooling and more funded schools but in
those areas which need it the most
because of the way that we fund schools
of property taxes they get the least so
kudos to her for talking about federal
support for our schools and also kudos
to Kamala Harris for saying to AIPAC I
am joining some like fellow four or five
candidates in boycotting the AIPAC
conference I'm not going to go there and
give a speech because of their attacks
on folks like Ilan Omar and the fact
that they are pushing a an agenda the
right-wing agenda in its support of
Israel so kudos for her and then and
here she is taking a celebratory picture
of that that boycott with the entire
executive suite of AIPAC in her office
is that what's going on there yes huh
that's California the California I think
it's a well can I just say though it is
important to note that all of the other
candidates who have not attended did not
explain why they just aren't going
Bernie's the only campaign that released
the statement specifically saying apex
comments on el on Omar and so on is why
he's not going that is a meaningful
distinction yes there's a lot of brass
right here
this takes the cake that look on her
face is like I didn't realize there'd be
a photo that look on her face is like
I'm good at this I'm gonna break this
down to Sharla way the god yeah
there is a charm than how totally full
of it she is just like do we have a clip
11 this bad boy let's go to the phones
call him from a nine to zero area code
who's this where he come from
this is sour from Milwaukee Salah from
Milwaukee welcome to the program yes
okay um I was gonna call we're sweet but
a little scared because Jamie mentioned
anarcho-communism um uh while ago Rob
Regan called in like a couple months ago
and you talked about ice and you guys
said something about screw tonight like
you have to have scrutiny with like
people from the bottom all the way to
the top of it right yeah yeah so I was
wondering if you see that like if you
look at the military that same way I
don't know I'm not sure I know what
you're what do you mean like like you're
saying like the Border Patrol people and
like like they're like just as bad as
the people at the top kind of I don't
know they're I mean look I think well
yeah I know what you're saying but I
think Ronald Ronald Reagan's experience
there's a lot of latitude that the the
the lawyers that he's come in contact
with who work for and I don't want to
speak for him but I think there's a lot
of latitude in a lot of discretion that
is offered
these the the immigration lawyers the
are not immigration but the CBB lawyers
and ice agents and he has experienced
that discretion and I think I think
that's what he's talking about I don't
think in the same context with the
military now I would imagine in a you
know in a wartime situation a good
military does not allow for its soldiers
to have discretion it is this is the
rules of engagement you follow them but
so I don't think this is a I don't think
what Ronald Reagan is talking about is a
philosophical or even you know or is any
type of framework I think it's just
talking about from his personal
experiment they seem to have a lot of
discretion and to the extent that they
are being allowed to use it I mean look
the only the only sort of analogy that I
think you could find in terms of the
military at least or the one that comes
to mind is the way that we ended up
getting torture was the civilian
leadership basically didn't say you you
know go torture it basically said we're
taking the shackles off of you we want
this and that it's up to you how you get
it and that's that's one we ended up
getting torture and I'm quite convinced
they knew what they were doing but
that's the way they do it and I think to
a certain extent you in fact I think
I've read stories where you see ice
agents or you know commentary on what's
going on within ice and it's like the
shackles are off and so there's a
similar dynamic and you know and I think
that's about as far as it would go but
you know I think Ronald Reagan was
talking from his his experience as a
immigration attorney appreciate the call
thank you for and thanks calling from a
904 area code who's this where you come
from
yeah what yeah yeah I feel like I might
regret this demo here
JMO where we been where my dad have been
working I do know a lot of things what
have you been doing right now it sounds
like you've been running around your
house yeah you know when you're working
you do Carmo turn your glass keep
flowing off yes I do and you wanna clear
you ready are you ready Jer mo for me to
change the show up Michael wait a second
jerem Oh calm down
are you ready for me to change your life
because I know exactly what you're
talking about
uuugh doing carpentry a glasses fall off
cuz you're moving you ready for me to
change your life you ready go ahead are
you watching are you watching the show
no I'm alright well and then I'm not
going to show you but on my glasses
I have little rubber tabs that live
basically on the bridge of the glasses
on the two bridges that and there behind
my ear and it has been a revelation to
me it is made no that is not it that is
not it
yep they're like little fins I'm not
gonna show them because then everybody's
just gonna be focused on that and I'm
gonna be mocked because I am mocked I
guess you like them you can get them you
know I go online I was just various
forms of mockery it's exactly right I
want you to search okay call let me tell
you the reason I'm calling yes
I got about 50 square feet a brand new
oak flooring in her all right all right
and it's beautiful this guy got this
carpenter he's unbelievable great anyway
do you know that they don't sell the
natural stain anymore I did not know
that I don't know who they are but I'm
trying it well I used I won't say the
brand name but that's really a good one
in that I came in I'm gonna need at
least I'm probably gonna need a gallon
in half and I can't get it so I was
gonna ask you what do you do with you
hardwood floors with your oak hardwood
floors I don't stain them you don't stay
in them no no put the polyurethane down
that's correct
and Jerry moe as a bonus I'm gonna give
you this
they're called Cal level high glass ear
grip silicone ear hooks no yep you know
I need I need an answer on the heart I
gave you one by JMO thank you for
calling I gave you two answers goodbye
but I'm telling you look the Muhammed
guy gets thirty minutes but you know
bloody well I answered I answer his
question I am believable I answered his
question and I gave him a bonus on the
glasses thing that's gonna change his
life believe me here grip silicone ear
hook just Google that here is Mike
Pompeo at AIPAC talking about America
being infested infested media it's
supported by certain members of this
bigotry is taking on an insidious new
form in the guise of anti-zionism it's
infested college campuses in the form of
the boycott divest and sanction movement
it's discussed in our media it's
supported by certain members of Congress
I suspect none of whom are here tonight
now now don't get me wrong
criticizing Israel's policies is an
acceptable thing to do in a democracy
it's what we do
no thank you but criticizing the very
right to exist of Israel is not
acceptable
no one has criticized the right for
Israel to exist no one has questioned
the dual loyalty none of that has
happened but whether it's Nancy Pelosi
or Chuck Schumer or Mike Pompeo that is
the narrative they want you to believe
it's just not the case
here's Mike Pompeo celebrating the fact
that the United States and to a large
extent the opportunity for America to be
a an honest broker in this conflict
there has long since passed but here is
Mike Pompeo celebrating the fact that
Donald Trump has probably made one of
the few the few sort of like status quo
situations in that region that has not
been a hot-button topic for decades he
has managed to make it a hot-button
topic her to bring that back we're gonna
bring that back wait Golan Heights is
the only place where things are not a
 show wait a second we're gonna fix
that and of course it was a great honor
to be on Israeli soil and to celebrate
with Prime Minister Netanyahu at the
very moment President Roh boldly
recognized the Golan Heights for what it
is a part of Israel
[Applause]
as most of you would have seen by now
just a short while ago President Trump
alongside Prime Minister Netanyahu
signed a decree a decree affirming
Isreal sovereignty over the Golan
what a truly great two days for two
great nations well Jesus and the
implications of allowing land that was
captured in a military conflict to be
annexed in this way obviously highly
problematic for going forward well I
mean it's also it's just you know but
this is what they've been doing in
general is basically just formalizing
what has already existed because of raw
power and this is specifically and I
don't think the alternatives the
Netanyahu frankly are any better from
the perspective of like actual
humanitarian situation in Palestine him
in his main rivals a general who was
involved in atrocities in Gaza but this
is specifically time to help Netanyahu's
reelection who's facing an incredibly
serious corruption probe and not just
like you take some money to do this like
something that actually implicates what
is left of internal democracy in
sixty-seven Israel did you she throw
mama from the Train
classic crisscross yeah crisscross I saw
it and throw mama from the Train
it's an enormous change crisscross I
help him I help you get elected so you
don't go to jail you help me get
reelected so I don't get it I mean
basically that's a very reflects
relationship is cross once again very
nice pivot from Israel's right to exist
to Israel has sovereignty over the Golan
Heights right like those are the same
thing no but those people mean that
that's what they mean they mean Israel's
our right to exist as a perpetually
expanding apartheid state and also you
know and it's funny cuz I look I'm sorry
both I don't want Leah's logistically
what did you say why do you hate Israel
so much well they are they're very
annoying they're Meshuga but um but I
support you know I think logistically
and ethically a full democracy for
everybody but what's it it's just a lot
o Mara was in The Washington Post a
couple weeks ago and she said specific
she supports a two-state solution so
it's like on top of every other lie in
instigation against her we're just gonna
take is like a matter of principle that
what her stated policy is in her policy
okay guys
what a bunch of scum band yeah
even I think Israel has a right to exist
insofar as any state does Zion Jamie
it's tough stuff she talked hear a lot
about Food Not Bombs hear a lot about
capitalism this and that but all of a
sudden when it comes to the tribe and
ethno state can exist sad stuff and
tough stuff so yeah jamie is this clip
on number 11 right so the Republican
Party's trying to figure out what
they're gonna run on in 2020 and they
think they've found it and that is of
course to appeal to all those people who
are out there who had to go underneath
their desks hide underneath their desk
as schoolchildren in the 1950s because
of the Cold War and they're bringing
that back I just don't think it's like
you know thin ties it's not something
that's gonna come back into fashion not
gonna take off like bell-bottoms yeah I
don't think so let's let's play this
clip this is Roger Williams Republican
from Texas thank you the gentleman from
Texas mr. Williams is recognized for
five minutes
thank you madam chairman thank you all
for being here today and I want to I
start off every here with a simple yes
or no answer from the from all of you
and I'll start with you miss lang
composite now who's the interviewing is
who are these folks in this this is the
Finance Committee yeah just some random
industry leaders but let's let's find
out what what is first question I like
to do this a first question for
everybody here we go let's see if we can
do this make this as remedial as
possible 1a I start off every here with
a simple yes or no answer from the from
all of you and I'll start with you miss
lamb yes or no are you a socialist or
capitalist
posit now I want to point out something
to the good congressman from from Texas
mm standard yes-or-no questions will
invite a yes or no answer that is the
nature of a yes or no question so if I
ask you are you a capitalist or
socialist yes or no
it becomes virtually impossible for you
to answer this question in an
appropriate manner the the standard I
understand maybe they do things
different in Texas because we're bigger
so are yes or no questions actually
involve having to provide another word
in addition to yes or no Alex Jones said
that kid it would leave his parents
house I just showed he's just like
thanks for coming on down to Texas took
a lot of courage this is the this is
preparing for the storm reauthorization
of the National Flood Insurance Program
yeah the flood insurance program it's
like a very apropos time there but not
sweet chance a if super ironic
because the answer this guy wants is are
you a capitalist while we are here
talking about subsidizing rich people's
homes broadly speaking who buy houses on
the coast that otherwise would not have
any value but for the federally
subsidized flood insurance but let's
hear the the answers to this yes-or-no
question that is also has a subsidiary
question which is are you a capitalist
or socialist thank you all for being
here today and I want to I start off
every hearing with a simple yes or no
answer from the from all of you and I'll
start with yes or no are you a socialist
or capitalist I defer to the next one in
line thank you what I swam thank you
very much you don't have to answer that
are you a my socialist or capitalist yes
or no yes ma'am yes okay thank you
capitalist sir thank you yes socialist
or capitalist
thank you yes ma'am I thought this is a
yes or no question
yes are you a socialist yeah are you
capitalist I'm just following direction
yes or no so yes yes sir next
yes sir I'm a capitalist yes thank you
let's get it well does not get it it's
just a yes or no answer each one of
those people is either a socialist or
capitalist that's right that's what that
means
there you go oh boy I have a feeling
that that may play in Texas in his
specific he said there's a Yankees let's
embarrass myself but are you a
capitalist or socialist yes or no they
said yes I do like that actually he's
just like you you Yankees think I messed
up that school campaign exactly five at
five different points in that clip you
could have been like okay I'll clarify
just say capitalist or socialist I'm
trying to get the gut damn I'm just I
want to clarify are you a heads or tail
or socialist or capitalist just will
answer yes or no heads or tails
social scandalous like twice your
capitalist unbelievable all right if
you're socialist I didn't even turn on
the IMS all right let's take one more
phone call I'm just picking randomly
let's do it this way I hope it's the
tulsi gabbard guy Michael give me a
number
one to ten - Jamie give me a number one
to ten six all right
it is the 26th call that we will take on
the list and that is shoot click okay
you can't from an 8 5 6 area code who's
this where you come from
5 6 8 5 6
oh hi I'm calling from New Jersey okay
and what's your name David David from
New Jersey
what is
on your mind David yes uh well you were
those day
okay when Donald Trump recognized or D
legitimized Venezuela in his own mind
right and uh and some others of course
that was most a significant action that
he's taken so far and and then with the
recognizing of the Golan Heights he has
basically I think I put us in the
position of whether we choose to be a
part of the international community or
we don't whether we support the United
Nations what we don't right let's come
out and just say it because what he did
was and what they have done is to
destroy the United Nations I mean look I
think the the legacy of the of the Trump
administration in terms of foreign
policy is that we are not a reliable
partner whether it's you know not just
in the moment but if you were from if
you were a different country looking
upon this country your only your only
assessment of this country that I think
would be in any way accurate is that
this is a destabilized country that the
fact that we could go from Obama to
Trump suggests that it doesn't matter
who we have as president for the next
eight years that is going to be no
indication as to what the trajectory of
this country is in terms of its foreign
policy or any other policies for that
matter and so I think you know that is
perhaps one of the sort of the longest
legacies aside probably from the
judicial branch that Trump will have
will leave it is that we are not a
reliable partner one that is a
predictable entity on the world stage
and that is going to have reverberations
for years to come I appreciate the phone
call folks we are out of time
apologize callers could not get past you
know eight of you today here we gotta
come up with another system or something
I don't know what but call o'clock call
o'clock oh yeah that could be it
all right folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made the
option
[Music]
laughs we tried
takes you
[Music]
