[Music]
on the phone it's a pleasure to welcome
to the program the proprietor of the
Benjamin Dixon show Ben Dixon Ben
welcome to the program Sam thanks for
having me man it's always a pleasure I
have no idea where to start this week
man it's been a week it seems like ages
ago but the week started off with Mike
Pence basically parading in front of a
roomful of caged men inspecting oh wow
the town I mean can you believe that was
that was only five six days ago I
honestly I would have thought that was
two or three weeks ago on it by now
and it was almost no I think that I mean
it frankly I think it was the launch of
the the the 20/20 campaign or for the
the Trump administration and they rolled
out all of the various I guess shades of
racism that that they have in their
arsenal and by the end of the week I
think we basically saw the entire the
entire campaign play out yeah I have to
agree this is definitely the way that
they're going to run the entire campaign
and which what's so go wild about this
Sam is that a couple things number one
it's effective it's going to work to a
certain degree now whether or not he
wins that remains to be seen but it
rallies is his base and the Republicans
who might feel a little squeamish about
it they go along with it and so it's
it's really his path towards victory if
we're not careful the other side about
it is it's so potent that it does have
the potential of dividing the country in
a way that we've never seen in our
lifetimes and and he seems to have no
remorse whatsoever not even this
afterthought about what this type of
campaign would do to democracy here in
this country oh god no I mean and we
will play this clip later I don't know
if you saw this clip of of Trump talking
to the
uzd woman whoo Nadia Mourad and it's I
mean this guy doesn't care at all I mean
and what I think is really sort of
stunning is how little it appears that
the rest of the Republican Party does I
mean yeah I mean we're talking hundreds
of lawmakers and you got I think what we
have for people who voted with the the
Democrats on this condemnation and I
think that was before the that was
before the rally wasn't it Benny there
yeah I'm here you hear me yeah you're
breaking up a little bit I am here so I
mean I think that was before the rogue a
key yeah I do believe that that was
before the rally and the the fascinating
thing about this one the Sam is that
it's is that the Republicans not only
are going along with it
but they're doubling down on it like
Lindsey Graham right for instance
Lindsey Graham is doubling down on
Donald Trump's ignorance and on his
bigotry and and we're finding that like
throughout rank-and-file Republicans who
would have at least in 2016 prior to
2016 they would have at least tried to
give the appearance of not being
outright open bigots but now Donald
Trump has provided sufficient cover for
them to just live their best racist
lives I don't know it's pretty stunning
and I we had a an attempt to I guess
impeach the president or start
impeachment preachings proceedings I
guess this is on Wednesday now I don't
know time has completely dilated for me
but it was the the motion for
impeachment was tabled essentially it
was a procedural vote and it basically
you know put it to the side I have a
feeling they'll come back and take
another bite at that Apple a little bit
later I you know on some level
I mean I I don't know I mean I it's it's
it's really sort of it's a scary
scenario we're 15 months out one can
only imagine you know he's got to
escalate this right I mean he's going to
because I mean that's just the nature of
the way the Trump works and I feel like
for years I've been telling people it's
gonna get worse before it gets better
and I still think that that's the case
yes it was hard to imagine right with
some of the things that Donald Trump was
pulling over the last couple of years it
was hard to imagine how it could get
worse but with this with the launch of
this campaign he has I don't know he's
really found the one way that we could
rip ourselves apart at the seams like I
cut an entire port I did a video this
week and I cut an entire portion out
because I didn't want to seem to
grimoires to fatalistic but I cut the
portion out because I really said I
don't know how we come back from this
like how do we as a nation come back
from what Donald Trump is getting ready
to do with us and that was Monday I had
no idea that the week was gonna get so
much worse I should have just left it in
there because really that's the question
if Donald Trump goes all the way with
the campaign the way he's talking right
now I don't know how we come back as a
nation yeah I mean I I I there's gonna
be a lot of I I don't I don't know
either to be honest with you I mean I
think that on some level it's just a
matter of the the idea here has to be
that they are just simply defeated right
like I mean I keep waiting for a broader
and maybe it's there but I don't know
how durable it is I mean it sort of
feels like there has been a a palpable
shift in the media and in the mainstream
understanding of of not just Donald
Trump but of the Republican Party I
don't know do you do you feel that's the
case Sam I lost you there for a second I
don't I I didn't catch that question I
was asking if you thought there has
been like a palpable change in the the
media or the the the media's perception
I think of the Republican Party um I
don't know that's that's a difficult one
I I would like to think that this week
opened the eyes of at least a handful of
journalists but we're I mean this week
they had a Spencer Richard Spencer on
CNN right Jake Tapper had him on his
show so I'm not really sure if there's
go if the change is positive right you
would think that it would be positive
there's some journalists who have come
out and and expressly calling what
Donald Trump is they're calling it for
what it is but I'm not sure that the
institution's the media institutions are
going to play the role that they need to
play I think they're still trying to be
quote-unquote fair and balanced and
inevitably leaning towards fascism
because they're giving Donald Trump
cover in so many ways we had another
situation where the prosecutors
apparently in the in the hush money too
you know the paid during the campaign
apparently Donald Trump it was released
was on the phone calls about stormy
Daniels and the prosecutors have now you
know basically it's clear that to the
extent that they decided not to bring
charges it was a function of this DOJ
you know internal ruling essentially
their assessment from the office of
legal counsel remember this is the same
office incidently right that said
tortures legal right and on some level
and you know I I imagine that this is
the assessment of the the DOJ I it's
never been tested at the Supreme Court
and I don't know who would have standing
necessarily to bring this question to
the Supreme Court I imagine we won't
find out until there's a Democratic
president
and the Republicans right do this right
but we're III mean you know there's been
different times where I feel like over
the past couple of years and and
certainly you know after the first like
month or two I I was a little bit less
concerned but you start to really see
the creeks enos in our system and you
know this week after dog Trump came out
and made those statements about Ilan
Omar bill bar came out and said
basically the exact same thing in much
more I guess polite words I don't know
if you saw that but not in the nation of
bill bar coming out and doing that and
basically saying like I am Donald Trump
I am defending Donald Trump the
individual not the institution of the
president it really starts to make me
wonder just that you know sort of how
smooth a transition of power could be in
this situation I mean I you know like I
I know this kind of talk is a little bit
there it's very easy to slip into some
measure of hyperbole and where other
people have articulated this to me in
the past I've been a little bit I you
know we've been a little bit I don't
know I've dismissed it pretty easily but
you start to see this stuff and we're
we're 18 months out and it's still it's
it it looks a little difficult I'm sorry
we're having a little trouble connecting
are you there Ben
yes Sam I'm here can you hear me yeah
what's your sense of that yeah so that
you really my big question this entire
week has been how does America absorb
this how do we how do we adjust for this
how do we compensate for this type of
this type of leadership because we see
now the the creeks that you mentioned
that are in our system Donald Trump was
uniquely fit to exploit them
anyone who has just complete disregard
for our norms and our institutions the
rule of law
and they're able to win the presidency
they're able to exploit all of these
weaknesses in our democracy
couple that with individuals who are
more loyal to the individual men than
they are the institutions and the nation
as a whole I mean it is the perfect
combination for chaos and this is when I
say chaos I mean a chaotic transition to
power like you mentioned but this is
pre-campaign like he just launched the
campaign this week can you imagine all
of those factors compounded with the
type of campaign that he looks like he's
getting ready to run and I mean I I
don't want to lean towards hyperbole I
don't want to be a scare monger but I
mean it could get really ugly for
America and we have a president who has
zero regard for the type of chaos that
he could cause for America let's talk a
little bit about the presidential
campaign because you know at this point
if and I just don't know how III don't
know how Nancy Pelosi continues to
justify this frankly but that you know
we're not going to see any legislation
get passed any legislation that we you
know are hopeful about there may be some
small things I think there's some
bipartisan agreement on the Do Not Call
Registry thing and that's that's good to
see right and Chuck Schumer I think it's
be gonna be able to maybe get us another
inch and a half on the in our leg room
and our planes that's not bad
but really it's you know presidential
politics take on a an even greater
import I think on some level I mean you
know obviously people are gonna have to
get into the streets at one point if it
continues on this way and I think like
you know organizing is hugely important
probably more important but this stuff
is it's it's fascinating there was a
poll that came out NBC News SurveyMonkey
and the national numbers weren't
particularly
you know shocking they've been
consistent with what we've started to
see in terms of a trend Biden at 25
percent Sanders in Warren at 16 percent
Harris at 14 percent boo to judge at
three in the eighth rather and then
O'Rourke Booker yang Castro at three and
two percent but here's what's
interesting in terms of the breakdown of
a race for white people Warren is that
22 percent Biden's at 21 percent then
Harris and Sanders are tied at 15
percent for black people
Biden's at 37 percent Harris and Sanders
are tied at 14 percent Booker and Warren
at 5 percent I mean I got a think on
some level that as Donald Trump attacks
like it just becomes more and more
racist and you see these chants like
send her home write her send her back or
whatnot that this could be helpful to a
Joe Biden insofar as the there is a
there's got to be like you know I mean I
think a big part of Biden support has
got to be a in association with Barack
Obama for sure and be a perception that
he is the safest choice in some way I
don't happen to agree with this but but
that he might be the safest choice and
you know for people of color in this
country you start to get into like this
is an existential issue at this point
yeah yeah I I'm with you I don't agree
that he's the best choice to beat Trump
I think that is I think the argument
there it falls apart really easily when
you see what Donald Trump was able to do
with with Joe Biden's history so no one
is gonna have an easy road against
Donald Trump right let's just start
there the third factor I think I mean
you know the first two I think the third
factor is is that Joe Biden really
represents to a lot of people going back
to normalcy and I think that's
fallacious too because
is no bowing back to a normal state
after this right what what what Donald
Trump has done to the country has
radically moved us in a detrimental
direction but definitely towards the
right I mean if we there is no going
back to normal when he has had over a
hundred judicial picks that are all
probably sycophants right his impact on
the Supreme Court his impact on the
national discourse like there really is
no going back to normal so if people are
looking for Joe Biden to be the safe bed
and the bet to take us back to normal I
think that's a really bad bet and I
think the primaries are gonna flesh that
out for us I think we're gonna see a lot
more by Biden's not gonna survive for a
whole lot longer that's just maybe I'm
wishful thinking here but I'm counting
on the primaries to really flesh this
out for us yeah I think that's the I
mean that's my sense - I just wonder
that you know I don't know that a lot of
Biden's support I mean you know we're
still in a a time period where people
haven't necessarily fully engaged in the
primary and so I think it's easy for
people to have those assumptions about
Biden because he was the vice president
right they released the lineups for the
next democratic debate I missed the I
don't know what you call it the the
lottery that CNN did or whatever it was
but on night one Marianne Williamson Tim
Ryan Amy Amy Klobuchar then beto a Roark
John Hickenlooper John Delaney who's
incidentally it's being reported now
that his own staff is basically saying
fire us by August yeah
and Steve Bullock so basically nobody's
and people to judge Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren and I'm just let's just
start with that what kind of dynamic do
you think that's going to create I mean
my sense is that Warren Sanders it's too
early for them to go at each other but
maybe that's not the case what do you
think is gonna happen there I I'd be
surprised if they went after each other
because they both of them in the first
debate they they both
made an impact but they both set back
and allowed everyone else to kind of
mess over each other which is a pretty
good tactic in my opinion they were they
had a strong opening and then they set
back a little bit I don't see that
they're ready to go head-to-head against
each other because that's gonna be a net
benefit for like Buddha judge in that
kind of scenario so I think we may see
again where they're both gonna make
strong statements they may have one
skirmish between the two of them but I
don't think it's going to devolve into
anything that's going to give someone
like mayor Pete as an advantage in that
in that debate so other than those two
that it really ought Marion Williamson's
I just do I do have to say this about
her like as much as I'm not in favor of
her campaign and I'm really not a fan of
the spiritual guru types I really do
appreciate her running if for no other
reason than what she did to Dave Rubin
on his own show that was worth that was
worth it all yes that was definitely
worth watching I'll take something this
first night is gonna be fascinating I
think because almost everybody on that
stage except for Marianne Williamson and
people to judge let's put them aside for
a moment when we talk Tim Ryan Amy
Klobuchar Bette O'Rourke John
Hickenlooper John Delaney and Steve
Bullock they're all going to go at
Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren on
ideological grounds right and this is
going to give I think both of both
Sanders and Warren and particularly
Sanders because he has the most distinct
ideology at least from a rhetorical
standpoint from Warren right I mean she
has made it clear that she's a
full-throated capitalist but obviously
needs some reform Sanders is saying that
we need a political revolution this is
going to be I think a huge opportunity
for the left of the Democratic caucus
because like they couldn't go against
you know here's the thing
Sanders doesn't want to go directly at
Joe Biden in the first debate because
some of Biden's supporters have to come
to Sanders at one point right but
they're gonna be on stage
people who between one two three four
five six of them they don't even have I
think 10% of the vote right yeah so he's
gonna go up there and and in Warren I
imagine to some extent as well and
they're going to have to a they're gonna
have to defend the the left and I think
they're good they're gonna want to do
actually even more than that I think
they're going to take this as an
opportunity and really explain why we
need we cannot go back to the era of
John Delaney and whatnot and there's no
cost for them to go at these guys not
necessarily as individuals there's no
point right but go at their ideology
because they will all be surrogates for
Joe Biden oh yeah oh yeah no I you know
that's a great that's a great way of
looking at it I also see this this this
really may be the end of the road for a
couple of those names it's particularly
John Delaney like yeah I do see he he he
really believes what he says and even
though he's completely wrong he believes
it enough to jump out there and that's
gonna be the perfect opportunity like
you already said that's gonna be the
perfect opportunity for Bernie Sanders
and Elizabeth Warren to just kind of
make some hay both for the left as well
as clearing the field so I wouldn't be
surprised if after this debate we see a
couple of those people from night one
drop out yeah I agree with you and the
other I guess you know point that needs
to be made about that every single
person on that stage on the first night
will be white well yeah on the second
night we have Joe Biden and Kamala
Harris Cory Booker Julian Castro Andrew
yang Tulsi Gabbard jay Inslee Bill
DeBlasio and Michael Bennett and Chris
and Gillibrand
and that's also gonna be a fascinating
night because I would imagine the the
theme of Joe Biden talking about how
nice it was to have segregationist and
this notion that you know everything's
going to return to normal right that's
Joe Biden's that's Joe Biden's pitch
that I'm gonna return things to normal
see and I have a feeling I would hope
that
half of the people on that stage three
quarters are gonna say to Joe Biden what
makes you think after watching what we
saw this week yeah and the reaction in
the polls let's say two things like you
know that that you're gonna return this
to normal like what makes you think that
the we don't have a big divide in this
country right now and I think something
else that's gonna be exposed
specifically because of that dynamic
right the racial tension the racial
dynamic night - you have all the people
of color versus Joe Biden I think that
night is going to expose that Joe Biden
is not as tough as people like to
imagine that he is he's not that skilled
of a debater he's not as quick on his
toes as he's going to need to be to go
up against Donald Trump if Donald Trump
is nothing else he is a witty he's witty
with his combats he can come back and
really make you pay the price for saying
something stupid right and and we're
gonna see that on night - I think once
people get a hold of Joe cuz everyone's
gonna come after Joe they have nothing
to lose everything to gain and I don't
think Joe is going to be in a position
where he can stand his ground where he
can actually make some hay out of it
like Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren
would do for night one so I think it's
gonna be a good night for America to
really see yet again that Joe Biden is
not up to the task he's not the best bet
to go up against what Donald Trump I
couldn't think of that guy's name for a
second it's been that crazy of a week
yeah it's gonna be I think these are
both really interesting sort of slates
to be honest with you I mean I suppose
it could work that way I would like to
see at one point warned with Biden
because Warren you know has a particular
portfolio that that that Joe I mean I
think Joe Biden was one of the Reese
when she got into politics like
electoral politics on some level because
of that bankruptcy bill by this is a I
mean this is a very good situation I
think from the perspective of people who
are of the left in the Democratic Party
because
we're gonna see a you know an
opportunity for Sanders and Warren to go
full throated against yep the the
establishment politics the you know the
the Hickenlooper John Delaney Bullock
yeah politics and the sort of the
emptiness on some level of the rhetoric
of Buddha judge Rourke although you know
Buddha judge I think is far more adept
at this stuff and and maybe even has
more substance than a Rourke does but
it's going to be interesting to see then
they're all gonna come for for Warren
and Sanders I mean all yeah yeah
but I don't know I mean I this week his
has really left me and you know I think
more speechless and I've been in in ages
like I just the relentlessness of it the
the nakedness of it the I mean I suppose
it's a good sign that Trump had to walk
it back a little bit or pretend it
wasn't him and that they've all they're
all on board of this yesterday we saw
you know we saw the beginning of the
week Fox and Friends because this is
like the the and and I don't want to
elevate the importance of Fox and
Friends the context of American politics
but when you want to get a sense of what
these sort of like the the the the
center of the right the hard rights
softest margins are that's Fox and
Friends right like that's like their
it's like the it's like you know the
it's almost like they're cooking show on
some level and it's the soft at in in
the way that you know they started off
the week saying that Donald Trump was
being really comedic with his tweets
yeah yeah
they described the the chant of sender
back it's like things got a little
raucous and they were blowing but you
know they that I mean we're
we're at a stage now where it sort of
feels like you know the they're not
full-throated Lee denouncing this stuff
oh yeah
keeping the door open to go further yes
I get this sort of like feeling that you
know six months from now
they're jedem saying it was the crowd
that just did this chant they're gonna
say well I mean let's face it if she
doesn't like it here they she they
should go back right I mean think about
this now Newt Gingrich former Speaker of
the House was on Fox News saying that
exact thing right so this is this is I'm
not impressed by I don't well I mean
there was nothing to be impressed by but
the fact that he walked it back just an
inch that that's that's his MO like if
he does something ridiculous he will
come back an inch and then watch next
week he's gonna run a full mile on us
and go in the opposite direction right
so his upon his you know excuse that the
crowd got out of control or whatever
next week he himself is not it's
probably gonna double down on this
because that's what he's done in the
past but that speaks to another problem
Sam there is no more normal when so many
of the Republicans in this country
actually not only identify what what
Donald Trump is doing but I wouldn't go
even further than Donald Trump is
presently willing to go so for anyone
who thinks that we could just go back to
normal without actually addressing these
issues in a substantive and almost
combative fashion we've got to fight
we've got a serious fight on our hands
and part of the fight is not just
economic yes we do have economic issues
that we absolutely must address we have
to go towards the left we need social
policies we need Medicare for all hell
we need universal basic income we need a
lot of different things but we have to
fight the culture wars because this is
where billionaires are pouring all of
their money into all these people you
see on YouTube the bin Shapiro's the
Dave Reubens they're getting funded to
fight the culture war and we're seeing
the result of that not only from the
YouTube contingency obviously the the
the the decades-long experiment are the
two decades long experiment of Fox News
it has all been about the culture war
and we have a significant portion of
this country that not only
buys into what Donald Trump is saying
they want him to go further and there's
no going back to normal if you're not
ready to fight that head-on there's only
a new normal that can be had after this
well you know Andrew Breitbart who you
know folks like Shapiro was spawned of I
guess on some level and and of course
you know Bannon came in and was more or
less a partner of his the Mercer's
bright words big Creed occur I guess was
that politics is downstream from culture
and part of that was just because of his
own resentment that you know the the
guys in Hollywood didn't want to hang
out with him and and you saw it with Ben
Shapiro you know had interest in
becoming a screenwriter in Hollywood and
then you know obviously couldn't because
he's conservative and that's why he you
could get a job but this I mean I think
this is I think this is increasingly the
case right and I mean that's I mean I
agree with you I think it's it's
becoming a there is so much of our
politics is part this this this culture
war they have been able to sort of
activate more and more on the right I
mean because this is Patrick Pat
Buchanan was calling for this in 93 he
was calling for it when on some level it
worked under Nixon right I mean that was
a pop you can ins whole thing we're
gonna split the country in half and
we've got the bigger half is what he
said at the time and and and it worked
then you know the the and maybe maybe
it's becoming more extreme or more naked
only in relief on some level that there
is you know in the sense that like I
don't know that attitudes were worse in
1972 it may be just that on the you know
to the center to the left
attitudes are better and so
a higher consciousness of this stuff
maybe they're getting more extreme
because you know they're they're feeling
that power diminished I don't know I
mean yeah I mean the slightest amount of
power loss and they swear they are the
most oppressed people in the history of
all oppression but never mind the fact
that they're in power almost throughout
the entire country can you imagine if
white conservative men actually became a
margin I mean marginalized community
they would be in the streets burning
stuff down every single day but to your
point I don't know that they're actually
worse but I do think that they're more
indifferent towards well actually I mean
let me start that over I think there are
less social ramifications because their
reward structure they have an entire
reward infrastructure that that actually
rewards them for this type of behavior I
don't think that infrastructure was
there as much in the 70s or the 80s
where you could maybe you don't win an
elected office but you get yourself a
nice commentary job making 300 thousand
dollars a year if you can go out and say
the most salacious and outrageous thing
so now they can be rewarded for their
bigotry in a way that we went through a
slight period I mean it was really just
a really brief period in American
history where you would be penalized for
your open bigotry I think we're in a
place now where you could be rewarded
because that country that they divided
in half has all types of spoils to give
to them do you think that what we're
looking at is you know 50 years ago
let's say 40 years ago you know what you
know let's just peg it around the the
the the mid to late 60s there was all
sorts of structural support and not
structural but but structural but also
institutional support right for racism
for white supremacy legal support an
institutional support the legal support
for white supremacy
for the most part right not necessarily
in practice but in terms of the letter
of the law although that's been rolled
back with the Voting Rights Act and
other things but the the legal support
for white supremacy is diminished
relative to where it was sure 4050 years
ago the institutional support is
probably diminished in some areas maybe
maybe across the board but it's still
pretty prominent in some other areas
like policing for instance yes sure the
carceral state and on some level that
white people / the Republican Party
honestly I mean that's that's a that's
it's simply a factual description of the
Republican Party are are trying to
regain what they lost from a legal
perspective and perhaps an institutional
perspective in a cultural perspective i
well i yes okay i think i piece it
together you're saying what they lost
institutionally they're trying to make
up culturally right and and i think that
they've done that they are successful in
that they have a system I mean we talk
about this all the time they have a
structure where they could take a no
name no body and they can elevate them
to the national prominence in a matter
of a few days you know and so they have
the cultural impact they have the
structure they have they don't have
institutions they don't have legal
institutions anymore but they do have
private institutions they do have think
tanks they have outlets like Prager you
and and the Heritage Foundation you know
all these organizations I mean countless
organizations that can enrich someone
and reward them for being able to make
inroads in the culture war if they can
find right now their latest move is the
move towards the people you know
collecting all of their people of color
to do this work right because that's far
more powerful than a white person doing
all of this is to have a person of color
so right now they have Muslim who will
go out and derive Islam they have a
black woman who will go out and derive
black people
they have so that is what they're making
their inroads through and that's how
they're making it and I think that they
see the value that even if we can't
legally discriminate or even if we can't
legally suppress cuz really what this is
about is protecting that white male
power structure that Bill O'Reilly and
John McCain we're talking about on Fox
News some years ago it's really about
insulating that power structure and if
they can't do it legally they have found
a way to do it culturally right well
next week's another week I'm sure it's
gonna be just as horrible I can't
believe that that visit that Mike
Pence's visit was this week I honestly I
have to go back and Google that because
you're right time dilation is hitting us
seriously right now I think those face
app where everyone aged themself and
gave their information to the Russians I
think it really is far more accurate
than we really want to believe because
of the pace of our news cycle I feel
like I've aged well I'm old but I feel
like even more rapidly over the past I
don't know 12 months sure Michael you're
gonna I'm gonna say Sam you have been
you have it my friends well I appreciate
that Mike even though I know it's not
true man I've aged so much man this last
two years have been really rough and I
just I think it's been rough on a lot of
American people we we're gonna have to
have some PTSD treatment for most of
Americans once we get past and get past
this Trump stage and get to the new
normal
adjust but I don't think that's gonna
happen right I mean like I don't think I
mean I think that I I just I think
there's gonna be a couple of months but
then I think Tom cotton or whoever it is
is gonna come back and and I don't I
don't think getting rid of Trump it will
it will maybe make it less telegenic on
some level for a brief period of time
but I don't think this goes away I mean
III think there I think it's going to
take it's some dramatic change and it's
gonna need dramatic change in time can I
run one right thing by you guys yeah III
think that this is another reason why
very
specifically and you know we're still in
the primary but you know hopefully we'll
never get to this point but I I think
one of the things that's also so
specifically destructive about Biden is
one I think he could team up with
Republicans to do things like cut Social
Security and Medicare which we've talked
about yeah and to because I think he
will be probably more than any other
candidate on a continuum a willing
co-participant and these people taking a
couple years to launder themselves and
pretend they didn't do all this
incidentally before we get to 2022 in
2024 when they restarted up again but he
will be exactly the one to be like yup
come to the White House I know that was
a weird aberration and let's just
pretend you weren't willing code
participants for this whole drill we we
could have pulled this the other day but
Mark Sanford was on Chris Hayes the
other night and Mark Sanford is is is
contemplating a presidential run against
hey against Trump because Chris Hayes
gonna end against Chris Hayes and he
said he he sort of implied this at first
and then Hayes asked him directly he
said the number one challenge facing
this country right now
is the deficit and debt and and Hayes
was like wait are you are you serious
are you are you are you seriously saying
that he goes yes and then he said like
you guys are just going to pretend like
that's the case when a Democrat gets in
office and the whole cycles gonna start
over again and I'm quite I'm quite
convinced I mean there was a story Rush
Limbaugh I was reading somehow I
stumbled onto Reason magazine Rush
Limbaugh was basically saying like yeah
don't worry about spending that was just
a trap that we set for the Democrats and
he's going to snap back the moment you
know Bernie Sanders is elected or
Elizabeth Warren oh yeah elected or
Peabody judge is elected these they're
immediately going to be like the deficit
debt is the biggest
problem that we have which can be VY Mar
Germany and etc etc and Biden will will
let them do and I actually I flew that
yabuta judge on the side of that
equation as well I do that as well let
them launder it yep
and this is this is what we have to have
there has to become a new normal right
so when I say get past Trump I mean we
we can get past Trump and go right back
to the way things were and because we
don't have the infrastructure on the
left he'll not even the Democratic Party
there's as powerful as they are they
don't have the infrastructure to command
the new cycles and to command the the
discourse the way Republicans do and so
if we go back to normal it will be
exactly that I mean Republicans will
just reset their twenty year cycle and
here we are we're going to be fighting
about deficits but we have to get to a
new normal which is going to include
shattering this entire notion of
Republicans being fiscally conservative
and shattering the notion that we have
to worry about deficits because we've
never worried about deficits underneath
Republicans in the first place and
coupled with that has to be someone
who's willing to fight the culture war
on a level that can help us reset this
because if if not the Tom Cotton's can't
come in the future right but if we don't
put some if we don't find a way to make
it to make it socially unacceptable to
be this open bigot and run these bigoted
campaigns with loud dog whistles with
bull horns then we will just keep going
further and further down the slippery
slope towards fascism i the i i think
it's that's why it's so important that
you know at this point the the the
project largely has to be to make sure
that Donald Trump and the Republican
Party are synonymous this is know and
and and you know not even argue
necessarily that they're there they the
Republicans lack fiscal discipline
because I don't think that should be the
the fight I think the the point is that
there are a a the the the the Republican
Party is
it's it's broken it is it is not a
political party this conservative
movement is it's largely I think just
authoritarianism and there doesn't seem
to be any type of rational set of
ideology that doesn't really involve you
know the xenophobia and the racism you
know there you know you don't hear
people cheering like we want wages or we
want jobs or economic development right
I mean it is misogyny it is racism it's
xenophobia and you strip that away
there's just not much there and it's
it's also at best a willingness to
exploit these things for massive
corporate giveaways absolutely I mean
that's exactly it we and and III don't I
think that's a distinction in many
respects without a difference if you're
willing to just walk by and parade in
front of a cage full of men who haven't
you know who've been denied showers and
a place to sleep for forty days so that
you know the EPA can allow pesticide
companies to use something for that that
that hurts kids neurological development
I mean you're you're a racist and on top
of that you know you're racist plus I
you know that that's that is this the
sheer reality of this the people in the
crowd last well whatever night that was
at this point the people in that crowd
they may not even be cognizant some of
them may be beneficiaries of the
corporate handouts that Donald Trump has
given them but the majority of them are
there because of the fury that Donald
Trump is able to rev them up in and and
and it goes one its hand in hand it's it
is the what's the matter with Kansas a
scenario on meth right it's like on
steroids and where we're now they have
they are clearly
free to be therefore bigoted selves
while their corporate overlords and the
background saying this is perfectly fine
for us because now we can gut every
safety every state in that every safety
measure every everything that has ever
given us progress over the last century
we can gut it while they're out there
celebrating the racism yeah I mean this
this you know I mean maybe we need a
some version of like crypto racism or
neo racism or utilitarian racism or
something like that to describe you know
a Donald Trump is really a nice guy at
heart he's not really a racist
Mitch McConnell is not really a racist
they're just using racism and misogyny
to you know provide tax cuts for their
people or to I mean like just for the
sake of of bringing people on board you
know maybe you need to put like some
type of qualifier on the racism so that
people feel more comfortable with it
like hey we're not burning crosses on
anybody's house we're just basically
exploiting the the the impetus to do
that to achieve corporate aims yeah I
guess the only question what that would
be like who would we win with that
argument only because they have a
full-throated acceptance of racism on
the on the right and then we have kind
of this this milquetoast approach from
from from Nancy Pelosi from from Joe
Biden I mean the centrist Democrats I
don't know that they would even be moved
by that argument just simply because of
how they're reacting to Donald Trump but
the sentiment is 100 percent accurate I
mean you're absolutely right but can I
just real quick one other just thing on
this that actually though correlates
with calling out the disingenuous and
I'm really in sort of you know trash
pseudo identity or us things that are
marshaled by disingenuous Democrats as
well because the whole context of part
of the drama with the Twitter account
and the been clearly them trying to get
the AOC staffer fired was that he said
if you're a Democrat and you voted for a
border funding bill without any
accountability for the border system
that is functionally a racist vote among
many other things and they went to
immediately while Charice Davids voted
for it and she's Native American and the
most you know for ass identitarian
nonsense and he responded and he said
well you can be of color or with any
identity and in fact enable a racist
system and that is actually the deeper
point and that will implicate a lot of
Democrats far as I'm concerned
absolutely I mean and that's
self-evident right
I mean Clarence Thomas well that's silly
well they always want it well people
want to always know I'm not I'm not
comparing Charisse Davis but it's on a
sliding spectrum yes I like and and
there's plenty of data I mean this guy
you know the we've talked about this
Eddy clouds book you know sort of walks
through the the notion and and others
that for that matter that white
supremacy is a practice and it is
something that is not you know white
supremacy can be practiced by any member
of any race I you're you're conditioned
in certain areas I mean you have certain
other agendas but it doesn't get worse
than what we see well I put this way
it's yet to have gotten worse than we
have seen this week in politics at least
in this in you know the past couple of
decades I think it's I think we're gonna
see it get worse so Bendixon appreciate
your time today buddy always a pleasure
Oh always a pleasure thanks so much Sam
might take care
