this all basically broke out into the
open on January 23rd in terms of the I
guess the question is to who is the
president of Venezuela but let go back
for us and and just set the table
because you know to a certain extent our
audience in the United States we tend to
look at these issues through a rather a
myopic lens and the United States part
in this but this is a story that has
been ongoing in Venezuela for some time
at the very least since obviously you
got Chavez died but tell us just assess
for us the Maduro presidency how it has
what its trajectory has been and and we
should also state obviously that the
problems that has happened with the
Venezuelan economy have been exacerbated
by the United States and others policy
towards their participation in in world
markets but but fill us in on that okay
well we start with with Nicolas Maduro
you know a long time shabby stir very
loyal to his boss was anointed as Chavez
his successor effectively when Chavez
departed for the last time to Cuba for
what turned out to be his ultimate
cancer treatment before he died early in
2013
Maduro took charge one election shortly
after that by a narrow margin and
unfortunately for him presided over the
beginning of Venezuela's economic
decline which is obviously produced by
the falling oil prices at the time but I
think this is crucial we have to say
Maduro and his government have run the
Venezuelan economy into grant into the
ground I mean their economic policy has
been a disaster for many reasons but I
think one of the reasons is that Maduro
had to keep this this this that the show
on the road the chavista show something
which had been totally dominated by this
hugely charismatic you know
figure which was Hugo Chavez Maduro is
not as charismatic and the way he went
about keeping himself in power and
holding the Alliance of Chavistas
together was fundamentally through
corruption and paying off different
parts of the military of the political
allies and and this is this has been the
the this the the story of the last six
years if you like we have seen
Venezuela's economy crunch decline by 40
to 50 percent we've seen terrible
hyperinflation in the last two years the
direct results of appalling economic
mismanagement and we've seen at the same
time politically the opposition which
had really been buried under ooh who got
Chavez who was you know just a serial
election victor enormously popular in
the country the opposition has come back
restored itself cleaned itself DUP won
elections to the National Assembly in
2015 and then as it started you know
preparing itself to you know finally
dislodge chavismo from power that is
when the political repression began and
the government alas became ever more
authoritarian resulting in the elections
the very disputed elections of May last
year okay and and just give us a sense I
mean the the the economic mismanagement
there mismanaging obviously the fall of
global oil prices which had propped up
the economy significantly give us a if
you could a brief a survey course though
on the my understanding is that there
were implications to lines of credit
that were denied the Venezuelan
government and caused deeper corruption
because of what was uh what could be
done at that point with playing off of
different currencies particularly
you know the res related to the US
dollar right I'm gonna put this straight
and I mean I've been working on
Venezuela for a long time and I have had
great sympathy with ogo Chavez in his
time and spoken to his ministers visited
Chubby's to projects you know I have
written about this in the past so I want
to say absolutely I'm not coming at it
with an ideological bias or a prejudice
I must say as it was those there are two
sorts of sanctions which the United
State has brought against Venezuela
targeted sanctions against government
leaders asset freezes travel bans you
know the usual which is have now cover a
lot of government leaders but doesn't
really have economic effects on the
Venezuelan people and financial
sanctions introduced in August 2017
now those a lot of blame has been put on
those from certain sectors and it's true
that they did restrict credit lines to
Venezuelan companies and for oil
purchases so it rather you know reduced
the room for maneuver and you would
speak to senior US government officials
and they will admit there's been over
compliance with those sanctions so that
you know any dealing with a Venezuelan
company which involves a US bank or
financial transaction of some sort comes
in for particular scrutiny and that
wasn't the initial intention of those
sanctions but I want to be absolutely
clear the Venezuelan economic disaster
had just stated well before those
sanctions were Ruggiero were introduced
the immigration was already beginning
the inflation was already rocketing the
imports of food and medicine on which
people depended were already collapsing
all of that was well underway if you
look at the poverty rates in Venezuela
the the the increase in a number of poor
people from 2013-14 till 17 was
absolutely huge before the sanctions
there's no doubt the sanctions have had
an effect a chilling effect and they
particularly hit the oil industry which
has collapsed in the last year
so but I think if you were looking for a
general understanding of where the
Venezuelan economy went wrong you've
just got to look at price controls
distortions expropriations and a very
lamentable you know manipulation of the
currency which was effectively used gay
used by people close to the regime to
make vassal out vast amounts of illicit
money right okay and so you know we're
gonna take a break in about two minutes
but before we do give us a sense of what
of what we're talking about when we talk
about and you've alluded to it a little
bit but we talked about an economy that
has really just crashed I mean is
imploded with this what does it mean on
the ground like what is how do
Venezuelans and and give us a sense
across the the income spectrum how do
they experience it well I mean what we
mean by this is that you have a minimum
wage and that's because of the constant
hyperinflation and constant devaluation
of the currency has been you know
rocking around five or six dollars up
and down according to how the currency
is faring at any given moment over the
last two years
so that's dollar terms obviously you
know food is a bit cheaper in Venezuela
but but but not considerably and it
means that access to all those goods
which are imported and huge numbers of
goods are imported this is an oil state
traditionally imported but you know most
food and you know and other goods
it means access to those is very limited
it you know indeed so what do you see I
mean what what how does it affect the
people well you know I can I can speak
from a number of different places here
you go to the border c√∫cuta that bought
the Colombian border time with Venezuela
and you see the families who are
bringing all their possessions you know
leaving Venezuela and I mean well I mean
you see some terrible things what can I
say see you see children one-year-old
children with with their feet all bent
because of rickets which if I'm not
mistaken is due to a lack of
protein consumption in their first few
months of life you see you see regularly
people who have just consuming less than
they then they need to be able to eat if
you go down into the far south of the
country
amazoness or Bolivar State you know the
stories of just the compromises and the
way people have to shut up and keep
quiet to receive that the food rations
the clap boxes which they received from
local state authorities you know and and
and and all the sorts of forms of
poverty you can mention the one thing
which nobody lacks until there are
occasional shortages is it's petrol gas
because it's so phenomenally cheap and
it's still even despite all the massive
inflation it's still kept a sort of
subsidized rate of less than pennies
less than sin since that fact I saw one
estimate recently that you could fill
eleven Olympic sized swimming pools with
petrol bought with one dollar in
Venezuela at the moment so I mean this
is just an example of the economic
distortions overall you see you see the
effects now I think the point you're
also raising here is you know how is it
affecting the rich of people well the
well I've been corporate sorry let's
take let's take a quick break here when
we come back let's talk about how it's
affecting the wealthy as well in
Venezuela and then let's talk about the
move by Juan Guido to attempt to assume
the presidency
I'm Sam cedar this would bring a fire
radio I'm talking to Ivan Briscoe we'll
be right back in just a moment
