[Music]
meanwhile let's just talk about this
report about let's do the Iran stuff
first there was a report today in The
New York Times that the White House is
reviewing plans military plans against
Iran at a meeting of president Trump's
top national security aides last
Thursday acting defense secretary we
don't have a defense secretary
incidentally we haven't had one for what
over a year now
when was it madness was gone Sandman was
recently appointed I don't know if he's
been come he's acting he's acting
defense secretary go back to Khan at the
Secretary of War he presented an updated
military plan that calls for sending as
many as a hundred and twenty thousand
troops to the Middle East should Iran
attack American forces or accelerate
work on nuclear weapons that's a big or
there isn't it it's also pretty vague
what does accelerate work on nuclear
weapons mean that mean accelerate work
on weapons that could carry nuclear
warheads does that mean accelerate work
on potential dual use enrichment of
uranium we don't know the revisions were
ordered by hardliners led by John Bolton
they do not call for a land invasion of
Iran which would require vastly more
troops so I'm in a hundred and twenty
thousand is just what you need if you're
just going to stand by while you bomb
Iran it is unclear whether the president
has been briefed on the number of troops
or other details in the plan here is
Donald Trump being asked if he was
seeking regime change in Iran
we'll see what happens with Iran if they
do anything it would be a very bad
mistake if they do anything I'm hearing
little stories about Iran if they do
anything they will suffer greatly we'll
see what happens with the ROC the Mad
King has heard little stories about what
they're doing in Iran and of course one
of those stories was that the UAE
claimed that four ships were attacked
the other day one was Finnish 2 were
Saudi I can't remember what the fourth
one was Emirati Emirati the story now is
is that the Finnish boat was attacked by
something in the water
and that the Saudi boats though there
has been no pictures of damage done to
these boats there were no deaths there
was no leaking of oil
we're attacked by something else that
came from somewhere else maybe a drone
UFO yeah well yes of sorts in a certain
sense but somehow they figured out that
it's Iran or Iranian Iranian proxies
which could basically be anybody but the
Saudis or the the UAE folks I guess
right I mean theoretically it's all
divided up into two you're either on
Team Saudi and UAE or you're obviously
on Team Iran according to them so
there's a lot of vagaries and Mike
Pompeo in a last-minute meeting change
apparently he's scuttling all over the
place
head to Europe to talk to European
allies on Monday and presumably he was
looking for some support maybe we don't
know but here is the EU response to
their meeting with Mike Pompeo this is
Frederica
mogherini in Brussels Michael heard that
very clearly today from from us not only
from myself but also from the other
ministers of EU Member States that we
are living in crucial delicate moments
where the most relevant attitude to take
the most responsible attitude to take is
and we believe should be embedded
Maximus maximum restraint and avoiding
any escalation on a military site so in
other words not interested is what the
EU has to say meanwhile Pompeo is to
meet Putin today to ostensibly we'll be
talking about that as well we should say
that
Pompeyo literally like crashed in the
Brussels meeting of the EU they weren't
anticipating him they just showed up
there and a presumably maybe he has like
special satellite images because the
satellite images showed no damage to the
sabotage saudi ships that could have
been mental sabotage emotional sabotage
of the ships that doesn't show up on
silent OSH there are some people who
suggest that the the military option
that was offered that is being reported
now to Bolton in the event of a you know
non ground war non ground invasion of
Iran of a hundred and twenty thousand
troops is the military signaling to the
civilian leadership we're going to make
this very hard for you
we're going to we're going to tell you
you need 120 thousand troops which is a
lot of troops to do whatever it is do
you think you want to do so good luck
Marsh
pulling those forces in good luck
marshalling the public opinion that is
necessary for that there was an
interesting piece that this guy Mike
Micah Zenko wrote in foreign policy
that's back in 2012 you know I saw this
on Twitter where where they where he
suggests that there are different times
where the the military frames decisions
of presidents by offering solutions to
what they want that are either
discouraging or encouraging so for
instance you want to be the the general
who the Bush administration embraces you
go and say we can do this hundred
thousand troops five or six days will
wrap this thing up you know the toughest
part will be getting the candy and
flowers you know scraped off our
uniforms when they throw it to us in
Iraq or you can be general Shinseki and
say this is gonna cost a trillions of
dollars and we shouldn't do this and
then you can then get so merrily sent
out the pasture but that is basis so
deep it's a deep state yeah exactly
so that's possibly what's going on now
and I mean the one the one thing that
the Trump administration seems to keep
proving over and over again is that
they're really unqualified even in
pursuit of their own decrepit agenda and
so hopefully their incompetence will win
the day Bolton as much as he is
positioned presumably to get his way and
to convince Trump of something hopefully
won't be able to do it but we shall see
I don't think you know Brendan asked me
when we came in today do you think like
the public has an appetite for this and
my answer is no I'm not convinced that
they understand that in the White House
and I don't know that that would be a
deterrent and I don't know I mean right
now you have Marco Rubio calling for an
investigation calling on bar to have an
investigation of John Kerry's meeting
with the Iranians trying to convince
them I guess it was last year not to
allow the u.s. the u.s. is pulling out
of the Iran nuke deal to to force Iran
to pick up their enrichment of uranium
again he wanted to he wanted to convince
them to hang in there and essentially
you know work with the Europeans and
Rubio wants to investigate whether John
Kerry broke the Logan Act and I'll tell
you something the it's so perverse
because there's so many instances of
people breaking the Logan Act I mean
Trump I think you know arguably did
during the campaign certainly what Flynn
did in the run-up to to the Trump
administration taking office seems to
have broken the Logan Act Jared Kushner
broke the Logan Act others Erik Prince
part of the trumpet Irish Prince
I mean this happens all the time now
usually it's for really horrific things
I think the Reagan administration the
people did too is with the with Iran
Andrey Kissinger write in the Paris
peace talks yeah the Vietnamese Paris
peace talks usually when people break
the Logan act more often than not it is
to encourage killing and more war John
Kerry was trying to salvage a deal with
Iran that basically at the time
eliminated a an enemy of the United
States I mean made you know at least a
one that create you know could create
real danger in the world but of course
Marco Rubio one of the good Republicans
