so Ken you have done some pretty
important reporting here for the Young
Turks Network and these are documents
that have been obtained by you folks
they were marked law enforcement
sensitive and for official use only
these are FBI's FBI documents
first off let's just start with this
like what what are these documents what
what exactly are they are they in just a
an institutional form and then let's
talk about what's in them so these
documents were produced by FBI
headquarters and they include the
counter-terror priorities each year they
released a formal document that is the
result of extensive you know planning
discussion and decision making to kind
of set forth what are the major usually
the list is about 12 around around maybe
15 priorities long each year and they
sort of decide that is what they're
going to focus on but also what they're
going to focus their resources
you know manpower and intelligence
gathering attention things like that too
and so for this counter-terror
priorities list I got their priorities
lists from fiscal year twenty twenty
twenty nineteen and twenty eighteen so
it gives you a really nice sort of
snapshot of what the bureau's priorities
under President Trump have been and it
had been reported previously that one of
their priorities was quote black
identity extremists and that's really
what piqued my interest in this because
when that was reported that obviously
you know triggered a great deal of
concern but there wasn't a whole lot
known about the context in which this
black eye then the extremists priority
was conceived and so what these
documents show is what exactly their
intelligence gathering around black
identity extremists were where that
group as a priority stands in relation
to other counter-terror priorities and
just you know general context which was
which was missing a personal story so we
should you know I mean so just so that
people can understand and in this
imagine the FBI has been doing this for
quite a while and they produced this
document every year and they must get
somewhat granular as you you know if
we're talking about 15 sort of like
institutionalized counterterrorism
threats I mean what what constitutes
terrorism in there in you know is that
part of this document or is that just
simply a principle that exists within
the counterterrorism division of the FBI
or what it's not defined in these
documents but within the intelligence
community sort of general definition for
it is violence undertaken for sort of
political goals or political purposes
generally so that's sort of the I would
say that's the umbrella definition that
the intelligence community users that's
interesting you know and I you know when
I hear stuff like this I hearken back to
during the Bush administration years
where at one point radical vegans were
put on this list because you know or are
lists similar I guess because they had
been protesting out in front of a
honey-baked ham Factory and there was
some talk that maybe they could I don't
know do something violent because of
this because they were radical vegans
but this black identity politics like
what extremists like what I'm not even
sure I understand what that means what
does that mean black identity extremism
well it seemed like until you know these
documents
nobody had a really you know detailed
understanding of what that was but
according to documents and what's
astonishing to me is that they
specifically cite the Ferguson protests
following the killing of Michael Brown
by you know a law enforcement officer
Darren Wilson they specifically cite
that as the genesis of the quote/unquote
black identity extremists so I was
surprised that they would draw that
connection to you know protest movements
at work of one
like peaceful and not just that they
would do that but they would you know
put that into a document that very well
could get leaked and they you know might
have to face political consequences in
it and that didn't have tennis course so
I was I was a bit surprised that day
because ordinarily with these documents
these are wide distribution within the
Bureau and of course since these are law
enforcement sensitive they're not given
to the public but I mean a lot of FBI
you know agents and analysts see these
things so it's not like you know it's
not like it's a compartmented program
that only a few people have access to
they had to know that a large number of
people are going to see this so as a bit
surprised that they chose that language
because if you look at how they defined
white supremacists which is another
character priority they don't cite you
know any protest movements as their
Genesis so I found that concerning yeah
I mean well I mean let's let's tease
this out now what at what point we
talked about the Ferguson protests we're
talking about events that predated the
Trump administration right and you only
have documents from 18 19 and 20 so
presumably they're written in 17 18 and
19 the those documents right I mean
they're doing it for the next for the
next coming year I guess I mean you tell
me if I'm wrong but so do we have a
sense of whether that may that this is
not a function of of the Trump
administration or is it I mean because
what they're talking about it sounds to
me is like the black lives matter
movement right I mean because one way if
you were to ask me like what movement
came out of Ferguson and what came out
of the the I I would tell you black
lives matter it seems like this is a
euphemism yeah and I I'm sorry but
there's so many pages I can't recall but
I think they mentioned black lives
matter as well as I recall and I would
you know encourage listeners to click
through the documents I embed that in
the PDF but certainly if you read the
context that they provide citing
Ferguson that is absolutely the
impression that one gets I don't see how
someone could could you know read these
documents and not guess not not get that
impression but is there and then and
then the other question so we don't know
when this designation materialized we
only know right now because we only have
the documents from eighteen nineteen
twenty that is spoken in relation to
Ferguson but we don't know that if this
was a new designation that occurred
contemporaneously with the Ferguson
protests shortly after the Ferguson
protests or if they were if this
designation cropped up in 2018 that's
correct you know a big part of the
problem is they don't release these
things and actually before the ACLU and
other nonprofits had tried to you know
follow Freedom of Information Act
requests and even litigated them and the
Bureau refused to produce them so it's
very hard for us to get insight into
what preceded it but I would not be
surprised if this was not actually
something that happened under Obama for
the simple reason that when like had any
extremists the term was first supported
in foreign policy I believe in either
2017 or early 2018 it precipitated a you
know big controversy and that sort of
culminated in Senate Democrats
speaking to you know in a formal Senate
you know hearing the FBI director who
assured them that he had gotten rid of
that designation and what these
documents show is that the constituent
parts of that designation the definition
the criteria that they used to describe
what black adem extremists are they just
moved that under a new term and they
kept basically all of those constituent
parts so while what the FBI director was
telling the Senate was narrowly true
that they technically yes they changed
the you know formal name that you would
see on the one-page list of priorities
if you actually click on the priority
and look at what constitutes that it's
all the same stuff so okay
all right let me see if I can just
understand what you're saying so in 2017
there were Democrats who are upset at
their awareness of a term being used was
it black identity extremists was the
term at the time that Senator that
Congress had brought this up a number of
times but this culminated just last last
month like weeks before I got this in
the Senate has an ax formal hearing
where they just kind of say why are we
doing this all these whites Paris
attacks are happening and it was Cory
Booker you know this video you can see
you can see parts of this and you know
you have the FBI just tell them straight
up yep we got rid of it it's not there
anymore and that just seems incredibly
disingenuous okay so okay I see so the
complaints came very recently they got
rid of the term black identity
extremists and you're saying that they
came up with a different one or what was
the one that they supposedly got rid of
and they just recreated the category
under a different name
yep so now they have a new term it's
called racially motivated extremists but
then within that they end up complete
conflating white supremacists and the
black identity extremists so they just
put the new thing under a kind of
neutral sounding term but it's the same
thing and you know in my view to put
that alongside you know a character
threat that has actually killed a bunch
of people well you know yeah let's take
thank you okay because now because we
need to move on from the well let's talk
about the legitimacy of actually having
the cat what we're talking about is is
this even nevermind the term is this a
legitimate category and one that you can
actually put on the same list as a
category that seems to be literally far
more dangerous but let's take a quick
break when we come back we'll talk more
Ken clip enstein about this piece that
he is written for The Young Turks about
these leaked FBI documents revealing the
bureau's priorities under Donald Trump
I'm Sam cedar there's wearing a fire
radio
