[Music]
back on the racist beat Steven Miller
who one of those bugs you know he and
mcmalley aney seemed to be the sort of
the the cockroaches in this
administration and they they bring
Steven Miller out his project is very
much I think grounded in white
nationalism they bring them out
apparently to speak to the masses I also
think that they're going like you know
who better then to bring out our
fascistic Jew in the administration to
go out and leverage anti-semitism and
also deliver for the white supremacist
like there's nobody can do it better he
can speak to both good you are
the president senior policy adviser and
his chief speechwriter his tweets this
week about those for congresswoman and
let's put them up why don't they go back
and help fix the totally broken and
crime-infested places from which they
came are the latest in a long string of
controversial comments by mr. Trump some
of which I know that you helped draft
here are a few they're bringing crime
they're rapists and some I assume are
good people
Donald J Trump is calling for a total
and complete shutdown of Muslims
entering the United States you had many
people in that group other than
neo-nazis and white nationalists okay
and the press has treated them
absolutely unfairly why shouldn't
someone see all of that as racist I
think the term racist Chris has become a
label that is too often deployed by the
left Democrats in this country simply to
try to silence and punish and suppress
people they disagree with speech that
they don't want to hear the reality is
that this president has been a president
for all-american there yeah
there it is taking a page out of the IDW
it's the same as the Sam yeah the Sam
Harris playbook where it's like because
that word racist comes into it all of a
sudden we can't continue the
conversation why not it's right and when
he says all Americans that's also a dog
whistle because he considers certain
people to be more American than others
and what what is it exactly like what
would they continue to say like the the
charge is that it's racist and if you
use that charge there's no way for me to
explain that telling these women of
color to go back where they came from
and assuming that they're from a
different country and they're not
American like they want to lead people
on a scenic route to reach racist
conclusions with without it being termed
racist and the term racism really gives
people a shortcut into where they're
going with your identify you know here's
the problem with that term racism it's
forgets that the journey is part of the
destination and you're not able to enjoy
all the good sort of like come on the
nuanced journey exactly let's build this
wall of white supremacy one tiny brick
at a time and if you just jump start the
whole process and get to 12 feet high on
the get-go it's just no fun here is he
continues on as on Fox News Sunday with
Chris Wallace
it's impossible to read the quote that
way the quote what she's trying to say
is there's a dude did this idea of 10%
better from garbage shouldn't be what we
settled for this is he's talking about
her proposal if I posit okay what
they're talking about is Donald Trump's
going on there and said that she's
calling the country a garbage place and
in fact what go back a little bit can
you go back a little bit earlier so we
can actually hear the quote from from
from ALC AOC is basically saying we need
to have proposals that address the
problems not garbage proposals that just
help things 10 percent is basically what
it is and so and Chris Wallace saying
that how can you possibly interpret that
as saying
the country is garbage now this stuff is
so they would I mean the bottom line is
they win when it gets this granular when
it becomes like wait a second if you
moved the comma over here and you move
it like first off she's not calling the
country garbage second off so what if
she is does that justify telling her to
go back to where she came from and fix
it like as if it's a different country
she comes through the Bronx it's
impossible to read the quote that way
the quote what she's trying to say is
there's a dude did this idea of 10%
better from garbage shouldn't be what we
settled for this is he's talking about
her proposal it's it's literally
impossible to read the quote that way
the what she's saying is there's a
debate of the Democratic Party in which
some people want to improve and her mind
10% from garbage which maybe we'll say
is Obamacare where she wants to do Satan
medicare-for-all which she uses me I
guess 70% better than garbage her point
is we're starting at garbage someone to
go a little better than garbage high
enough to go what she's talking about
policy you know she's thanked her starts
not talking about the country and the
people she's saying his garbage such a
horrible work she's saying that America
in her view right now is garbage
but the more abundant no but then I want
to put something up on that regard
because I'm gonna put up a tweet from
Donald Trump from 2014
he wrote the United States under
President Obama has truly become the
gang that couldn't shoot straight
everything he touches turns to garbage
you see that isn't al see that's Donald
J drought this interview Chris you're
continuing to conflate Donald Trump's
criticisms of President Obama versus a
o'seas deep and systemic criticisms of
the country itself and so let me just
cut to the heart of the issue these for
congresswoman to test America as it
exists as it is currently constructed
they want to tear it down the structure
of our country they want it to be a
socialist open borders country if you as
Donald Trump says want to destroy
America with open borders you cannot say
you love your country so understand he's
not out there to defend Donald Trump in
this
that last segment right there every time
he keeps going back to the original
point is he's saying these four
represent the Browning of America that's
what he's saying when he says there for
open borders and socialism what he is
saying is they are for diminishing the
white nature of this country and it's in
white is bound up with a whole bunch of
other values that existed or we told
ourselves existed when white people's
power in society was completely
unchallenged completely unchallenged and
in fact not only completely unchallenged
but celebrated and that's that's what
they're doing here he's not going on in
defending Donald Trump understand this
this is the double down on the double
down and they're just gonna keep doing
this
some days they'll do it they'll do it a
little they'll say the quiet parts a
little bit quieter sometimes they'll say
the quiet parts a little bit louder but
this is what we're going to have for the
next 12 months 13 months 14 months Jesus
15 months 16 months 16 months 16 months
okay stop fifteen and a half months all
right that's a wrap
if we're lucky
