Sep Gorka who apparently is drawing
lines but my favorite part of this this
clip is is when Hannity goes off
introducing these two guys and they
clearly don't know like what he's
talking about these are all just sort of
like in this business we have what are
known as macros okay so like for
instance like my macro would be about
you know social security and it being
the you know most successful thing or
whatnot and you know you folks know
zero-sum game etc etc for Hannity say
it's a series of stuff that is goes goes
is is it sold and these guys in random
and these guys can't even keep up with
it but here's Sean Hannity trying to
still harp on the unacceptable tactics
of the radical left-wing mob and let me
say there was a report on media tonight
dr. korkor at a CNN anchor apparently is
receiving threats no conservative we
don't want you you're not a conservative
if you're sending threats to people
period it no with no room for it no now
we have over a conspiracy TV MSNBC
they've positive one second well you
should just know that dr. Blasi Ford has
not been able to live in her home since
the Cavanagh hearings because of
constant death threats from probably not
liberals probably not feminists probably
not leftist I don't recall that coming
up on Hannity show but continued
conspiracy TV MSNBC they Rachel Maddow
is now encouraging people to go out and
protest today part of a move on.org at
effort that's you know general betray us
the same people that you know featured
elderly women vowing to
no private part punch Mitt Romney and
burned this mother effort down and ads
comparing Bush to Hitler possible guys
like wait wait what wait I totally
missed that
because move on is sponsoring these
rallies to basically tell Trump you
can't fire Muller and general betray us
was when Petraeus basically came back
and wanted more troops he says you know
this better than bong bong and Gorka
well oh because I was exactly Sean I
mean this was during the Iraq war now it
turned out that general betray us that's
what he did he gave away secrets to his
girlfriend but and the other stuff I
can't even make out what what Hannity
was saying these are as much as Ferguson
I just love the look on on Gorkhas face
and both of them just like gonna look
like I don't know it Bungie no blinky me
I didn't I didn't catch matter though
going don't let Tucker Carlson home
without feeling like he could get jumped
at any moment right but but put a pin on
that remembering about the protests that
move on is doing and continue you know
general betray us the same people that
you know featured elderly women vowing
to you know private part punch Mitt
Romney and burn this mother effort down
and I miss comparing Bush Tyler punch so
this is the ninja min Tom Brokaw is
proud of this is the this person's much
mad out claiming she's a news person's
really campaign punch well she's
not a news person Sean there was a
direct line between Jim Acosta's
behavior at that press conference and
what happened at our friend Tucker's
house these people are repeatedly
crossing the line of what is acceptable
whether you're a reporter in the White
House or whether you're a demonstrator
in DC they're they're they're
undermining or they're broadening what
is called the Overton Window
the list of things that are deemed
acceptable hmm it's deadly Sean should I
stop calling Christine for Blasi food
and asking if she has Prince Albert in a
card would this apply let's just briefly
touch on this Tucker Carlson thing
because obviously it was a I have to say
that I agree with Tucker Carlson and
this insofar as he said it wasn't a
protest it was a threat they weren't
protesting anything specific I had said
they weren't asking me to change
anything
they weren't protesting a policy or
advocating for legislation they were
threatening me and my family and telling
me to leave my own neighborhood in the
city I grew up in now I do not think
it's appropriate to threaten people
however I think what if you listen to a
Tucker saying I think what would have
been appropriate is for folks to go
there maybe during the day not at night
because the night can be threatening go
during the day and instead of saying you
know you and your family should leave or
else they should say things like you
should resign from your television show
or please resign from your television
show or hey hey ho ho Tucker Carlson
should go from his television figure was
1970 when Germany a group called the
biner might Hoff gay was founded but
wait but honestly like the the idea that
I think Tucker Carlson would disagree
with Sean Hannity there it is okay to
protest against a government action
that's what Tucker's saying and if the
protestors are gone and said something
concrete like you platform someone
specific I think that would have been a
more appropriate I'll be sure to bring
that up at the next board meeting of an
tyfa of which i am the CEO well blaze
you fought is there a homo there I would
like to homo says what haha doctor Gorka
got you again Thanks I don't think you
should threaten people that's
not appropriate form of protest but like
Tucker Carlson says if you have a
specific complaint about what Tucker
Carlson is doing you should raise that
and I would go during the day rather
than at night so it's not as threatening
it's not threatening at all to protest
during the day it seems to me and so
that's what I would do if you know
according to to Tucker Red Army Faction
didn't just have a cool name they also
did cool things like kidnap titans of
industry and there it is folks
