folks around the country are obviously
waiting and hopefully they're out trying
to drive the vote when it comes to the
midterm elections we have seen the
polling there are two challenges it
seems to me two pollsters in the in
anticipating what the results are going
to be Tuesday and can frankly the
results may end up not being finalized
until well after Tuesday but the two
challenges are one getting a notion of
who is inspired to come out and vote
right because we consent we can get a
notion of like you know where people are
in favor but just like the level of a
determination that people have to go and
vote is one of the questions and then
the other one is one which you are uh
NEX pertinent is how many people are
actually going to be prevented from
voting who want to vote and there's no
way for pollsters to get that notion so
we could look at a race let's say in
Georgia where Stacey Abrams is up on a
Brian Kemp or at least in a statistical
tie maybe she's up by a point but that's
you know within the margin of error in
the polling but we also know that Kemp
is the Secretary of State and basically
the elected official in charge of
according to him disenfranchising as
many people as you possibly can in the
state of Georgia what I don't know if
you want to start there you want to
start generally but what are we looking
at in terms of vote of voter suppression
in this country well let's start
generally and then we'll go to Georgia
so I would say overall the big picture
is that 24 states so nearly half the
country have some sort of new
restriction on the voting in effect for
2018 whether that's a new Voter ID law
or whether that's a more aggressive
purge of the voter rolls or whether that
is some sort of other barrier to voter
registration or some sort of restriction
some states have multiple restrictions
in place for the first time and a lot of
this stuff is playing out in 2018
because a lot of the close races are in
states that have restricted voting
rights whether it's Georgia or North
Dakota or
hands in and then a lot of the races
themselves are closed in these red
states that normally wouldn't be
competitive so normally we wouldn't
necessarily be talking about Georgia or
North Dakota or Kansas but these places
actually have closed races and then you
have the fact that many of the people
that are the architects of these
policies are in fact running for
governor or for higher office themselves
and essentially overseeing their own
election so all of this has kind of
reached a crisis point in Georgia where
you have a bunch of restrictions on
voting you have the guy who's pushed
that restrictions push those
restrictions running for governor and
then you have the fact that the race
itself looks really really close so if
you're talking about a few thousand
voters here or a few thousand voters
there they're discouraged from voting or
that try to vote but can't that's enough
to potentially swing a close election
and in Georgia we're not talking a few
thousand voters are we we're talking a
lot of voters it depends on how you look
there's a bunch of different categories
so overall 1.5 million people have been
purged from 2011 to 2016 so we don't
know how many of them were purged for
good reasons we don't know how many of
them were purged or bad reasons but a
lot of people have been purged so that's
one concern another concern is that no
clearin what does that mean when they're
purged what does that mean well we don't
we don't know because the state doesn't
release a lot of information on why
someone's been removed because they move
there so to say purge that means that
their name is literally taken off the
voting rolls so when they show up at the
polls we don't know who you are well it
could be that they died or they moved or
they or they did something that would
make them ineligible it also could be
that the counties got it wrong and
people who are lawful residents of
Georgia who didn't move or didn't do
anything else have been purged as well
so we don't know but that's a it's a
high number so there's there's some
likelihood that at least some people who
shouldn't have been removed have been
removed then we found out right just a
few weeks ago that 53,000 people were
put on the pending voter registration
meaning they got a letter in the mail
saying there is some sort of problem
with your registration because the
information on their voter
registration forms didn't exactly match
their information on state databases
these people could still vote at the
polls if they have the right ID but if
you've got a letter like that the mail
SIM saying there was a problem with your
registration you would probably think
you weren't eligible to vote so there's
a big concern that those fifty two
thousand people might not turn out and
then if you look at the numbers 70% of
the 53,000 on pending registration are
african-american and 80% are people of
color and so there's a hugely
disproportionate impact in the election
where Stacey Abrams is trying to become
the first black woman governor in the US
history so that's gonna be I mean it's
it's almost this is a thing we look at
these polls I mean is it possible to
ever know like how much it's impacting
Georgia or is this something that we're
not going to find out until some social
scientists come in there and two or
three years later say boy without some
of without the this 2,000 5,000 10,000
50,000 people purged from the voting
rolls or sort of suppressed Stacey
Abrams could have won or would have won
by more well I mean I hope that's not
the case I hope that for example that
the people on the pending registration
list who are actually eligible to vote
if they show up in person I hope they
know that they can show up and that
their votes will be counted but there is
a lot of concern that a lot of the times
we don't know about the full extent of
these efforts until way after the
election I mean I wrote a very long
story about Wisconsin's voter ID law and
it was only after the election we did
interviews with voters and we talked to
election officials when the studies came
out that we saw that tens of thousands
of people were potentially blocked from
the polls that was not readily apparent
on Election Day and so the concern is is
that a lot of these things aren't
measured until after and that there's
only a certain percentage of people that
show up and try to vote and their votes
aren't counted there's usually a much
larger percentage of the population that
don't show up at all because they don't
believe their votes will count all right
let's turn to a story out of North
Dakota now it appears the
Kramer has sort of pulled away a little
bit from heidi heitkamp although who
knows right i mean for sure but what we
do know is that the the plan to
disenfranchise a key voting block for
heidi heitkamp
has been stunning it seems to me and I'm
talking about Native Americans and
frankly students it seems like were the
targets of a voter ID initiative and
it's not just a simple voter ID it's
something rather sophisticated explain
that to us yeah this is really
extraordinary
so this earlier this month so right
before the election the Supreme Court
upheld a voter ID law from North Dakota
and what that law says is that your ID
means to have a current residential
street address which might not sound
like a big deal ordinarily but North
Dakota has a lot of reservations where
Native Americans live and they don't
have street addresses because they're so
well so what that means is that suddenly
Native Americans aren't going to be able
to vote with their tribal IDs in North
Dakota and that's really important
because Heidi Heitkamp only won her
first election to the Senate in 2012 by
3,000 votes and she got 80 percent
support in the two counties in the state
with the largest Native American
reservations so this absolutely could
impact the election if it was close I
think the bigger picture is that this is
the most historically disenfranchised
community in this nation given what has
gone on in American history and suddenly
the ideas that they use for their entire
lives their tribal IDs aren't able to be
used for voting simply because they live
in rural areas and get their mail at the
post office through peel boxes so
suddenly the tribal leaders now days
before the election are having to go
around and suddenly give everyone a
street address and then print these new
forms for them to be able to then give
to poll workers to count as a valid ID
we have no idea if they're going to be
able to pull this off we have no idea if
the poll workers are going to accept
this Secretary of State hasn't even said
whether these documents will be accepted
but there's
crazy scramble underway North Dakota now
to help people comply with the new law
yeah it's absolutely nuts well look we
got to take a break when we come back
let's talk about a couple other states
Florida in particular the outcome of
this election in Florida will both be in
some respects implicated by a voter
disenfranchisement project and the
outcome of this election may also
implicate the Rhian franchise 'men of up
to 1.5 million voters in Florida we got
to take quick break we're talking to the
great Ari Berman
I'm Sam cedar we'll be right back on
ring of fire radio
