here's Marco Rubio and here's Marco
Rubio trying to pretend like he's above
the fray in some way and this is this is
I mean watch this because this is gonna
be how the Republican Party if Donald
Trump ever goes away eventually he will
I got to imagine but I don't know if
Donald Trump ever goes away in some
fashion because you know look even if he
loses the election and even if he
peacefully leaves and even if he is not
sent to jail he's still going to go out
and start some media enterprise that
will keep his you know keep this energy
alive they're gonna brought the you know
there's there's that much more to
exploit at that point and understand to
that if he you know leaves the White
House and then you know croaks because
of a mass of a heart attack you still
got the Trump kids are gonna exploit the
hell out of this - Jesus yeah but here's
Marco Rubio basically doing a dry run on
how he's going to you know lead the
Republican Party out of this quagmire
maybe someday so here's how this has
been working the president says
something and people cringe but you
don't like it but then the other side
these left-wing politicians people on
the media they go crazy with their
outrage and and your and they demand
that you immediately answer what he said
and answer it the way they want you to
answer it and so here's what you were
reminded of these are the same people
that said Reagan was a racist because of
he was in favor of welfare reform george
w bush was a racist because the way he
no reagan was a racist because he does
the exact same thing that Donald Trump
does just in much more like couched
language he was a racist cuz he made up
lies about so-called welfare queens and
he announced his candidacy we all know
this right in his state and in South
County and yeah where civil rights
workers were murdered and he talked
about states rights that's why he was a
racist
continue he responded to Katrina and
John McCain they even accused him of
being like George Wallace they allowed
him to be attacked for that and and
posit robbed let me remind you why they
did that because he voted against making
Martin Luther King Day a holiday God
honey they said he was a country club
racist because in a speech somewhere he
said that if you want free stuff vote
for Obama and so this is the same people
by the way that one of their members of
Congress from their party says that
support for Israel is all about the
Benjamins and they couldn't even pass a
resolution condemning anti-semitism by
itself but it took him less than 72
hours to pass a resolution condemning
the President of the United States tweet
as racist and even in the media Obama
says we can't let people across the
border and nobody says anything a
Republican says it and it's white
nationalism so the hypocrisy the
self-righteousness outrageous people too
and on top of it you have these four
members who are Americans no one should
question that they are fully as American
as me or anybody else but they're also
political bullies they go around
attacking people calling other Democrats
just like southern segregationists but
when you hit them back it's because
they're women of color and and and so
they hold a press conference saying we
shouldn't be talking and dividing people
on the basis of race or ethnicity but
then they go on to say by the way if you
disagree with us you're a white
nationalist and you're a racist
so it's absurd people are tired of this
game you have to immediately respond
pick a side between these two it's a
game I'm not gonna play it's distracting
us from the important things that this
country needs to be focused on and I'm
not playing this game anymore Oh like
he's gutless version of tried to look
like you have balls I've ever seen in my
life you know what I'm gonna do I'm not
gonna take a stake in anything how about
that that is the equivalent of the Ted
Cruz like listen to me Donald Trump you
don't call my wife those things and will
I support him I said he's horrible I'll
support him yeah first of all a whole
bunch of racist isn't racist
second of all lie about Elon and
that's not cool with Donald Trump I just
I want to address this because this
keeps coming up this is the big this is
the leveraging of anti-semitism by guys
like Marco Rubio there are two comments
that alon omar made that get that
basically have morphed into
anti-semitism one is that the reason why
these people specific lawmakers were
supporting and voting in favor of you
know extended rights for israel in the
context of our our political system all
about the Benjamins which is identical
what thomas friedman said about support
from israel coming in and money coming
in from AIPAC identical slightly
different Thomas Friedman was more
explicit but identical the other thing
is when a lot Omar supposedly claimed
that people had dual loyalty or that
Jews had dual loyalty she was responding
to a bill that Marco Rubio was
introducing on a federal level to mimic
a bill that exists in 27 states around
the country where if you are a
contractor and are doing business with
the state if you're giving for instance
this was a case in Texas speech therapy
to kids in classes and you're hired to
go in and provide speech therapy the
state of Texas makes you sign a pledge
that you will not participate in any
protests or boycotts against Israel as
an individual and so she said I'm not
gonna sign a loyalty pledge which is
exactly the legislation that Marco Rubio
was introducing on a federal level that
nobody doing business with the US
government can participate in a boycott
of Israel that's just absurd regardless
of whether you think Israel should be
boycotted or not the idea we don't have
such pledges against Saudi Arabia we
didn't have it against South Africa we
didn't have it
in England there's nothing to do with
the country or what of the idea that fel
contractors would have to sign a pledge
the idea that state contractors have to
sign a pledge to not protest anybody are
they gonna do this with Sean Hannity
next - it's just absurd I mean I just
this is I you know again I just wish
there was a new pope somewhere but
apparently there's not but available
