[Music]
the Trump administration went into
overdrive of course because they are the
Yemeni genocide administration Mike
Pompeo is the yemeni genocide Secretary
of State
maddis Yemeni genocide at defense and
this is of course all coming on the
heels of what is broadly determined
across intelligence agencies
internationally from Turkey to Canada to
the United States of being the hit on
Jamal khashoggi being ordered by MBS
there's been tapes of people literally
hearing this guy being sawed apart in an
embassy okay just just register that
again before we gloss over this and yes
there's structural problems that go
deeper than that in Saudi relations it
is an escalation to have a lunatic power
mad prince who in addition to a
far-right conspiratorial view of Iran
which he shares with the Israeli and
American right a genocide a war in Yemen
to almost certainly have ordered a hit
on a US base Washington Post columnist
is something and the Trump
administration has been clear about not
caring about that valuing the business
relationship over anything else and here
is Mike Pompeo who is one of the most
important far-right far far-right Koch
brothers backed Congress people when
he's in Congress then head of the CIA
threatening to invade Venezuela and here
he is running interference on an
administration committed to doing
nothing to interfere with the money flow
from Saudi
do you believe I've read every piece of
intelligence must come in in the last
few hours I think I've read it all there
is no direct reporting connecting rounds
to the orders that's all I can say so
yes there is no direct reporting in the
sense that there is no member of the
Saudi royal family or the circle of
advisers around MBS who said hello
CIA am i calling on a secure line this
guy ordered the hit what we have is a
team a hit squad of people that were
some of them were very close to him
deployed to Turkey phone records showing
calls between MB s's office and the hit
team and numerous other pieces of
evidence but I wish you know if that
evidentiary standard applied then Mike
Pompeo would be the biggest supporter of
the Iran deal on planet but of course
he's not Hugh dose because they're all
 thugs you'd also have some
qualms about the drone program and
targeted assassinations oh yeah I mean I
don't see i if evidentiary standards of
intelligence you have to ban the drone
program immediately that exact same sort
of metadata which is phone calls exactly
that's used to kill people whose
identities that's all we have on MBS and
cachet who is an actual person in an
actual prince in an actual position we
use metadata to bomb wedding parties
that were unsure about literally and
they would cite phone calls like this
and timelines like this and be like well
oh that would be an unusually high
amount of a drone attack totally
justified gonna sound Lee tonight 100% I
mean on the one hand this is what Empire
is and has been for a very long time
they're just being much more naked and
dumb about it like Oh
Trump said the other day they gave us
tons of money America first on the other
hand it's especially dumb because Saudi
Arabia needs the us to invest in as well
they need a place to put all of their
giant bags of money so like well they
can go to China there's plenty of places
they can go I mean also again you're
totally right in terms of the history
but this is
that is a not unimportant escalation to
say to set the precedent that a
journalist who is a resident of your
country can walk into an embassy and
will and someone can cut you apart and
we're not even gonna pretend to be
concerned about it
that's an escalation no that is
especially folder manifestation for sure
but it's literally in essence is a range
of things like there's a reason why even
the when the well what was the name of
the guy that the Chileans blue an to
Italia they didn't do that again okay
like the United States still back Chile
they still back mass-murder there's the
structural thing you're talking about
it's a hundred percent true but there's
no doubt that somebody got the message
to the operation condor people you don't
bring that to DC and we could say it's
hypocritical blah blah blah that's all
true that's fine it shouldn't rob us
from a larger critique of what needs to
happen but it's also a major difference
in terms of what new pieces are put into
the board as to what can happen like
when they literally are like i don't
care
what signal does that send this kid and
if there wasn't a massive counter
reaction in so many other forces
including someone like Angela Merkel
talking about suspending arms sales and
all the rest of it like he would he
probably would have had like other
journalists chopped up to seats like
within the last couple of weeks he's
just if in his toe in the water yeah and
he certainly went he would have released
this kid they had the kid there for the
first couple of weeks
