[Music]
at the break as we were talking about
Dave Rubin and let's just get all the
Dave Rubin stuff out of the way today I
mean I try and have differing opinions
on this program and some people think
Dave Rubin is is a bit of a charlatan
other people think that he's not very
bright I welcome all the opinions not
really
Dave Rubin some of us have been well
there's no reason to be at hominem but
we can get to that later
but first let's talk about history I
mentioned earlier in the program that
Dave Rubin had invited mayor Pete Budaj
on his program on the same day he was
hosting the date-rape denialist Mike sir
Novick on his program the smear
merchants and who is um is it third of
its calm assertive attack okay and here
is Dave Rubin talking about that very
same left media outrage that he would
invite or that mayor Pete would go on
the same program now I I tweeted out I
wonder if mayor Pete knows about this
just simply because I'm curious will
impact my assessment of mayor Pete if he
did know about this I think other people
were tweeting at the mayor Pete like I
wouldn't go on there and I can assure
you folks it was not because of the
hard-hitting questions that they
anticipated from Dave Rubin they just I
think they were worried about it hurting
mayor Pete's image that's up to them if
they're supporters I could understand
why they would do that but here is Dave
Rubin and date-rape denialist Mike Serna
vich discussing that the usual suspects
will come after me for even doing this
it's like there is probably somebody out
there now that I would like to get on
the show that simply will not come on
the show because I'm doing this right
I mean even yesterday I contacted Paul
Budi Budi judge yeah
his posit it's Pete Buddha judge calling
him Paul maybe part of the reason why he
doesn't come on but how it should come
in it good our person DM to me because I
asked them to come on the show and we're
looking into it but then the blue
checkers again you know calling me all
these awful things and it's like what
are you guys all doing like what what is
it that they're all trying to accomplish
by by D platforming and destroying
everybody well its turf wars there
something interesting how incidentally I
want to remind you that what did not
come up in this conversation was the
again widely reported you can read about
it in The New York Times in the
Washington Post you could read it on
Huffington Post it was reported
everywhere that the guy sitting across
from Dave Rubin when he complains about
deep platforming got me fired from MSNBC
tried to get all of our advertisers to
pull out of this show this is an
independent show we are not unlike Dave
Rubin ever in our history having taken
any money from any large political or
ideological institution can Dave Rubin
say that knew he cannot so if one is
going to be talking about deep
platforming and be sitting across the
city sitting across your your table from
ad platformer you would expect he would
say something I unlike Dave Rubin will
always wear H&M underwear not really
I just mine mine is a FTL Fruit of the
Loom but guy well it's perforce there
something interesting happened when
having him post had to lay off a bunch
of people like Oh everyone's like oh my
god hire these great minds or whatever
and I went to their Twitter cause I'm
like no no you're not you're not
interesting you're not this is another
basic hot take white male patriarchy
good everybody's evils like no they're
fungible but they're
they're producing a fungible content
which is outrage directed a specific
group of people and then people like you
people like Joe Rogan they're jealous
there's also those people and they
rather than just say and again this is
like a mindset issue rather than trust
am kind of jealous those people it may
be autumn I figure out what they're
doing
maybe I'll out my own game they want to
attack and destroy and largely that's
because left-wing politics today
orthodoxy is largely based on resentment
well I don't in any way resent Dave
Rubin or Joe Rogan if I had really
wanted to make an extraordinary amount
of money I would have stayed in show
business and continued on with my career
there many many years ago I am quite
happy with this show and I in fact i
will explain something to to mike stern
of it who mutated his online pickup
artist brand into a men's rights
advocate brand into a date-rape
denialist brand into a quasi alt-right
brand giving the you know white power
sign at the podium in a in the White
House and maybe back into a documentary
filmmaker brand or whatever he's trying
to brand himself now my project is has
nothing to do with the success of this
show that is a means in which to do it
and surely I want to I want to make a
living and provide for my family but the
project is understand it's not attacking
folks like like you because of
resentment it's attacking folks like you
to make sure that your influence is
minimized I don't even care how much
success you have I just want to make
sure that your influence is minimized so
if you can make a living
as a date-rape denialist who doesn't
have much of an audience but somehow you
get paid I'm perfectly happy with that
same with Dave Rubin if you can make a
living get paid by all these
institutions without having an out to
influence without hoodwinking people
like sam harris into thinking that that
you know guys I mean Robert that Tommy
Robinson's a good guy he seemed
reasonable from everything they heard
yeah I have not heard all of Adolf
Hitler's interviews I heard one and the
plans for the auto bond while he was
making a lot of good noises but I've
been smeared and and so you know I want
to prevent other sam Harris's out there
as it were from getting hoodwinked and
so that is my agenda
it is not driven by resentment but it
will involve not attacking I think is
not necessarily the word I would say I
would say continue to inform people of
why you should have no credit in their
minds meanwhile it's clearing the decks
of the Dave Rubin material that we have
here we have two more segments here's
Dave Rubin at the University of Delaware
and he was asked a question by a
listener of this program in fact who
spoke to us too the other day I think
it's his he goes by the moniker rave
Dubin and what I found interesting about
this with Dave Rubin is is that about a
year and a two ago back when Dave Rubin
used to identify as a or use certain
bona fides to establish his credibility
of being on the left so that his
critique could work just like Dennis
Prager liked it to work he would say of
course he would cite his identity as
being a gay man who was married as proof
that he was of the left which is I guess
identity politics
not sure how its defined with him and
then he would also say I'm also against
the death penalty and I am pro-choice
although that seems to be wavering now
he seems to at the very least feel
obligated to say that I'm reluctant
pro-choice because he knows who is
buttering his his bread so to speak his
toast and he used to say that he was a
single payer a supporter now he
simultaneously said he was for smaller
government and when people started
pointing out we here at the majority
report one of those entities that
pointed it out that to be for
single-payer means that you are for a
larger government that is the way that
we define larger government now I'm not
for large government or small government
I'm for a government that provides for
its people some basic necessities one of
those is health care and so he since
stopped calling himself a supporter of
single-payer but what's interesting is
never it appears in the time that he was
a supporter of single-payer nor as a
former supporter of single-payer has he
taken the time to figure out even
remotely speaking what single-payer
means and here is the proof am I allowed
to wait a second I just want to be clear
here what he is describing is the
marketplace for insurance as it stood
prior to Obamacare that was the
government sort of works around and
allows the private market - that's
called regulation and creating markets
and every state has regulators and there
is some federal regulation arguably what
he's describing
is also Obamacare which creates small
exchanges only for people who don't get
insurance in other ways and the
government subsidizes that for people
who make anywhere from a hundred and
thirty three percent of poverty to 400
percent of poverty and there was also
according with Obamacare and expansion
from a hundred percent poverty two
hundred thirty three percent poverty of
an expansion of Medicaid in those states
that allowed for it
single-payer is none of those things now
he goes on to continue to show that he
doesn't know what he's talking about in
terms of single-payer just a little bit
[Music]
the reason I'm struggling to say that
now is because if you listen to what the
Democratic candidates are saying they're
saying not only is it going to be
Medicare for all literally stop private
companies from being able to be in the
marketplace okay I want you to really
think about this the government as the
sole provider of health insurance would
be like almost like having one payer for
medical stuff that would be like having
a single payer for medical insurance
like a single payer can you imagine that
now one payer we should be singular
payer just to correct him all of the
candidates now at this point have said
there'll be some role for private
insurance
it'll be very limited but there'll be
some role for private insurance in the
in the health care market but it's as if
you have a single payer paying it now I
want to allow for a difference of
opinion as to what Dave Rubin what what
the issue there was well well first some
clarifications and ground rules can't
can one of those opinions be that he's
dim without being silenced no no you
cannot say and I have said this Michael
and I don't want to have to reprimand
you on air because we exchange ideas
here you could say the idea that he has
about single-payer is dim well look I'm
only interested in talking about policy
not people you could be you could be you
could you could float the idea that
there's something the idea that there's
something wrong with him that he doesn't
understand it or you could say there's
something wrong with the English
language that single-payer is so obtuse
right I think that especially with the
brain in recovery mode from so many
high-level ideas like declining white
birth rates whatever else that how
difficult the terminology of
single-payer is is unfair to date fair
enough
that's my my ideas that it might be
beyond his capacity that's my thinking
we should we should get Barry Weiss on
the phone to see if this is what the is
this is what we meant by the
intellectual dark web I could think of
another D word that could be in there I
could think of to I don't even care
about those guys does it really just
honestly doesn't matter and of course
there was the requisite ask will you be
debating Sam cedar
let's just play that tag it on at the
end there and of course his refusal
because all we do is talk about how his
ideas are lacking all right easy
questions is there anyone I know you
want to beat Sam cedar the majority
report is there anyone on the
progressives David Pakman or from
counter points that you would be willing
to have a discussion
I know he you had him on the show once
do you when screaming posit no he
doesn't but it's an interesting frame I
have a diversity of thought and if you
don't think I do then maybe the problem
is is that you're too diverse in your
thought and you're outside of the realm
of diverse thought that's talked about
blow your mind man that that blows my
mind
you're too diverse to fit within the
content it confines of diversity
glasshouses let's go to the phones comfy
idea Dave I mean I mean yeah Pakman he's
lying about yuning yella sláinte
right I know it's like okay I can accept
he's lying
we haven't been dishonest about him you
haven't been dishonest about him but
sure we you know we take a piss
but David Pakman I mean wow right wow
what is it about conservatives that they
don't have a sense of humor hmm you come
from a 985 area
