[Music]
from Iowa
what is going on in Iowa is this where
oh here's an idea of what's going on in
Iowa let's talk about this this is Joe
Biden and for people who have concerns
that Joe Biden harbors a very I don't
know how to say this I don't want to say
like you know like obviously this is
like we're I wish there was this other
word
there was like a racism word or
something like that because like racist
fellow-travellers yes or just sort of
like you know like um he's Ross's it's a
microaggression no he's raw cyst on some
level I would look the Eddie glad was on
this program a long time ago talking
about white supremacy is a habit and it
is a practice that on to some degree
everyone in our society practices black
or white and it's in varying degrees and
as we talk about sort of a notion that
some people in this country have that
being white is a is the normal state of
of what's being and that everything that
is not white and really not just in
terms of like color or race or whatever
but everything that is not sir that
white represents not just a color it's
like a it's a position in society it's a
moral standing it's an education
standing and that anything that deviates
from that is in some way or is is just
like off in some fashion everything is
defined as being off-white for anybody
who's concerned that joe biden harbors
those type of feelings and or for those
people who are concerned that joe biden
is prone to articulating them
and is not necessarily adept when he his
mouth starts going I've got some very
bad news for you and the other thing we
should do is you should challenge these
students we should challenge students in
these schools they have Advanced
Placement programs in these schools we
have this notion that somehow if you're
poor you cannot do it poor kids are just
as bright and just as talyn's white kids
wealthy kids black kids I really mean
but think how we think of now I mean
it's possible that that was like a
really deep critique being delivered but
yet I mean it's like he's so
internalized the code through all the
years here's the good news he understood
after he said it that it was wrong to
say that out loud that's true and I feel
like that like he's not getting enough
credit for that I mean this is where you
know everything that you that you can
say about Biden then you have to like
refract through the question of what it
what it would mean in a head-to-head so
yes like it's true saying appalling
things and then noticing that that's
something appalling came out of your
mouth is a competitive advantage
head-to-head in the general you know
it's also even just against Abidin
himself because I feel like Joe Biden
you know even three or four years ago
would not have caught on that that was
inappropriate that's that's possible so
I feel like Joe Biden needs should be
getting credit for realizing after he
said after he revealed that he thought
the different that the opposite of or
the distinction of poor kids is white
kids that he he should get some credit
for catching that in time enough to just
stutter a little bit and then throw in
wealthy kids sure why not
and drawing an intersectional analysis
of the historical disadvantaging of
certain groups yeah he's not not exactly
I mean people are also talking about him
saying that we choose truth over facts
as a gaffe and that's just true you
should - truth is better than facts
facts are facts are overrated yeah there
you go
yeah the the the problem with that of
course is that it's hard to imagine when
we're talking about a I mean to put it
in aside from it being problematic I
mean if a guy says this on the street
you just walk away from him right like
if you're talking to him or if you're
having a dinner you go like I really
buddy you know what I'm not covering the
meal tonight you were gonna split but
when he could be the candidate that is
picked to beat Trump the problem is not
so much that Trump would have a problem
with that I mean Trump they said that in
a debate Trump would just go like we had
it right I don't know I had to add those
other things you think because I think
that Trump would stop them for it or
well I think the Trump would I think
Trump would would very very happily you
know jump all over him for having said
the wrong thing probably with something
with Trump himself is fine with largely
irrelevant except for the fact that I
think it's quite clear at least this is
what the Trump people and I think we the
lesson we learned for 2016 is it you
need to get out your bases you need to
inspire they need to do this and and and
the Democrats need to do this which is
inspire those people who are just
marginal who like on the right I think
it's like hey I've heard a lot of racist
talk from people but I really feel it
Donald Trump is gonna do something
racist and that's what's gonna get me
out to vote in terms of the Democrats
they have to be convinced that the
person running for president and you're
talking about people of color largely
black people Latino people that this guy
or woman understands that we have a
problem in this country
and it's not just that we're not white
and I just don't think the Joe Biden's
going to be able to inspire those people
to go out and vote well this is the
thing about you know seeing these kinds
of analyses from from political
reporters and you know and having people
urging the Democrats not to not to
provoke people by embodying diversity or
whatever is like when when the Democrats
are trying to make their their first
political priority be not to provoke
this silent former majority you know
then they don't do the things that would
make the base of people who actually
support the party feel inspired to go
out if they're constantly you know
cringing away from the imagined
criticisms of you know of the real
Americans then they can't articulate who
they who the real real America is and
why they're for it right like people
have this critique of the Democratic
Party where they're like oh they forgot
to do class politics they've abandoned
organized labor they're 100% identity
politics and that's why they lost so
this time around they need to stop doing
that but I don't think they really ever
were for identity politics either except
in a really shallow and pandering way
and it's just now this time around
they're switching a little bit from
pandering to identity politics to
pandering to class politics but they
haven't done either convincingly at all
I mean I think there's been times you
could argue what they've done they've
done that but it but as of late yes it's
a real problem
I mean when you talk when you look back
the past 20 years now I will say that I
will vote for Joe Biden because Donald
Trump is horrible but if I'm demoralized
when I hear that and I know that my
children's future is not incumbent upon
you know
significant societal change and if I
know that my prospects are not
contingent upon significant societal
change and I'm doing and I'm still
demoralized by it I got to imagine and
maybe I'm guilty of what Bret Stevens is
doing right it's like sort of like but
which is sort of like too deep but I'm
not reinforcing I think sort of a sense
that like I have that there's some type
of baseline I mean I guess like the the
idea is you know like I'm presuming to
know what will drive people out to the
polls on some level and what they're
hoping for for their for their
politicians but I guess I'm also not
promoting something that ostensibly I'm
criticizing yeah I mean it's it's tricky
to talk about look about you know what's
gonna motivate people the most because
it's also true that you know people are
very aware of how bad Trump is yes and
you know there's gonna be a lot of
motivation behind that and you know I
think that's gonna be the primary driver
right I mean that's what it was in 2018
it seems like it's yeah I would think it
would be and so you know is the idea
that like we're that we'd be bummed out
about Biden and like yeah but you know
people can people can see this idea you
you get into these layers and layers of
people trying to attribute ideas about
like people are trying to try to be
their own pundits people are trying to
sort of guess what other people are
gonna support instead of going for what
they support so but at the end of that
process you've still got one you still
got a candidate in against Trump and I
think that like whatever convoluted
reasoning people have followed to get to
that point they're still gonna well then
let's go get a vote I don't think that I
don't think that the difference between
any candidate on the Democratic side is
going to change anybody's vote
but it's how many people are you going
to get to go out and get other votes
like that to me seems to be what the
calculus is right like the number the
voting numbers in Wisconsin and what in
Michigan it just wasn't enough people
who voted at the end of the day it
wasn't enough people who voted and and
there's there's a lot of reasons for why
and this is on the margins it's a small
amount of people but part of the reason
could very well be that there just
wasn't enough people going out and
knocking on doors and you need to have a
motivated base to do that work and I
think a lot of that work was done the
Clinton campaign thought they could do
it through algorithms and they could
just model who was gonna come out and
then they just assumed because in part
of it I think is because they just
didn't have the volunteer force to go
out and canvass and realize like oh wait
a second we may have a problem here I
mean that's just what we heard from
folks in Pennsylvania anyways in terms
