casual Thurs that's what we call it and
Friday casual Shabbat gommage our day
report with sam Sita
it is Friday January 11th 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time will
award winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrious Gowanus Canal in the
heartland of America downtown Brooklyn
USA on the program today the proprietor
and host of the Benjamin Dixon show Ben
Dixon also on the program today the
proprietor of the Langdon boom eBay page
matthew film guy will be joining us
meanwhile trump's looking to take
billions away from disaster area relief
to deal with the crisis at the border
and build the wall and the shutdown is
getting more severe $0 checks being sent
to furloughed workers airport terminals
closing Mitch McConnell actively
blocking a vote to end the shutdown
maybe someone will notice that he is the
linchpin to all of this somebody just
found out that Steve King is a racist
and progressive score of B on their plan
to get key committee spots Michael Cohen
to testify to the democratic-led House
Committee and congratulations oceans
have been heating up faster than the
scientists realized all this and more
on today's program
ladies and gentlemen yes it is Friday
not the craziest of of news weeks in the
Trump era that's for sure but of course
that is because the the government has
shut down and Donald Trump seems to have
shut down of course Mike Pompeo was was
in Cairo was he yesterday or two days
ago having delivered what some people
call the single worst foreign policy
speech by a senior representative of the
US government in the history of the US
government which is it's always
important to be a superlative and so if
that's the way you have to get it it's
unfortunate but I mean as long as you
get there it's nice to be the most of
something we will talk a little bit
about that also I don't know maybe we'll
talk about this with with we've been the
the sort of I mean the almost it was so
inevitable that we would see the
Politico piece talking about how people
are frustrated with with AOC in the
Congress I would anticipate more of
these and it's I think it's a good sign
Matt Stoller too if you have the
opportunity to check out his his Twitter
feed has a a great a great thread on it
and it's not even ideological in some
respects it is it is I contend a lot of
it is just the the Democratic Party much
of its
leadership has ossified and is that am I
saying that right just sounds like a
weird word as it comes out of my mouth
has ossified and he you know they're the
the analog I would give or maybe we
should just wait for Ben but the analog
that I would give would be the reporting
that we saw from and won him the
intercept but also I think it was a
Putnam and Scoble fetoscope scope snobs
call and about what was happening in
these districts where Democrats were
organizing and regardless of ideology
the the d-triple-c
was coming in and sort of bigfooting in
ways that were not strategic or tactical
just stupid and this is what you get
when you have sort of legacy and very
static organizations and some way and I
you know I think ideology is one thing I
don't but I think what they're really
more concerned about with AOC is that
she is not following the sort of very
you know the the niceties and the rules
and she is sort of going around the
institutional soft institutional
apparatus and I think that's what we're
seeing more than anyone's
you know broad concerns that she's going
to pull the party too far to the left
it's both well it might be but I think
it's it's coming from people who I think
have similar politics in some respect at
least know what did you read the piece
nope okay anyways
best to to read the piece that I'm
referencing before you characterize it I
think
but speaking in the general sense right
but I'm speaking specifically about this
piece and these criticisms and so I
think there's no doubt there are members
of the Democratic Party who are you know
don't want the party to move to the left
and are concerned about her her
celebrity you know defining them in a
more conservative district or whatnot
but the issue here is is really more
about a sclerotic institution that does
not like this type of energy and so
there's going to be more of this but I
don't know that there's much that they
can do about it except for obviously in
some respects make it hard for her to to
achieve certain things in the house but
I have a feeling her agenda in terms of
achievement is slightly different so we
shall see but meanwhile the attacks from
the right on a OC are pretty much
garden-variety this is where they
pretend that their ideological when
they're really it's about business and
by that I mean here is a guy Justin
Haskins from the Heartland Institute on
with Steve Doocy on Fox & Friends
now if you don't remember the Heartland
Institute they came up because there was
a treasure trove of documents that were
leaked in 2012 that spoke to their
strategy to fight any response to
climate change this was an organization
that received at least almost 3/4 of a
million dollars from Exxon before they
started to
before in the late 90s they stopped
disclosing their donors and they also
oddly enough were also involved in
helping smoking so I should say tobacco
at one point the former Heartland
president wrote in an op-ed that
moderate smoking does not raise
lung cancer risks and there were a few
of any adverse health effects associated
with smoking just gonna be matter just
gotta be mod politicized in the side I
Got News for you as someone who was an
adult in 1998 it was quite clear that
cigarette smoking was dangerous this is
not we're not talking like the late 18th
century century exactly
if you smoke a cigarette before the full
moon outside of the distance of a woman
on her period it's actually good for
blood pressure science from the
heartland anyway this thing this
Heartland Institute is literally a who's
who of a right-wing billionaires and
millionaires and also just like the oil
and gas industry the leadership PACs I
mean it goes on and on and on so but
here is Justin is that his name Justin
Haskins on the degree New Deal
good morning it's great to be with you
it's great to have you you know when you
hear green new deal and you think okay
this is just about the environment right
but when you look at some of the main
points and then was asked you know one
of the one of the giveaways as to why
it's not just about the environment
would be the New Deal part in fact in
fact that's not I don't I don't I mean
that's sort of what it sort of baked in
the cake I think you would say yeah
green new deal in fact of those three
words two of them would imply that it
has more to do with the New Deal than
environment just but let's not get picky
you look at some of the main points and
then we'll ask you to comment on it it
does call for the elimination of the
use of fossil fuels within a dozen year
it calls for universal health care
it calls for federal jobs guarantees and
it calls for a basic income program
across the country that is not just
about the environment that's pretty much
about everything yeah that's right
this is actually not about green energy
it would be impossible to to switch the
entire electricity generation system in
the United States over to renewable
energy in just 12 years and I think
Alexandria of Cascio Cortes and Bernie
Sanders and people like that know that
this is really about socialism this is
nothing more than a socialist Trojan
horse that's why they've inserted all
sorts of programs into the green New
Deal that have nothing to do with green
energy right exactly you know and when
you look at those things and I've been
heartened again the package is not
called the green energy program it's
called the green New Deal New Deal
things like Social Security came out of
the New Deal and I've been to Bernie
Sanders rallies where you know the
audience there they love to hear what
he's saying because he said look you
have been kept down by Washington I'm
gonna open up possibilities that have
never been possible before the problem
is when you realistically look at the
price it's like wow can we afford that
yeah well we absolutely cannot afford it
I mean we're talking about tens of
trillions of dollars just the
single-payer health care part of this
alone the Mercatus Center estimates
would cost 32 trillion dollars in the
first ten years and even if we were to
double all taxes including individual
and corporate rates right we would not
be able to pay for just that one part of
it posit
so one of the things I really enjoy
about that talking point right there is
that a as you recall the Mercatus
Foundation did say that the cost of of
single-payer health care would be 32
trillion dollars they also said in the
same report that the cost of not doing
single-payer health care and just
continuing on with what we
now we'll cost 35 to 36 trillion dollars
and on top of that it also that talking
point has the added bonus of saying we
could tax everybody five times over and
not raise that well the point is the
vast majority of that money is already
being raised insofar as we're taxing
people at this rate that's how it's
being paid out that money is going to
get spent in some fashion and based upon
what the US government pays now for
health care you don't need to raise a
new thirty two trillion dollars out of
out of the massive expense that we spend
on health care you need to raise
probably less than half of that but do
you know he's not gonna explain that
part I always want to know who we means
when they talk about how we can't afford
it right cuz he's clearly not talking
about an aging senior who can't afford
their diabetes medication or a
struggling single mom right already
can't afford health care I think with
the what they're thinking is taxpayers
taxpayers can that's a dog whistle yes
Oh indeed oh and corporate rates right
we would not be able to pay for just
that one part of it why do you think
Justin so many of these prominent
Democrats are moving so far to the left
is it because Bernie Sanders had such a
good run last time yeah I think that
that's a big part of it I certainly
think it helps but I think that the
party is moving to the left I don't
think this is just a political posturing
I actually think that the Democratic
Party is becoming the Socialist Party of
America that it's slowly occurring and
that if we don't do something to stop
these individuals we're going to wake up
in 20 years and we're gonna find
ourselves in a radically different
America in America that looks more like
the Soviet Union and less like the
United States
that's right starting with throwing you
in a query somewhere dude yeah not gonna
be able to wear those absum maple I mean
I mean resting everybody with glasses
would be pretty close but I would need
to get laser
like yeah don't worry we'll give you a
little bit of time I'm not so I'm not
opposed to that they're not trying to
create socialism I believe Bernie and a
OCE are sincere Social Democrats but
certainly some socialist organizations
not gonna say who support them as part
of a you know a wider more long-term
project to transition to socialism oh
look at that
where did we get that list of donors so
they to the heartland phone one is the
lot of why is their donors capital fund
I don't know where that's from but okay
that's the one that's like the the Super
Friends of all the right-wing slush
funds that's where the Koch brothers did
their first Trading Places bet exactly
and the Mercer Family Foundation has
given almost six million dollars Dunn's
Foundation for the Advancement of
right-thinking 1.3 million dollars the
Linden Harry Bradley foundation one
point to the oh there's an Exxon comes
in with like five hundred and thirty tax
payers yeah there you go
so lots of tax pay all right we were
saying folks just a reminder you can
support this program by going to join
the majority report calm when you do you
not only support the free show you get
the full show without commercials and
you get extra content every single day
that is during the week ninety-nine
point seven percent of the time I just
made up that number there's been a day
or two I think we are now on something
like 2002 or something like that
2004 2004 so check it out also well
we're gonna see a bunch of people at the
live show this weekend and we we had a
listener who sent in said that we sent
us two tickets
this is listener Morgan I have two
tickets for the event at Bell House this
Sunday I sadly will not be able to use
it's a shame for them to go to waste I'm
hoping you guys can find someone to take
them so send us an email that says
two free tickets in the subject line at
majority reporters at gmail.com two free
tickets and we'll hook you up
all right quick break men Bendix
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to a back to the program the
proprietor of the Benjamin Dixon show
and the co-founder of rebuilding the
North Star or I guess that's the website
right but it's the rebuilt North Star
Ben Dixon Ben welcome to the show Sam
thanks so much for having me man it's
always a pleasure when is uh the when do
you what's the plan to launch
yeah the nor sir excuse me um so
actually Sam we just acquired the North
Star calm it took a lot of doing a lot
of negotiations and some money to get it
but we got the North Star calm so
everyone can go there and we are
launching February 14th which is
coincides with the culmination of the
bicentennial celebration of Frederick
Douglass's birth so that is our official
launch date February 14th we're gonna
have some articles out from some of the
top thinkers of our time they've agreed
to come on and do some pieces for us and
our first video show will be out that
day as well as some podcasts so all
roads lead to February 14th wow that's
great congratulations I'm very excited
thank you but thank you all right so
let's just start where we are on on the
shutdown the the latest is that Donald
Trump and it's unclear where this is
coming from it's it's three US officials
familiar with the briefing that Donald
Trump would use the Army Corps of
Engineers in a portion of the fourteen
billion dollars worth of Army Corps
funding to build three hundred and
fifteen miles of wall slats barriers
whatever it is and this money was set
aside to fund projects all over the
country including fix parts of storm
damaged Puerto Rico fixed parts of storm
damaged Texas and California I mean this
is I think
Arizona so he's basically threatening
and and I imagine it was military
officials who leaked this right like I
don't think it's coming from the White
House because you wouldn't want this to
get out there
what can you like sense in any type of
even strategy here yeah no no the
strategy is is really clear
don't Trump will do literally anything
he has to to pacify his base now is that
a coherent strategy no but that's
clearly what he's doing he's he's
pushing this all the way through
he has a core support of people that
they really don't care what precedent he
has to break what what lawsuits that
will ensue from him doing this Wow what
nation are what what groups will lose by
him redistributing the funds in a
different direction they really don't
care all that matters is that this wall
in some form right is built so that's
that's the strategy now whether it makes
sense or not you know that remains to be
seen but it seems to me that had he gone
on Tuesday night right and this must
have been the plan from the beginning
and announced that that there was a
state of emergency right and had then
you know at that point then sort of
announced it there wouldn't be the time
that people have now to sort of like
build a political argument against it
right like he's only playing to his base
right now he's giving like time for
every all the non base opposition to
really harden and I that did you know
even on his logic it doesn't seem to
make sense right unless unless he's
doing what you know a lot of presidents
do more rationally speaking which is to
float this this this this trial balloon
right and and to see what actually comes
up and what is the real reaction and how
much will he lose in the end
but he gets a win-win out of out of this
no matter what right so he's taking a
hard-line position
facing but you know perhaps this did get
leaked from the White House because they
know that if they go down this road
there's a there's a long line of
lawsuits that's going to ensue as well
as losing a lot of support from some key
Republicans so it really could be that
Donald Trump is playing both sides of
the aisle on this trying to pacify his
base while at the same time trying to
distance himself from actually pulling
the trigger on declaring a national
emergency because like you said if he
was going to actually declare that
emergency
it would have been Tuesday night and the
oval office speech so how does this
resolve because you know we have Mitch
McConnell who in it you know like I've
got a list here of it's fascinating of
of who's up for re-election in the
Senate in 2020 and there's a lot of
Republicans all four of the Republicans
who we have heard most of right that
Shelley Moore Capito in West Virginia
we've heard from Joni Ernst in Iowa
we've heard obviously from Collins in
Maine the only of cory gardner in
colorado who is could be in big trouble
because of this the only republican
we've heard from that is not up for
reelection is Mackowski in in alaska and
they are afraid that they're going to
lose because this is i mean we are right
on the cusp of becoming you know severe
right i mean at one point we we are now
just at the point where they're not
getting paid we're seeing now in miami
they're shutting down a terminal for a
couple of days because TSA people are
starting to leave we're starting to see
stuff like loans you know to farmers not
go through it is like right now we're on
the precipice I think of falling off a
you know a cliff that it's going to be
very painful particularly these senators
are gonna are you going to start feeling
the pressure
at the same time you have this opposite
force on Mitch McConnell which is if he
allows a vote and undercuts Donald Trump
Trump attacks him then Mark Levin and
Sean Hannity and and they all attack him
in a way that he was attacked in 2016 I
think he's afraid of getting primary so
the it's cutting both ways the 2020
election right right but but still in
the calculus that Donald Trump is
operating through who and by his really
what's best for him
all right so clearly he's not gonna be
concerned with Mitch McConnell and the
grand scheme of things so if you if you
if you know if you're trying to get an
understanding of what Donald Trump is
actually doing here obviously the best
way to figure it out is what's gonna
make him look best what's gonna make him
his 2020 election more likely and you
know he's he's counting on his base the
the Mark Levin the Sean Hannity's of the
radio world the Rush Limbaugh's of the
radio world and and really I I
accidentally listen to a whole lot of am
Rush Limbaugh this week in Sean Hannity
and the caller's that call in of course
it's anecdotal but I wonder why what
percentage of people actually believe
this there there were federal workers
calling in saying that they were more
than happy to suffer through this to
secure our border and and of course it's
ahead ago but I mean with that kind of
mindset out there what does Donald Trump
really have to lose by playing chicken
and and I think that's what he's
calculating I I mean I yeah I think from
his perspective but at one point right
the Senate has to give mm-hmm ya know of
course they have to give but I don't see
how see the real losers in this besides
the people who are struggling the
agencies that aren't operating the
eighty percent of the food that has not
been screened yeah
besides American people in general the
other real losers and this is the
Republican Party in general starting
with the Senate so they are going to
take it on the chin for Donald Trump and
the real question is are they going to
try to salvage anything from this just
try to salvage the the Republican Party
which might actually mean a serious
conversation about primary Donald Trump
himself
so we it really is going to be a
delineate a deciding moment here for the
Republican Party are they going to
continue to go down with Donald Trump
and that's a hard calculus when you
consider he does control the base the
base is his so I'm not really sure what
there are what Republicans in the Senate
specifically what they can do to come
out on top yeah it's it's amazing as you
know as I look at this list like I feel
like we're gonna see this is where we're
gonna see people who are gonna start to
freak out a little bit right it's so I
like I'm surprised that capito on some
level but I there must be some huge
funding that goes on in in West Virginia
but look at someone like Thom Tillis
right it's an R plus three in North
Carolina he's a real action that's gonna
be scary for him you got someone you
know obviously Susan Collins who is you
know a for reelection Iowa Joni Ernst I
would say even David Perdue in Georgia
maybe because you know that's that's
supposedly an R plus five state but that
state moved quite a bit the past two
years and it's missing here yeah very
interesting right like the percentage of
african-american vote went up by one or
two points in terms of what making up
the electorate and that's not gonna help
David Perdue in two years Cory Gardner
is in big trouble but then you see
someone like Lindsey Graham I think
Lindsey Graham is also operating the
same way that McConnell is how do I
stave off a primary challenge right like
that's what they're worried about these
some of those people so all the
so-called well I don't know that Mitch
McConnell is a is a moderate but you
know in Lindsey Graham it certainly
changed I mean Lindsey Graham is afraid
of getting primaried
by a by a you know it's our problem a
trump republican yeah yeah no no this is
this is the this is like the b-side of
the of the of the dance right this is
the the second act if you would of
Donald Trump actually seizing full
control over the Republican Party and it
really is
gonna be reflective of who has an
identity in the Republican Party what is
the Republican Party's identity outside
of Donald Trump and the problem is is
that a lot of the policies they never
disagreed on they just didn't like the
way he presented himself well now we
have a policy that is clearly
detrimental to them politically whether
they agree with them on the wall or not
it's now gotten to a point where it's
detrimental to their political futures
and we have to see like what where they
gonna bargain how they gonna play this
out
you've already like you said Lindsey
Graham he's doubling down on Trump but
there's so many other Republicans that
are going to be in trouble if this
continues down this road and so far I
actually have no idea I have no
inclination as to when Donald Trump will
blink on this if at all yeah it's gonna
be interesting to see the real question
is going to be sees is does Mitch
McConnell and how do they open up on
Mitch McConnell I mean I feel like Mitch
McConnell is gonna have to like feign a
heart attack go into the hospital so
this could happen when he's like I I was
I was in the hospital I couldn't they I
couldn't do anything all right well
let's turn our attention to the other I
guess you know it takes two to tango as
you know yeah and so part of the
responsibility for the government
closing yeah I think you're obviously
talking about the AP headline oh my
goodness that has to be the very worst
I've ever seen ever but go ahead I'm
sorry well yes exactly
it's uh it's the Democrats and I mean I
think look they're pushing for the
they're applying pressure in in in in
the Senate I don't hear Mitch
McConnell's name enough frankly but yeah
right but that's that but let's talk
about first what's happening with the
the committee assignments just briefly
there was a story well at the beginning
of this formation of the this session of
Congress the the CPC the
the Progressive Caucus right had
negotiated with Nancy Pelosi 40%
representation and on four or five of
the sort of really tier 1 committees
like ways and means and and a couple
others and they have more or less gotten
to 40% however some of those people who
are members of the CPC are also members
of the New Democratic coalition and you
know part of the problem is that the CPC
has not quite organized itself in such a
way that it is as meaningful to call
yourself that right like there's no
anybody can join and so Pelosi just
basically got away with what she could
get away with which is IP wanted me to
put CPC members on I did I can't it's
not up to me to police your caucus right
as to how legit they are now the
Financial Services Committee is looking
like it could be a pretty good committee
it's a tier 2 committee but it's an
important committee AOC is going to may
end up on there and a couple of maybe
Katey Porter a couple of you know very
strong freshman Congress people but
what's your sense of of like you know
how the progressives are doing here and
let's roll into this the attacks on AOC
in Politico let's just put up that first
tweet that she did the she she responded
the first one that I say yeah here it is
she responded to someone tweeting out
AOC isn't the future the democratic
party this is Joe Lieberman yeah and she
tweeted out new party who did we're
gonna talk more about AOC about Joe
Lieberman on Sunday but yeah but that
and then look what she put here in
response to I think the Politico piece
go back to that other one
yeah here it is
she wrote to quote Alan Moore none of
you understand I'm not locked up in here
with you your locker loved me I loved it
absolutely so I just give me your take
about what's going on here so no I think
you nailed it right Nancy I don't know
who to blame or who to credit in the CPC
assignments because I think Nancy Pelosi
did exactly what I would have done if I
was in her position if I have my you
know I cannot control the fact that your
caucus is not as progressive as it needs
to be but if that's the measure that you
want to use then fine
bring them on in and we could fill in
those positions
that makes total sense and I think it is
more of a reflection on how unorganized
progressives were prior to this moment
which is why I'm glad you tied a OSI in
this because there really is the need
for a much more organized representation
in in the Congress right we've been
progressive in the streets now we need
to be progressive on the hill and and
not just progressives in name only - I
hate to steal that from Republicans but
you know we really do need people who
aren't just signed up with the committee
but also actually hold progressive
positions now this is the problem with
Democrats across the board that everyone
has talked about for years the fact that
we don't really have true progressivism
represented in the party and this is why
everyone is so upset or so but fuddled
with aoc I was in Nicasio Cortez because
she's coming in talking about as a top
marginal rate of 70% I that's a that's
it's progressives progressive as we've
heard in my lifetime I've never heard
anyone going there just off the RIP and
say no this is where what we should
consider her green new deal so that type
of boldness and brashness is the only
thing that's going to draw out the
progressives if there's any progressives
amongst us what ALC is doing is going to
draw them out and if they're not there
then we need to really honestly talk
about doing some more primary because
you know
there are no locked positions there are
no like seeds these the seats belong to
the people and if the people demand more
progressives then I I think Acacio
Cortez's storyline and the way she did
it and now how Bochy is is really going
to inspire more progressives to be there
in the first place so that speaker
Pelosi doesn't have that easy hand to
play of assigning progresses when
progressives when in reality they're
just third way Democrats with a label of
progressives
you know I mean IIIi am of the mind that
we should be actively you know looking
for Democrats to primary you know and in
you know we should expend those
resources wisely
it should be in places where you have a
you know there should be no democratic
seat that is ad plus ten where someone
doesn't have a 100% progressive voting
record in my ass right exactly and
that's the type of thing the real
question is is like from a tactical
standpoint how much should a OC be
saying this right because they and and
and when because you know the problem is
is that they're afraid of her costing
them some of their jobs I mean that's
basically what it comes down to right
yeah and they just put up or shut up
right so if they're there and they have
the opportunity to be more progressive
and a Nicasio quartet the answer to your
question is she needs to do it now then
right let's do it now because it was it
may cause more waves than she wants to
cause at this point but we need to flesh
this out if you want to keep your seat
and the wave the real blue wave is a
progressive wave then you need to become
progressive have a have a change of
heart have a calming to Jesus moment
have a come to Acacio Cortes moment
where you change your ways and you
actually operate and vote based on
progressive politics otherwise then yeah
you don't have a safe seat and not be
progressive I'm sorry and and what of I
mean to what extent do you think that
that
can be essentially punished within the
colony no I mean like you know yeah you
know the thing is is that she has a
fairly safe seat well certainly as a
Democrat and in terms of primary it
seems to me she has the ability to at
least keep pace with the but the most
well-funded possible primary challenger
she right yeah right I mean absolutely
like she has an ability to raise money
it seems to me at this point that was
unrivaled
by the vast bodies you know anyone and
at least in the house and um and so
she's there she's safe she doesn't have
to worry about that as much um and she's
basically it seems to me taking the
political strength she has and using it
and that's necessarily gonna step on
other people's toes right and and that
to me seems to be like the first order
issue in terms of in terms of of what
the dynamic is I mean I think people are
in some way threatened by her her ideal
her positions but I think it's more
they're threatened by her power right
and in its power she's not you know
she's not fully even wielding it yet
right she's are great jobs it's like a
little bit of Serpico situation where
everybody's like you know if you don't
take the money mmm
no he's gonna trust you and exactly you
can take the money and then just give it
back to somebody but you gotta take the
money so everybody trusts you and I feel
like it's more about that rather than
you know directly or politics I think
that's the second order at this juncture
anyways yeah because it's just you know
she's not getting along to go a long
type of situation I think that scares
people right well I think it's I think
it's almost I agree with you but I can
see how it would be one in the same her
politics is exactly what threatens their
positions like if they had her politics
they wouldn't be threatened right they
would be glad to have a champion in
Acacio Cortes so sure their jobs are
threatened but and I
I'm loathe to offer anyone advice
because I know she's a brilliant woman
and she does not need my little own
advice from from down here in Georgia
but I would say never ever don't bat an
eye
fight as hard as you possibly can
because they will destroy you whether
you're fighting for the right thing or
whether you're not fighting for the
right thing never I mean anyone
extending their arms out to hug you and
asking you to - to you - to rein you in
your I asking you to back down they want
to destroy you I don't care how big of a
smile they have on their face I don't
care what race they are I don't care
what gender they are they want to
destroy you so you might as well destroy
them first it is a blood bloodbath
dog-eat-dog and I think she knows that
which is why she came out swinging with
70% of attack top text marginal rate so
just push keep going keep going
yeah let's also just I want to touch on
that for a moment cuz one of the things
I thought was amazing when when we
talked a little bit about this week was
watching Julian Castro who I would be
surprised if there is a any type of
record video audio or written of him
ever acknowledging that the top tax rate
was you know 90 percent in the 50s or
60s in his entire political history but
for this week when he was asked about Al
C's comments that to me is stunning I
mean I feel like we're seeing what we
saw with single-payer and Bernie we're
seeing the same thing in terms of the
taxation with AOC it's just like they
start talking about it and they force
other people to talk about it and then
all of a sudden it doesn't sound so
crazy right right she's pushing the
Overton Window Overman like this is this
is critical in our discourse so maybe
one day we don't get back up to 70% but
we get up to 50% or whatever it won't
happen unless people just get out there
and say what is true and what it's
obvious but that is you know shame shame
on the Democrats who you know these
things you're fully aware of the
progressive positions that we've had in
this in this country's history and you
understand that we're
thing like that now so we're you know
shame on them like I don't want to go
down the road of like what are you
actually there for cuz we all can have
our our own way of thinking about that
you know we all have our own guess but
the fact is it's like do they need a
leader obviously should they have to
wait on someone to to open up the door
for these conversations no they should
have been Julian Castro should have been
that guy right but he wasn't so thank
God for ALC and any thoughts about
Elizabeth Warren and her jumping into
the race yeah man I just honestly I have
a love-hate relationship with with the
idea of Elizabeth Warren being president
I think she missed her boat
I think 2016 was her year I think Bernie
I don't think Bernie would have run if
she jumped in with the run run Liz
Warren campaign but you know I like her
still I like most some of her politics
and generally a fan and always have been
it probably will be but I think she
missed the boat hey so what do you mean
by that I could just it's just the you
have your moment man everybody has their
moment and you got to seize that moment
her moment was 2016 oh god like we
wanted a mayor it was time for America
to have a woman president just by just
sheer numbers and demographics like this
we should had one a long time ago it was
time for America to have a progressive
candidate it was time for us to have
Elizabeth Warren and and that's not this
year this year we need something else
this year we need somebody who can get
in the ring and like eviscerate Donald
Trump and come out not looking like a
pig you're not I mean you get into the
slop you generally come out looking like
a pig we need someone who is a talented
fighter enough to get in the mud with
him and still come out looking good and
she's not that person man did you see
what Trump did with her campaign slogan
120 20th you know so she's already you
know in my opinion she's mr. votes she's
not up to the task of beating Donald
Trump but I absolutely do like her
politics I respect her as a person as a
senator I love what she's done and if
she's the candidate I will wear her
t-shirt and go out there and support her
to know him
but just we're in the early stages where
we can really make smart decisions I
don't know if this is her time anymore
who are you thinking it I didn't want to
go down this road quite yes yes you
don't tell me we'll wait we've got money
we got plenty of time to talk about this
yeah yeah interesting thing I mean I
guess we'll see I'm I'm curious to find
out how all this stuff plays when we see
the campaign actually roll out like do
you think I know you don't wanna go down
here do you feel she's up to the task of
taking on Trump I mean I I don't have a
sense yet I mean I really you know I I
personally don't think that anybody
should roll around in the mud with Trump
I am of the school of you should dismiss
him very quickly and don't get into and
just let him roll around in the mud and
because I don't think at the end of the
day the one twenty twenty you know thing
is really gonna have much resonance I
think it will on the right they will
hype it up but I think the dynamic is is
is not too dissimilar from this wall
situation Donald Trump may very well
call for a state of emergency he will
not he he will not build the wall he
will he will try and get the money
appropriated and it will immediately be
tied up in the courts those court cases
will last well beyond 2020 sure they
will those court cases will end when the
next president comes in and says yeah
we're not gonna do that anymore and so
nothing's gonna get built but there will
be 40 to 45 percent of the the country
maybe maybe closer to 40 who were going
to be ecstatic when he did this and the
Republicans will still take the brunt of
the shutdown and we'll move on and I
have a feeling that is like the same
dynamic with the 2020 I think there are
more people fretting about the
implications of that one
2220 thing
and then the then it actually having any
impact well I agree with everything that
you said there with with one caveat that
that stuff really drives his base and
drives them to the polls that's the big
thing like the wall yeah some
Republicans are gonna take it on the
chin but his base they're coming out you
know what I mean they that the the the
bigotry towards Elizabeth Warren and her
ancestry and all that stuff you know it
it drives his base but it drives them to
the polls also they love this Adam
Seward in the from the Atlantic he
coined the best the cruelty is the point
and so we just have to see if if we can
find a candidate on our side they can
overcome the energy that Donald Trump
still surprisingly gets from his base
that I mean they're coming out to the
polls but of course they're gonna come
out to the polls right
I mean but can we overcome it though III
mean the the numbers that he had with
with the candidate who brings people out
on against him I think that we
undoubtedly I mean you think about the
numbers he had relative to Mitt Romney I
think they were even less it's just that
last time the Democratic candidate
severely underperformed and that was a
big part of the problem yeah and so and
so I mean we can't go down we we can't
have a candidate who under performs and
under motivates us you know me nice
that's part of the calculus and I think
that's part of the calculus of of
Elizabeth Warren like I think you could
put it like this but running for
president is like a high school
popularity contest as much as anything
else and and when I say she missed her
moment part of it is like you know I
don't know if she has that juice in the
internet that energy to make America
excited enough to get to make the left
of America excited enough to get
everyone to the polls now again I could
I will if she's a nominee whoever I
don't care who the nominee is right I'm
gonna sell them like this is we're just
having a conversation
on your show but when when we get down
to brass tacks man I'm going to knock on
doors for whoever it is right right
I am fully in martin O'Malley's corner
right now every step of the way
van Dixon folks can check out the the
Benjamin Dixon show and I guess we are a
little bit less than a little bit more
than a month away from the official Lots
in North Star dot-com
all right start out copy yep thanks so
much for having me thanks Ben's always a
pleasure
talk to you soon bye-bye Ben Dixon folks
where did Michael go to Michael just
leave I said he had a duck out early
earlier than expected today yeah that
was even earlier than I expected why
didn't even come in just to to put more
crumbs on the floor guy doesn't clean up
after himself
we're gonna research the the cookie that
sitting on the on the carpet there on
the floor it's such torture for me when
you throw Shana Michael because I love
throwing shade on Michael but I will
also never side with the boss against a
co-worker cuz I'm not a scab I know
that's very difficult I know that's his
line that's had been his line for a long
time but you should also know that he's
also part of management right I mean he
he's in here he's bossing around me so
you threw me under the bus for the coke
bottles yesterday he did and he didn't
even realize he was doing it yeah that's
right he's the boss right like he's the
he's yeah he's part of Management so you
might want to rethink that take he's
posing
he's just posing as working but he's
more management the worker at this point
I'll take that under advisement going
off on his uh wherever he's going
I mean come on
oh he's working on material is that what
that's not what he said oh my god
all right folks we're gonna take a quick
break and when we come back we will be
talking to Matthew film guy and he will
give us a film maybe we'll talk a little
bit about force majeure because Matthew
had originally recommended it and then I
was a friend instructed me to watch it
and so we'll see all right quick break
come back
Matthew foam guy
you
on the majority report ladies and
gentlemen from time to time we have well
I mean we always originally we were this
this segment of the program on Fridays
for our new listeners and viewers was
held down by a who I thought at the time
was a film critic and it turned out he
was posing as a film critic he was not a
film critic he was just a entertainment
reporter and he kept recommending films
that were bad and one day I was like you
do you do like these are bad films that
you're recommending you're not a great
film critic and he's like I'm not a film
critic and would that happened that took
like four years I think we were doing it
and then I was like well why would I
then you're not gonna be on anymore I'm
gonna get someone who's a real film guy
well you don't have to be a film critic
to have good film guy he's both
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
and Matthew film guy is one of those
people who comes on to recommend films
hello Matthew film guy hello Sam cedar
how are you doing today I am I am doing
well thank you for joining us is your
first visit to the show in 2019 happy
new year happy new year happy new year
we still say that this far in but happy
New Year to you there are only 10 days
away from from the actual New Year so I
would say yes we're still at the
beginning of the year you could maybe
say happy beginning of the year happy
beginning of the year Sam you know I'm
talking to you from my mother's lanai
and Sonny Boca ratone where time dilates
very severely so it's hard to keep track
very nice so you're in Boca huh
did you go to right there's a tequila
willie's there if I remember correctly
in Boca where you can get tequila shots
out of a B holstered waitress now this
of course was the last time I was there
was in 1987 I think it was I was I drove
down to Florida with a buddy of mine and
we stayed at his grandmother's place in
Boynton Beach
I think it was like gated community
place that's right and we went to
tequila willie's and got some get some
tequila shots and then I think we we
took mushrooms and went to Disney World
oh yeah that's on earth yeah that's
pretty much what I'm doing here just me
marrying the dog taking mushrooms and
drinking tequila
all right well that's nice and so are
you guys gone to tequila willie's is
that still there have you checked that
out you know I don't know if it's
tequila willie's but there is I passed a
place that was sort of a themed tequila
bar across from the Super Target which
we have frequented several times and I
have not yet gone in but maybe on your
recommendation I will
men that politics I'm sorry did you say
the Super Target that's right they don't
just have targets down here Sam they
have super targets so I can get a
bathmat and turkey bacon oh hell yeah
that reminds me of the middle of the
country really hard have you been to a
Super Target that's the main form of
target where I'm from seriously oh you
you come from the land of the Super
Target yeah I just had to go to the one
at Atlantic Center term and all the
other day to get stuff for my new house
and that was quite enough target for me
that's a sub super target
that's like a target so wait a second so
is a super target just like target but
like like how much found it just massive
it's got a supermarket it's got
everything made in China ever inside it
under one roof it's fantastic and hard
to miss the Super Target right yeah can
I get the sound board up please yeah
[Music]
[Laughter]
yeah no I mean apart from Super Target
I'm sort of down here on an extended
sabbatical you know we took a long road
trip down from New York we drove so we
saw the country on the East Coast and
I'm just sort of here taking in movies
the beach and other dog-friendly locales
so how long are you taking this extended
sabbatical I'm this is starting to sound
enticing and alluring to me yeah come on
down Stan we got a couch well no no I I
I wouldn't I wouldn't know I would do it
with you all right snow no pressure no
pressure saying the idea there's plenty
of other ladies with other Jewish
grandma's here yes
no I don't doubt it but I'm just curious
as to how long are you gonna be on this
sabbatical for uh you know what since we
drove it's a little open-ended I can be
doing some work down here I'm actually
working on Ted Alexandra's new podcast a
little bit me which you can find on
iTunes and stitcher in all those other
places so I'm kind of you know have
computer will travel so it could be a
couple more weeks it could be another
month you know is life's my oyster Sam
that is I'm I gotta say I'm a little
jealous I mean
the idea of like getting out of the the
cold for a month and a half is pretty
sweet now what happens to your Learning
Annex class actually that is one of the
heart outs that I have so that resumed
in the middle of February so that will
probably be the one thing that does
bring me back but you know what the
ladies there love me so much I refer you
to the gift cards that I received that I
could probably skip even one of those
classes and still not really you know
damaged my long-term prospects there
wait a sec if you skip do you send in a
sub oh no they just they wouldn't take a
sub they just come back the next week
and they get a minor refund Wow but if
anyone's listening to my class I still
plan to be there I think it's Deborah
wary 13th but you know you Ryan your
email do you have members of that class
who listen to this program you know I
have certainly mentioned it before but I
don't know how many of them the Venn
diagram of the people who show up and
the people who can listen to a podcast
online it may not exactly overlap very
much so I can't say sure okay
that sounds like you made some modicum
of effort to get people to listen that's
fine
yeah like I would basically have to show
up at each of their houses and show them
how to download iTunes and so on and
that's just I don't get paid quite
enough for that but I have mentioned it
and I think a few people have told me
that they have heard of it at least like
they heard of you
maybe yeah that's not really what I'm
looking for but that's yeah that's nice
no I certainly stumped for the show
every chance I get you know that one
yeah okay I just thought that we were
bringing in some of those folks but
that's okay all right well we're not now
mess I'll tell you what Sam I'll set
I'll put out a survey next class and
we'll see we'll get the real numbers for
you okay good good now let's get to this
film thing because there's a little bit
of a controversy here that now that I'm
checking my phone I was quite convinced
that you recommended to me on this
program force majeure
I don't know when it came out the legal
concept not the legal concept the movie
force majeure and I never heard of it
somebody recommended it was it Isabel I
don't have been one of your other myriad
film guys I don't know but was it good
yeah it was great
it's do you want me to tell you a little
bit about it I mean I'm very I'm very
surprised that you don't know what this
movie is I don't know who recommended it
to me
but force majeure of course the the
concept itself is you know sort of is a
legal term and that is an unforeseeable
very often natural event or circumstance
that keeps someone from being able to
fulfill a contract right so if there's
you know you get a hotel reservation and
you know the hotel gets swept away in a
flood and there's no hotel you know you
force majeure there's sorry we can't
give you the room that type of thing
that may not be the greatest of examples
but that's it
so the the movie force majeure though
was released in 2014 I'm looking at this
I'm surprised you didn't see this cuz it
got the Gold Bug egde Award for Best
Picture which I don't know it's it's a
it's a foreign film I think it's a
Swedish is it it's a Swedish film by
Rubin Ostend and I think they probably
dubbed it in English but or maybe
there's a little bit a mushy actually
speak and I didn't recognize any of the
people and it except for the guy who
plays the Christoph huge the guy who
plays the the redheaded guy fled again
from the Christian or something guy who
played the the red
in Game of Thrones and it's do you want
me to tell how much I don't know how to
do this I don't know how to do with it
it's your it's your show Sam you can use
the time I'm not I'm not really this is
not a spoiler really because it's I mean
it's don't any repeat that James Bond
gate yeah I mean it's not it's not a
major spoiler it's but it's about a
relationship and something happens and
oh I love movies or something happens
well that's right
and something happens that causes the
wife to see her husband in a new light
and it's a little bit problematic and
it's sort of you know it's it's a bit of
a sound I'm starting to see your
attraction to this movie what what why
is that oh maybe not nevermind no no no
no no it doesn't it doesn't have any
bearing on on my my former marriage
I don't think okay nobody it it's just a
revealing moment and it's pretty funny
the way and it's about you know gender
roles and about what we expect about
people and what I mean it's something I
thought that I it's it sounds like your
kind of movie and I can't believe you
didn't see it well I will certainly
rectify that oversight right away I mean
I'm down here with about 500 other
movies that I've been trying to see
without having the real time you trying
to see like the two-hour plus three hour
plus movies but I will throw that into
the rotation I promise you what seems
the student has become the film guy
that's right that's right that's right
so you turn the tables I've learned you
well what what films have you brought
down there with you do you bring down
like blu-rays do you bring down your own
blu-ray player when you're driving down
to to Boca no I'd buy movies i download
movies you know I'm a member of some of
these that invite-only torrent sites so
I trade movies with other cinephiles and
things like that so I've just a message
hard drive full of digital
copies of movies that just need to be
seen eventually and how do you want to
watch those on your computer do you have
a means and you get it you get an hdmi
cord that plugs right in in your
computer we have Mary's laptop it goes
right into the computer I got a nice
Bose sound bar that I got my mother to
buy for her 60-inch flat screen here so
we've got somewhat of a fairly good
audio setup going and yeah you just hit
VLC player shoutout to VLC player thank
you God for VLC player and you just go
to town on it Sam oh and then you play
it on the TV
is that it that's right on the TV yep
big-screen TV bucket of popcorn
sometimes perfect so Matthew in a row
for a moment we're all gonna pretend
that we're in our mothers or maybe just
your mother's living room in Boca and we
have the opportunity to sit back and
watch a movie because hey we're in
Florida why wouldn't you want to stay
inside
god forbid you would go out in the dead
of winter and want to get some Sun and
maybe go swimming or something you know
it's nice to know that it's out there
you know it's just nice to know that
it's out there well I'm not sure we've
been outside a little bit there's so
many dogs so many places here there's
dog parks there's dog beaches so we've
seen the outside believe me that's
Mary's main what's the temperature we do
get some why the temperature out there
actually it's like a really nice about
74 right now we're sitting in the shade
it's nice and cool so it's not super hot
but it's quite comfortable I I want to
kill you right just can't think about
these things if you're gonna live in New
York I honestly really want to know I
really I shouldn't ask that question I
mean I icon us and right now and I
wanted a me and your money over 20 years
20 years of living in New York to really
realize I don't have to tough it out I
don't have to wake up either burning up
because of the steam heat or freezing
cold because I've had to go somewhere
and really I have to it I owe it to Mary
I have to give her the credit for
getting me out of my sedentary lifestyle
and saying we could actually take
advantage of the fact that your mother
lives in Florida and we have son of a
gun a mad now alright well so what what
dumb movie do you want to recommend
Matthew as you sit there living in life
by the pool
well I've need a drink when you're there
dude a drink cuz I can't that's all I'm
thinking about now is like a drinking
that's what I want to do I just want to
be able to ride my bike to work so it
doesn't take me an hour to get here on a
bus it would be nice day drink ride
around a gated community in Boca over
for my bike yeah you know I don't know
if I take my life in my hands
driving it riding a bike around the
streets of Boca it's like all six-lane
highways here so that's a little scary
proposition but seeing like one of those
communities or she have like just like a
like a like a you know like a condo like
an apartment type of situation one of
those communities I mean they're you
know there's semi-attached just like two
and three kind of together but it's one
of those little you know boca del Boca
type Seinfeld places yeah but can't you
ride your bike around there like is it
yeah that's what I mean you could ride
your bike around here but you wouldn't
actually go right well you wouldn't want
to go anywhere else right now is there a
golf course associated with that or or
is that just you know I don't think this
one I think this one does but there's
like every third one at the golf course
right oh you know we're right across the
street from a giant mall that has like a
testable store in an Apple store and of
course Cartier inside it so it's like
that's what you're kind of dealing with
here okay you're like living in that
episode of broad city where they go
visit someone's grandma and Boca and
they're like oh my god this is so great
we're totally gonna move here and then
they find out that all the old Jewish
people in this Florida complex are like
racist and right-wing Benjamin and I and
Benjamin wrote about this in his book
and he didn't credit me as the other
person but we got I know we pitched a
show to Conan O'Brien's production
company of two guys who go down and live
they I think it was called early
retirement and they would go down to a
retirement place and basically move in
they figure out a way of doing that move
in with their with their grandparents or
something like that
fraud City copied you oh yeah this is a
you
later the broad city of course everybody
copied us and what we did we we went
down there and we visited his
father-in-law at the time not his
father-in-law his brother-in-law's
father and who was like a self-styled
comedian and was like sort of like in
doing would do productions in the the in
the the old in the community and so we
ended up I me John convinced me to do
this you can read the book and to find
out exactly how it happened even though
it doesn't mention my name it just says
my writing partner or whatever
John convinced me to to give up part of
the money that we were making to write
the script to this guy to write the
script for us and he was a 70 year old
man who wrote a sitcom that read like a
70 year old man was writing a sitcom at
that time and we handed it in as a joke
it was all just a joke and the response
from the executives was like we feel
like you're I mean it's good it's good
but we feel like you're writing
something that we you think we would
think it's funny and we want you to
write something that you think is funny
and we're like wow we think this is
great and and then eventually we just
handed in our script and they were just
like why did you do that and we're like
well we thought it was funny and don't
forget don't forget to include the
disbursement of the money that you were
given to this guy basically right oh
yeah we gave him about 10% of what we of
what our contract was I mean we paid him
like I don't know like five six thousand
dollars or something like it was worth
it I mean it was it was it was a funny
story Benjamin monetized it I guess by
writing it in his damn book anyways so
what do you recommend as a movie Matthew
film guy well I've got a couple here
because I've been seeing them in a kind
of a fast clip here okay and I've been
going back through some of the classics
of the early 70s
which was everybody knows the kind of
heyday for Holi was still making when
you can have sort of major movie stars
they probably see you know we're in
movies that were with that I probably
seen those well let's let's see because
then I've got the big hitter to follow
it up with but a few that I watched just
to sort of catch up on some with
scarecrow with Al Pacino and Gene
Hackman do you know that one no okay
great glad to hear it scarecrow it's uh
it's directed by a Jerry Schatzberg who
did Panic and Neil Park this was his
follow up with Al Pacino it's quite the
sort of downbeat but really kind of
intense 70s sort of milieu about - sort
of down on the left guys who strike up
an odd friendship and sort of have these
dreams it's a little bit of a Midnight
Cowboy she's gonna say sounds Midnight
Cowboy ish it probably got green-lighted
due to the success of Midnight Cowboy a
few years earlier interest and I watched
then I watched a sort of a neo noir but
this one takes place in the great city
of Boston very seedy underbelly of
Boston in the early seventies the
Friends of Eddie Coyle you know this one
no I don't yeah these are great these
are little like lesser-known sort of
minor key 70s movies this is a directed
by Peter Yates and it's got the the
great Robert Mitchum Peter Boyle
Alex Rocco those kind of guys and it's
just sort of like a low-key no I want to
say gangster movie just a criminal's
movie and it's very sort of with an
ambient storytelling not a lot of plot
but such great shitty Boston of the
early seventies millions there during
the heyday of the indie world there was
a movie like that about Boston with like
two or three guys who are like petty
criminals I can't remember what the name
of that movie are you thinking of
Palookaville maybe okay all right what
else but and now here's the one that I
think everyone should go out and see
just because of its sort of relevance to
our current state of political affairs I
don't always do that with my reviews but
and this one I thought it was pretty
relevant actually Mary and I watched the
documentary this is not the one but we
watched the great documentary I am NOT
your negro about James Baldwin
which everybody hasn't seen that is
that's won a lot of awards a couple
years ago it's an incredible documentary
on him and that sort of sent us down at
a YouTube rabbit hole watching some of
these panels that he was on in the early
and mid 60's and and that inspired me to
see a little-known movie directed by
none other than Roger Corman who you
wouldn't expect a movie like this from
he made his name as you know making
low-budget schlock horror movie some of
them actually very interesting he gave a
career start to so many of the people
that went on to make bigger movies like
Martin Scorsese and Ron Howard and Peter
Fonda and Jack Nicholson and James
Cameron and just tons of people over the
years but he directed a movie starring
none other than Captain Kirk himself
William Shatner called the intruder have
you heard of this movie saying no I have
not okay it's really not released but it
is on YouTube and it basically is about
a real a grifter rook comes down from I
guess he says he's from Hollywood he's
from LA and he comes down to a southern
town who is struggling in the wake of
integration and they're sort of be
grudgingly accepting the fact that their
children have to go to school with black
people and he stirs up trouble to
basically aggrandize himself and becomes
this kind of almost cult leader of the
southern racists and I don't have to
draw the parallels for you for our
current president but I will it's like
Trump our president is comedies like
okay fair enough it makes it no follow
we're yelling with that just in case
just in case and yeah and it's William
Shatner being his purist Shatner is the
best Shatner you could ever shatter and
he is this kind of uh you know literally
a race hustler or you know race to pimp
what of it what it so Riley called you
know these people he's really that and
it is actually sort of nuanced in and
actually sophisticated it you could call
it kind of a race ploy tation movie
because he did a lot of these kind of
exploitation movies about the issue of
the day whether it was bikers or teenage
you know Runaways and this kind of thing
but it's actually a real
interesting look it made in 1962 a look
at what the actual issues were you know
with the Civil Rights Act and with you
know integration and less I feel like
everything that we talked about or you
guys talked about on this show comes
back to this kind of forced integration
you know Matt you did that great
coverage of democracy in Chains and it
feels like the epicenter is the forcing
kids to go to school with different
races and this is basically all centered
around that in a really kind of
interesting way it also features a
Jewish nymphomaniac it also features a
kind of liberal use of the n-word so you
can enjoy that if you're so inclined but
it's just really a snapshot of not just
like it's not just a documentary but
it's a snapshot of what I think Roger
Corman and early 60s Hollywood thought
would be sort of a moving issue for
people to come to the theater to see and
for some reason maybe because it's so
sensitive and so kind of uh you know
exploitative in some way it's not that
hadn't gotten a commercial release but
it is on YouTube and it sometimes plays
on cable so you could find it there well
uh I will check out I'm gonna I mean
I've put all of them on I now have a to
watch list on my phone so friends abetik
coil scarecrow the intruder I am NOT
near Negro all of those are on my list
to watch and Matthew let me be the first
and probably the only person to say I'm
sorry we're gonna miss you on Sunday at
the live show damn I appreciate that I'm
really sorry I'm gonna miss that too I
would have loved to have been able to
capture it again for posterity but is
not to be but next year when you do the
next one I'm sure I will be there
alright
well Matthew film guy thank you so much
buddy talk to you soon my pleasure stay
and take care bye bye now we're gonna
try in either stream some backstage
stuff on YouTube I think and maybe even
on our Instagram which we're setting up
but we set that up yet it is set up
actually
report majority of him at majority FM is
our Instagram account there you go oh oh
yeah look at that Wow updating in
real-time Wow I love it got about 35
follows or something alright we're gonna
put a link to our you did a good job
with that we're gonna we're gonna build
that out a little bit we might do more
than what there's just this picture so
yeah they do more than one picture but
we'll try and do some videos on there
wow look at that that's yeah now maybe
what we can also do is put one of these
on there we now have our collector's
item poster which is going to be
available for sale at the at the the
show and there it is what do you think
about that looks good people see that
concession up properly put that on the
gram left is best the Bell House show
put that up there that is a that's just
a little a one-off
poster maybe maybe we'll use that theme
in the future is it a limited edition
poster I think it is well it necessarily
is limited in so far is that it's got
the date of the show on there so it's a
limited edition we will see and help put
that on Instagram too
we're gonna put all sorts of crazy stuff
on there we're blowing up the grid we
got the zero-sum game memes we're gonna
put on Instagram and somebody did a vest
no vest did you see that did you see
that I don't know where I somebody's got
to tweet that at me again cuz I think I
lost it but that's up there so we've got
all all of those things wonderful things
happening around here very exciting
folks just want to remind you that it is
your support that makes this show
possible you can become a member by
going to join the majority report com
also just coffee doc co-op Fairtrade
coffee tea or chocolate use the coupon
code majority get 10% off
check out the Michael Brooks show it's
on Michael Brooks YouTube page no me
Const was on this week and you can go
check out majority dot F M for a way to
contribute I think there's one more day
maybe where you can send qualifying you
you can donate money that will qualify
for matching funds in her public
advocate race she had a fundraiser in in
New York City last night and was
attended by myself I saw Michael there
too he was the host of festivities so he
call that master of ceremonies
impresario the impresario and Jamie the
Intifada what's happening on the
Intifada yeah so this week on the anti
father anti father I got the Intifada we
have our friend Sophie Weiner of
splinter news to talk about Australia
and if you were dissatisfied with what
Barry Weiss had to say about Australia I
strongly encourage you to listen to this
instead because I'd say it's a slightly
better more cooler I'd outline of the
political issues at play in that crazy
country and the different kinds of
fascists that they have down there and
the different kinds of anti-fascist that
they have down there so I found it to be
a pretty interesting conversation we
also joke around a little bit about the
idea of tanki's for Trump because we
think that's funny
once the nation no longer needs Barry
Weiss to write about you know the
different parts of the world in the
paper of record I think she should have
a travel show
literary hangover Wilde on very wise
yeah yeah literary hangover coming up
we're gonna record it next week the
house of the seven gables by Nathaniel
Hawthorne which is a very weird book
about sort of inheritance and property
and decadent families so I think there's
no sort of modern you know relevance for
it but literary hangover check it out
alright folks gonna take a quick break
headed to the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty is the
number Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich
I have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you you nervous
a little bit upset you riled up yeah
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you alright but dude
dude dude dude dude dude you want to
smoke this joint yes
you feel like you are a dinosaur five
times yes this is a perfect moment no
[Applause]
all right gonna take quick break I want
to take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber classic I'm feeling
more chill already hood Donald Trump can
kiss all of our asses thank you for
calling into the majority report them
we'll be with you shortly
we're back folks it is the fun half the
majority report let's go to the IMS
producer Lauren Happy New Year regarding
the Shatner movie the intruder it was
directed back in 62 by none other than
Roger Corman and co-stars Jean Cooper of
the young and restless Fame and Corbin
Benson's mom also Boca Raton is the
hometown of actress Arianna Arianna
Grande and if you recall where Randy
Rhoads niece Jessica went to college at
Florida Atlantic University it's was
first football coach was the I name Lou
Saban slash the fash thank you for that
a letter carrier posters t-shirts give
us the info we want Sam how many bushels
of apples did you take out of cold
storage to give out at the door Winnipeg
Craig will H John Benjamin be at the
live show there is a decent chance that
HG on Benjamin will in fact be at the
live show Adam cokehead I've been
telling steven crowder that his wife's
second sexual partner could be sam cedar
if he doesn't defend his ideas like a
man
this is in reference to the article he
wrote about saving his virginity for
marriage this whole this whole thing
leads me to believe that she probably
has buyer's remorse
oh is he married now is he married oh
yes is it to the girl that he has read
all those articles for his website that
always starts with dear liberals and
like no liberal is ever going to read
this very interesting schmecker this
week on binders of women my co-host Don
Merritt OSIS and I talked with Clara
Jeffrey but why Beto has only four
percent favorability rating amongst for
18 to 29 year olds is it because bernie
is kidnapping and murdering children in
the middle of the night maybe and when
will the uppity Alexandria Acacio bro
tez learn to keep her place also it's a
friendly reminder that for every $50
donation to the show my good friend
Chewbacca will deputize you as a person
no zeny
the only thing better than listening to
say I'm stumbling through his first
movie review in real-time is Sam
stumbling through his new Instagram page
in real-time all the best
grandpa's am killing it today thank you
very much I appreciate that Miami Dave
should be a good president have military
experience should a good president have
military experience to be the best
commander-in-chief possible oh no isn't
the whole idea that the army that the
whole military has a civilian
commander-in-chief yes definitionally I
mean I think you you would you you
couldn't be in the military but but I
don't know that military experience
makes you a better commander-in-chief in
some respects I mean III can see I can
see the argument you know that may be
the right person might have a better
understanding of the cost of war and
might be less inclined to send troops
there are certain parts of Kennedy's
administration which is like it's it's
nice that he was literally like a war
hero because he could speak to the
Pentagon in certain ways but also the
Eisenhower's maybe the most recent
example of literally a general or
something doing that and
that didn't turn out very good
especially the way he I mean he avoided
overt military engagement but this the
covert stuff was just disastrous um I
think the vast majority of our
presidents have have served in the
military right I mean George Bush
Herbert Walker and George W Bush served
enough and in the military to go AWOL
from his National Guard post so that
account of he was much more amenable to
people who had gone AWOL I don't know if
Jimmy Carter had I imagine he did well
govern was a bit of a war hero I think
actually he didn't win obviously Nixon I
presume but I'm not sure about that
actually but certainly Kennedy did and I
imagine Lyndon Johnson would have to
Nixon was in the Naval Reserve yeah
Carter was in the Navy I mean so it's
certainly we've we've had a lot of that
it's those were not volunteer well they
may have volunteered but it was not at
all volunteer army at that time or I
should say military at that time so
there'd be a different type of person
who would join the military now either a
because they did it for financial
reasons and opportunities that might not
be available to them in other areas or
that they really really enjoyed the idea
of going in and killing people I'm sure
there's a third option but I'm not sure
what that is
it could be that maybe your your your
parents you come from a long line of
people who enjoy killing people and you
don't feel so excited about killing
people but you feel like a certain
family tradition so maybe those are the
three types of people who join the
military but I think certainly you know
to have you know career options and
whatnot is is certainly one of them
calling from Nebraska Crowder tweeted
about no one wanted to debate him two
days ago all replies told him to bait
Sam Crowder's subreddit is even
questioning him talking about his
leaving about leaving his mug club if he
keeps dodging his supporters claim his
health has been too poor lol wow this
might be the final nail I was often for
him look now I know what we're talking
because we put this up on the screen the
and now and and really let's be clear I
was surprised by this as anybody now
apparently Matt who is just incorrigible
saw that steven crowder had posted one
of his things one of his his videos the
the wall is bad or you know or it's good
we should have a wall yeah still waiting
for somebody to change my mind that the
wall is a good idea right so and
apparently Matt lek you know because
he's you know it's constantly on Twitter
always trying to pick fights with people
Matlack wrote and this is highly
inappropriate he wrote he he retweeted
with a comment have Sam cedar on my
 and the and then after that things
went sort of haywire for for for that
tweet it seemed like every single reply
said some version iteration what let's
look at the ratio here he had one
thousand and one replies and a hundred
and seventy-six retweets quite the rishi
almost has more replies than likes even
i bet you a bunch of people that liked
it we're like people from our side too
who just wanted to see all the reply
let's monitor this in a couple hours and
there's been over a thousand replies and
then like two days later someone emailed
and said you should check this out cuz i
had no idea and I went look and I was
like oh my god there's a lot of people
out
there who really want a dog steven
crowder oh yeah a friend of mine who
does not listen to the show at all just
texted me a meme yesterday that someone
made all of steven crowder that says
steven crowder is afraid to debate sam
cedar changed my mind
we should put that on that's there's me
a lot of Instagram stuff on on that and
so he I would imagine is is aware of
this and if it's in his subreddit to
that's going to be tough and and so it's
still the best thing is that video that
somebody made I can't remember where the
blue flame is coming out of my eyes but
let me just say this I understand that
that Steven's in poor health I I'm sort
of shocked about how how he's able to go
out and about on the town to do these
videos in such poor health and I will
make it super easy we can do this via
Skype or or the phone or we can do it in
any way that is comfortable for first
even if he would feel more comfortable
me going to his studio I know it's in
Texas I think right doesn't he live in
Austin III will I will fly to Austin on
my on my own dime at this point right I
mean I yeah whatever whatever would make
it most comfortable and less stressful
for Steven I am willing to do I just he
keeps I mean this is what's very so you
know people are like why is this so
important to you it's not it's not that
that important to me but he keeps
claiming but no one from the left will
debate him on this stuff and he keeps
saying change my mind and I'm saying
well give me an opportunity to change
your mind um but but you won't do it so
I don't we're bringing our ideas to the
marketplace
yeah I'm just and he what he's doing is
he's saying that the marketplace is
closed again I'm sorry we had a water
main leak and then the next day you show
up and it's like oh well no the
marketplace has to be closed because we
couldn't find the guy who had the key to
the
across the parking lot and so we have to
close it and every day seems to have a
different excuse maybe we should try
dressing ourselves up in disguises like
easily owned college kids and then see
if he wants to talk to us yeah maybe
that would be we didn't look like a
college kid that's late for another
class right exact read up on the topic
he's talking about yeah that that could
that could that could work I mean and I
would also say look now listen I know
there are people who work on his show
and people work affiliated with it in
many ways if you ever want to give us a
heads up as to when he is that's the
that's the video well you know what if
he's out and about I mean I don't know
that I would want to fly somewhere
without real evidence that he was going
to be there but if that happens I mean
it could be worth you know just a visit
sit down go into like a Louisville yeah
I mean meanwhile the shutdown is getting
a little bit hairier for the Republicans
again we have that list of Republicans
who anticipate having some problems with
it and I would imagine there's a reason
why this is happening in Atlanta because
you've got David Perdue I believe is up
for re-election in 2020 and he is in
Georgia which is a got a partisan index
of r5 he won by he had 53% of the vote
in the last election
now that was six years ago or it will
have been six years and every two or
three years when we see these elections
there's trends Georgia is pushing
towards blue and in a potential wave
election which it could be in 2020 we
don't know yet a guy like Perdue is
going to be awful nervous
and it is the Republican Party that is
standing in the way of the government
being restarted period end of story
and in Georgia
here are TSA workers who are forced to
work for no pay and I think around now
is when they should have been getting
their check for the past two weeks and
they will not get it there are reports
of TSA workers calling in sick there are
reports of TSA workers basically saying
quitting going to get a different job
not like this is the best job in the
world anyways and we have a terminal in
the Miami Airport which is being closed
I guess theoretically temporarily
because they don't have TSA workers
people around the country are gonna
start to feel this more and more even if
they don't think they that it impacts
them they're gonna start to realize it
does here is a clip of that protests in
Atlanta
[Applause]
there you go so those are TSA workers in
Georgia and this is gonna put pressure
on a guy like David Perdue and it's
gonna put pressure on the other
Republican senators because that's where
this whole game is at one point they got
to go down to Mitch McConnell and say
Mitch you're gonna screw me over in my
election and I know that you're afraid
that you're gonna get screwed over in
your election if you have this vote but
we can't all live in states where you
know Donald Trump has above 50% approval
rating in fact most of us don't so
that's the problem that the Republicans
are facing there here is Lou Dobbs and
jason Chaffetz now what does he do on
these days Oh is he a Fox News
contributor he resigned from the house
before his term is up to get a job on on
Fox News and here he is where this guy
was like I can't vote I can't look at my
kids wasn't he the one who said I can't
look at my kids and vote for Donald
Trump didn't he say that and so here is
jason Chaffetz Fox News talking to Lou
Dobbs and Lou Dobbs has a real issue
apparently with the with the two-party
system good to hear speak it up he'd
just rather go to a 101 party the
president has the ability to do this I
don't think there's there shouldn't be
too much legal question that doesn't
mean that the Democrats won't Iceland
there's a tremendous amount of legal
question as to whether the president has
the ability to just randomly call for a
state of emergency however I appreciate
Lou Dobbs making this point moot so that
when President Alexander Acacio Cortez
says that for the sake of the health of
the American people we need to both
create a single-payer health care system
and also nationalized the the oil
refineries that Lou will appreciate that
she has every right and ability to do so
but let's go forward that doesn't mean
that the Democrats won't challenge and
try to obstruct as they have throughout
my presidency but I really believe that
the way forward here is for him to
declare a national emergency and simply
sweep aside a the recalcitrant left in
this country they have they have
obstructed resisted and subverted for
far too long the American people don't
need to put up with this and the
president needs to find a way forward
here where he can deliver on this
promise in advance of the 2020
presidential election because that means
he will fulfill all of his major
promises to the American people from the
2016 election I think it's critically
important I think the president will
prevail if he does it tonight or
tomorrow or whatever it is I will
wholeheartedly support him I do think
they can need to continue the daily
drumbeat and make the case rather than
have everybody say oh well it's tied up
in the courts and you know in the coming
months we'll go ahead and see what
happens I don't want to give the
Democrats that excuse it will be tied up
in the courts and not just by not just
by Democrats but by landowners in Texas
who don't want to give up their property
for the sake of Donald Trump's pretend
wall but Chaifetz was the guy who we
drew his endorsement of Donald Trump
because he couldn't look his daughter in
the eye apparently his daughter he
somehow maybe he just doesn't look at
his daughter anymore maybe she doesn't
you know talk to him anymore
what was the thing that he was mad at
Trump about I think that was after the
grab him by the
the the private part comment so women
are people about immigrants not so much
not so much there's a genuine split in
conservative media on this though
because Ben Shapiro stuck it was talking
about yesterday how it would be really
dumb for Trump to call like Trump she
was gonna call for a national emergency
if he wants to have a momentary victory
and just be able to blame the courts
later which is probably true
and there's other you have other people
like Dobbs that you send yeah go for it
maybe because they want that to happen
well I I think Shapiro is afraid of the
precedent that it will set and because
look it will set a precedent it will set
a precedent I mean he will be he will
not build this wall the wall will not
get built particularly this way like you
know the five billion dollars that would
get earmarked for it it would you know
they would start the construction maybe
or the process but in this instance not
a dollar will be expended because it
will be tied up in courts immediately
and the question will never be resolved
because it will still be in courts if
the next press you know unless Trump
wins re-election and then the next
president will have a precedent to call
for a national emergency at any time and
it may be for stuff now there'll be
lawsuits questioning that that one but
here is here is representative mo Brooks
who who is already worried about the
precedent that could be set because look
if you're gonna argue that a phenomena
like people crossing the border the
southern border right not the northern
border just the southern border is
problematic with no data to support this
like how could it be a crisis now and it
hasn't been a cry
for years how could there be a state of
emergency now and there hasn't been one
for years and you're like I said you're
opening yourself up to a lot of new
presents because you know president
Sanders or Warren or Biden or O'Rourke
could say we have a real crisis and that
is climate change and we actually have
data that suggests that not that the
number of people coming across the
border is less than it was we have
rising sea temperatures faster than then
were earlier predicted just that's a
story today and represent mo Brooks he
seems to get like where this could be
headed and that's is the problem
judgment where we should not be going
into Syria for the purpose of regime I
think it was the stated purpose of
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama at
various but you talk about theory now
shewing work permits talks in America
when the statute clearly says you can't
do it let me let me go back to this
matter of national security right now
and the president's determination of
what it's an emergency or not say say
five years from now there's a hurricane
of vast hurricane and there's a
Democratic president who believes that
climate change was involved with the
hurricane thousands of people died from
it could that president he or she then
say he needs a national emergency
declaration to get money to fight that
I'm sorry you'd have that was kind of
convoluted the way I heard it the whole
argument is convoluted for a national
emergency act for wall funding also what
I'm saying is if a president can make
the claim that national security money
emergency money is needed for a wall
could a president at one point say it's
needed to fight climate change I would
have to look at the specific statutes to
see what you can and cannot do that is
so far out there is a matter of national
security
there's a matter of fashion if it is a
matter of national security and the
president deems it so why is it outside
the purview of the law I don't see how
that example that you gave affects the
national security of the United States
of America Pentagon in the intelligence
convective climate change I'm making a
hypothetical word in this instance we're
talking about protecting the southern
border any nation to exist has borders
and the primary function of a nation
with respect those two those borders do
you know how most of these so that is a
matter of national security by
definition both just uh for instance US
news August 1st 2017 National Security
and Defense officials are recognizing
climate change as a threat it is this
has been going on actually for years
before this but the military has been
listening climate change as an
increasing national security threat in
fact I think it's like close to number
one and that the best is watching mo
Brooks is like eyes shoot up into the
back of his head where he's like oh god
how did we not prepare for this question
I mean he's genuinely stumped I mean so
in some respect
look there is value here to set this
precedent because it's like the
filibuster well president Bernie Sanders
could very well say we have a climate
change national security I am taking
money 1/3 1/4 of the military budget 1/2
3/4 and we're going to fight climate
change with that and there's nothing you
can do based upon the the Trump
precedent the Republican precedent I
totally have the right it would be even
cooler if I thought the Democrats would
ever do that
well yes I mean who knows again there
would be lawsuits and whatnot but it
would be cooler it would be great I
don't know that Donald Trump is going to
do what he's going to do either but fun
to watch the congressman mo Brooks like
all of a sudden in real time realize
like Oh
I left the paddle I left the paddle in
the truck I'm up the creek now I've got
a real problem
meanwhile for whatever reason what what
is it that it was the New York Times
piece right that was it the New York
Times did a did a story on Steve King he
was interviewed by the New York Times
and he said when did the words white
nationalist white supremacists in
Western civilization become offensive
which is a weird thing to say I mean the
words themselves are not considered
offensive you can say the words and
people won't be offended we use them all
the time that's white supremacy for
instance and I don't I don't ever feel
necessary to say to people you know
listen if you have kids listening don't
want them to hear this word the issue is
that white supremacy is offensive in
white supremacy like it's a bad thing
what exactly and that's what his issue
was now for years years Stephen King has
been an unapologetic white supremacist
racist and it just seems like now folks
on the right are starting to notice it
like it's really more like look we got
no problem with it but dude you fly a
show open like you know keep it keep it
in your pants here is just an example of
Stephen King on Steve King I should say
on Tucker Carlson another person is very
concerned about the white family
Congressman Steve King of Iowa recently
started a debate here in this country
when he tweeted in support of builders
you wrote this builders understands that
culture and demographics are our destiny
we can't restore our civilization with
someone else
babies yeah so we're at this place now
in America where we're seeing people
marching in the streets that are pushing
back against the American culture in the
American civilization and it's troubling
me what is the American civilization
with other people's babies I mean he's
really he's talking about white people
right I mean I think we know that and
after all according to him what's what's
what's offensive about white supremacy
and it's troubling to me that over the
last 25 years we've essentially phased
out the the promotion of assimilation
and we promoted instead multiculturalism
and diversity as if it were our strength
and in fact they're using it now to
divide us and that's what Barack Obama
did throughout his presidency everything
he said I think is defensible and
probably right and that's what we've got
to restore is Western civilization for
the world Tucker but we're gonna restore
Western civilization for the world give
us that's very sweet
give the eastern civilization some of
this Western civilization that's right
we've got to we've we've we've got to
make I mean that's elimination is talk
it seems to me but go ahead
but the College Park Maryland is the
language that I saw come down and says
we don't care whether you're legal or
illegal we don't care whether you are a
deportable
we just want you to weigh in and voice
your opinion on our local election and
that does so devalue citizenship and it
devalues being a good citizen and it has
contempt for the law in the rule of law
and we're going to defend descend into a
third world country if we're gonna
tolerate such a thing so this is other
stories College Park Maryland is a
pretty small place there's some rails
there but it doesn't seem like a
national story except when I saw I
thought this is the future if there's
one thing the president ran on I watched
it was building a wall we're gonna build
the wall a big beautiful wall this
campaign was not run on I don't know
cutting Medicaid it just wasn't so why
your truth teller tell us why it hasn't
happened the wall itself yeah what why
hasn't the Congress moved separate from
everything else to fund and build the
wall that their leader the president
promised repeatedly during the campaign
all Democrats oppose it I don't know a
Democrat that opposes the illegal
immigration today
you saw a Democratic candidate for
president Hillary Clinton say we're
gonna fast-track them to citizenship
well and as College Park is that is the
future congressman thank you it's what
happens to America let's restore the
rule of law Tucker thanks then yes Wow
good for Tucker giving you know just
allowing for that exchange of ideas
we're going to talk more about Tucker
Carlson at the at the Sunday show talk
about his his critique of capitalism the
critique was was was was correct in some
respects funny that it only becomes a
critique when it starts to impact white
people in his mind but that may be just
a coincidence he's definitely someone to
be afraid of
yeah like the far-right parties in
Europe have done a much more effective
job for historical reasons of pairing
this kind of right-wing populism with a
sort of social democracy for the right
people and that combination would be on
stop I mean it already was unstoppable
in Trump and his nods to social
democracy were mainly rhetorical so look
out for that guy I mean this there is
history in this country of that of that
type of talk via Pat McCann and what's
not terribly far from that stuff too so
it's not without precedent in this
country but it is interesting and
important to discuss but you know again
Tucker shows a little too much leg
insofar as having Steve King on they
didn't mention it apparently it didn't
come up on fox news the whole Steve King
comments even though they were quite a
concerned about Rasheeda two leaves
language that's really weird that's
really weird huh this was a fun clip
it'd be nice if we had a little bit more
of this in the united states right but
we never have like there's never an
opportunity for something like this I
also like their sets better
I love British political television but
here is this is on question time
it is a BBC a BBC news panel show I
guess and I guess they take questions
from the audience which is also great I
mean we do that here too but they should
pay us to make this in America good idea
here it is two things firstly could we
get over feeling sorry for tourism a no
I don't feel sorry for her she's the
woman who for many many years has led
the hostile environment for migrants in
this country which resulted in the
Windridge generation is a disgrace she's
the person who created her very specific
red lines on immigration in the ECJ
which have created the negotiation mess
that we're in she triggered article 50
when she had no plan and as to blick
criticizing the EU on this there are 27
other countries in the EU they have been
completely united on this we do not even
have a cabinet that unites and
definitely a government that isn't in
control of the process they are a body
of rules and regulations are they are
not going to break that when it's the
most successful single market in the
world and and all round the world people
want to do deals with the EU we are
going to lose all of that and it is
ridiculous for us with our hopeless
government cannot get it together to
actually work out what the will of the
people is today in 2019 to blame the EU
and to go around feeling sorry for
Theresa May I'm sorry I mean broadly
speaking I don't think we should feel
sorry for many politicians period ever
and so I like that sentiment and it just
the idea of anybody asking like a 2-part
a question from the audience here like
would be completely unheard of well
those can bone and that almost unleashed
a revolution
remember him who was Ken bone again
there he was this guy in like a red
sweater that got to ask a question he
was like a fossil fuel guy or like
worker or something like that but I
don't know he turned out
did we find some like he was like the
one independent that had we decided
between Hillary and Trump yeah
prime minister Corbin grows closer by
the day folks so that's exciting so here
is you know and we're going to be doing
a lot of this folks the parade of of
will be would be candidates showing up
on various TV shows and I you know I
don't maybe it's a little bit unfair to
judge people in the context of these
type of shows but you know if you have a
message and you have an access to let's
say going on
Colbert's show the you know the the
late-night show on CBS you know make it
one that you know make it count
here is Kamala Harris and you know I
think we've spoken about Kamala Harris
you know some of the reservations that
we've had on the show her her track
record in in the prosecution of Steve
minuchin is quite quite bad people
should Google into that I followed a lot
of the stuff that she was doing during
the in the wake of the foreclosure
crisis and she and Beau Biden and
Schneiderman in New York State made a
bit of a show about holding the banks
accountable because the federal
government was not Sneiderman frankly
was the worst of them in terms of going
on television I remember this distinctly
after this committee was set up joining
the committee people feeling like that
was a bit of a sellout but he went on to
Chris Hayes's show I think it was in the
morning at that time and said you know
six months we haven't brought
prosecutions hold me to that
and of course that no one did and he
didn't do any of that and it was a just
a big cover but let's give her a chance
here she is Kemal Harris on Stephen
Colbert show all right well it looks as
I said you look so happy on the cover
what what makes you happy where does
your hope come from I remain optimistic
the way that I think about it is that we
we are a country that was founded on
noble ideals and we all know we've not
yet reached those ideals but part of our
strength is we fight to reach those
ideals we are an aspirational country
and if at the moment that we lose this
aspiration to be all that our founders
said we should and can be that's a bad
moment but I remain optimistic that this
is worth fighting for our country is
worth fighting for
and and these ideals are worth fighting
for and if something is worth fighting
for then it's a fight worth having it's
a fight worth
wait a second what was that if
something's worth fighting for then it's
a fight worth having is that what just
makes you think she's so good at this I
mean I don't know I mean that was you
know she she was composed I mean I you
know the question itself wasn't terribly
you know serving up you know tell us
what you're really gonna do but it was
all I mean here's the thing is that in
the course of the primary I think the
opportunity for candidates to you know I
can understand you going on on on a CBS
you know you're the late-night show
you're not in the political realm
there's gonna be come a point where
think people are gonna have to get more
specific and in the context of the
Democratic primary it's gonna be a
fairly unique opportunity in really in
the past like 20 or 30 years as far as I
can remember
about in in in in really examining the
Democratic field because there is no
there does not seem to be any at least
even establishment or conventional
wisdom consensus as to who would be the
strongest candidate right in this
election obviously Bernie and Joe Biden
pulled the best of those two and
sometimes Biden's up sometimes Bernie's
up but there doesn't seem to be a
conventional wisdom thrust like there
was say like with John Kerry and there
doesn't seem to be you know and this is
going to be a very big field in 2008
going into 2008 early on like in 2006
people were convinced it was going to be
Hillary Clinton and then it was just
between Clinton it was between the three
John Edwards and and Clinton and Obama
and I
how many people really thought at
Edwards but that was from like day one
there was a couple other candidates but
nobody this field is about wide open as
I think I've seen you know as certainly
as an adult and there's always you know
an urgency right to that we have to win
but there's never been a time where the
candidate where a candidate who was
chosen because we have to win you know
in my estimation one I mean I don't you
know John Kerry was the candidate
because we have to win Nixon won two
elections like that argument is often
brandished by centrist liberals in order
to put down left Challenger it's it's
brandished by everybody I mean it's you
know everybody the the a candidate who
is chosen because they're going to win
is not it's not an effective way of
choosing a winning candidate it just
hasn't been the case because you think
they're going to win or you say you
think they're going to win right I mean
yeah I think the idea is you choose a
candidate based upon their strengths you
see how they do
in the primary but you know like the
argument that you got to choose the
person who you think is gonna win I mean
that's nice but in practice I would love
to know the example of one that worked I
don't think people were like Bill
Clinton when Bill Clinton won I don't
think there was a sense of like Bill
Clinton who can beat George Herbert
Walker Bush he didn't even get over 50%
in that election I know I think Nathan
Robinson wrote a very convincing case
for why Bernie Sanders is the most
electable candidate in current affairs
well yes you may have you may be
predisposed to that argument and I think
that you know that's that's fine but I
just don't think it's a compelling
argument frankly just in general about
anybody that this is the one who's going
to beat down Trump the one is gonna beat
them at Donald Trump is the one that
people get excited about because they're
excited about the politician not I mean
people certainly weren't like Barack
Obama is gonna beat John
cane that wasn't like you know there was
no sense of like we have to go with the
Obama as opposed to Clinton because he's
the one who's going to win it was just
that the people were excited about Obama
it's weird that I kind of disagree with
you on this that is not weird to me that
you would disagree with me but what I
like normally you care way more than I
do about whether or not the Democrats
win right
III III definitely want them to win I
definitely want them to win I'm just not
a good argument for who should be the
nominee because it's not a good way to
choose in terms of who you think is
gonna win because you're rarely right
about that that's mine saying is that
like it is like the only analogy I can
give is it's like playing defensively in
in sports it's just exposes your priors
yeah it's just it's just you're you're
not actually going to where the energy
is you're trying to guess what other
people are excited about and very often
that is a mistake my point is I haven't
seen it work well given that we can't
tell who is the most electable I guess
then it should default to you know whose
politics you agree with the most so in
that way I guess it could have a good
outcome yeah even though I still think
electability I don't know they threw
that argument at us maybe I'm just being
petty and throwing it back at them yeah
I think possibly I mean I just don't
think it's a good argument when they
make it I don't think it's a good
argument when when we make it because
people don't know I think people shift
too easily from Bernie would have won -
only Bernie would have won
personally that's you know i I've always
been a Martin O'Malley would have won
guy
I think there were very very unique
circumstances when that that caused
Donald Trump to win that there was
literally a dozen different things that
would have changed the outcome of that
election small things very small things
to larger ones
so we'll see let's go to the phones gone
from a two four zero area code who's
this where you come from same about you
yes it is me
who is this hey it's me though from
Maryland how's it going it's going well
hi Vito what's on your mind so um well
first of all here in Maryland we have
successfully pretty much
cheering bandar the Republicans out of
existence here I think there's like one
left now and well that case is actually
going to the Supreme Court yeah we'd
actually get rid of this last one -
except that it's they just can't figure
out a way to like he's over there I
think on the Eastern Shore somewhere
where it's like you know they could get
rid of him - but but I you know the one
thing I would add is that it's not
exactly the same I mean it is
gerrymandering there's no doubt about it
but I mean the legislature here is like
overwhelmingly democratic and the I mean
this state is a democratic state it's
not like Wisconsin or Ohio where you
know the the opposition party gets the
majority to vote and they still get
screwed out of right right out of so
it's just not it's not - that type of a
of a thing um but um I wanted to ask you
one other thing and that is I I recently
saw Nancy Pelosi and she was asked about
health care and she struck she made some
sort of distinction between or she
brought the fact that you know
historically over the years she's always
been in favor of single-payer health
care but not necessarily Medicare for
all and I'm wondering if you know what
she's talking about or what type of
single-payer health care she's referring
to because I I can't figure out yeah
without knowing the quote I can't I
can't tell you I mean sometimes you and
I appreciate the caller you know
sometimes you hear people say like you
know I want universal access or I want
universal health care
is different from medicare-for-all or I
mean because theoretically the
Affordable Care Act was supposed to
provide universal or near universal
health care and providing access is it's
a slippery word in the first place
because like you know we all have access
to you know those sweet you know Tesla's
the top Tesla or whatever the name of
that Tesla car is we all have access to
it you just need to get the 70,000 or
what $100,000 or whatever it is you just
need to get that money and be able to
spend it on a car and so in that sense
we all have access to it right no one's
prevented from buying it because
apparently you know like in our society
the concept of money being a coercive in
some respects or money being a sort of
almost like a natural phenomena right
nobody is nobody's barred from being a
top athlete it's just nature it's as if
like money is just something like
natural you either have it or you don't
but nobody's borrowing you based upon
you know it so the idea is when we say
medicare-for-all and even the different
there's different Medicare for all
programs but the idea is that what we
want is low to no cost health insurance
we've no co-pays and be able to go to
any doctor with it yeah it's free at the
point of service exactly and I don't
want to be filing things I mean look if
there was like $50 per family you know
$50 a month per family and I would never
have to file something or whatever it is
you know I would be you know okay with
that it seems silly because why do you
want to have even a situation where you
have to take it like why not just charge
me that on my taxes because you already
have the IRS there why build another
apparatus to take in my money for health
insurance so the easiest way to do it is
just simply tax on one end provide
services on the other that's why I like
the idea of means testing Social
Security so stupid because you can
means-tested Social Security we do that
already but you could do it more and
that is you tax wealthy people more and
we know who that $50 requirement would
hurt the most
well oh yeah you know you'd want it
means tested but then you need to know
you need then you need a whole nother
apparatus to determine whether or not I
I qualify for the $50 payment or not I
mean it's absurd it's silly we have we
have a means testing for all programs in
this country and that is called taxes
progressive taxation provides you all
the means testing you need for anything
rich people will not be sending their
kids we will not be paying for rich
people to send their kids to the free
public university in each state rich
people will be because they'll be taxed
more so just you know that those are the
principles that are really important to
keep in mind call from a seven one seven
area code who's this hi this is Danny
from PA Danny from PA what's on your
mind can I first get a 18th birthday
horn playing
[Music]
well done you have reached a that if the
hi I think it is that is look I am the
voting age to voting age to which means
I'm no longer your means you're no
longer allowed to yell at me for not
voting well there you go
well I am now I'm allowed to vote yell
at you for not voting if you don't vote
before you yeah you didn't you didn't
have the ability to yeah I'm gonna make
sure to vote libertarian and Green Party
every single time make the two party
establishment man
all right well click no I wanted to call
in to talk about a case that happened in
the Philippines with one of my friends
because it's really interesting about
something that duterte has been doing
recently okay um my friend has an uncle
who lives in the Philippines and works
for the Philippine government originally
he worked in counterintelligence or
counterinsurgency because specifically
he was tasked to combat the New People's
Army in the Philippines for which he was
almost assassinated but ever since then
he's now working with the Philippine
police for the drug war so yeah recently
a scandal broke broke out in the
Philippines revolving around police and
drug money and it's a thing like he's
supposed to be this huge scandal but um
it turns out that my friends uncle is
literally at the center of this case but
he isn't actually accused of having
anything to do with the money laundered
drug money anything he what is likely to
have happened is that as the millet the
military assassinate a shot about five
or so police officers because they
thought that they were terrorists and
when the government came to him and said
hey you got to cover this up he just
said to them no we're not doing that
ever and ever since then all the people
that have been involved indeed not cover
up or now at the center of this scandal
yeah yeah it's a bad yeah Duterte now
throwing to get trumped-up charges at
him numerous people and well well it's a
interesting and frankly sad story
Danny and you know look this is
certainly there's not gonna be any
criticism coming from the United States
in that regard
whatever no yeah yeah all right well I
appreciate the call man it sucks for the
Maoists too because they made a deal
with Duterte and he thought they thought
that he was willing to negotiate peace
with them and now he's just slaughtering
them or the mess oh I found the Nancy
Pelosi quote if you want to hold on one
second called from a three for seven
area code who's this where you calling
from give it to me after hello hello
hello I talk a lot of about me I
mean Dave Rubin I'm kidding how you guys
doing I just wanted to talk to you about
AOC real quick who is this really who is
it recall my name is Sam from New York
Manhattan to be specific all right I
just wanted call because um a short
background about me about like nine
years ago I was in a car accident and
unfortunately I broke my neck and I was
left paralyzed from the sternum down and
before my accident I was kind of a
conservative but a social liberal and
then when I didn't happen you know I was
fairly well off I had you know great job
I had plenty of cash what my accident
left me I was living in Puerto Rico this
time the max that really screwed me over
and support the puerto rico health
system or medical system is abysmal and
so i had to move from Puerto Rico
and come to New York and when I got here
I was broke I had no money I was put I
had to wait for Medicaid to accept me
and I had to go into a rehab and after
that I didn't have anywhere to live so I
had to be put into a nursing home so it
would throughout this whole process I
was seeing how someone getting getting
injured or something so traumatic
happening to them how the system really
just doesn't give a about them
they'll put them through hell and they
don't have a voice and they have you
living with you know a bunch of old
people that don't enter them but you
just don't belong there and thanks to
the New York City I was able to get a
subsidy that's given through the VNA
which is called the nursing home
transition waiver and I am paid it's
basically hands by sexual section 8 and
my disability payment all they only take
30% out of it and I get an apartment and
that was just a two-year battle just to
find an apartment that would accept me
but anyway going back to AOC I find
myself leaning very progressive now
because I'm seeing how these individuals
are like me because I've met so many are
just messed up by the system but I still
am on the fence on this hardcore
progressive taxing system and I was just
wondering how do you see how that would
benefit me in the long run well how will
it benefit it wouldn't benefit just you
it would benefit all of society I mean
oh no no I'm not just saying just me I
feel like people like me and basically
the whole whole there's the whole
population but I just meant like what
would be the is this whole talking point
of people being less productive and the
economy collapsing is there something
that that should be worried about well
all I can tell you is that in the 1950s
and through the
the early 1960s the top tucked a top
marginal tax rate was 90% 90% so if you
made and I believe it was around four
hundred four hundred fifty thousand
dollars at the time which I believe in
today's dollars would be about three
million dollars that dollar that you
would make over three million dollars
you would get ten cents of and yeah that
period time period for a whole host of
reasons and it's not perfectly analogous
was what they called the great
compression where we had a lot of
economic growth but it was shared more
broadly than in any other time in our
country and and so all that that shows
is that the having a top marginal tax
rate like that does not inhibit economic
growth does it necessarily guarantee it
I don't know I don't know that there you
could make that argument maybe you could
maybe that's just correlation but what
it does clearly show is it does not
inhibit the ability of the economy to do
well in that East Bay do you think that
we should do you think that we should
also be tackling the the capital gains
tax absolutely in fact at that time they
were not they were not taxed at such
disparate rates I don't even know if
they were if there was the capital gains
tax was what constitute capital gains
was the same at this time I mean this
would be when people are just hoarding
money and putting them in that's in our
you know money is not productive at all
that money is not deductive at all I
mean there's polls for them to get away
around that I of course we do a tax
reform and then there's another loophole
within a loophole with the little poets
like it's always being exploited that's
right and and obviously you know like
you know what what Kennedy did and then
what Reagan did Kennedy dropped that top
marginal tax rate from ninety percent to
seventy five percent and really
yeah and and it's listen there there's
arguments as to whether you need to tax
to spend there are you know there's a
good piece on mmt by Josh barro actually
in the New York Magazine it gets a
little weedy under mmt you need to tax
really to sort of just maintain just
keep the economy from overheating for
there being too much demand for a
specific product but and and but
regardless the the bottom line is what
you don't want is this incredible wealth
disparity it is destabilizing for
society for a myriad of reasons and and
that's at the very least it will it will
achieve that and I'm not convinced
frankly you don't you don't do a maybe
at one time or you know wealth tax -
yeah maybe it's not one time but I'm not
sure but I I think it's none healthy for
society to have people that's totally
alright well Sam you know I my heart
goes out to you for this I know I know a
lot of people that are way off course
off to me I can I can do I can do plenty
of stuff still obviously was a big
adjustment but there are people that are
way worse talk to me I know people that
are 20-something years old and they've
been in nursing homes for ten years and
the only thing they can do is lift up
their finger I just would like to see a
government that would work to for them
what they're most vulnerable and it's a
damn shame that a tragedy in your life
even though you try your best to get out
of it you're still held down by a system
that doesn't really care about you yeah
I've been trying to get employment for
awhile I was there's been windows where
I've gotten employment but it's it's you
know with Medicaid you can't make a
certain amount of money or they take
away your coverage and that's something
that I think is in our cover and our
health our health expenses are
astronomical right because you need so
much my
chair just cost $40,000 that's that's
just that's just overpriced but
anyway thank you so much for taking my
club and trying to call for the past
past weekend I'm glad that you were able
to take it and thank you very much
appreciate the call sir taxing capital
is always the way to go yeah and I think
we can also differentiate between what
is actually like sort of you know
valuable to society and not but broadly
speaking the idea that you would you
would tax work at a higher rate then
money is absurd psychotic progressive
it's incredibly regressive it's it's
absurd it's a system that you would set
up if you want to make sure that you
kept all the money yeah 100% tax capital
so I guess the Bernie way is really the
compromise right exactly
you're making a big compromise there oh
yeah yeah yeah let me hear the Pelosi
quote okay so she was talking on Meet
the Press with Chuck Todd he asked her
to acknowledge the fact that
middle-class Americans and small
businesses are really struggling with
rising premiums under the ACA and she
said quote I wanted single-payer I mean
I'd love a single-payer but we're not
there
I wanted a public option which would
address that and this is like besides
you know the weird way that she phrased
that it's it's interesting to me that
the the that the centrist Democrats keep
pretending right I would love a
single-payer health care system only
those pesky Republicans just won't let
it through or the voters won't vote for
it or we don't have the budget for it
and the function that people like Bernie
and AOC serve is to make them admit why
they're really against it and that
they're against it in the first place
yeah I look I don't know if where Pelosi
is on that for reals I don't I don't
know but I think the she has an
opportunity when she's on that Sunday
show to make the case for single-payer
rather than saying we didn't get it I
mean I don't think Nancy Pelosi was
certainly not respond
for the lack of public option but public
option people you know she remember what
was very it was really just literally
the toe that was supposed to keep the
the you know stick it in the door it was
to provide a very small you know proof
of concept because throughout the entire
ACA in the Obama care marketplaces we're
talking only about ten million people
and the public option max right I mean
max in that situation assuming there's
one in every state could only represent
ten million people which is what less
than a quarter of the people who are on
Medicare I mean so we have a we have
this program that at least gives us a
pretty good example of what health
insurance could look like she should
take that opportunity to sell
single-payer in that moment it's good
not inconceivable to me that she
wouldn't be in favor really you think
she would be in favor of expropriating
like a substantial portion of the
private sector because that's what
single-payer would do in terms of like
getting rid of both for profit insurance
companies which exist in direct
opposition to working-class people's
life and health yeah I I don't know if
when push came to shove if she would be
in favor of it I mean but you know she
claims that she is good I would like her
to you know you know expound on that
well my point is it's gonna be harder
and harder for people like her to
pretend if in fact they are not in favor
of it because all of the other barriers
are being removed right we have a high
percentage of even Republicans are in
favor of Medicare for all at this point
in time and we have the budget for it
very demonstrably right yeah no I agree
I mean that's that's the the idea I mean
the problem look at how much money
Democrats are getting from the industry
was just a lot which what's also and and
look people shouldn't be you know having
a lot of these people are gonna go and
then
be contracted to provide Medicare in a
Medicare for All system there won't be
you know you won't be there won't be a
profit margin but let your employees
exist though well I understand but the
people who work there there for them
it's not necessarily about a profit
right I mean the the profit doesn't go
in their pockets the the profit goes in
the pockets of shareholders so you're an
insurance adjuster and you're worried
well if we go to a medicare-for-all I'm
gonna lose my job that's probably not
the case what's probably going to happen
is that you're going to end up you know
being contracted for the government the
the profit the profit e of your company
is gonna go down but that's not going to
impact those people a birdís plan
actually does have a plan to find new
jobs for a lot of those people yes
because the people whose jobs are like
basically denying people healthcare for
whatever reason they could come up with
those jobs shouldn't exist right and
they won't exist right right but but
what's interesting is to see Nancy
Pelosi's answer had you seen her on that
program five years ago the answer would
have been well we should fix the
affordable care act and what's
interesting is that that's not the
answer anymore and a large you know
large part of that is the dynamic that
you're talking about where it's just
like the more people are introduced the
idea of a single-payer the the more
popular gets and then it's harder it is
for politicians to to not support it
come from a three-to-one area code who's
this where you come from
I even from Tucson what's on your mind
this is I mean this was a while back but
I was curious if you guys saw that weird
and Coulter tweet about taxing wealth
yeah whatever so I don't know much about
Ann Coulter because I think she was more
around in
Obama and yeah she also very
straightforward like I thought she was
pretty early on with Trump so I don't
know how you know consistent her
politics are so I couldn't tell she was
being sarcastic or also it might be
really easy to guess her password on
Twitter so I know I I this is what I
think that is I think there are some
members of the conservative movement
look it's a grift right and Coulter is
Russa running a grift she's been running
a grift for years and the way that she
would get back into the news after a
while of of not being in the news would
we say something completely outrageous
and and then people just stop taking her
seriously she just like it all pastor by
in some respects and I think there are
some who are trying to figure out like
where do I get positioned you know to
revive my career I mean honestly the way
to assess Ann Coulter is the same way
that you would assess like I don't know
you know some B or C list celebrity
who's trying to get back into the news
okay and and so if they have to reinvent
themselves again to do it that's what
they'll do and you know I'm in that same
business more or less i it's just it's
just a question of like you know what
what am I willing to to do to you know
have people retweet me don't you think
she's kind of doing a Tucker Carlson
thing exactly exactly
I think Tucker Carlson is also doing
that he is trying to position himself so
that his show has some resonance because
they're all you know realizing like
they're moving in the wrong direction
and they're just trying to they're
trying to rebrand there is a precedent
for this though it's like classic
fascism right like there have always
been right-wing critique
of capitalism but the kind of the kind
of capitalism that fascists like is like
factories making things not this like
shadowy international finance capital
right that they can blame on the Jews so
this there's a lot of historical
precedents for this there's also like
sort of white but like in the merchants
of white identity in this country with
regards to labor and you know basically
like the Democratic Party itself was
like we're white freemen we want to be
respected economically basic I think
there is an awareness that the
Democratic Socialist / socialist message
is appealing to an increasing number of
people who folks like Ann Coulter and
and Tucker thought you know we're we're
more in their column or potentially
their audience and so I think this is
you know they're making an attempt to
sort of you know get in on the ground
floor of this well that's where fascism
comes from historically I like there
were left there were Communists and
anarchists saying the the reason for the
problems in your life is the ruling
class writ large and then there were
fascists on the right who said the
reason for the problems in your life
it's it's not the ruling class it's not
capitalism it's you know other groups of
people and this specific poorly
understood kind of capitalism that you
don't like and and you know look again
this is not terribly different than what
Pat Buchanan was saying you know over
you know in the early 90s and through
the 90s there there is a strand in the
conservative movement that is that is
like that crucial leading the thing yes
it was not American
but yes Colin Thank You Ethan I
appreciate the call let's go through a
couple I'm gonna take folks I'm sorry
we're running out of time
take one more phone call calling from a
six one zero area code who's this where
you calling from
and it's mike from PA how are ya Mike
from PA we had a very high Pennsylvania
contingency getting on the phones today
yeah sorry about that
nothing to do I wanted to discuss uh
kind of the situation with Bernie and
the whole sexual harassment issue have
you looked into this III haven't spent
too much time looking into it I mean
there were I think my understanding is
that the claim is that there were people
on the campaign who were sexual
harassers not necessarily at the
tippity-top of the campaign but in terms
of like within the campaign and that
that didn't reach you know Bernie you
know that's what my understanding is but
I haven't I haven't dug too deeply to be
honest with you yeah I just find it I
don't know I don't I'm trying to
understand if he's doing answer pot and
I know there are you know obviously
people looking to recruit him in but you
know I'm not getting the same vibe that
I thought I was going to get six months
ago what I'm not sure I know what you
mean by vibe I mean they're I fired him
him running again I you know I will over
this weekend there are 400 house parties
in 50 states yeah supposedly and I don't
I think John from San Antonio said that
Bernie is going to be there's going to
be a live stream conversation from key
movement activists there's no indication
that Bernie is going to address them I
definitely do it yeah yeah my my theory
has been since Elizabeth Warren came out
with that
proposal about generic drugs that he was
not going to run that that came shortly
after a meeting with between the two of
them and you know to be honest with you
it's it's half-baked who knows
right I mean that that the theory of my
part is half-baked just that like it
would be surprising that she would try
and get I'll flank him at this point but
maybe you know as opposed to you know
being a candidate that wasn't to the
left of Bernie on some issues so III
don't know I I don't know I I don't know
if he's gonna run or not but I don't mmm
you know if it's one of the things where
I feel like Elizabeth Warren's
announcement what a lot better than I
expected it to and I think she has gone
a long way of kind of like finding that
Lane that I didn't think existed between
you know Bernie and more traditional
Democratic you know activists and people
in that nature you know I was surprised
Benjamin was so it still against ur
because nothing that he said really was
concrete you know like it's not her time
or she missed her boat and kind of that
sounds like jibbers to me I don't know
about you I saw a study and I just came
out a couple days ago about support for
Elizabeth Warren and it said that there
was also a test in the survey to measure
levels of sexism and I'm not trying to
say that everybody who doesn't like it
was was war in a sexist but you know of
those people who tested higher than
average he had about a twenty percent
approval rating in the Democratic Party
and those that had less sexism than
average she had an eighty five percent
so I'm not saying 100% of people who
don't like Elizabeth Warren a sexist but
if you don't have a reason other than
some very nebulous stuff about it not
being her time
maybe you should re-examine exactly what
what's going on they're just like yeah
yeah my assumption was less that he
wasn't saying that he wasn't supportive
or he just doesn't think that it's going
to to that she's going to generate the
same level of interest I am I am sort of
agnostic about the levels of interest
that everybody can generate I mean
that's sort of like I think it's a
little bit early to make those
assessments which I was saying last week
is that you know you the polling you
know burnt where to Bernie poll two
years out from the election nowhere
right I mean just know where I think
they take frankly Elizabeth Warren
probably two years out was polling
higher than Bernie in the in 2040 of
course he was pulling very well and he
was the only progressive Veni national
profile right and right I think like we
need to wait to get a sense of any of
this stuff we need to wait and see you
know like what happens when they start
actually getting on the trail and
started getting some national attention
but certainly it seems to me look I
think misogyny is real and I think in
some ways it is it is a it could very
well be in this day and age a harder
thing to escape then racism in the
context of a presidential election like
well well look I think Obama never spoke
about race right to the point where he
was getting criticized throughout the
campaign and then obviously into his
presidency by people who wanted him to
to speak more about race
I think clearly I disagreed I think he
spoke about in a very conservative
manner like there's a lot of we've got
to take care of our community pull your
pan well right right right right right
i I don't think he's yes I mean you
could
exactly I mean I think he basically
spoke about race the way the
Conservatives wanted him to speak about
race and which was all you know politics
of respect to respectability politics
and personal responsibility and whatnot
I mean okay he spoke about race in that
way I think it's harder for a woman to
not be perceived like I just think that
that our society has already sort of
built in a you know and I think racist
and misogynist I don't think that they
see I don't think that their impetus to
be misogynist or racist are as different
as like we would perceive it on the
receiving end right like I think you
know I've said this before that I think
it's like they're just like wait that a
woman president that's that's another
non normal president I'm not going for
that twice but I 60 years women dead
right like you know that the viscosity
is very deep-seated and gender roles you
know that predates a lot of our racial
politics gender oppression of course is
is really deep and intractable in many
ways yes and I think like I think I
think races can say like well he's a
black guy but he's not like the other
black guys I think it's harder for for
them to say well she's a woman but she's
not like the other women like I think
that's I think that doesn't happen as
much that dynamic is like you know I
think like they like a black guy who
they think proves that they're not
racist but I don't know that there's a
like I don't think it works in the same
way in terms of misogyny like yeah just
look at who gets to be all right versus
who gets to be all light right like the
people who are hardline white
nationalists are completely marginalized
from mainstream conservatism and once
like the proud boys that are openly
misogynistic and sexist but not openly
white now
they get to be alt light right yeah yeah
I you know it's tough because I look at
a lot of these races that just happened
you know and I look at Stacey Abrams
that I think she did well and you know
you know we seem like actually won that
seat that John Asif lost uh-huh you know
you know we have another Jonathan office
down in Texas whose people have been
talking about running for president
which I find really laughable to be
honest but maybe we'll see I think like
you know like Jill Biden and John and
I'm sorry fado are really kind of paper
tigers who are gonna wilt the more
attention they get to the media and I do
think that Bernie is going to you know
if he decides to run obviously getting
back into the spotlight having his
message you know mediated by a hospital
will do a lot of good for him but on the
other hand I mean he didn't have anyone
else like Elizabeth Warren running right
and you know honestly I've worked with
progressive candidates and activist
groups and I just like to warn people a
lot more I just think they're more
competent and that that I think that's
actually a big problem for Bernie is
getting solid people to work on his
campaign right now
you need to have muscle on the send you
of a presidential campaign it's not just
the person at the top it's the
organization they put around to him and
while a lot of people have examined
Hillary Clinton's campaign and all the
mistakes and they fewer have really
looked at Bernie's mystery solved he
made and he made a tremendous amount
yeah yeah yeah from the story coming out
well you know in some respects you know
Warren obviously building the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau is not
perfectly analogous but it is I mean
building a a structure and designing it
in such a
way that it has been insulated I mean
they're trying to destroy the the
Republicans want it's like like
literally target number one and in many
respects this thing is is gonna come out
the other side of this and still exist
and and that is a function of someone
who knows how to design and operate and
and and staff an institution and there's
some that there you know the the whole
concept of personnel making policy is
yeah I mean I think that's super
important and it's but you know I think
that will bear right over time it'll
bear out over time yeah you know like
looking at like the organization going
forward like she did that really hasn't
happened you know she built her Senate
position purely from activism and
fighting against what was basically a
hostile Democratic president yeah and
forcing him to bend because we all know
what the Obama administration really was
yeah
in fact that she ended up with you know
that's what I attract me to worry and
warned is they are activists first
politicians second you know they came to
become politicians after being an
activist and Bernie attracts me more he
just you know I want on a bachelor's
list to run that said like we need to
have our best foot forward here and I'm
starting to get concerned with Bernie
was that which is something I never
thought I would say just based on this
you know this sexual harassment stuff is
really scary to me I mean the kind of
sexual harassment doesn't happen in
every workplace in the world though I
don't think the issue of it of it
happening is the issue the issue is that
it is something that was not addressed
and not there was not a structure in
place that allowed for it to be handled
in
real-time right is that what you're
talking about if workplaces have that
issue though well yeah yeah the Hillary
campaign did to like which I mean and
Bernie was dismissive on TV about it
recently too well yeah but it's it's it
goes I think what Mike is saying is that
it's about the competency level of the
organization where this type of stuff
obviously and I don't think there's any
argument that that the the Hillary
campaign was you know had a tremendous
competency issue that that that
manifests itself in in in a myriad of
ways and I think if you can't police
this basic thing particularly right like
we're not talking about there are
companies that all have this problem
I'm not surprised frankly that in a
corporate setting
maybe this these issues aren't addressed
the way they should be but you have a
campaign that is literally when it well
you know where there should not be any
ideological pigments the impediments to
to dealing with it then it becomes a
competency issue as opposed to a will
issue and if the will cannot be executed
when there's clearly a will there
obviously nobody in either one of those
campaigns I think is you know sort of
thinks it's not a problem then then
that's that's what that's what you you
know we're talking about in terms of a
concern with that said you know I think
he launched a messaging campaign last
time did not necessarily think did not
think that he could win did not think
that that's what he was running for when
he entered in there and you choose
different personnel and you know I think
certainly you know since then he has
staffed at least at the top you know in
a very different way is my understanding
so you know maybe they learned their
lesson maybe they hired some better
people this time around I don't know
they're not there
having Jeff Weaver be the campaign
manager eyes done I still think credibly
important as well because I understand
how stupid politics are in this country
and how most people do not vote on
ideology or issues they vote based on
you know what culture they belong to Oh
what kind of family they grew up in and
the vibe of the candidate the general
vibe so when I say that Elizabeth Warren
doesn't have the right vibe or demeanor
to go up against Trump and win that's
not because I don't like her I like her
just fine she's my second choice after
Bernie it's because I understand how
dumb politics are and also he can't
transfer all of that energy magically to
her that's not how it works if Warren
was really popular in Massachusetts I'd
feel a lot more comfortable about her I
mean I hope she runs I like her running
for a lot of same reasons you've said
and I know people who've worked on like
in finance and have told me about how
she's spoken of by people on like Wall
Street and so that means like I'm good
with Lizabeth warm but I wish she was
more popular there and I do think she is
or continued tone-deafness about the the
ancestry stuff like it might not be
hugely deciding but it does work that
worry actually does worry me can I say
one thing about her Massachusetts the
votes she got because I feel like this
is a talking point that I need to debunk
she was running with a Democratic
nominee for governor who was the weakest
Democratic nominee in the entire country
Baker was a Republican got 66% of the
vote so when she won by more than 20
points it was in the context where the
top of the ticket could not have been
worse so like for me
I don't think that there's actually
anything there there about her in
Massachusetts you know not being you
know popular enough I think that's kind
of nonsense like you know you have to
find people in like circumstances and
there's nobody the only person who you
can actually point to and say wow they
really outperform their state sherrod
Brown right like everyone else is pretty
much in the same band about
Poynter - of expectation and she's
actually slightly above you know
expectation not even taking into
consideration the weakness of baker's
upon I can't remember his name
Massachusetts is a weird state in some
respects I mean and I say this is
someone who obviously who grew up there
but Massachusetts has a weird
relationship I think like with with with
with women and people of color
I really just it's just I don't know
really even how to put my my finger on
it it's just weird there's a lot there's
a strong sense of like of civic
responsibility to not be racist and
misogynist
but there is a strong I this is my take
on it like but there's a strong sort of
like personal like private sense of
misogyny and racism and I think
sometimes that tension plays out in very
weird ways like you know like like a
it's almost like a resent in a way I
mean that's what I pick up with when I
go back home that's what I pick up from
like with Elizabeth Warren it's like
damn it like where I had to vote for her
and you know it was that type of like
some sense like that but all right well
listen Mike I appreciate the call but we
gotta get going buddy about this all the
time forever until 2020 well it is what
it is folks I'm sorry we are out of time
I know people have been on hold for 90
minutes plus in some instances we have
almost 20 people on hold now but we just
have run out of time we will see you on
Sunday let me go through we got a bunch
of I am so we'll do some IMS and then
we'll
get out here so in response to mike from
PA what guarantee is that the elizabeth
warren's campaign won't also have sexual
harassment issues it's kind of bizarre
just to assume that she couldn't also
have those same issues no I think it's
it's conceivable that she could I think
every campaign on some level is going to
it's just a question of is the campaign
structured enough and organized enough
so that problems are addressed quickly
and timely and I think from Mike's
experience it's a limited anecdotal
experience he has found the core
competence amongst the warm people they
didn't find amongst the burning people
and he is a I think obviously he prefers
Bernie as a candidate so he's making an
assessment based upon his own experience
working in that field that's all Hogan
ended Lee this week Marco Rubio faced
with the result of GOP dumbing down in
space for twenty thirty years Matt Gaetz
ladies and gentlemen both warned Trump
against using national emergency based
on the precedent it would set Rubio
argued that a Democratic president could
use an emergency to address climate
change gates being keen to real dangers
such as a precedent warned that dem
president could declare an emergency and
have transgender bathrooms installed in
every school across the country he's all
about the psyche is that really right
yeah J tingle aren't all comedian
self-styled Jimmy Carter was a nuclear
engineer assisting in the design and
development of nuclear propulsion plants
for naval vessels interesting
Wisconsinite the left must champion open
source software like VLC which matthew
film guy praised consider donating to
open source majority report uses
audacity VLC and a few other open source
programs a legal senior fire Michael he
has his own damn show why I continue to
let him sully yours Cristo Happy New
Year mr friends upon the recommendation
of Matthew film guy I recently what film
worker the documentary account of long
time dedicated right-hand man to CID
Stanley Kubrick Leon Vitali film worker
also led me to rewatch Barry Lyndon
where Vitaly was one of the principal
and clockwork orange' quite a double
feature to be sure PS it was Isabelle
gillies who recommended force majeure ah
looking forward to seeing all of you at
the bell house indeed Ralph spoil sport
I worked on both scarecrow and Friends
of Eddie Coyle Wow
sound both are excellent as our Pacino
Hackman and Mitchum left his best as a
ballet gillies recommended force majeure
oh there you go Gigi you guys are funny
this tulsi smearing and you won't play
my response song although Brooke should
hear it lol who's Gigi I'm gonna guess
this is Jimmy reefer cake no did he have
a song this week I don't know I
neglected to check all right well I'm
sorry we will play it next week when
here's their Sam I need a poster please
how else can I get one we'll see if
there's any left over we will perhaps
sell them oh and there's a merch shop
coming folks Gregory from Oklahoma have
you seen the movie Vice yes I have we've
talked about a little bit it's written
by Adam McKay thought it was great go
watch it also Sam was the first
presidential action you got to vote in
it was in 1984 my parents in 2016 for me
my first one was 88 I missed 84 by 3
weeks I was so bummed wait a second no I
missed 80 by 3 week no no no no no no no
not that old 84 I missed being 18 by 3
weeks I wanted to vote against Reagan
and I didn't have the opportunity to you
want to feel like you are old asked
Brendan the first election he voted in I
don't want to know
I read Mondale's I was so excited to
vote against Reagan I read Mondale's
biography did you just say you couldn't
vote in oh wow no I feel hey squared oh
my god is a long time seat Arista I
better get one of those posters maybe
we'll have some stuff that is available
only to members like a members merch
yeah that's a good idea
Matt youth felt like it was important to
tell the Mr Crew that my wife was
sitting next to none other than the
ambassador Scott Prescott he be at a
spin class this morning hope this will
lead to five minutes of Scottie be
impressive Sam Michael goddamn yeah huh
did Scottie be hit on her I'll do it
he's every time he's on a spin class
he's hidden because he's just he's
pushing it to the limit
psychedelic Quaker every POTUS after
Eisenhower was in the Navy up until
George W gw2 huh well the list I said
didn't include Bill Clinton on that
Reagan was in the Army and Air Force FDR
was not nothing
Chris lopaka I did a DNA test and I
found out I'm almost 20% Ashkenazi Jew
also I'm not the father
can I get 20% of a shofar sure trumps
umbrella still on the tarmac Crowder is
a left his best Lilly 77 sorry
missed most of today's show caught the
part where Matthew film guy recommended
the intruder if there was ever a Conan a
Corman film that deserved ty criterion
restoration treatment that'd be the one
if you don't count Little Shop of
Horrors or Vincent Price EE Poe
adaptations that is Ryan in LA Carter
went at Annapolis was an officer during
on the first nuclear submarine Nixon
served in the Navy and one enough at
poker to fund his political campaign and
I don't think that's where he got all
the funds for that
[Music]
left its show enough left leftist show
enough when I say who's the master you
say ayo say aoc then we say sho'nuff
okay folks see you to Monday
[Music]
No
I'm gonna get
I just got
[Music]
[Music]
