[Music]
people always ask for this let me see
how long I could pull it off you calling
from a six one six area code who are you
where you calling from gotta be quick
yeah
hi my name is Ethan I'm calling from
Vancouver hi Ethan what's happening hi
well I'm calling from the southern
vancouver not the northern vancouver and
I was gonna give you guys a grab bag of
Betsy DeVos stories or white flight but
I think it's kind of important to talk
about both at once why he is yep
what was that Michael no go ahead yeah I
thought you're right this is Sam Oh
Michaels Michaels out again my bad yeah
well but I figured okay yeah go ahead
and get to talk to Michael all right yes
sir tell me what you have in mind
brother yes so I'm from Grand Rapids
Michigan and went to school with the de
bosses the van Andals which was the two
families that started my and multi-level
marketing scheme pyramid stuff yep
and during my time there was really
given the opportunity to see why they're
acting in the way that they are acting
um and I think it's important to store
size it so I'll be very concise I
apologize no no basically we're talking
about a group of people who are beyond
tribal it's it's more of a
socio-economic religio ethnic barrier
that we're talking about so the barrier
to entry is higher than
for most people to be in and in this
part of the let's say deciding class
right and you know if you're not white
if you're not Dutch if you're not
specifically a Calvinist you don't get
to be part of the party right and she
comes from a group of Dutch immigrants
that are more connected to you know
puritanical religio fascist from Europe
that came over in the 1800s and then
when they got to America they had such a
hard time branching out from their own
tribe that they almost died during a
blizzard they refused to ask for help
Wow and you know there's this of in what
was that Jamie I just said it's a shame
they didn't what benefiting I know
unfortunately the existing indigenous
people and the other white settlers in
the area would learn well they refused
to allow them to die because they were
their neighbors they ain't you know it's
an interesting history so all right so
just grass on yeah the point is you know
we're we're talking about a group of
people who are not just individualistic
we're we're talking about a group of
people who believe that they themselves
are seeking out a destiny and one that
is predestined for them and so even in
the face of their own destruction they
will have faith that that was what was
intended to be done so when you guys are
talking accurately about maligning
globalists or people who are attacking
globalists or Zionists and pointing out
that you know religion
is actually a big deal here one of the
things that complicates Michigan
particularly politics is that a lot of
the thought-bubble that these people are
in is from not only their social class
not only their religion not only their s
nested ethnicity but all three at once
right and they will take the down
I appreciate the call man I uh yeah
it does need to be a lot more i I think
Betsy DeVos and the whole DeVos family
and obviously Jesus Christ Eric Prince
it's one of those like terrifying macro
studies that could tell you yeah I
appreciate it man I think I just
finished a book on a series of essays by
this woman Megan Oakland and she was
raised evangelical in Michigan in the
Midwest and the narrative that like the
religious right is you know losing
influence in this country that may or
may not be true but they're not going
away and they're going to like die on
that hill well influence is very
outsized too how many of them there are
assure because of the people whose ears
they have and I also want to make a you
know sharp distinction between people
who are you know there's there's like
even just inside the Republican
coalition like there's middle class you
know white whatever who live in areas
where literally Church is like the only
form of social cohesion that exists in
the industrialized America yeah I'm not
judging that's why I'm just not
interested in being a snob about
people's religious stuff but certainly
people like the DeVos family who have a
hyper fundamentalist exclusionary view
of religion grafted onto being oligarchs
that's one of the most potent dangerous
Saudi royal family style yeah that's
that's bad news that's not you know
people struggling and finding solace or
cohesion in something where none else
exists which has put my push back on the
sometimes to the degree that any working
cost people support Trump I think the
evangelical church plays a big role in
it and we should be very critical of
that definitely attorney Andrew
