[Music]
come from a 2:01 area code who's this
where you calling from hi this is Jimmy
from Jersey Jimmy from Jersey what's on
your mind
hi thanks for taking my call I'm calling
in to talk about veganism I think that
it's the most important I think that the
animal rights movement is the most
important movement of the century I
think it's essential to address public
health climbs to the climate clay the
climate crisis and the animal cruelty
crisis I want to take a step back for a
second I do realize that I'm talking to
somebody who is on a show that
absolutely glorifies meat consumption
it's called Bob's Burgers should be
called Bob's dead cows on a bong well to
be fair to be fair last night I had an
impossible burger for the first time and
that was actually really good yeah so I
don't I'm not aware that Bob's Burgers
isn't a completely vegan burger joint
but I assume it's not but yes okay but
and - in my defense - I understand that
my character is not in any way
affiliated with the restaurant in fact
it's considered in some respects its
nemesis so oh yeah you're actually the
Crusader you know you're inspector yep
yeah so so that's that's awesome that
you tried an impossible burger you know
and I realize I'm kind of calling you
because it you guys have done some great
discussion on this compares to other
left-wing shows and kind of like you
know I guess I'd like to get you to talk
to talk before walking the walk I mean
walk the walk before talking to talk so
yeah I mean after having an impossible
burger do you feel like you know that
you want to make that transition
towards a more plant-based diet you
personally without doubt I mean my
feeling was like I'm not I'm not
ordering a burger here again anymore my
son likes to go to this burger place
basically I figured out because there's
a TV there and he and now I make him sit
with his back to the TV and he just like
he'll hug me and then just actually use
that as an excuse to watching the TV but
I last night I was like I'm not ordering
a burger here again I'm only gonna get
this and that's and I have to say in
terms of my red meat consumption
I've already been made a conscious
effort to cut down on that I mean I I
may have a steak four times a year now
and you know a burger I don't know
another half dozen times a year maybe
but that burger the burgers done but I
yeah the tough part for me would be more
like fish and some chicken but I you
know progressively I'm eating less and
and and some pork I guess in the context
of like sausage occasionally well we're
the last generation that's even gonna be
able to eat fish so that won't be a
problem for very much longer
right the pescetarians that's there's
gonna be self-correcting I'm a
pescetarian currently I was vegetarian
from the age of twelve to eighteen vegan
from eighteen to you I want to say 32
and now I eat eggs and seafood a little
bit in my diet I will say that what you
do on an individual level really doesn't
matter that much in terms of the world
we're going to have to ramp down meat
production by a lot if we want to save
the planet and this is one thing that I
would hope people would vote to do if we
ever take Democratic control over
production and that in that case yes
people are going to need to be sold on
less meat for everyone but until that
happens
your personal lifestyle choices I mean
they're great for you I don't like I
just said I don't eat most kinds of meat
but it's going
need to happen on the side of production
rather than consumption in order to make
a difference so if I can respond to that
you know I very strongly disagree that
what we do you know doesn't matter you
know that it doesn't make a difference I
think it makes all the difference I mean
like if we're not going to change our
habits if we're not going to do anything
then how are we going to solve the
problem we're just gonna wait for fish
to go extinct you know like we need to
do something and we need to do what we
can and you know speaking to somebody
you know who I'm really happy to know
that you know you do things about this
and that you you were a vegan at one
point and I assume you know there's a
point where you know you you look at
this stuff do you see what really
happens is it's not just the the climate
stuff it's it's an animal cruelty crisis
you know and like just looking at you
know looking at what happens to them and
you know Langer's I'll feel remorse for
that and you know like I let myself cry
about it you know I feel remorse about
it it's a it's a terrible thing that's
happening to to this whole planet you
know what we do just as a species you
know how we just use other species you
know however we see said you know being
in that state of language I'm sure
you've been in before I'm sure you've
seen it before you know there must have
been a time where you had that state of
mind and you knew that saying that you
know just saying oh what I do doesn't
matter like those excuses that people
make for not being vegan you know that
they're you know like we needs
to take responsibility for what we do
and we're the cause of this each and
every one of us you know I mean I I I
can only tell you that that from the
perspective of like having spent a
decent amount on living in a rural area
that there's you know when you there's
there's there's another perspective that
pettite particularly people who you know
farm have
and not necessarily like big farms but
you know I had neighbors up there they
will they'll buy two pigs you know in
the you know early spring late spring
and then they'll slaughter them in
October and that'll be the the food that
they eat for this for the for the winter
or they'll shoot a deer and that'll be
the other meat that they have for the
winter there there's you know people you
live on a farm you see animals go at it
with each other kill each other
sometimes and you just get a sense of
like this is we're all just sort of
living entities and we all end up back
in the soil on some level and it's just
a part of a cycle I mean I think well
the difference the difference between us
and animals is that you know we can
think about this we can you know make
the decisions and we can take
responsibility for it and you know when
animals kill each other you know I mean
that is what they're supposed to do you
know in nature that doesn't dictate you
know what we're supposed to do what
we're supposed to do is you know make
good decisions what I mean whatever we
were supposed I am sympathetic would you
know perspective but how do you know
what we're supposed to do well here's
the thing
like I'm well weights like I would
someone I'm just I'm asking like III
think everything you're saying in terms
of the practical issues I I agree with
but but how do you know what we're
supposed to do as humans well that is an
interesting question I think that we
decide what we're supposed to do right I
don't I don't know when like in like a
metaphysical sense you know I'm not like
a religious person but I think this well
I could take it from a I could go at
this instead of from a religious
perspective from a biological
perspective I I think that if there is a
God he's telling us hardcore you know
you guys need to stop eating it's a
public health crisis to you know that
second but we actually look at the human
eye
knowing about our biology wait a second
but wait I requires us to even meet we
you know anatomically this have anything
that even allows us to eat meat without
using technology to cook it there's you
know we we are sort I understand there
are plenty animals that can eat meat and
also non meat and I guess my point is
from a practical standpoint and and from
everything you're saying but in terms of
like what we're supposed to do we don't
know and so I only thing I would say to
you is that I think like you know from a
practical level I think I think Jamie's
point I think is well taken that you
know our individual habits are not gonna
what's going to you know sort of
necessarily be the change but our
individual habits certainly inform our
politics and certainly inform the
politics of other people and we can
bring about sort of a societal change on
big questions like this in terms of like
our agriculture and our our you know the
way that we deal with these things I I
would just say that like I think it's a
trickier sell frankly and I don't think
it's I think it's a trickier sell to say
about like you know what what we are are
not supposed to do what part of us are
simply animals and what part of us have
the ability to rise above our animal
instincts but yeah the moral appeal is
not going to be effective for the
greatest number of people like I share
the goal of wanting people to eat less
meat mate for the animals for health for
the planet I think the most effective
way to do that and the most effective
arguments for most people will be that
we need to have a habitable planet
because when it comes down to morality
it's entirely subjective unless there's
like you know everybody believes in the
same moral system everybody believes in
the same like Platonic ideal somewhere
in this guy like it's very hard to prove
that something is immoral when it comes
to something that has so little
agreement like animal rights well I I
think that I think it's just really
important just on the subject of you
know environmentalism
is because this is also this is the
number one cause of species extinction
you know we're using more land for it
than we are for almost anything else and
I just think that like you know we're
living in a mass extinction right now
and you know if we don't as a species
and I mean you know I'm not necessarily
I you know I don't know how successful
I'm going to be Aven practice is you
know I don't know how successful I'm
going to be in changing people's minds
but you know it's important that I that
we as a species if we're going to have
an environmental movement that people
stop I you know start to see all life on
this earth is being valuable people kind
of start to realize that you know we're
all you know we're all on this planet
together I mean we have a problem we'll
read each other with respect organized I
hate killer cell I agree but I mean I
have to remind you that 17 years ago 15
years ago we were killing tens of
thousands of people ultimately we killed
hundreds of thousands of people and if
you walked around I was a fully grown
adult at this time you walked around and
asked people about it nobody nobody
nobody gave his second time nobody gave
it a second thought I mean so there are
limitations on a human's ability to give
a crap about other people and that is a
reality and it's it's also it's it's
going to make it that much harder for
them to give a crap about animals which
is why I say that in terms of achieving
your ends if they are strictly to save
as many animal lives as possible that
making it about morality is probably the
hardest route to go to get to that end
frankly but alright we're out of time
interesting stuff do I appreciate the
call
thank you
