I want to we're gonna we have a couple
more clips of a pack we have Mike Pompeo
there but I first off want to start by
congratulating Kamala Harris on two
things one I want to congratulate her
she came out with a I think a pretty
decent proposal that hopefully will get
more will get this issue more in the the
popular discourse which is a proposal to
close the pay gap for teachers calling
for the estate tax to be raised and the
federal government providing two first
10% in a raise for teachers across the
board and then a matching funds with
States I I applaud that she's going
after the the the teachers unions
endorsement and good I hope there's a
huge race for that so that we support
public education even more than we do
now which in depending on where you live
because we know that that education in
this country is funded in a completely
self-defeating way the biggest challenge
to education is what happens in the home
and if you send and and kids coming from
a household that is living in poverty or
near poverty underperforming school and
schools cannot fix that so you need to
provide a funding and well I should say
schools can only fix that so much you
need to provide a address the underlying
problems and then B you need to provide
earlier schooling more competent
schooling and more funded schools but in
those areas which need it the most
because of the way that we fund schools
of property taxes they get the least so
kudos to her for talking about federal
support for our schools and also kudos
to Kamala Harris for saying to AIPAC I
am
joining my son but like fellow four or
five candidates in boycotting the AIPAC
conference I'm not going to go there and
give a speech because of their attacks
on folks like Ilan Omar and the fact
that they are pushing a an agenda the
right-wing agenda in its support of
Israel so kudos for her and then and
here she is taking a celebratory picture
of that that boycott with the entire
executive suite of AIPAC in her office
is that what's going on there
yes huh that's California the California
I think it's a well can I just say
though it is important to note that all
of the other candidates who have not
attended did not explain why they just
aren't going Bernie's the only campaign
that released the statement specifically
saying apex comments on L on Omar and so
on is why he's not going that is a
meaningful distinction yes there's a lot
of brass right here this takes the cake
that look on her face is like I didn't
realize there'd be a photo that look on
her face is like I'm good at this I'm
gonna break this down to Sharla way the
god yeah there is a charm and how
totally full of it she is just like do
we have
