so Matt this is a a big piece by GN
mayor and she has impeccable credentials
when it comes to reporting much of this
stuff is stuff that we if we didn't know
we saw the broad outlines of but to see
it laid out in such a methodical way is
a little bit disturbing let's talk about
the relationship between Donald Trump
and Fox News when the campaign started
out Fox News and Donald Trump were you
know at loggerheads and it's a little
bit weird to think of Roger Ailes as
some type of mitigating force but that's
what it appears it was yeah I think
that's the take in this article I think
what's clear is during the campaign
there were several different power
centers mayor writes that the various
different hosts were sort of allowed to
go their own way and so you had Hannity
who is very much an early supporter of
Donald Trump you had Bill O'Reilly sort
of remaining neutral megyn kelly
somewhat more critical the Fox and
Friends gang were big supporters as he
had long been a regular guest on the
programs but Roger Ailes was at times
somewhat concerned with the way things
the way Trump handled things
particularly the way Trump handled his
relationship with Fox News itself after
the Republican primary debate in which
megyn kelly went after Trump on his
despicable treatment for women
Trump lashed out at Kelly and what ended
up happening was a lot of Fox's audience
ended up rallying around Trump rather
rather than around Fox which I think was
kind of a surprise for Ailes and you
know it took a while and it was clearly
a metamorphosis over the the course of
the campaign but at the end of the day
Fox ended up rallying rallying
to Trump's banner and becoming what it
is now which is more or less a state TV
apparatus for the president and we
should say though that there is a
reporting in the piece that suggests
that Trump knew that that question from
megyn kelly was coming enough so that he
complained before the debate yeah that
is one of the one of the revelations in
the piece that Trump had been informed
of this ahead of time that he knew
something was up this also comes up in
Megyn Kelly's book as well which I
believe Maher notes that you know at one
point she had become aware that he
seemed to know what she was planning to
do and that was quite troubling I mean
that is you know at the end of the day
you end up with Ailes helping Trump out
with his debate prep for the general
election so none of that is terribly
implausible and certainly something to
keep in mind so Matt I mean it seems to
me and I just want to stay in this sort
of like this little narrow context of
the story at this moment is that you
know because it's very hard for me as
someone who has followed the development
of Fox News more or less professionally
over the course of 15 years to accept
the idea that firm from Ailes
perspective that there was some type of
like you know journalistic problem in
being overly supportive of Donald Trump
I mean when Barack Obama entered the
White House in 2008 there was a broad
sense that Fox News was in many respects
simply a Republican Party mouthpiece
there was only dissent and frankly
amongst other reporters who when the
Obama administration tried to push Fox
News a couple of seats back in the in
the in the White House pool seats I mean
literally there were there were you know
reporters from other news organizations
who complained about that but broadly
speaking you know those who followed
these things understood that the that
Fox News was not really a news outlet as
much as they were as a propaganda arm
for the Republican Party now you can
have left leaning and right leaning a
media but they they would simply toe the
Republican party line it seems to me
it's as if Ailes was was concerned about
putting all of foxes eggs in such a
narrow basket as opposed to it's
inappropriate for us to be supportive of
Donald Trump yeah I think there's no
question that Roger Ailes did not have a
very strong sense of ethics journalistic
or otherwise and the idea that you know
he would avoid making the network too
close to Trump because of Adams out of
some sense of ideals is deeply flawed I
think people have very short memories
when it comes to Fox by people I mean
those who don't pay attention to them
professionally like you and I do there's
a quote in here in the Maher article
from Bill Kristol says Bill Kristol who
is a paid contributor to Fox until 2012
and as a prominent never Trump er said
if the network quote it's changed a lot
before it was conservative but it wasn't
crazy now it's just propaganda
that is some self-serving nonsense when
Krystal is being paid by Fox News his
colleague was Glenn Beck and I've been
watching Fox News professionally for 12
years there is no period of time in
which Fox News was crazier than in the
2009 2010 2011 Glenn Beck years the
early days of the Obama administration
when they were doing all sorts of
ridiculous conspiracy theories now
things have changed to some extent Fox
has always been a propaganda apparatus
for the Republican Party and
conservative movement but those things
change over time and so you see the
network reinventing itself you see it
going into a you know sort of extreme
over-the-top patriotism flare after
at the beginning of the war in Iraq you
see it reinventing itself as a you know
anti Obama outlet that you know that you
have the network's executives referring
to it as the Alamo the sort of last
stand
to prevent Obama and his socialism from
taking over the country and you see it
reinventing itself again leading into
the 2016 elections as this current
iteration that is as one of the people
quoted in the article said state TV it's
a straight-up apparatus that is devoted
to the President himself and that's
different and that's I think scary in
different ways than past iterations of
Fox but I think we need to get past the
point that there was some golden age
where Fox was a legitimate news
organization not I I couldn't agree with
you more I mean I think that is the the
the real story here it seems to me is
not just a sort of the behavior and how
it reflects but how structurally really
structurally this thing is the the
relationship between the Trump
administration really Donald Trump I
mean let's be honest the Trump
administration is not some type of
sprawling enterprise it is a it is it is
a small cabal if you will of people that
the the the way that Fox and Trump are
intertwined is not only fascinating and
scary from a structural standpoint but
it also has massive implications for for
the 2020 election and for any
proceedings that are brought against
Trump or are happen against Trump in
terms of like accountability let's take
a break when we come back let's talk
about those things and let's also talk
about how the interest of Fox News not
only do they serve Donald Trump but
Donald Trump has returned the favor in
some respects we got to take quick break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back
with Matt Kurtz in just a moment
