[Music]
speaking of which you know the the right
has been on a real tear as of late
because of the minimum wage like I say
the best thing about that is that they
are promoting the fact that the
Democrats actually voted to raise the
minimum wage $15 an hour I think Nancy
Pelosi couldn't have hoped for more
they passed 60 bills none of them got
any attention except for the rising of
the minimum wage and why is that because
one the idea that people would be that
labor would in any way be empowered and
I did a fascinating interview on what
happened with the car industry in the
United States we're gonna run that
during vacation at the end of the month
but it's fascinating the the obsession
with getting the cheapest labor costs
possible is is stunning and of course
you know the the dynamic really to look
at right I mean a dollar figure is just
a dollar figure doesn't mean anything
without a sense of like how much this
thing's costs and how much productivity
is their productivity is basically like
how much money is being generated by a
company and then you start thinking
about the share of labor in that
productivity how much of profits
essentially are going to or revenue is
going to labor relative to the to the
productivity in to the the overall share
of revenue and we know that even if $15
a minimum wage workers are still getting
a less of a share of productivity or
relative to productivity than they were
40 years ago but yet they're very
concerned because you know like you
never the Wall Street Journal has a
piece today about how six months later
people really were
about the the rise in the minimum wage
now there's no data they just interview
like two or three people who are like
yeah I'm sort of worried and then
somebody from the Chamber of Commerce
who's like yeah this is bad so that it
concerns a lot of concerns I you don't
see people at Fox News talking about
rental real estate prices in New York
that are driving businesses out it's
always labor costs are too much here is
Stuart Varney again on Fox & Friends and
it's always great to see the Fox and
Friends people feel this is personal and
they feel these tragedies here is
Ainsley Earhardt talking about her
friend again one of my best friends
lives down in Florida
she has a chicken salad restaurant they
sell chicken salad I asked her could you
survive if you increase it to $15 an
hour she said absolutely not it would
take us under she said granted the
employees I have that work really hard
that do a wonderful job they do get paid
a little bit more and she gives pay
raises
don't you gotta earn that don't let
politicians set wage levels okay pause
it for a second wait a second so I'm
unclear what Ainsley is saying at the
end here they actually get paid fifteen
to the minimum wage oh not not fifteen
Sam they might get like 1425 if they're
really hard worker but you gotta earn it
yeah what does that mean like here's the
thing opportunity well what does it mean
what percentage of your productivity do
you deserve right like you never hear
this cot that that concept even come up
in these situations because it is
completely random its pinnacle eternity
in a chicken salad sandwich shop my
understanding is that you could actually
you could actually I'm trying to pretend
like that's not hilarious
we're in that names of the sandwiches
the the chicken salad sandwich shop you
could assess how many sandwiches are my
employees making per hour and what is my
profit on that or what is my revenue on
it and I can find out how much of that
revenue is dedicated to the to labor
that Delta between your revenue and what
you pay labor is whatever you as a
chicken salad sandwich shop owner deem
it should be and now I imagine do you
think she has a tiny shop or do you
think that that she has a hundred
affiliates across the country
I guess there's somewhere around a
hundred franchises a hundred franchises
chicken salad shops cross the Globes
first of all the idea that a chicken a
chicken salad restaurant it's everywhere
only chicken salad party more could you
ask for it's in every Mayo state in the
Union I'm sorry maybe your business is
not meant to survive like now all of a
sudden you're Varney here maybe you are
dark toast to stay in the market well I
mean my bottom line is and I you know I
felt this as a waiter but my feeling was
like if you can't if you if you're going
out to eat and you can't afford to leave
at least 15 percent tip then you just
got to find a less expensive restaurant
that's basically like my baby like
that's part of duck tank that's the
exactly that's part of the cost of going
out there and part of the cost of doing
business is you pay your employees and
let's hear where Barney's going with
this one of my best friends lives down
in Florida she has a chicken salad
restaurant they sell chicken salad I
asked her could you survive if you
increase it to $15 an hour she
absolutely not it would take us under
she said granted the employees I have
that work really hard that do a
wonderful job they do get paid a little
bit more and she gives pay raises
she got a set wage levels because
they're basically they're buying votes
they say you vote for me I look what you
get you will get a raise your $15 an
hour that sounds like yeah it's not like
we didn't watch President Trump walk
through the twenty percent 21st Century
Club is that what that's called the 21
club to people eating like $500 dinners
literally tapping but I'm gonna cut all
your taxes give me a break and I can
tell just by Ainsley airheads
personality that her friend is the worst
boss ever who knows who knows if the
bond are committed to the mission of
selling chicken salads that you don't
belong here if it's just about the money
and not putting the best chicken salad
on a plate that can be put on a plate
that you should not be in this business
but it's better than buying votes this
is buying votes with capitalists money
make them now we did a little research
we don't know if it's the same company I
want to be clear about this however
Ainsley Earhardt did visit and promote a
chicken salad restaurant in the glades
floor is that what it's called the
village of villages well I don't know
where that is somewhere in the Florida
it's in hell and it's a very hoity-toity
place and we just looked up that company
and this company what is the chicken now
may not be hurt it might not be here but
chicken salad chick is at least the
first one that comes up on Google there
could be multiple chicken salad
restaurants in Florida which are all so
friendly with Ainsley Earhardt once you
get into that chicken salad friends with
everybody in the chicken salad cartel
but we just saw an article about that
chicken salad chick and they gave
$100,000 to charity to deal with cancer
eye cancer and hunger cancer and hunger
and and good for them but I have another
suggestion that businesses are not
responsible first for charity their
first response with paying their workers
and so pay you workers if that hundred
thousand doesn't cover it which boy
you've got a lot of workers and you're
paying them very little money in
locations but if that $100,000 doesn't
cover it don't worry I mean you don't
have anything left because we're gonna
tax those workers we'll take some that
money and then you promote cancer
research by the government and then
think of how that money travels to
getting to those uh that cancer research
it goes into your employees pockets then
they pay it out to someone else has got
another business it goes in sales tax it
goes and wage taxes everybody gets paid
and then the money still ends up going
to cancer research Sam do you understand
logic oh my god I'm just looking at the
menu right now and it's like so much
mayonnaise it's making me a little bit
nauseous it's a good place for that
Florida I feel like I'm on too much tuna
right now I'm being pranked
