so Heather obviously the big story this
week is impeachment but there are other
big stories some that got overshadowed
frankly and by the the impeachment call
of course I'm talking about the UN
meeting around climate change and and we
can talk about the implications of Greta
Thornburg and and and how that all went
down I just wanted to say a couple words
too just to tie up our conversation
about what the state of the race and the
Democratic Party we should also say that
there is a primary and the Republican
side although I think they've eliminated
half of their actual primaries and Mark
Sanford is in Iowa can trying to argue
that the major issue facing the country
right now is the debt and deficit which
sounds pretty funny
on some level to watch him go around
saying that but nevertheless one of the
things that you know we we had cited
before was that Joe Biden clearly
starting to slip his support starting to
decay Elizabeth Warren seems to have
increasing momentum and Bernie Sanders
seems to be largely static it's not
dropping he's rising maybe a point or
two here they're all within the
statistic statistical margin of error
but one thing that I think we can't
really know and I think it's in you know
indicative of the way that Bernie
Sanders is running his campaign this
year he was in Illinois talking to the
Chicago Teachers Union he has been out
in Detroit for this UAW strike which I
want to talk about a moment but he has
been in places where you would not
anticipate a presidential candidate
going when you know Iowa is so
desperately important New Hampshire
desperately important Nevada South
Carolina California these are all states
that are going to make or break their
presidential aspirations Sanders has
been taking a different tact on this
he's been going to protests into Union
and labor actions and it remains to be
seen as to whether this is going to
benefit his presidential candidacy but
it's certainly I think is building a
movement that we're going to see more of
in the future right now
the UAW still on strike now negotiations
have been intensifying and I think both
sides would like a resolution it could
be any minute we'll see if it's
announced but this is this is a big deal
because the UAW has lost about 20,000
members out of its at least you know
with General Motors out of its you know
I think 60,000 or 70,000 that it was
just about six or seven years ago GM got
a bailout from the US government and
part of that restructuring took a lot of
stuff away from workers this is a big
deal because I don't think there is a
sustainable push to the left in this
country without empowerment of labor oh
you're absolutely right and I mean I
agree with you I don't know if this will
benefit Sanders in the in the
presidential race I mean I think that
the race sort of will take on a life of
its own depending on what happens in
Iowa New Hampshire and you know we don't
actually actually know and Sanders is it
has a little room here because he's a
known quantity he ran last time people
he doesn't have to establish you know
name recognition I think people know him
and and are aware at least of what what
he you know where his place in the
Democratic ecosystem is and but what
you're absolutely right what he's doing
is building is is helping to build this
this movement and I go back and you and
I talked about this after the after the
last debate you know Sanders gave an
incredibly articulate vision of what he
believes that what he defines as
democratic socialism and I you know he
was exactly what it is that he's about
he has no questions about that and he's
going around and I think he's sharing
this and also speaking directly to to
younger people obviously you know the
main part of his support is there and
also now bringing that to the labor
movement and saying look this is you
know that this is what I believe and
this is how I believe that it will
benefit you and that you can benefit you
know it and so you know I think that
there's there's tremendous value in that
and if regardless of what happens in the
presidential race and you know we don't
know I don't think he would want to be a
vice president it doesn't seem to me
like that's something he would want so
my assumption is it's he's going all the
way or he will remain a senator and and
be you know the leader of this outside
movement if he doesn't make it to the
White House and you know that's
tremendously important I mean the
Democrats have fallen down on this job
over and over and over again so maybe it
takes somebody who isn't a Democrat to
actually do this and build a sustainable
or at least lay the groundwork for a
sustainable movement a grassroots
movement that can carry this message
which you know is obviously very
appealing and is being reflected in all
the other campaigns it's not just I mean
you know Bernie has the most you know
clear-cut Democratic Socialist message
and as you pointed out earlier probably
the most you know ambitious program but
nonetheless I mean that you know his
program is is seen in pieces to some
extent or another in all the campaign's
even Joe Biden or Amy Klobuchar so you
know that the beginnings of this are
happening and I think you know it's
quite impressive really and especially
since we are seeing a lot of labor
action I mean we've got teachers joking
all over the country you've got the UAW
I mean this is starting to happen again
and for good reason I mean you know with
all the the let you know the low
employment numbers and the alleged stock
market going crazy
and everything you know everything
supposedly being so great you know
workers just have not been benefitting
so
you know it's understandable and
actually necessary for this movement to
exert itself right now absolutely right
all right well listen one of the other
things that obviously are in play this
week and we'll take a break in the mote
we'll come back and talk about it is the
is the new UN climate report things are
not good
ladies and gentlemen and you know I'm
sure we'll have him on probably next
week to talk about this but the American
Prospect under David day and the
executive editor over there and they've
done an amazing and and are launching an
amazing sort of series if you will on
this day one agenda which outlines 30
major moves that the next president
could take not by executive order but
just simply by executive action there
are already statutes there that allow
for the president to make very very
dramatic moves in areas ranging from
breaking up the banks to providing debt
relief for students but also climate
change and this is a week where we saw
Donald Trump basically prevent
California from maintaining high air
quality standards for their cars I mean
it's pretty stunning but we will talk
more about that when we return I'm Sam
cedar is wearing a fire radio I'll be
right back with Digby
