[Music]
all right let's let's run through some
more sound in Israel there are elections
taking place now there's this is clip
number six there are no you know look
there's no real alternatives in Israel
it's just a question of to what degree
of subjugation of basic Palestinian
rights we're talking about now that
being said there are parties in the
center and this I like it you could
maybe in some ways domestically
center-left that at the very least would
like to keep some sort of formalities of
democracy inside sixty-seven borders
right so there's the occupation of the
West Bank there's a siege and functional
occupation over Gaza and then inside
Israel itself although of course there's
not full equity for Arab citizens there
is and there is some more kind of sense
that you're dealing with something
analogous to a flawed democracy maybe
but that argument is rested on
institutional independence which still
exists to some extent in the judiciary
but a lot of the scandals affecting
Netanyahu because obviously I mean you
know apartheid is not a voting issue
unfortunately right now for most voters
in Israel but the fact that he might
literally be undermining the
independence of media of judicial
institutions these are big things and
mines for some Israeli voters now he's
going full to the hilt he said that if
he doesn't get reelected the Arabs will
quote annihilate Jewish Israelis and
this is um you know an election was very
little hope and mostly bad outcomes
because that's the political situation
and I wanted to play this clip from and
Netanyahu just gets increasingly overt I
mean he's always been an apartheid
leader under Obama in the beginning he
paid paid lip service to a two-state now
he's talking about formal an excise a
annexing
of the west bank which let's be really
clear it should have been already
obvious to anybody with any kind of
basic cognitive functioning what Israel
is and what's happening in the Middle
East but this is it I mean this is this
is like the last of even joke plausible
deniability and this is Nora
Eric OTT who's a Palestinian attorney
and advocate explaining it on Democracy
Now with Amy Goodman I think it's
important to point out as you have that
one third of the West Bank is the Jordan
Valley
it's the site of the richest sources of
water some of the richest sources of
water in the West Bank including the
Jordan River Basin and the Dead Sea as
well as numerous springs the World Bank
has said that if Palestinians actually
have access to these lands it could be
their Palestinian breadbasket increasing
their agricultural yield by 1.6 million
dollars annually we are talking about a
rich area where Palestinian farmers
where Palestinians cannot access for
leisure for livelihood for home and this
is what's at stake the other thing to
point out is that there's already de
facto annexation a lot of attention is
being placed on Netanyahu as he makes
more bold and racist claims to his
constituent base ahead of elections but
it's important to know that this is not
about Netanyahu this isn't even about
the Israeli right
this is Israeli policy in the aftermath
of the 1967 war Israel declared 60% of
the Jordan Valley as a closed military
zone an off basis they built three
outposts military outposts in 1968 and
under a Labour government built those
into civilian settlements in the early
1970s it was a labor Israeli labor
minister you got alone who declared that
the Jordan Valley would be part of
Israel's defensible borders it was
Israel dove it sacra beam in 1995 who
said that this would be part of Israel's
or final borders and it was under the
Oslo peace process that 90% of the
Jordan Valley came under full Israeli
civil and military control what
Netanyahu is doing now is basically take
this awful policy this steady policy of
settler colonial removal of Palestinian
and encroachment of Palestinian lands to
its logical end which is to say well now
it's just ours well that's it that's
undebatable
be in reality about that place I mean
you can defend it but if you're gonna
defend it you have to appeal to
emotional nationalist arguments that's
reality
that that is as close as two plus two
equals four in politics as there could
be
