here is Chuck Todd ostensibly
questioning Donald Trump about ice and
about what's going on at the border and
here is Donald Trump of course arguing
that it is I was just noticing that too
I mean obviously look the problem with
Donald Trump is has nothing to do with
the fact that he's literally bulging out
of his suit I mean Jesus but noticeable
how does a guy like this like get some
our Big Macs in here I can embrace
yeah the whole no it's it's highly
noticeable
and especially in his case I'm gonna say
something where's my dad coke where's my
dad nice nice counter effect it's pretty
impressive leaf ish feeling like I mean
he's wearing big coats and it's pretty
impressive that you can actually see oh
it just makes you think of that
grotesque tennis picture that went
around the while ago anyways here's
Donald Trump explaining that all of this
problems with ice existed before him
he's not responsible for any of it and
to a certain extent these problems did
exist they they certainly did he is
obviously exacerbating them and taking
advantage of them and specifically
holding the solutions to these problems
hostage to a wider and deeper
anti-immigrant policy but here is with
Chuck Todd want to ask what's going down
with the these children in these migrant
camps the stories are horrible mr.
president you have children without
their parents you have kids taking care
of kids yeah you've you've read these
reports I know people are coming to you
I know you think this is the Democrats
problem well it forget it why aren't you
doing some of it are you ready are you
they are in terrible shape down there
mister
down in Homestead Florida that's where I
grew up it's these the conditions are
dairy and it's been that way for a long
time or something and President Obama
built the cages remember when they said
that I built them and then it was 1914
due to Long's maker right it was 2014
just listen for one a second separation
President Obama I took over separation
I'm the one that put it together what's
happened though are the cartels and all
of these bad people they're using the
kids there there it's almost like
slavery it's not punish the kids know
this is hard but the kids are getting
punishment here right and this has been
happening long before I got there what
we've done is we've created said we've
ended separation you know under
President Obama you had separation I was
the one that ended it now I said one
thing when I ended it I said here's
what's going to happen more families are
going to come up and that's what's
happened but they're really coming up
for the economics but once you ended the
separation but I ended separation I
inherited separation from President
Obama President Obama built they call
him jail cells they were built to talk
about like a now your administration
you're not doing the recreation not even
schooling these kids anymore you've
gotten realized okay here here is here
is this is what is so frustrating to me
for all of the concern that Chuck Todd
seems to be expressing here he just led
the one assertion the one actual
assertion by Trump just breeze on by and
he's nibbling it on the edges but you've
cut out certain services for them the
fact of the matter is this there has
always been separation if the parents
come in with drugs or there's indication
that they're beating the children and
there has been a federal offense that
can be launched against them criminal
charge against them to cross the border
the first time is not a criminal charge
it is a civil infraction
during the Obama administration children
were separated from their parents only
if there was a criminal charge against
the parents just like an American
citizen what the Trump administration
did is they started to basically say
we're going to criminally charge people
for trespassing therefore we need to
separate the children and now we're
gonna these children are gonna be
considered unaccompanied minors that's
what the Trump administration did and to
the extent that they've ended it there's
a lot of reports that they haven't
stopped doing that
that is the key crux that just sort of
just flew blood flew by right there it's
very frustrating with all that said none
of it makes a difference cuz he's not
gonna do anything anyways he's talking
jibber-jabber I mean half the things
he's saying you're expecting I mean
2013/2014 different things and other
things he started at I completed it I
completed it I stopped it and completed
it I completed it and totally stopped it
doing a fantastic job under the
circumstances the Democrats aren't even
approving giving us money where is the
money
you know what the Democrats are holding
up the humanitarian aid it looks like
these kids are being used as positive
they just passed that I guess maybe
prior you know prior this was prior to
that good used as is some sort of is it
hostage they are being used by very bad
people on the other side they actually
get paid where that money is being made
using them because our laws are so bad
because if you have a child you have an
advantage you know that better than
anybody and what should happen to let
the political debate hurt these children
we need to be infected impacted for you
if the Democrats would change the asylum
laws and the loopholes which they
refused to do because they think it's
good politics everything would be solved
immediately but they refused to do it
they refused to do you know what if they
change those I say I used to say 45
minutes it's 15 minutes and they changed
and if they changed loopholes everything
on the border would be perfect so in
other words he's saying that if we
didn't have any laws that gave these
people any rights we could just put them
in prisons and nobody would think would
be unjust it's unbelievable
if the heat we were just allowed to be
inhumane to them no one would hold us to
any type of standards about the
inhumanity in which you're treating them
if you strip the standards then there's
no standard to oppose logic this is
simple
