gone from a four to tray number four to
three mmm thank them yeah who's this
thanks for taking my call this is Andrew
Kahn from Tennessee Andrew what's on
your mind and appreciate your commentary
I'm here in the Bible Belt middle of
Magha country so thanks for doing what
you do just had a question about I kind
of came to you guys through the Jordan
Peterson wormhole took me about half a
day to figure out I wasn't on that tip
just to find the Joe Rogan podcast where
he talks about being on the all meat
diet so I didn't really need your guy's
commentary but I really appreciate it
hey let me just say that just interested
what you what your kind of take is on if
you think at any point that veganism
becomes a moral imperative you know when
we talk about climate change the green
new deal the impact the catastrophic
impact on the environment that's going
on right now I guess that's one of my
frustrations generally with the left and
I and I'm on the Left I'm you know I
guess to the left of the left on animal
rights right it seems because I just I
don't hear a lot of talk about it barely
at all in the mainstream let alone you
know and you get you know on the left
you got a lot of people pointing out the
fossil fuel companies which totally
right to do I just yeah basically at any
point do you think that that becomes
like a winning strategy or any sort of
litmus test you know in terms of at
least reducing the amount of I don't I
mean in all honestly like I think okay
the I think we are a ways off from that
I I mean I think that it's quite
possible right I agree I think it's
quite possible that we as a society may
come to view the meeting the eating of
meat like in the way that we view
slavery now and I think that's
conceivable I suspect if that happens
it's it's gonna be sort of the reverse
of what you're talking about
that climate change is going to make the
way that we eat meat unsustainable and
therefore our our value system will
change along with that I mean the I just
think that if climate change happens in
the way that I think statistically
speaking the odds are it will right like
I don't write you know if I had to bet
right now I would say unlikely that we
as a as a you know as a planetary
society are going to be able to mitigate
some of the worst impacts of climate
change I think it's going to change you
know our our agriculture and our you
know livestock practices significantly
and it's you know it's just as
conceivable to me that we will be eating
completely manufactured you know you
know faux meat well yeah lab meat lab
meat and yeah and then I think as that
happens the moral the the moral problems
with eating animals will increase I have
some thoughts on this is someone who was
vegan for more than 10 years vegetarian
for like 20 and I'm now like a
pescetarian of still mostly vegan but
you're never going to convince people
solely on the animal rights tip right
because rights unless you believe
they're derived from our Creator right
and even then not everyone agrees on a
creator there's really no way to prove
that anything has rights right you
either believe animals what if we want
to trigger right-wingers I see it's a
great thing to do well yes sure
but and I would also like to get away
from the lifestyle politics aspect of it
but it's something that I struggle with
a lot because you know I think it is
kind of wrong to eat meat and I you know
I do make some decisions in my daily
life that are kind of lifestyle politics
see but it only matters when you do
things on a mass structural skill so I
would say rather than focus on the moral
aspect or the lifestyle politics aspect
of it just I think we should focus on
the practical aspects right because the
planet cannot sustain the current level
of meat production that is happening so
if we were to move to some sort of
socialist model where people have
control over production we would have to
agree on a mass scale to eat way way
less meat or to trance transition like
Sam said to like lab meat and meat
substitute the I mean this is there
there's a little bit of a dilemma in
this but I think like you know step one
is we need an agricultural policy in
this country that does not promote I
mean really it's our subsidies of corn
they're really you know sort of at the
at the you know the sort of the first
building block of all this frankly the
the problem is is that it becomes
somewhat problematic in that you're
basically saying we're going to
basically price people out of eating
meat now and we're going to be why I
hate arguments about it like oh you
should just make these consumer products
more expensive and then people won't buy
them only rich people will buy them like
that's not cool I mean that that is it
is problematic but it is I think like
you know the
I don't know what the other first step
is right like that is you know and I
think our subsidy of corn was designed
specifically to bring this about
it was to make food throughout the
entire our our food system to make it
cheaper so that people would have more
money to spend on consumer goods this
was like an explicit endeavor by the
Commerce Secretary under Nixon and it
worked but that's why there's so much
corn filler essentially in all our food
and why cows you know that that's what
creates these factory farms the thing is
if you eliminate all the corn oats wheat
and soy and fed them to people that we
feed the animals you know there would be
no man woman or child much of that stuff
that we grow is the least maybe it maybe
it yes like that but but the reality is
is that that that corn that is
subsidized by the US government is not
for human consumption
it is it is relatively few we're growing
fuel for animals essentially to fatten
them up but yes the if you're going to
subsidize stuff you could subsidize
other stuff now conceivably what could
happen right is you cut those subsidies
for a period of time you know wealthier
you know your average American can only
eat meat once maybe a week or something
like I mean like when I was a kid I
remember like the idea of you know
having steak more than like twice a
month was like a big deal you'd be
looking around like what's going on I
mean it was all like I think chicken at
that time or something or or fish maybe
I can't remember but it was like the
idea of the steak was like a treat and
you know and this was I remember that as
it was you know around that time before
those subsidies started kicking in and
and you know we were
you know a middle class upper my dad was
a lawyer up you know Wooster but
nevertheless and so I mean I think if
you were to cut back on those subsidies
it might increase the the the
development of lab meat and I don't know
it's funny that people think like lab
meat is gross when you're like well but
you're you know we're eating now came
from it's like lives in its own in
a slaughterhouse I think they're worried
about the estrogen and soy and not in
the cow's milk right exactly
appreciate the call Andrew yeah
thank you
