in terms of the the shutdown I mean it
ostensibly right the the Senate is
negotiating on stuff but Mitch McConnell
has said that he won't bring any bill he
won't bring any bill to the floor that
he thinks that Donald Trump won't sign I
don't see any indication that Donald
Trump is going to change his mind in any
way he seems to be completely convinced
that his entire political future is a
function of being able to announce to
the American public we got a wall or you
know I got five billion dollars I don't
know I guess I got a hundred and fifty
feet of a wall and I think - he's got to
think he could easily convince his
supporters that there's a wall they've
convinced them that there's a caravan of
you know like a horde of invaders coming
that you need to send 4,500 troops to
the border I mean you know like I the
amazing thing about this is that I mean
right they've sold the idea that this
that another Caravan and they sold the
idea of the of the first the last
Caravan and even though we have multiple
of these caravans every year but that
these caravans are special that they
represent a unique threat to the
national security of the United States
not even like the idea that oh there's a
lot of people who want to you know get
asylum at the border but that like if
you have a lake home in in Michigan you
got to be worried about you know a band
of of marauding caravanners they've been
able to sell that lie I don't understand
like the it's fascinating to me because
they've been able to sell that lie but
he clearly feels like he cannot sell the
lie of like up I didn't declare a
national emergency but we figured out a
way of financing the wall we're building
the wall the wall was being built so
mission accomplished and he could just
say that but it's almost like
he knows that Ann Coulter and gave me
one or two others they will see through
that and of course they also know that
the caravan being a national threats
Ally but they're okay with that lie
they're not okay with the lie that the
wall is being built and that's who he's
like it's literally down to that they
are the ones who are controlling all of
this by withholding their their praise
for Donald Trump and when I say they I
mean we're talking probably about three
people it's coming well it's true I mean
what those people are the super hardcore
anti-immigrant you know part of the base
and and they are you know these are like
numbers USA and V dare and and Coulter
who is one of them who are just
absolutely I mean this is their single
issue people at this point and and they
really want that wall I mean they did
they literally you know require it
they're demanding an actual wall which
you know most of the Republicans in
Congress they're they all privately
according to reporters all saying this
wall is so stupid but you know what are
you going to do got to do it you know I
think that Trump really did has been
sort of trying to do that to say you
know look we already have a while I mean
he's saying it it's like the total
emperor has no clothes thing you know
just oh yeah we have a wall I'm building
well I he tweeted at one point that he
had signed contracts in the Oval Office
during the shutdown for the wall the
this past week it was reported that he
and Jared Kushner met with contractors
about building the wall as if that is
how the government works right my
president halls in some contractors and
a hash out a deal I mean it's insane but
you know that he is trying you can see
that he's making that attempt to say you
know we have a wall the walls being
built I've already built the wall
there's the wall look there it is you
know I mean next is to look at that
beautiful wall barrier slats whatever
you call it it's there right it's there
look at it is there now of course we're
talking about our defenses that have
been there for years and yeah they've
done some repairs on the fences they
always do it has nothing to do with him
but you know he's trying to sort of make
that a reality for his followers and
some of them maybe many of them will be
fine with that you know it's like it's
about him winning it's not really about
the wall for many of them it's about him
being able to say that you know that
their guy got the job done but you're
right you've got an Coulter and you've
got other people who really care about
this stuff in a real sense I mean Ann
Coulter is convinced and this is her
book audios America was a big you know
inspiration for Trump on this whole
issue or actually Trump's handlers like
you know Roger stone and Sam Nunn Berg
and those people who got him on the wall
thing if that if the if we don't build a
wall and end legal immigration Stephen
Miller being another one who is you know
in his circle those people believe that
if immigration is not halted paused
whatever you want to call it and I'm
talking legal as well as illegal that
Republicans can't win that's their whole
their whole you know motivation in this
is because they're worried about this
you know white minority and and the the
people of color majority that's coming
up the demographic change which they're
convinced will put them permanently in a
minority and and so it's a very you know
political sort of thing that has little
to it has left to do with culture than
it has to do with you know sheer raw
politics for a lot of the people who are
pushing this so do you know that's what
it do you think that's the case do you
think I mean because I wonder the boater
I don't know I understand but I mean I
even like the the I mean III know that
the the Ann Coulter's will say well the
Democrats just want more immigrants in
here because they think it's going to
benefit benefit them politically but
Karl Rove you know for all his faults
and he was a horrible you know
for some American politics a horrible
person in many many respects he
understood that the Republican Party
could you know merely pivot and be more
welcoming and had reason to believe that
when we talk about immigration
particularly from Central and Latin
America
that these people were just as likely to
become Republicans because of a lot of
their social values and it strikes me
that when an Ann Coulter says oh the
real problem with immigration is because
Democrats are just doing this to get
votes that that's actually just a that
that's not the real reason the real
reason is they're worried about the
white culture they're really literally
worried about about the the whiteness of
the culture and the voting stuff is just
sort of a way of making this about
something different than their racism
well maybe but I think that it's also
true that they have figured out you know
remember after 2012 they did their big
autopsy and we've got to do something
and we've got to be more welcoming of
immigrants we've got to do all this and
then Trump comes along and basically
blew that whole idea to smithereens and
the reason that it worked was because
they have he recognized something that
the rest of the party didn't which is
that the white base the white
conservative base of the Republican
Party are so racist that they just will
not stand for having those people in
their coalition at least not in great
numbers or asking for anything other
than gee just allow me to be in here and
I'll pretend like I'm not one of those
people you know I mean you can have your
tokens you know you're Marco Rubio's or
you're you know you're Tim Scott's or
whatever I mean they're happy to have
those people out there you know as to as
long as they're covered not really but
they do not they will not stand for a
party fee I mean when in that autopsy in
2012 they at least recognized that they
were going to have to change policies
they were going to have to change their
rhetoric that we're going to have to be
welcoming in a way that is offensive to
their own base
you know they needed to do what you know
what Bill Clinton was accused of doing
back in the 90s you know sister souljah
you know go into the belly of the beast
and talk to their white voters and and
scold them for being for being racist
you know and they can't do that and
Donald Trump pretty much I think that's
basically aired right all right well
listen we got to take a quick break when
we come back we have more to talk about
particularly coming out of Virginia and
now that we're talking about race I'm
Sam cedar this is wearing a fire radio
we'll be right back with Digby
