[Music]
two-one-zero area code who's this Who am
I speaking with where are you from
yes good afternoon Salas John from San
Antonio
John from San Antonio how are you sir
I'm okay yeah so the most historically
accurate and national poll that came out
after the Democratic debates which is
the SSRS CNN poll has some good news and
some bad news the good news is that
Biden has dropped 10 points and is now
at 22 points percentage points Harris is
at 17 Warren at 15 and the bad news is
it burning for the first time is in
fourth place at 14% and the Suffolk poll
just dropped also from Iowa just this
morning and it has pretty similar
results Biden at 24% or yeah by new 24%
Harris at 16 Warren at 13 and Bernie
just at 9 so you know they also that
Suffolk poll also had some really bad
results for Bernie in Massachusetts so I
really need to go for some crosstab to
evaluated but now things aren't looking
so great for Bernie right now so in the
in that last pulp that SSRS poll that
was conducted in May Bernie had 26% of
the under 45 vote and 10% the 45 and
older vote and the latest poll we had 25
21 percent under 45 with Harris at 18
and Warren at 17 and is 45 and older
Bernie is only at 8% so before bleeding
more young people at this point than he
is older people is that it well yeah I
mean he's always been extremely strong
with with younger voters I mean it was
much more pronounced during the 2016
campaign so you know so they also have
this this thing about you know
regardless of who you support which is
democratic for you know who's the best
chance to beat Trump in the 2020
election
and you know Biden still leads at 43%
while Bernie's at 13 and so the fact
that burn that Biden dropped 10 points
overall and he still has massive leads
and electability is a good sign that
people are starting to make their
judgment on issues instead of
electability considering the lack of
predictability this early in the cycle
or even in the when the primaries after
the primary start this should be talked
about more a Clinton actually hit her
peak and head-to-head State polling
against Trump on May 5th to 2016 Clinton
not only had leads in the five states
that she was expected to win on election
day which he ended up losing Florida
North Carolina Wisconsin in Michigan and
Pennsylvania she also had leads in
Arizona Georgia Missouri Iowa Ohio and
even Utah the only state did trauma to
lead in well wait what wait a second
what what when was this in May of 2016
right that was when she hit her the head
the head peak again strong yeah no the
only thing is is that May of 2016 I'll
tell you why I don't think it's
analogous is that in May of 2016 the
idea that I still don't think that
people felt that Donald Trump was the
nominee I think probably a lot of
Republicans but convinced themselves I'm
not going to vote for Donald Trump
but Republicans come home I mean that's
the one thing that I would say you know
probably skewed those polls on some
level is that people even some of the
Republicans didn't realize how Craven
they were well they supported him in the
fall of 2015 and in his support of it
vanished as the primaries got on where
they heard more about him and so these
are direct head-to-head this isn't based
on a generic Republican candidate this
is based on direct head-to-head but yeah
you know your point is well-taken I mean
perhaps you're right I mean people
obviously did change your mind they
changed their mind I mean on the 20th of
October
poll started changing that was that was
also the peak and Clinton lead and just
you know in two weeks later you know the
polls went down from I edited about a 67
percent chance of Clinton winning so
anyway so the point is is that you know
Bernie leads the pack as a Democratic
candidate for president when you talk
about health care at twenty percent
twenty six percent biting the second
it's at eighteen so this provides an
opportunity to lean into Medicare for
all and talk about the different
differences from the other top tier
candidates three weeks ago in a call you
emphasize idiosyncratic voters but but
they're actually very actually very few
of those out there most vote on ideology
and you know as as we see more deep
debate ideology is going to be become
more important do you know most people
vote on ideology absolutely I mean just
look at this latest latest poll from the
CNN poll conservative slash moderates
Biden has 31% right now
Harris at 11 Warren at 10 Sanders with
only 8% of the vote and you look at
liberal and Harris leads with 24% Bernie
with 20 Harris with 20 and Biden with 12
and that's going to become more distinct
as time goes on so I'm sure okay I mean
I think there's probably definitely some
sorting I don't know that most people do
it that way you just looked at people
honey who identify you know politically
in one way or another but I mean if you
look at the polling of like who are
Biden's second choices yeah I'm pretty
skeptical of that second choice thing I
mean because if time goes on that's
going to move also I mean right now that
that's more it's more about people
not being familiar with the other
candidates as much I mean also that's
going to change also and head-to-heads
when you know as Harris and Ann Warren
become more known to the general public
their numbers are going to get better
against Trump I mean look at all the
other people that have you know even
less than the top-tier candidates the
reason they're not beating Trump is
because they don't know them and people
don't want to say they're going to vote
for somebody who they don't know their
ideology so all right so yeah so so so
the considering the the lack of
predictability this early in a cycle or
even in after the primaries so you know
I love looking at the complexity of
issues but some assessments are derived
from from simplicity I thought at the
beginning of their campaign that whether
Bernie wins or not will be an assessment
of the strength of the left I still
think that but it looks like Warren and
in Harris are winning potential Boni
Bernie voters Bernie wasn't aggressive
against Biden aura their candidates just
goes against his nature but but Harris
won the debate by being aggressive it
seems like he needs to point out
differences especially on health care
between him and the other three
contenders should he do this at the next
debate or does he have more time to wait
and what else do you think Bernie needs
to do to help his campaign what I think
Bernie needs to do is and I don't think
it's just I mean I think health care is
a part of it but I think broadly what he
needs to do is he needs to you basically
bring out that FDR quote again saying
they're all you know they with you I
want to do what you say and it won't
cost a nickel or whatever that quote is
by FDR that it's going to get to not
going to cost the thing and the idea
behind that
is that Bernie needs to get out there I
thought the best moment that he had or I
should say the moment that I think that
can be most effective for him going
forward was when they asked him but you
have to raise taxes on Medicare he
hesitated for a moment but then he said
yes you do have to raise taxes for
everyone and I think I think we are in
an era you know and I think about the
time where Mondale said that we have to
raise taxes I can't remember the context
but but he got completely lambasted for
it for saying that and that created in
democrats like a fear of of saying that
hey you're gonna get this but did you
know it's gonna have to be paid for you
know in some fashion I mean putting
aside you know what we know about our
government's ability to spend these
things this is more about meeting people
where their preconceptions lie I think
that Bernie can differentiate himself
from the rest of the field by delivering
Frank truths and being unafraid to do
that and tying that into his capacity or
his plan to execute plans so he can say
like you know we can promise you this
and we can promise you that but this is
what it's gonna cost this is not gonna
be free it's gonna cost in some fashion
and I think if the the more he's upfront
about saying what the cost is and the
more he's upfront about saying this is
not going to happen without you the more
that he turns it on - you know points
basically the questions back at us you
know I mean it's some variation of you
know ask not what you can you know what
your country can do for you but ask what
you can do for your country
I think there's I think that's got to be
part of it because I mean he's been sort
of you know
around that message where he talks about
the idea of their needing to be a
movement he calls it a political
revolution but what he really means is
where the citizenry comes in and gets
active about demanding things from their
political system instead of just going
and voting that they actually get
engaged in demand things from their
political system and I think he needs to
hit this more and I think he needs to be
frank about it and say like this is
going to cost you it's going to cost you
time and effort in some instances it's
gonna cost you increased taxes but
there's going to be a payoff and the
payoff is going to be you're going to
have a much better healthcare system for
everyone you're going to live in a
society that is going to die'
commodities and these opportunities are
going to be shared by the people that
you see when you drive to work and when
you walk to work or when you take the
the bus to work they're going to be
shared across the country and these are
opportunities that everyone's going to
be able to engage in and it's going to
create a better society it's going to
create a more in some respects a more
cohesive Society insofar as that we we
understand that we're more connected
with each other it's going to make for a
more healthy society it's gonna make for
a society that can act upon crises like
what's happening with the climate and
but it's gonna cost you and I think it's
really important for him to come out and
make that clear that he is asking
something of us and right because that
is what distinguishes him from frankly
all of the politicians I mean I'm quite
enamored with a lot of the things that
Elizabeth Warren wants to do but the way
in which it gets done
Bernie has a fundamentally different
perspective on how that's going to have
to happen and I think he's got to sell
that I think he does also need to couple
it with a lot of doses of how much
significantly better
life will be after some of those efforts
are passed as well and that there's no
complexity around it I think that's a
big advantage like we're just cancelling
student debt it's not a new program it's
not something people need to fill out
forms for we're just doing it it's
simple it's effective it's bold it's
really clear cost about as much as the
Republican tax cuts about I think he's
also he needs he needs you can't you
know you sugar with the medicine as well
I also think like but but I hear I think
people understand that that's his
position no but I think the thing is is
that people don't believe it can happen
well that's the alamin wary of just
purely talking about this movement
dimension that he talks about really
needs to kick in and I think that's what
I'm saying all right and I think that
people do need to know you know frankly
as a significant differentiation of
Warren that now that when push comes to
shove she rightly recognizes that to
even push a more limited agenda would
take basically the same type of effort
so that this sort of notion that somehow
there's a technical plan dominated
option over a movement option doesn't
actually exist and so that she's
actually making the same argument and
that the difference is is that he
actually has this movement in place and
the only other thing that I think is
interesting I'm not somebody who thinks
like oh polls don't measure all of these
like you know people who are gonna
secretly vote or something i i'm i would
never hinge my hopes on that but
something that interesting that Ryan
grim said to me recently was basically
like if as an example in a place like
Iowa
if the Sanders campaign is being honest
about their level of volunteers and
people that are actually canvassing for
them you start to get into a place
definitionally where you win something
like the Iowa caucuses just on pure body
mass alone so that's another interesting
thing that's gonna need to be measured
in terms of in terms of their campaign
but you know we don't know we won't know
that till I know we don't know we don't
know that but that's but the difference
and this is another interesting thing
I'm taking from grim which is that you
know he made the point at 2016
the really untraditional things were
obviously the message and Bernie's
politics or you know unprecedented in in
modern politics and then the way that
they relied on small donors but besides
that it was a very traditional campaign
you dump money into television you focus
on the early states in this campaign
they've made the choice to really go
grassroots I mean that's the reason
they're using their email list for right
all of these other efforts so you know
and that's like the part that I think is
a gamble and an interesting thing that
won't necessarily get measured by the
traditional metrics not like oh there's
all these secret voters that aren't
showing up but really like is there an
amplified version of even what we're
seeing with things like the Tiffany
Caban race or other things here like if
you really put people out door to door
that makes a hell of a difference and if
they're actually leveraging that that
could be a big difference maker yeah I
mean III mean I think that's that's
that's true but it's it's really hard to
know until the actual you know results
which is another way of saying that all
of this is still super early well good
evening
I mean loves all super early I think
well the sense of even that a couple of
months before I don't think it's I I'm
not I'm not questioning Grimm's
perspective on this but we all were
saying in October of 2016 like Clint
she's gonna kill him with a ground game
he doesn't have a ground game and that
that didn't work out now because it
turns out there wasn't a ground game
well we know that he had I mean that's
that's yeah I mean I'm not saying it's
at the scale I would imagine we know
that those two things are not alike yes
I'm just saying though that it's one
never knows but that's my perspective on
what he's got to do and I suspect he's
going to do some variant of that
