[Music]
so one of the things too we were talking
about Mehdi Hassan was the that to the
extent that Nancy Pelosi wants to avoid
getting sidetracked by impeachment it
has failed and the question is whether
Democrats are going to engage in this
fight or just allow Donald Trump to go
out there dictate the rules of it
and dominate it and so in the same day
that Donald Trump is out there saying
that Nancy Pelosi is losing it we have a
we saw a what was it a Fox Business News
clip of Nancy Pelosi supposedly
stammering and then the panel is saying
like I yeah I know it looks like she
might be losing it and then a video
that's put out that has been slowed down
no one's quite clear on who released it
but it was passed around by everyone
from like Rudy Giuliani to all the usual
suspects here is that video of Nancy
Pelosi remember what you said when you
first saw this right what's that he said
oh my god she's disintegrating she's
disintegrating dad no this is now this
is the video that was passed out
it is Nancy Pelosi supposedly drunk or
you know maybe having a stroke Giuliani
retweeted this apparently yeah here's
the LSE yeah of course what's going on
is they slowed the video down but let's
watch this
but and then he had a press conference
in the Rose Garden with all this short
sort of visuals that obviously were
planned long before I said most
currently that he was engaged in a
cover-up so it's really sad and here's
the thing I positive it's pretty funny
but it's also a fraud and here's the
here's that real here's that real video
the fake for a little opportunity do
something historic for our country we
want to give this president the
opportunity do something historic for
our country yeah it's a quite a
difference and this thing travelled
around still pretty ludicrous thing to
say and here is yes I mean there's valid
criticism about that but here is here is
an example of how it was a trafficked
just one more example Fox and Friends
basically traffic's in it and then you
know a couple hours later or an hour
later a half an hour later ten minutes
later whatever it was because they know
the way people watch these shows they
correct it but here it is hold on we got
to get past this weird ad there we go
and we get the classic you know plus
let's see yeah classics bond put the
apology later and here is the the Fox
and Friends they are going over this
question of impeachment with diamond and
silk of course these two I guess
trumpian what business folks well what
do you mean you know she did Nancy
Pelosi did say that the president was
involved in a cover-up or is involved in
a cover-up said that he had a temper
tantrum but what I think what is
interesting about yesterday ladies is I
think for the first time the president
used a nickname with Nancy Pelosi I
don't remember him ever using a nickname
for her until yesterday he started
calling her crazy Nancy we are
questioning her mental capacity yeah she
always looked like she's a nun
functioning alcoholic and she slowed her
words she's rambling all of our words
what I don't understand this lady is
almost 80 years old one of the most
powerful women in the world that she has
control over what do we get the funding
we need for our borders right you know
and other things they want to push these
phony investigation and not legislate
because they want to act they want to
try to reflect I press another president
instead of going on what we the American
people we elected this president up
there to to make laws not break laws and
we are the Americans and she is truly
the poster child for term limits
she is deteriorating like a snowflake
and I too stopped sucking with the
president and leave him the H eat double
l a lot well they haven't yet and we'll
see if they do absolutely one second
stop sucking with the president I didn't
get that the first time this is about
Zuckerberg er what are they talking
about
I mean it's not a sucking sucking stop
sucking she doesn't want to say the word
she doesn't want to say the rule work
with an F oh okay that was a Mark
Zuckerberg now the president was a
really different Minds I got to go look
up my slang dictionary what is sucking
me oh I know it and then later and sub
Gorka later in the program I think
they're doing a piece on Fleet Week here
in New York
you've got ducey hopping in going like
oh we've got an issue a correction here
it is
hey during the diamond in segment they
mentioned Nancy Pelosi I think that I
was unfamiliar with what they were
talking about I'm looking at Fox News
calm there's a story manipulated videos
of Nancy Pelosi edited to falsely depict
her as drunk spread on social media and
according to a report from the
Washington Post experts believe the
original video was slowed down to 75
percent from the original and that her
pitch was also manipulated in order to
present her under the influence not a
real video it's doctor oh darn you know
it really sucks when you bring diamond
and silk on and you can't feel like you
can totally totally trust
I mean I got no fair of Nancy Pelosi but
where they grow through it I suppose is
typically the president has the
opportunity because why his family loved
him they could talk to him to make it
better but they don't potatoes I look
 Congress women Hey okay Sheila
congresswoman Chicago too but that's for
a long time but look here's the bottom
line
the there is clearly there's clearly a
there is clearly a a coordinated attempt
to make this about Nancy Pelosi again
they've been able to bring it back to
her again remember they had tried to do
this at the beginning of the year and
they found new targets in AOC and in
Rasheeda Talib and in Olano Mar and now
they're back to Nancy Pelosi this time
it's not that she's a saint got San
Francisco values it is that she is old
and she is deteriorating and she's gone
crazy
and in fact Donald Trump has now lifted
the his moniker for Bernie crazy Bernie
now - crazy Nancy and here he is and
look you will hear these talking points
throughout the right-wing media now just
overnight literally overnight here is
[Music]
o'clock well they're being nice to her
because they really you know she's a
mess look let's face it she doesn't
understand it and they sort of feel
she's disintegrating before their eyes
she does not understand it they want to
have her puss understand it before what
are the chances that he's saying
disintegrating in and you know diamond
and silk who the real question is who
came over the first but God I understand
it they want to have her understand it
before we it's finished it's signed as
you know Mexico's approved the deal
Canada's approved the deal and they're
waiting to get a signal for her
now I would say this the farmers should
start talking to the Democrats in the
house the Senate's ready to approve it
the Republican Senate but the Democrat
house is not Pelosi does not understand
the bill she doesn't understand it even
though unions are in favor of it farmers
manufacture wants to approve it I think
but so bobwhite Heiser who Union speak
to of you want he's waiting to get the
okay from her to send it in but we're at
a point we were just gonna have to send
it in talk I need a lot of gibberish
there good luck with with making the
case that there's something that you
understand that really anyone else who
sent it does not let has there's a
stallion rotation let's go to the
phone's you call them from
