uh speaking of historical ways of
looking at the world Joe Biden has been
out making his case for the presidency
and I and I'm still gonna maintain that
while I think the last couple of weeks
have been good from the profoundly
necessary perspective of explaining
exactly what Joe Biden's politics are
the damage that he has done in decades
of politics a damage that in the 1970s
saw him fighting against Ted Kennedy on
behalf of monopoly corporate interests
that Sora saw him in fact in led to this
clip we should always remember everybody
fighting against desegregation efforts
in the 1970s all the way up until
fighting against ACA covering
contraception voting for the Iraq
invasion the bankruptcy bill and not
skipping literally hundreds of other
things literally as Joe Biden would say
but he's been out talking about a
senator by the name of Eastland who was
an arch segregationist and just an
incredibly vicious bigot not an example
of I worked on arms control legislation
with richard lugar or something this was
I got in the Senate in the 70s and I
buddied up with an American apart it√≠s
an you know I guess credit where credit
is due usually the you know and and I
think Joe Biden of course said some very
nice personal things to say about Strom
Thurmond as an example I think people
know obtruding Jesse Helms as two of the
most disgusting bigoted senators in
modern American history Senator Eastland
is a little bit more Indian underground
so Joe Biden is reaching here and this
is also at the same time that Joe Biden
has made at least on a couple of
occasions very misleading statements
about marching for civil rights so this
is who this guy is
and you know the more we watch here and
I'm gonna keep it you know I'm not gonna
change my tune on this I gotta be honest
about my analysis yes of course he could
be Donald Trump but every day there is
an accumulation of factors with this guy
that becomes like are the Democrats
going to nominate once again literally
the only person literally Joe Biden that
could lose the Donald Trump because this
guy is a disaster
here he is maybe will play a guess well
actually we'll play Booker's comments
second because I think it's it's good to
actually go in this order Cory Booker is
saying Joe Biden should apologize for
talking about his partnership with an
arch segregationist as an example of us
all being able to have a cup of coffee
together and do work and here's Joe
Biden just I mean he's brushing his
shoulder off on Cory Booker here let's
check it out from yesterday receive from
your fellow Democrats on the segregation
has called it yes yes here's the deal
when I was talking I could not have
disagreed with Jimmy's L'Amour in the
sink he was a segregationist I ran for
the United States Senate because I
disagree that the views of the
segregationist when many of them in the
center of the time as I led the
Judiciary Committee I was able to pad
what I was talking about was the Voting
Rights Act I was able to pass the Voting
Rights Act while when I was a young
senator where he was still the chairman
we voted against him beat him in the
Voting Rights Act
secondly when I was chairman of the
committee I extended the Voting Rights
Act for 25 years not five minutes in
addition to that I've made it very clear
by the end by the last time as I was on
that committee I was chairman of Foreign
Relations but I was a lead Democrat we
extended another 25 years and we got
nine
98 votes the point I'm making is you
don't have to agree you don't have to
like the people in terms of their views
but you just simply make the case and
you beat them you beat them without
changing the system how does it feel
that your Democratic rivals are
implicitly saying that you have issues
talking about race are you going to
apologize like Cory Booker has what Cory
Booker's call it for it he knows better
thank you thank you sir now as everybody
in this office said when we first saw
that clip and I believe Brendan was the
first one um well let's just say there's
a lot of different ways being involved
in civil rights
I think of urgell Texas made the point
that technically George Wallace was
involved with silver yeah a lot of
people were involved
I mean Strom Thurmond was involved civil
rights when he filibustered against it
for over 24 hours and Joe Biden was
certainly involved in civil rights when
he staked out the most reactionary North
East Enclave position you could possibly
have as a 1970s Democrat against
desegregating schools also this frame
the Biden puts like you don't have to
agree with them yeah we know we don't
have to agree with them Joe we want to
know about where you did agree with them
so when you say I disagree with him but
all sorts of thing well did you agree
with him about busing desegregating
schools did you do yeah precisely and
why is it that you insist on touting
your friendship with the guy
I mean it's you're not even just saying
like hey look sometimes you got to work
with really disgusting people to get
things done in the context of the Senate
that see this is another thing that's so
amazing to me Bernie Sanders works at
Mike lead and the genocide in Yemen good
for him that's what you're supposed to
do Mike Lee is one of the worst people
in Congress if you can work with him to
end the murder of people in Yemen
excellent Joe Biden is saying I was
buddy-buddy with a segregate
like we we socialize borderline he never
called me boy he never called me boy
which you know I don't even know what if
you need to read to understand why he
might not have done that Joe and then in
addition to that we know that Joe
Biden's record in fact was not Pro civil
rights in the seventies
here's cory booker explaining why biden
should apologize apologize you know the
vice president said i should know better
and this is what i know as a black man
in America I know the deeply harmful and
hurtful a usage of the word boy and how
it was used to humanize and degrade I
know that segregation is like the two
people who are talking about who their
laws and their language deeply wounded
this nation and the present day
manifestations of their work can still
be seen in black and brown communities
like the one I go home to I know that
somebody running for president nine
states somebody running to be the leader
of our party should know that using the
word boy in the way he did can cause
hurt and pain and we need a presidential
nominee and the leader of our party to
be sensitive to that and the last thing
I know is his I know that I was raised
to speak truth to power and that I shall
never apologize for doing that and Vice
President Biden shouldn't need this
lesson and at a time when we have from
the highest offices in the land
divisiveness racial hatred and bigotry
being spewed he should have the
sensitivity to know that this is a time
I need to be an ally I need to be a
healer I need to not engage in usage of
words that will harm folks and so this
is deeply disappointing we waited for
him to apologize he did until the next
day and whether I'm running for
president or not as many people today
have been on Juneteenth no less calling
out for the vice president to
acknowledge that his words were harmful
and hurtful I'm just like this is very
difficult because look cory booker's
totally right in the context of this
clip i will say i much prefer the bill
deblasio the approach of yesterday to
dealing with this and
you know I will just say and I know that
he's doing the you know more in sadness
than an anger but look at Cory Booker
freaking out about the Obama rillette
campaigns bein ads and he seems a whole
lot more upset about criticizing private
equity than Joe Biden's you know
fixation for a segregationist senator
but being that as it may
he's correct and you know Joe Biden
again Joe Biden's also showing his
entitlement here again as ever
