[Music]
so apparently Ted Cruz took a plane and
he was a tail al X and I guess some
people saw him and started saying like
hey you got free the children it's a
real problem what's going on at the
border and he started laughing he was
giggling I know maybe it was a nervous
laugh like oh god I'm amongst people now
there's humans all over the normal
reaction a large group of people have
around me and so they started to boo him
and chant at him now look we should also
say that Ted a couple weeks ago
co-sponsored a bill that would not only
make it illegal to engage with an Tifa
in any way apparently basically said the
resolution says that an tyfa are
terrorists that it also includes anyone
who is associated with an tyfa basically
anybody on the Left would be the
resolution says that they're terrorists
I don't know what the legal implications
of that are
but it's junk and I imagine if he could
figure out a way he would get all these
people in LAX to go to prison for in any
way protesting against him in in LAX
here they are
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
look at that utter homunculus just
standing there grinning she's trying to
pretend like it's it yeah I'm not gonna
listen to the free the children chant
that's ridiculous and then a couple of
his supporters come and take a photo ops
with them during it must be very proud
of them
here's the thing about anti right I
don't care about the children let me to
prove it to you it's not just a small
group of crusty anarchists everyone
should be anti-fascist and everybody can
be and I think we saw that in this video
