[Music]
here is Pat McCrory he is the former
governor of North Carolina
remember this guy was so bad that upon
losing his clip number 10 upon losing
his election he basically the the
Republicans in the state legislature
passed the law saying that the Democrat
who preceded him or succeeded him I
should say was not allowed to really do
anything he tried the same thing in
Wisconsin - pretty stunning I'm having
trouble getting on to the callin system
it's not showing up and showing the it's
weird here is Pat McCurry
now here's Pat McCrory trying to explain
explain that there's not it's not you
know this is it's not just it's not just
Hamas and it's not just the lack of
prayer in schools Pat McCrory can you
defend any of this of the guys on its
words and statements and and and and his
do you believe he's contributed to this
toxic brew as it was through the Cory
Booker I don't I agree with the comment
made that I don't think you blame a
politician you blame the person who did
it
you know I blamed Oswald I blamed
Brenner I blamed James Earl Ray I blamed
him CLE I blamed a haunting Charles
Whitman who when I was a small kid in
elementary school went to a tower and
shot students from tower in Austin Texas
I didn't blame Lyndon Baines Johnson at
the time but there is no doubt that the
president has to come out with a strong
statement against listen there are some
white nationalist nuts and dangerous
people out there including my state
that need to be called out radicals and
by the way and Tifa nuts that attack my
car just blocks from here
in a taxicab and during the inauguration
and jumped on my hood with hoods on him
we have to call out radical left-wing
groups and not give them any credibility
whatsoever Wow wait a second so he
started with I blame the people that do
it and now he's going around to upset
that we're not calling out an taifa for
jumping on his car the full 180 by the
end of that statement there I would find
out who the individuals were who did
that blame them it reminds you of that I
use me sir
the bill o'reilly saying to dennis
miller like hitler was such an idiot
like that what really upsets McCrory
here is that this justifies an tyfa's
some like anti foot action basically it
was it idiot guy was a total boy no
point of Hitler if Hitler did it Hitler
wasn't so brazen we wouldn't have had
decades of Jews Widing and I heard a
right Billy
is that okay so Jews are already
annoying enough to begin with Billy then
Hitler comes along totally such an idiot
balls out no maturity no strategy and
now taking out all comers Steven
Spielberg dining off of it forever am i
right
