[Music]
particularly sensitive the story about
the high school students who got into
the in New York City it really is a bit
of a nightmare for kids getting into
high school and I speak from direct
experience one which ended yesterday
right after the show but there are a
half a dozen elite schools in the city
that are citywide you can get into many
cities many schools are citywide but
these are specifically you need to test
into and the testing is is pretty
rigorous and many many kids take get
tutored or to test specifically you know
for these tests of course that costs
money I am aware of this my child was
one of those children who did so she did
not get into those schools but in in New
York City there was something like a
thousand kids who were admitted into
some of these top schools and it only
seven for african-american and there's
been a an attempt in and we're talking
there's actually like it's like another
level of elite schools beyond that other
level and it's a it's highly problematic
and they're still trying to figure out
what exactly to do about it because you
need some measure I guess but let's play
this alc clip that's what I want to do
this I will say though that well here's
here's a OC at a meeting expressing the
the issue here now many high school
students
it's rare to have a high-school student
who goes to a school that is you know
just a five minute walk away from them
in New York City more often than not
that commutes anywhere from 10 to 15 to
20 minutes to can be an hour and a half
how are twenty minutes depending on
where they wanted to go and my daughter
applied to 12 schools plus the taking
the specialized tests and some that you
have to audition for so there's a
there's a wide range of schools but
there's also a wide divergence in the
quality of schools far wider divergence
than there should be and this of course
is dictated in many respects by
geography by the wealth of the people
who live in any given neighborhood in
New York City and people who have lived
in New York City for any period of time
can see this development or who are
sensitive to it because they have kids
or they know people with kids as
neighborhoods gentrify the schools end
up lagging in terms of achievement 10 12
15 years or so and in part it's simply
because more people move into the
neighborhood who have money because of
that money they have the ability to
either give money to the school
literally give it to the school and the
divergence I've seen between
parent-teacher advisory board
parent-teacher associations budgets
range anywhere from $25,000 annually
some fifteen thousand dollars annually
to a million dollars a year that's a big
difference you have the ability to
almost like add 25% or 20% to your
school's budget annually that makes a
big difference in the quality of
education the kids are going to get
because suddenly they're gonna have
second teachers in the classrooms
assistant teachers they're gonna have
after-school programs that are
enrichment they're gonna have programs
during the school art other programs not
to mention all the research we know
about kids showing up at school with far
better remedial skills from wealthier
families just because they get more
direct time with adults they get more
experiences as a child to develop their
vocabulary and they're you know just
dude
brains are rather elastic at that age so
all of this is a function of some of the
issues of the schooling here ALC met
with a group of parents and it's
interesting the the crosscurrents of
fights in New York City about schools is
the the the the currents go in about 15
different directions but at one point
she towards the end of this talk sort of
provides a much starker sense of where
the the line should be drawn in these
sort of debates it's important that we
have this discussion
my father was an exception to this rule
in exception to these statistics so my
dad got my dad was born in the South
Bronx
while the Bronx was burning he was
raised five people in a one-bedroom
apartment
and he did what he had to do and my dad
got his Brooklyn Tech so my dad grew up
and growing up my dad always told me
about this experience going to
bluffington he told me about what his
life was like where as a teenager as a
teenager he got a lettuce
at five o'clock in the morning every day
to get onto the 6:00 train or to get
onto the four train and ride a very
dangerous subway during the 70's at
fifteen years old to go to Brooklyn Tech
because it was seen as his only
opportunity to have a dignified life and
he loved his experience at Brooklyn Tech
because he went to a good school my
question is why are why are there only
five or handful
[Applause]
[Applause]
I appeal to what I'm hearing and I
respect the concern because we need to
put our children first and so I
understand the concern but my concern
but my concern I'd be happy I'd be happy
to engage with these folks my concern is
that this right here when we're fighting
each other is exactly what happens under
a scarcity mindset
[Applause]
so so she's I mean and some of this is
visual but she's making the argument
that the problem here is you have such
intense fighting over these resources
because the resources are limited
because you don't have great schools all
across the city or open to every student
now the reality is when it comes to
education the inputs are of far outweigh
anything else that can happen in the
school in terms of what the outcomes are
so in other words schools cannot fix
societal ills they reflect them and
despite that New York has figured out
how to at least make a some schools top
performing schools not like Brooklyn
Tech I mean has been in a traditionally
you know wealthy neighborhood I mean now
everywhere in Brooklyn is getting is
getting money to in some way but Fort
Greene was not exactly a posh
neighborhood a you know certainly not in
the 70s but the idea of being able to
like put resources in there and get the
top performing students around the city
and put them all in one place there is
at the very least some type of road map
to improve the quality of schools and a
lot of that has to do with financing and
so there is a huge opportunity there
that a road map in the future we weren't
going to start with this I'm sensitive
to it because obviously my daughter just
found out what school she's going to
tomorrow yesterday and she's deciding
between two schools so we'll see
mazelTov
yes LaGuardia or Morrow she's got him
for the volkl programs and both yes I
think longtime listeners are aware of
her her pipes as it were but and I will
take from any type of admissions folk if
you're involved in any way in education
in New York City or colleges that are
aware of these schools I will take your
advice send me an email tell me because
we have no idea she may have to commute
like an hour to go to LaGuardia a little
bit less for tomorrow
