so Heather we've been talking about the
what I consider to be an unforced error
by the Democrats this week in getting
caught up in trying to censure Oh Marlon
the congresswoman newly elected
congresswoman from Minnesota who was
it's been critical of of AIPAC and you
know the sort of the lobbying on behalf
of Israel
she was critical of the recent law
passed in the or I should say bill
passed in the Senate that attempted to
codify 27 States laws that make you take
a pledge if you want contracting dollars
to not engage in a protest of Israel
which is just like we said earlier just
bizarre and so she's been critical of
this and critical of the ability of
Congress people to articulate any
critique of Israel and she got attacked
obviously by Republicans they want to
make a big deal out of it claimed that
it was anti-semitism and then Democrats
piled on they destroyed the rollout of
House Resolution 1 I find all this just
rather sort of shocking in some ways and
you know to the extent that Alon Omar
had you know some ideas about how much
the Israel lobby and we should be clear
that in this day and age there is more
unconditional support of Israel by far
amongst Christian evangelicals than that
American Jews it's just the statistical
fact
no matter really how you want to slice
it that when you talk about Israeli
supporters you're not talking about Jews
necessarily or not exclusively I mean
this is this is pretty stunning stuff I
think it is and it's I think you know
it's interesting that you posed this
question about you know what are the why
are the Democrats you know so I don't
know
obtuse about this and I think it goes to
a couple of things we talked about when
we talked about Elon Omar's first you
know sort of quote gaffe a couple weeks
ago I think we came to an interesting
conclusion the two of us together sort
of talking it through in that you know
part of the problem is that she's the
one who's out there kind of saying these
things which you and I both know are not
uncommon sort of beliefs and thoughts
among the Democratic caucus it's not you
know I think I think that all of the
Democrats I mean I think all of them
really are supportive of you know Jews I
don't think I don't think there are any
anti-semites at least I've not seen
that's just not part of the the
Democratic thing that's not who they are
they're supported by you know most
American Jews are Democrats but there is
a issue that has been long simmering
underneath the surface and has been
becoming more and more obvious that has
to be dealt with about America's
relationship to Israel and in fact we
had seen into the Obama administration
some movement a little bit I mean you
know Obama did the Iran deal much
against the APEC was not for that and
they bloodied hard against it and Obama
did it he couldn't put it through
Congress but most of the Democrats in
Congress supported it all the one you
know they that it it was something where
you could see a little bit of a break in
in this sort of dominance of a pact is
sort of if this is this blind kind of
you know you might we you must follow
our viewpoint on this I mean a very
hardcore like the NRA really I mean you
know that's that's kind of the same
model which is just it's all everything
or nothing and there had been some
movement now suddenly we're seeing this
sort of you know go the other way which
is very strange and I have to assume
that it has something to do with the
fact that Iran Omar is a Muslim and this
is making these people very
uncomfortable that this Muslim woman of
color is out there
this stuff and it makes them feel you
know just instinctively they kind of
recoil at that because it feels yeah it
feels to them like some kind of an
attack on Jews and that means that these
people really need to do a gut check
here because this that isn't about you
know that that's in them because they're
not really looking at any night I'm not
going to say that you learn omar did
some of her early stuff I don't I don't
agree that lately she's been the dis
latest stuff she said was anti-semitic
in the early stuff it was it was it was
lacking thoughtfulness on social media
and I think I made that point before and
let's be clear here let's be clear her
she has apologized for that and she said
that it was that she as a woman of color
and as a Muslim is is very sensitive to
that and it was a painful
self-exploration you know about what she
was using in terms of memes but this is
also someone let's be clear because
there's a lot of you know what about is
him she is someone who has used the
hashtag BDS Saudi Arabia right I mean so
she's not that she is you know she's got
criticism to go around in that region so
she's got some bona fides here yes she
does and this is one of the things you
know I mean look at you know the sort of
new and modern Democrats occur coming
out of the left they have a different
foreign policy view the fact that you
know they are they're looking at a lot
of it isn't just Israel as you point out
its Saudi Arabia it's it's Arrangements
you know throughout the the Middle East
with with you know wealthy you know oil
countries and and you know despot of all
kinds I mean they had their coming out
this from a different point of view
they're they're more radical in foreign
policy than what we've seen okay fine we
can have that argument and you know
that's that's fair enough it's long
overdue I mean I'm all for it let's talk
there let's let's hash this out but the
idea that that she is out there on her
own sort of being the the focus of this
I find it really distasteful
particularly look at what hit what
happened to her this week aside from
this whole thing the the the state house
in West Virginia had a
Republican day or something and they put
up pictures of 9/11 the World Trade
Center being blown up with her pictures
on them yep they're calling her a
terrorist I mean it's the most grossed
as well I'm a phobic attack I think I've
ever seen on it we've never seen
anything like that on a sitting
congresswoman or Colleen Annie you know
federal official like that
it was grotesque and so you know I mean
I kind of think the Democrats have got
to do a gut check here and recognize
that look this arguments going to be had
and you can't let Ilan Omar be the only
person out there who's being that you
know she becomes the face of this island
that's a big mistake
absolutely all right well we listen
we've got to take a break if you'll join
me in the next hour we've got a lot more
to talk about my name is Sam cedar this
is ring a fire radio I'm talking to the
grade - Heather part and she'll be back
in the hour 3 we'll be right back after
this break
