here is Mike Gundy me at all you
know nothing about it Samantha I really
don't I don't I don't follow I'll follow
the big 12 the behind dog yeah what kind
of doggy figure skating can it Samantha
right I mean I don't even I mean is this
sky you know football coach is that what
they do they like Oklahoma State
University Cowboys yeah
now the Cowboys I don't I do not follow
college football I just don't because
you know you grew up in the Northeast
it's not like you have any big
powerhouses mister I didn't think the
college football Boston College well you
know Holy Cross they were actually we
there was a guy I can't remember his
name but this is beside the point but he
he went bought Gil somebody went play
defense and offense no lacrosse used to
be big in basketball like if you go back
to the early 70s they were top ten
nevertheless here is Mike Gundy now I
suspect that if Mike Gundy and I sat
down have a beer he wouldn't like me at
all
but here he is somehow not only making
like sort of a category or like he had
he doesn't like a generation and he
thinks it's because they're they're
their political inclinations but also it
may just turn out to be that he's just a
jackass this is Mike Gundy doing his
monologue from the play hey you kids get
off my lawn it seems like transferring
is a lot easier to love a lot easier for
guys to do that maybe it was back in the
day pause it now my understanding is and
I don't know what the rules are today
but I know that back in the day if you
transferred you were blue shirted for a
year you had to wait a year now I don't
know if that's the case anymore but if
that's the case now
that's a function not of the students
but rather of the is that right see that
I have that right Brendon okay so that
was a rule change that took place
because the National Collegiate Athletic
Association wanted to make more money
that was a purely conservative
capitalist move that disregarded the
education needs of the students and said
you know what we're got this free labor
and we're not maximizing it
we're actually inhibiting the value to
all of us so that's the story of why
students transfer now to different
schools they go to a school that has
maybe a lesser quality football program
and then they go to one that has a
better quality football program because
they prove themselves at the lesser
quality program school or maybe they
maybe they want to get closer home who
knows but this is all done by the
n-c-double-a to make more money so here
we have I'm sure Mike Gundy is going to
blame the organizations that are
supposed to protect students well I
think we live in a world where people
are non-committal we allow liberalism to
say hey I could just do what I want and
I don't have to really be tough and
fight through it and you see that with
with young people because it's an option
they're given we weren't given that
option when we were growing up we were
told what to do we did it the right way
or you go figure it out on your own in
the world today there's a lot of
entitlement I'm a firm believer in the
snowflake I think it's it's setting
there and I'm not talking about table Oh
table oh and I've had multiple good
talks talking about every millennial
young person Generation Z I thinks what
they call them that's the world we live
in because if they say well it's a
little bit hard and we say okay well
let's go try something else
versus hey let's let's bear down and
despite through this so you see a lot of
that nowadays and that doesn't have
anything to do with Thabo or mcclewsky
or any
that's been on the portal here that's
just in general in society even if
you're working down here at Walmart yeah
that doesn't anything to do with tabla I
think he's talking about Thabo when when
Nicky
he is a I think a star player on
Oklahoma State University which would
lead me to believe that he doesn't give
a crap about what he's saying if he can
get a good player out of it if it helps
him directly Gundy makes five million
dollars a year incidentally I wonder how
he got that do you think he got that by
saying to Oklahoma State or do the to
the school that he was coaching at
before like I'm never gonna leave here
cuz I'm totally committed to you I would
never leave for more money or to better
my situation give me a break
it's it is super McCobb that none of
these athletes that actually you know
put people in the stands make any any
money off of this they get education but
that should be free zero flakes
meanwhile I'm making five million
dollars because they're going out there
and getting concussions exactly develop
CTE front react please it is so I mean I
guess you're we're not supposed to
advocate criminal behavior on this show
but like that every single yes but every
single college athlete that has ever
taken a bribe from a sports agent or
brand should be pardoned and immediately
have the money that has been stripped
away from them giving it back to them
you know it's a travesty that they're
not paid that's that's a lot like
indentured servitude hmm nothing such a
snowflake JB the regimentation has some
I think some long I think there's some
very very troubling historical echoes
there yeah be committed be committed
maybe you should treat Gandhi with a
little respect
