time for one more phone call a column
from a 708 area code who's this where
you call them from folks I will get two
more calls tomorrow I promise I promise
we're gonna dedicate a big portion of
the show to talking to you come from a
708 area code who's this where you come
from
I hate them this is Jagan Slayer 19
calling from the Chicagoland area it's
how is everyone they're doing very well
dragonfly 14 what's Dragon Slayer 14
arrogance Slayer Slayer sorry mm-hmm
what's hip side two two very quick
points
first off being from Chicago I know that
you guys know that uh Rahm Emmanuel's
going out so a recommendation might be
to do like a post-mortem on him maybe
examining his education and the Chicago
teacher strikes or his handling of the
economy Donald shootings I think either
those topics would be really great for a
show would would you simply say I would
simply saying F him and good riddance be
enough because that's as much about the
Rahm Emmanuel's I care to even
contemplate these days but go ahead
I'm considering but I might elicit on
him because he actually true it's not
just the atrocity of Chicago but going
back to start I mean you know this back
to the Clintons the rule but yes G I
mean he's like a microcosm of everything
wrong with the modern Democratic Party
he's bad folks all right what's number
two for number two the more house more
serious plan I wanted to address is um
do you know who John McAfee or McAfee is
this going to involve whales possibly so
for those who don't know John McAfee
good McAfee good yeah John McAfee McAfee
is a libertarian presidential candidate
whose most well known for having a
campaign manager with an eyepatch who
looks like big boss from Metal Gear
Solid and recently a controversy on wale
consensual sex law
and so Sam I know that you're gearing up
for those libertarian debates and I I
know the conventional wisdom would be to
attack him head-on on this but I think
that instead you should take a little
bit of a Bernie Sanders approach and
channel your inner energy and just
say damn that issue who cares
what really matters and this is you
sticking to your talking points is who's
paying for the road to the oceans okay
now 16 2016
everyone would be talking about the
jetpack okay and that's how you'd be
able to get to them well but it's 2020
and you need something new something
innovative something creative and I
think you should talk about personal
submarine now there's three reasons why
you want to talk about personal
submarines one it appeals hold of
libertarian you on musk fanboy to think
that you on must was first person come
up with a personal submarine so you get
that under your under your coat number
two an appeal to the left libertarians
you really need to be able to get to
their dolls and comrades under the sea
to be able to access their nuclear
weapons and intermediate rygel so you'll
have them with you word finally you'll
be a taking John McAfee is safe I
just undercutting him by being nice but
also providing them away to be able to
get to their whale so that they can
them so you'll be able to I appreciate
how you going on a whale date without
the federal I didn't see that he had
actually tweeted about this earlier in
the year too so on the right is the
earlier one so does somebody want to
read it further yes no I'll read it
clipping the machines ready the first
one yeah I was gonna say
John McAfee writes well effing no joke
each year on February 1st the Mullica in
the Molokai channel a few men compete in
the world's only way laughing contest
humpback whales are easy to F for a
second or less world record 31 seconds I
competed once almost got my ribs crush
stick with ostriches and then he goes on
to say six months later enough of the
way laughing is non-consensual BS a
humpback whale weighs 70 thousand pounds
is 50 feet long can dive more than a
quarter mile and can crush ships with a
single swipe of its tail for human
manages to f1u damn what a damn well
better believe it's consensual I don't
know what to make of any of this but I
do know exactly I don't know but I will
say this we ever terian version of a
joke we're out of time
we'll be here real quick look up McAfee
and Belize it's not all funny with this
guy
oh yeah no not good stuff alright folks
see you
