so Chris let's just let's start here at
the beginning you know I have spoken to
people in the past about about talc
powder being problematic as a source of
potential source of cancer you know in
the way that it's used but this this
notion that there is asbestos and you
stopped me if I if I've got this story
wrong because this is obviously you know
new to me and you obviously know much
more about this but this story about
there being asbestos in the the powder
is that a is that what's going on here
and be how do we know this I mean where
did this information come from at the
first instance well it's one of the
things that ago is going on here Sam
what people have to realize is that when
they pick up a bottle of Johnson's baby
powder or shower to shower powder the
talc that they are using comes from a
mine and when they when they mined this
stuff it is not pure of anything it's
like anything else if you pick up a
handful of dirt it may contain mostly
quartz but it has other constituents to
it it may have zinc it may have asbestos
and it just turns out that where you
mine
talc it is in a place where you may find
asbestos but there are other carcinogens
as well
zinc fibrous calc different kinds of
carcinogens that are a problem okay and
so walk us through this when Johnson &
Johnson starts to market these products
and they go in mind for talc I mean you
know IIIi don't know much about mining
but I know that you know when you're
going for for gold right there's other
things byproducts you know that you're
gonna get you want to strain those out I
mean were
where the Johnson and Johnson people
aware that hey there's some other stuff
here in this you know that may get mixed
in with the talc and maybe we should
suss out whether that stuff is
particularly healthy for people well
there really are two things here with
respect to cosmetic powders like baby
powder
one are the things that are in the mind
the things that as you say should be
screened out and then things that are
added fragrance and those kinds of
things with respect to the things that
are in the ground yes there was a
recognition back in the 1970s that there
was potential contamination with
asbestos and obviously that's a bad
thing so they developed a protocol that
would help them screen for it but that
protocol is is decades decades old and
doesn't in our view doesn't screen out
the majority well it may screen out the
majority but it doesn't screen out all
of the asbestos and as we know for
asbestos even one asbestos fiber is a
very bad thing and there's a potential
of causing cancer but I want to be clear
that at least what we're finding is
there are multiple suspected carcinogens
that make up baby powder I think there's
this misconception that when you go into
the store and you buy talcum powder
you're basically getting pure talc and
that's not the case in addition I
mentioned that in the process they put
fragrance into the into the product and
the fragrance is also a concern that
there may be things in there that are
not benign and I have the potential for
contributing to the cancer burden of
what we call talcum powder products
because it's really the whole product
that's that in our view is the problem
okay so I mean give me a sense of this
now all of these so all of these these
candies coincidental
I guess elements can they when they mix
together can they become more carcinogen
I mean is it are we talking about the
interplay of these things or they all
happen to be or not all but there happen
to be other elements that will enhance a
cancer and when we're talking about
cancer what kind of cancer are we
talking about and what what causes the
cancer I mean where is it just putting
it on your on your arms
well the what we're really talking about
here is cosmetic powders that women use
primarily in their genital area and what
what happens is that over time the
powders that they use depending upon the
frequency in the duration of the time
that they use it have a greater chance
of migrating and into the into the
ovaries and they cause / Aryan cancer
which you know I really wanted to stop
and take a moment if I could hear and
talk just a moment about ovarian cancer
is that okay Sam please yeah
ovarian cancer is a very very serious
cancer it affects between 20 and 25,000
women a year of that of that a
significant by the time it is diagnosed
in most women it's at a very late stage
and it has one of the highest mortality
rates of of gynecologic cancer so it's a
very serious public health problem and
what's particularly frustrating about
this case and and and particularly
frustrating from from my perspective is
this is a this is a cosmetic product a
product that nobody truly really needs
and if it is causing ovarian cancer and
a percentage of those 20,000 to 25,000
women it's a very serious public health
problem that I think has for far too
long gone unaddressed alright
interesting so there what we have here
is there's basically dual
tracks with with Johnson & Johnson and
these products one is sort of like the
the dangers associated with the asbestos
and and the other is I guess presumably
if you inhale it the other one the other
one is the potential for ovarian cancer
crap and so I guess you know the obvious
question the the next obvious question
is how much of this danger did Johnson &
Johnson know was you know was embodied
essentially in their product I mean they
got two tracks here and these are
distinct tracks that are problematic
about these powders if I'm not mistaken
all right what I'd like to do Chris if
we can take a break when we come back
I'd like to to get your sense of how
much do we know as to what Johnson &
Johnson knew and how do we know or even
know enough what we know now to suspect
of the dangers of these products I mean
what was the big tip-off because these
are products that have been marketed to
women men children I used that shower to
shower stuff I remember is like a like a
ten year old I seem to remember using it
it's been there for a long time why are
we just finding out about this you know
somewhat recently we got to take a quick
break
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
we'll be right back after this
