[Music]
so the Republican Party's trying to
figure out what they're gonna run on in
2020 and they think they've found it and
that is of course to appeal to all those
people who are out there who had to go
underneath their desks hide underneath
their desk as schoolchildren in the
1950s because of the Cold War and
they're bringing that back I just don't
think it's like you know thin ties it's
not something that's gonna come back
into fashion not gonna take off like
bell-bottoms yeah I don't think so let's
let's play this clip this is Roger
Williams Republican from Texas thank you
the gentleman from Texas mr. Williams is
recognized for five minutes
thank you madam chairman thank you all
for being here today and I want to I
start off every hearing with a simple
yes or no answer from the from all of
you and I'll start with you miss lang
deposit now who's the interviewing is
who are these folks in this this is the
Finance Committee yeah just some random
industry leaders but let's let's find
out what what is first question I like
to do this a first question for
everybody here we go let's see if we can
do this make this as remedial as
possible 1a I start off every here with
a simple yes-or-no answer from the from
all of you and I'll start with you miss
lamb yes or no are you a socialist or
capitalist posit now I want to point out
something to the good congressman from
from Texas mm standard yes-or-no
questions will invite a yes or no answer
that is the nature of a yes or no
question so if I ask you are you a
capitalist or socialist yes or no
it becomes virtually impossible for you
to answer this question in an
appropriate manner the the standard I
understand maybe they do things
different in Texas
because we're bigger so our yes-or-no
questions actually involve having to
provide another word in addition to so
yes or no you're Alex Jones said that
kid it would leave his parents house I
just showed he's just like thanks for
coming on down the text took a lot of
courage this is the this is preparing
for the storm reauthorization of the
National Flood Insurance Program
yeah Insurance Program it's like a very
apropos time them and not sensation of
super ironic because the answer this guy
wants is are you a capitalist while we
are here talking about subsidizing rich
people's homes broadly speaking who buy
houses on the coast that otherwise would
not have any value but for the federally
subsidized flood insurance but let's
hear the the answers to this yes-or-no
question that is also has a subsidiary
question which is are you a capitalist
or socialist thank you all for being
here today and I want to I start off
every here with a simple yes or no
answer from the from all of you and I'll
start with yes or no are you a socialist
or capitalist I defer to the next one in
line
thank you what I swam thank you very
much you don't have to answer them are
you a my socialist or capitalist yes or
no yes ma'am yes okay thank you god
bless sir thank you yes socialist or
capitalist thank you yes ma'am
I thought this is a yes or no question
yes are you a socialist yeah are you
capitalist I'm just following direction
yes or no so yes yes sir next yes sir
I'm a capitalist yes thank you let's get
it bill does not get it it's just a
yes-or-no answer each one of those
people is either a socialist or
capitalist that's right that's what that
means there you go
oh boy I have feeling that that may play
in Texas in his specific
he said nursi you Yankees let's
embarrass myself but are you a
capitalist or socialist yes or no they
said yes I'd like that actually he's
just like you you Yankees think I messed
up that school campaign exactly five at
five different points in that clip you
could have been like okay I'll clarify
just say capitalist or socialist I'm
trying to get the gut damn I'm just I
want to clarify are you a heads or tail
or socialist or capitalist just will
answer yes or no heads or tails
social scandal it's like twice your
capitalist unbelievable powers your
socialist
