let me just touch on this news because
this is you know they say in in drama
you want it you put that loaded gun on
the in the drawer at the beginning of
Act one and then it makes everything
tense for everybody and so checkoff and
and it makes everything tense for
everybody and oh you know we don't want
to do that so let's just get this out of
the way the proud boys founder Gavin
McGinnis apparently has lost his gig
with his show get off my lawn you
forever that's my common quote I say
it's you forever we're done yeah
that's his common quote he says forever
Glenn Beck said get off my network
apparently Glenn Beck now as you recall
last week we reported that the blaze and
CR T V merged now I I don't listen let
me just put it this way if you work for
either one of those entities and you
want to tell me stuff about it you can
email me at majority reporters at
gmail.com and tell me stuff because I'm
fascinating I've done some digging to
see if I could figure out who funds
conservative review they paid out a
massive massive fee to mark Stein a
couple of months ago four million
dollars in an arbitration hearing this
is from mediator so it's not even like a
court case it means that he had to have
had a contract at least that big and
there's no way mark Stein is gonna
generate that type of revenue for anyone
I'm sorry and so I can only imagine what
these people have been getting paid and
I'm curious if they must have exercised
some type of like morality clause or
morals clause with Gavin because
otherwise we'd be hearing him about
getting paid out yeah my understanding
was no one was watching his show
but he obviously provided them some
publicity now it appears with the blaze
and see our TV merging that they don't
want that kind of publicity anymore
now there's some report that Glenn Beck
is on the radio right now talking about
how he had no idea what's going on so
there's like any trumpian like I had I
just got a call that you got fired by
Kelly I can't believe it I'm really
really upset about this of course I've
got in touch with what's going on it's
just me like supposed to be woke now to
Glenn Beck yeah that was like I think
that lasted for a short period daily
show yeah I think that was that that was
like a three-month period you know when
your business is going down the tubes
you will attempt to do a bunch of
different things now Glenn Beck's
business as you know contracted I mean
tremendously over the past three years
epically but he still has a good email
list and so combining with CR TV which
may still have some cash and some shows
who knows but for whatever reason gap
McGinnis is now without a gig on and so
I would say if I'm Gavin right now I'm
doing one of two things I'm either
saying like well screw this I might as
well go back to being the white
nationalist that I was but the problem
is he doesn't have the ability to make
any money off it now and there's a lot
of heat on that now yeah he just wasn't
he wasn't even making money
he wasn't drawing people then so it's
not like he has a big audience if he had
a big audience he could go do what we're
doing this is easy to set up I was lucky
I came from Air America I had an email
list of people I had an audience and I
was able to reach them theoretically
right Gavin has an audience and to set
up a camera and a microphone he's got
this stuff lying around in his basement
so I would suggest a Gavin go down into
your basement start doing your show your
funny as far as you know and so so
either that will happen or Gavin is
going to sort them for suddenly like
maybe go into some type of program you
know and come out the other end and same
I've dealt with my problems whatever
they were drug alcohol you know
insecurity incontinence whatever the
problem was
I've dealt with it I've been in an
inpatient facility for you know 60 days
or 30 days now I'm coming out and I'm
I'm a much more benign guy and maybe I
can get a job at vh1 hosting some weird
sideshow or something
he was just intoxicated for 20 years on
the kinds of drugs to turn you into a
racist misogynist piece of I mean
that may require a 60 day stint to get
over but that's those are the two
options that's it so as you said before
sound drop you forever that's my
common quote I say it's you forever
we're done yep
