[Music]
Chris Matthews is not the only person
who is troubled at the prospect of
Bernie Sanders winning
you'll recall third way third way was
the way in which bankers and austerity
and cuts to Social Security and they
really don't want Bernie Sanders and
this is heartfelt and you know this
because the guy has to look down and his
notes multiple times during the but here
is the third way they they basically
want to protect tax cuts and austerity
for the rest of us we can do this I
believe that many of the dozens of folks
running for our party's nomination can
do this closet I believe I will also say
that not only is the third way
challenged insofar as its policies are
limited to a wealthy elite they
apparently also have a severe humor
deficit insofar as thinking that in that
delivery of the dozens of people who are
running for president for our party's
nomination can do this I believe a gay
Midwestern mayor can beat Trump I
believe in african-american senator can
beat Trump I believe a Western governor
a female senator a member of Congress a
Latino Texan or a former vice president
can beat Trump but I don't believe a
self-described Democratic Socialist can
win nor a Democratic Party that embraces
those views or allows itself to be
easily labeled or defined by them I mean
I don't know you know this is
self-explanatory right I mean this guy
this is the the fight in the Democratic
Party third way is just basically come
out
would there anybody but Bernie campaign
they know that he represents an
existential threat to their power base
and here is an example of how Bernie
Sanders threatens the power base of
people like the head of the Third Way we
just heard say anybody can beat Donald
Trump except for Bernie Sanders and here
is why he's afraid of Bernie Sanders and
I think in many respects this is why
there is a knee-jerk fear amongst
Democrats particularly of this
generation not all of the Democrats of
this generation but chris matthews grew
up in an era in the wake of the McGovern
election a lot of people took the wrong
lessons from that election but it struck
fear in their hearts the idea of
activism of people broadly speaking
getting involved in politics became like
kryptonite to these people they were
afraid of it it wasn't even necessarily
I think the issues those issues just
happen to animate a lot of people I
think just the idea the sight of of
people getting riled up was scary to a
certain segment of the Democratic elite
establishment however you want to define
it and so when people get activated
that's why Howard Dean's policies rather
conservative but for the Iraq the Iraq
war but it was the fact that there were
so many people who were engaged and and
look this has always been a consistent
fear of the Democrats when Barack Obama
won the nomination the first thing his
campaign did was get out the word to
donors you do not donate to outside
groups
regardless of who they are I don't care
if they're anti abort you know the their
their abortion groups or if their labor
or their issue single-issue groups or
their groups like move on or whatever it
is you do not donate to them everything
comes to us we do not want any outside
force to compete with us that is
grounded in put in broad-based populace
support so Bernie and Howard Dean can
have I want to say radically different
policies but significant difference but
they are both a threat because of this
allergic knee-jerk reaction to seeing
people activated so something like this
clip with Bernie in his school talking
about his proposal which supposedly is
an unfair redistributed of pas proposal
gets this kind of reaction
and years ago the United States Congress
against my vote bailed out the crooks on
Wall Street who almost destroyed the
entire economy if we can't provide a
both the trillion-dollar bailout for
Wall Street we surely can provide that
help generation so he's talking there
about his debt relief program and that
scares a lot of people it scares a lot
of people I I think that that's a
hundred percent right and I just want to
add I don't even know this particular
character though he looks like he's been
sort of toiling away in the in the you
know democratic corporate sector for a
while but in the 90s the Third Way
Democrats like he's doing the pseudo
woke appeal there see I'm like hip and
groovy it could be anybody from any
identity in any background but it cannot
be a socialist right in a cracks a
Democratic Socialist can't be a
Democratic Socialist can't be in a
person with a powerful grassroots
movement for all the things that you
outlined in a couple year period in the
1990s Bill Clinton signed the crime bill
that Joe Biden wrote he signed a vicious
Republican welfare reform bill that was
so vicious that Bob Rubin opposed it the
only the only people in Bill Clinton's
inner circle that supported it were Al
Gore and Hillary Clinton every other
member of the cabinet opposed it and
then and Dick Morris and then he signed
actually an immigration bill which laid
the groundwork for the deportation
machine there's a good write-up on the
97 immigration bill and Voxx and I just
want to say that the third way in DLC
it's very important to remind yourselves
that in the 90s they were on the other
side of the quote-unquote identity
issues and totally willing to play too
racist and nativist sentiments and that
will flip in a second if it becomes
expedient the through line of all of
these groups is deregulate Wall Street
take care of Silicon Valley and never do
anything like get rid of student debt by
holding Wall Street accountable that's
the point
so don't fall for any part of their scam
