[Music]
[Applause]
the people in the conference rooms we
must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday October 24th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
distinguished professor of history of
Black Studies at the University of
Missouri
Devin Fergus on his book the land of the
fee hidden costs and the decline of the
American middle class also on the
program today one day after a bomb was
found in George Soros's mailbox bombs
found in mail to both Hillary Clinton
and Barack Obama and a pipe bomb just
found at CNN meanwhile the lives of the
lies about the caravan caravan almost
drowned out by the lies that there's a
new middle class tax cut
meanwhile Georgia Secretary of State
Brian Kemp fears the exercise of
people's right to vote and it turns out
he has a slight problem with a loan he
made to himself from his bank that he
owned he didn't pay back it's good to
use a good deal
nice good original concept there and I
see living it you can you can score it I
mean while early voting in Texas setting
records but will it matter and the Trump
administration politicizing
administrative judges on the board of
veteran appeals and white supremacist
Richard Spencer turns out to be just as
abusive to his own family as to anybody
else and the white house issues a
comedic Lee inept anti socialism screed
and grift update walk away walks away
from walk away and the Creation Museum
possibly headed to extinction all this
and more on today's majority report
ladies and gentlemen we will get to that
creationism museum story because
longtime listeners will know that this
has been one of my bailiwicks for a
decade in fact you know what maybe we
should even hold off on it until we dig
up I did a couple of phone calls to the
Creation Museum
I think the Answers in Genesis people I
think before it was even built and back
in the day when I used to make I
wouldn't call them prank phone calls
because I would very quickly at the
beginning of the call say that this was
being recorded for air and I would
introduce myself to as a reporter from
the majority report sometimes it was the
family reporter sometimes it was the
chastity reporter that gets you back in
the day if you said you were from the
majority
port and you're the chastity reporter
there was basically nothing you couldn't
get a fundamentalist Christian to tell
you even if they thought it was going on
air I had one guy tell me that he
thought a little bit of bullying of a
kid who might be a little bit gay in
school was okay but maybe upset us I
mean we'll dig those up but and then
when I launched this show this iteration
I think maybe there's even before you
were here Michael
I would read a listener had sent me I
can't remember who it was maybe it was
Kyle got me a book of the Creation
Museum and you know once a week I would
read a little segment of it so that
people could find out where stuff really
came from instead of all that mumbo
jumbo about coming from the water or
whatever it was and so the idea that the
creation museum may be in some way
faltering it's sort of fascinating
because you would think like all that
God stuff would be timeless but
apparently he gets a little boring after
about two or three years it's a lot of
competition - yeah but we will we will
get to that and of course we had that
report yesterday that the Hobby Lobby
family they they got ripped off and
bought five fraudulent torez essentially
Dead Sea Scrolls that turned out to be
not so much dead sea scrolls but they've
got money to burn and you got to
appreciate you got to appreciate when
the grifter gets grifted that is just
that's I mean that's what the stuff
movies are made out of folks and of
course that we will get to these stories
about the the these various bombs that
are found you know disturbing super
disturbing we will get there in a bit
should just tell you one of today's
sponsors is news
dot-com / majority you all know about in
fact I just wrote a really interesting
piece by Matthew Iglesias he's got those
guys at boxer are writing some good like
sort of a cultural type of pieces these
days that I'm enjoying and and this one
he talks about the Hat gap which is a
you know another one of my bailiwicks
which is you know the the liberal media
back in the day when we used to talk of
like the center center left media was
cowering from the right I'm talking
about the arts of course and and on the
left there was no there was no version
of Rush Limbaugh I mean we certainly
tried to build something akin to that
there's no Rupert Murdoch ever there's
never been a left-wing version of Rupert
Murdoch I don't know that you could have
one but there isn't even a functional
equivalent never mind you know you know
the same sort of qualities but there's a
new media company that's come up with
their own response to some of these
problems it's called news voice it's an
app for ios and android which you can
access for free if you go to news voice
comm / majority and it gives you a
personalized news feed by aggregating a
mix of mainstream media sources
international sources and independent
media sources this is actually like it
would be a good thing to turn on if you
have a friend who or family member only
will listen to the fox news or watches
fox news or reads fox news this would be
a good sort of like sneaky way of
getting some daylight into their dark
dankey media new news sources because
multiple sources are provided for each
news story the entire app is fueled by
crowdsourcing you can upload stories you
think are important so more people will
see them you can add stories to the app
or you can add a source that's missing
for a story it's meant to be a
completely open and democratized news
that lets you get every side of every
story I also have video interviews
series of featuring guests from Chris
Hedges to Alexa Alexandria Acacio Cortez
go download the app for free at news
voice dot-com slash majority put a link
under this video if you're watching on
YouTube and or if you're listening you
can find it in our in our podcast
description that is news voice comm
slash majority alright let's get to this
this was pretty stunning obviously we
are now less than two weeks away from
the election the president is lying
about a caravan that is I don't know a
thousand miles from the border of the US
but they're coming here quickly they're
walking at a fairly brisk pace for your
lake house yes exactly to challenge the
Constitution and of course they
apparently are not only coming to invade
the country but also to pass a
middle-class tax cut that Congress
hasn't even contemplated that is
according to the president but still
dealing with the implications of the
Saudis being bold enough to kill a u.s.
resident and fairly well-known columnist
in the Washington Post in their embassy
because he was critical of them which
gives you a sense of how sometimes these
things happen where leaders from foreign
countries feel like Oh
the US has basically said the gloves are
off we have no handcuffs on us anymore
we can do whatever we want and then they
sort of get it wrong
we have a history of stuff like this
going awry when that happens
check out the 91 invasion of Kuwait by
Saddam Hussein as a starter or the
Israelis heading up I think it was into
Lebanon again
and and basically also exiting Gaza
unilaterally in creating another mess
there
but here's Donald Trump being asked
about the his perspective on the
Khashoggi murder at this point where it
has become increasingly clear that he
was murdered
and here well increasingly clear in
terms of I mean it's quite clear to
everyone who doesn't want you know who
doesn't have a vested interest in
pretending otherwise but even in the
context of those who do it's becoming
you know clear that they can't maintain
this charade anymore and here's Donald
Trump expressing why they had a very bad
original concept it was carried out
poorly and the cover-up was one of the
worst in the history of cover-ups it's
very simple
bad deal should have never been thought
of somebody really messed up and then
the worst cover-up ever and where it
should have stopped is at the deal stand
point what they thought about it because
whoever thought of that idea I think is
in big trouble
that they should be in big trouble I did
they tell him don't refer to anything
that actually happened just call it a
deal I don't understand what what is the
what what is what are they talking about
what he's trying to do there I think is
first I think he's genuinely offended by
how bad the cover-up was this is a guy
spent a lot of time around Nicky Scarfo
and other really reputable members of
organized crime and the Saudis are
literally in the process of doing like
yeah it's just this weird rogue hit
squad that had no connections to any
senior leadership and bad ideation so
he's sure he's actually I might I think
he's still trying to give them cover
those those grooves are worn so deeply
in his brain also that every
is a deal to him it it sounded like he's
on set it sounded like he was on set at
the apprentice and basically talking
about like some attempt to sell you know
hot dogs in Times Square like hey I mean
yes anyway it was executed poorly the
prints I mean the first couple of uh
contests you were so good you did a
great job on Yemen you had a great photo
on Instagram with the rock I don't know
what happened with you it was bad at the
ideation standpoint is there a heated
ice cream spoon that you have to keep
plugged into the wall I'm just not
buying I'm just I'm not seeing it so
Mohammed bin Salman you find it really
did sound like that it's almost like we
got to address this but you can't say
anything of actually what happened this
is like what the one thing I can do
don't worry I got it first of all
everybody can agree it was a bad deal
bad deal finally morally executed poorly
executed sorry
no pun intended yeah this is a type of
deal you could have easily set up a fake
car accident I mean there's a lot of
traffic blame it on that booth blame it
on a woman driver I mean I mean could it
men that could reinforce the whole point
of Saudi policy I mean you guys just
weren't thinking frankly it was a mess
Mohammed so what I don't understand what
are they wouldn't what does he think
that they're setting up I mean they're
obviously they're saying like there's
weather came up with the idea is gonna
be in big trouble and that's gonna be
some guy like one of the guys who came
into 15 guys that's what he's saying his
rogue idea was a bad deal that's what
he's saying right but no one's going to
believe that like who is this well or
what who it's for potentially is the
king has actually been coming back into
public you know he's very old and he
hasn't been on TV much cuz that they
give it all to the prince he's coming
back and being like alright I'm still in
control here so it's possible that the
substantive thing is that this might be
it for the Prince monarchies oh yeah is
that real I think I mean not not I'm not
saying it's likely I'm not saying I put
money on it but there is a tangible I
don't understand if he under
cuts if they say this isn't the Saudi
system this kid is out of control and
he's nuts
is it possible he's doing it for his
base as well no because they hate the
media and journalists I just don't I
just don't think that the yeah but I
don't think that the the base isn't
thinking the base is like because he
implied yet that the journalists
deserved it and all the other
journalists better watch what they say
no all right fair although I did it was
interesting the Saudi foreign minister
went on Fox for his first interview in
the US but that's just because Trump
will be watching all right we got to
take a quick break we'll be right back
after this
you
[Music]
well you're back Sam cedar on the
majority report on the phone it is a
pleasure to welcome to the program the
Arve e strickland distinguished
professor of history and black studies
at the university of missouri and the
author of land of the fee hidden costs
and the decline of the American middle
class Devin Fergus welcome to the
program Devin pleasure to be with you
Sam I wish it could be on a bit brighter
topic and subject but I was a pleasure
Tina knows well let's I mean why what
what was it that led you to to look at
well maybe we should define fees first
just so that we get a sense of what
we're talking about
sure absolutely uh I mean I use this
definition of fee so so by fees I'm
talking about any cost or expense which
is in addition to to principle the
private sector for instance plays a kind
of a shell game in order to sort of
circumvent and regulators often and so
for instance though when let us say when
petty loans sort of first sort of hit
the mark in the neck early 1990s one of
the ways in which they tried to
circumvent especially sort of state it's
a little federal regulators by saying no
no we don't charge interest rates so
this isn't Ussuri these are actual fees
these are sort of administrative cost
administrative fees and so and so again
the use my my my use and application of
fee is is sort of an MA and experiment
with anything that's in addition to
actually addition to principal so for
instance an origination fee as I gave
the example with the payday loan
industry could many times really be a
fee as a de facto APR interest rate
default fees or prepayment penalty fees
that you would find inferences in
subprime mortgages so these fees come in
all kinds of shapes and sizes and colors
but in it's an effect new thing as in
began beyond a principal loan amount
well and we see fees in the in the in
the public sector right fee as is sort
of proxy of
for taxes and so we had that kind of
brief conversation if you went to as
well I mean I I remember that
back in the day when Mitt Romney was
governor of Massachusetts and he
promised no new taxes and then he just
basically instituted a ton of new fees I
mean the big problem it seems to me with
fees as opposed to taxes is that fees
are far more regressive in terms of a
form of revenue for the government and
also far less guest transparent did you
hit the nail on the head I was gonna I
was gonna way with the transparency but
you already did it
precisely far less transparent oh and
often we found with these um-um that
they're often difficult and what's a
possible opt-out okay so the implication
would fee is that the fee is sort of
item driven but we know let's say for
higher education so the state of
California may not raise this tuition
but they sure as heck raise their fees
I'm a university professor a student
said the University of Missouri have to
pay tuition but there's also there's
these there are these in cost fees and
if they don't pay the fee the user fee
they cannot sit in my classroom and so
the implication is that fees are are
sort of an itemized sort of thing ala
carte sort of thing but in reality these
fees are often so critical integrated to
the cost of a product and it's
impossible to opt out of in the same way
that that off the taxes are so
absolutely right so okay so you've I
mean I feel like you have already half
answered this but just give us a sense
of the the the the size of and the
importance of these fees in a broader
story for particularly the middle class
sure and so we find is that again the
the cost of these fees so gar a cost
over two trillion dollars / / / US
health I mean they're not for use also
for the for the US
and so and broke it down to let's say an
individual I mean individual median
income eats up Elise almost half of
their of their income and so we're
talking about particularly fees and this
is a to to point out Sam my work release
it often fees and critical errors upper
mobility so I'm not necessarily talking
about let's say a cable user fee and
something like then that's then that's
important a significant or cell phone
phone feet got wrote a piece a few years
ago forty year times about the rise of
phone fees but I'm primarily talking
about fees or our essential areas of a
mobility fees associated and then things
I house higher education fees that are
linked to a link to employment and we
could sort of talk about the ways in
which a private sector the mostly big to
the common response to issue the wage
stagnation and then what takes us from
home to school and work fees that are
associated to transportation
particularly employers want people with
quote reliable transportation ie a car
and that's what employers remember our
transportation and then there are fees
that are associated with again the
automobile particularly or insurance
fees and so what we find is that that
says they have fee sort of escalated in
all areas but particularly these four
spheres in which have been critical
upward mobility housing education and
employment and what takes us from home
to school and work the automobile and in
these fees have created obstacles for
the barriers were entering into the
middle class and they've also worked to
actually erode the middle class and in
various ways let's talk about this is
timely I think my audience is aware that
I had a debate with a guy who I don't
know you may be familiar with he spends
a lot of time on college campuses from
turning-points USA about sort of the
about the middle class and and some of
these things particularly we we we got
into the the the housing crisis and the
financial the subsequent financial
crisis in 2008
and let's talk about housing first in
terms of these fees and what the
implications are and and and how in many
respects I mean I am familiar with some
aspects of how the fees drove this
crisis and that we've talked about on
this program both I think in the
origination of mortgages but also even
in the wake of the crisis the allure of
fees for a lot of these banks was
greater than their desire to to refine
to refinance or two - I should say amend
existing mortgages under HAMP but tell
us where where fees play the most impact
in the the the story of sir prime sure
absolutely and so we found with for
instance the arouser to the subprime
mortgage market is that all of these the
subprime mortgage loans or products
which had these creative at occidental
toxic instruments prepayment penalties
which is one of my favorite sort of
financial instrument of toxic a mortgage
talks about it sort of counterintuitive
it pillow as if someone for paying their
bills earlier one time and so I mean
that would be sort of one example the
balloon payment fees as well as just for
a mortgage sort of charges or fees all
of these aspects and products with that
are associate or attached to subprime
mortgage all of them increase the
likelihood that a borrower going to
default and so again each of those each
of those aspects that we're associate
attached is to subprime mortgage and
you're precisely right you know
initially you subprime mortgages get
marketed to people who have less than
stellar credit scores or something less
than sort of 660 but become so
profitable that by the time you get to
the financial crisis the average
Bar was being sort of shunted into a
channel into the the subprime mortgage
just because of the profitability of
these subprime mortgages and so can they
become extremely sort of proper and here
I'm gonna sort of say this to to you Sam
I'm actually I'm also a visiting
professor in northern England or the
University of nothing North North Umbria
University and Newcastle um and then in
UK it's conservatives who are pushing
for um creative and inventive ways to
help help consumers have stronger credit
scores specifically its conservatives
who are arguing that let's say your your
rent be included um as far as your
critical right oh it would be wonderful
thing in the u.s. if you would find
conservatives who would make an argument
that let's not try to channel people
into these sub problem mortgage markets
like look like we're having people now
do today by saying the underwriting
standards in part are are decided Obama
administration we're too tight we need
to loosen those standards well it'd be
great if we could have conservatives in
the US who would actually make the
argument um let's redefine what was
what's the quality credit history and
not simply look at the history of
mortgage borrower mortgage lending but
look at people who pay their pay their
utility bills on top pay their rent one
time those kind of ways could happen if
you use that it would actually help
borrowers increase their credit score
which would mean that fewer borrowers
would actually be shuttered into these
subprime or now it's called non-prime
marcus is it a thorn by a different name
is still a thorn right now it's called a
non-problem mortgage products and so be
one of the service in us that would take
a page out of conservatives lease in the
UK and and and and people should
understand that that the subprime is
just simply a way of of justifying far
more fees right so there is a and so
because the idea is that what we're you
know not only do we jack up an interest
rate because we're
taking more risk but also we I mean what
is the justification for the the the the
fees in this instance we're taking more
risk but we want to take more risks so
that if you pay this thing off there's a
prepayment penalty or or is it also that
there is an awareness of like there's
just probably a correlation between
people who have poor credit scores and
people who are not financially savvy
that correlation is absolutely there as
well that's all your people who have
lower credit scores aren't financially
educated and yeah so we could I'm just
so much to discuss and because now we
can argue that it's not necessarily
financial education is the key and in
fact we've gone through a period now or
last 30 years in which financial
contracts and documents have gotten
exponentially longer right at the same
time that the individual and the time
they have to process all this
information that time is gotten you know
increasingly um lesson I mean by that is
individuals now today commute much
farther than their grandparents or
parents did 30 or 40 years ago to go to
work you're also working longer hours
than people did to a generation or two
ago so working longer hours you're
commuting farther you're also in this
sort of what I would I like to call this
sort of extracurricular or arms sort of
race I'm a parent of a child my child
just came from French class he has he
has he has martial arts class he's in
all these extra activities why because
he's competing against other kids of his
saying sort of class and in college
right and so we experience now is that
individuals have a little less time than
ever before to read and process these
complex financial documents which I've
actually gotten a much longer over the
last generation and so how do you square
this circle in the way you square the
circle is about bringing in financial
regulators to and and they'll have any
them delegate yourselves
and now the private sector understands
that there's a process of information
asymmetry well that you have less time
to process this information and that
financial literacy is is really a canard
or red herring because of sundry reasons
some I sort of laid out others we could
sort of get into and so they take
advantage of a borrower's across I'd say
the income spectrum but his most
devastating on historical vulnerable
populations and and and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau went a long
way in requiring more plain English and
shorter forms particularly I don't know
as much for mortgages although there was
certainly reforms in that process but
across the board on some of these
contracts particularly I think it was
you know like credit card contracts and
whatnot that's absolutely right and and
we see what what's happened here with
the with the current acting director
Melvin Ely so going through a process of
that row of cattle catch and kill
negative reports by his staff who come
out with no reports about the industry
and so you may and this is one of the
great ironies right for longtime
conservatives I made the argument we
don't need regulation we just need
greater full of disclosure financial
information and let the consumer decide
and what we experienced now the last two
months is actually this these sort of
saying pocket or slice of conservatives
providing less information on through
this via these catch and kill reports
that um CFPB have been trying to put out
but again will veiny and others as well
as a bit of us who's that education part
have been catching and killing and
suppressing and so yeah and let's I mean
let's talk about student debt you bring
up Betsy DeVos one of the things I know
the Trump administration has done in
terms of a deregulation was we have this
massive problem in this country that it
was actually quietly I think one of the
things that the Obama administration was
doing quite well was beginning to crack
down on what is
not 100% a scam nothing ever is but the
for-profit university industry is
largely a an extraction machine trying
to extract public money via student
loans to to students and they tend to be
some a little bit older students who are
going to these universities ostensibly
to to increase their earning potential
in the business world there's very
little data to support this and there
was a regulation that if you were an
institution that was putting out was was
handing out diplomas to people and they
would go back into the workforce and
there was no return on investment you
had certain limitations as to how much
revenue you could derive from student
loans and Betsy DeVos basically said oh
we're lifting that you can you can keep
pumping out people with a essentially
with a product that is defective and
will still keep giving you money talk to
us about how the the student bub debt
bubble grew and what the implications
are in particularly in the context of
fees no you're absolutely right and the
origin growth of the student debt bubble
really dates back to to the Reagan
administration and in here I'm gonna
sort of take a just a bigger broader
step back and have a look at a sort of
almost up sort of meta view and it was
just a fundamental philosophical shift
that occurs by Reagan and Reagan and so
the architecture of the finitary program
really sort of gets in place and early
in the 1950s under the white eisenhower
now the Republican now Eisenhower was it
some flaming liberal but Omega actually
in many ways was sort of reticent about
even if the missionary program but he
sees the value of of well financially
for college students particularly as a
means to
dressed national security issues and so
so Eisenhower another sort of you
wrecked the financially system in and so
since the nineteen fifties the financial
aid program a system has been a biped
been a bipartisan sort of project of
both of the Rosen to services and those
who are students of you assess you know
about that consists era of American
history and this is sort of reflection
of that so um but in the 1980s which you
find is a fundamental and a dramatic
shift of ba conservatives who began to
see the expansion of naturally in his
existence to students and begin to see
students not as future tax contributors
as Eisenhower and others saw Eisenhower
and obviously Lyndon Johnson but in
nineteen eighty begin to see tax gonna
see students as tax eaters not as so not
as future tax contributors but as
present-day tax eaters and imagine and
looked at and we use a retic abusive
students as similar to those who are on
welfare so the welfare queen or the
unemployed father who was building went
out of the system or grandma on Medicaid
and basically sort of lump the college
student in with quote-unquote these
under their deserving poor and with that
sort of mindset what they did was they
rolled back lower interest students they
roll back on grant programs and invited
the private sector more so into the
funding of finance of higher education
and that an invitation to private sector
um gets enlarged in the 1990s under
Clinton but far more least it's actually
Radical Republicans who do and I knew me
the congressional Republican revolution
1994 and they basically push back
against on the call direct lending in
1990s and they really muzzle Clinton and
and those who are pushing for direct
lending and they expand the private
sectors market and push back against
sort of government regulators in
education what we found with this
rollback of directly under 1990s
is that a elaborate if you could on
direct lending just explained to us what
that that program sure and I'm gonna
sort of say that directly is almost as
it sounds um so rather than a system in
which directly is basically wind it was
where the government has Lynne's money
primarily from the Treasury directly to
go on college students so it gives it to
the furnishing office in the college and
then then they disperse it to college
students and that system really cuts out
the middleman it cuts out for instance
the subsidy banks which might be
subsidizing alone it often cuts out the
loan servicer so is more of a of a
direct lending from from government to
the student and and again that system
which cuts out all these middlemen
whether it's the banks only bakes on the
front end or really student loan
services reduce the cost of the student
loan I mean if you can imagine if the
administrative costs are cheaper right
and that's the administrative cost of
cheaper but also the actual loan product
itself is cheaper now let's imagine
imagine this Sam um the cost alone
itself is cheap it means that the
student has to pay back that loan has to
pay back less and what we know in
weather where this mortgage market or
where this payday lending or whether
it's higher education if a particular
financial product is cheaper as logic
dictates it means that the borrower is
far more likely to pay it back and so
that means that a bar is far less likely
to go into font which means that the
taxpayer who's actually funding both the
direct lending as well as subsidized
lending programs is far more likely to
get their money back so a government
gets the money back students get their
money when they get it faster so it was
a system which actually worked for every
population except for the federal
services industry and so of course it
didn't work for them they pushed back in
a pressure around lawmakers to bring
them back into to the system and this is
what happens in the 1990s and they push
out direct lending and they bring back
on these their private sector and you
see a whole slew of abusive practices
and quid pro quos and
once government gets pushed down in
terms of direct lending program perhaps
that comes in and then they begin to to
give sweetheart deals to financial aid
officers um kickbacks of various sorts
we just had a World Series game last
night
unfortunately my beloved Dodgers lost oh
but let's say in a 1990 you want to go
see your Yankees playing the World
Series or the bank might have a couple
of tickets for the Finnegan office and
they'll give that fighting officer some
tits tickets if they would give them
access to student lenders now once this
the bank got access to the student
lender I'm sitting to see the borrower I
should say they didn't care the the
university or the education off
finishing office didn't necessarily care
the kind of terms that were given right
they were just caring about the
kickbacks that he would get well this is
a system that existed from the 1990s to
to to thousands and we see several
states attorneys say attorneys general
with lawsuits against various student
lenders through this system that was the
abusive system and the great shame is
that divorce in a trump administration
want to go back to the to this sort of
wild wild west sort of attitude or the
1990s and 2000s where there's all this
abuse taking place we see the origins
and rise and spread of student loan
abuses and student loan debt so all
right so just to to to make it clear and
also to take the opportunity to state
that I'm a Red Sox fan and so I'm very
happy about last night but I'm hoping so
but the but but so we had this type of
abuse where there was sort of like
extraneous middlemen that were placed
into the process of delivering
government backed and government really
funded loans we we threw that off we
still obviously have a huge debt problem
but now we're starting to see first the
the the sort of the first order problem
we have is fees that are generated
and extraneous from private debt
collection agencies that are now making
their return back you know following the
Obama administration where there was a
significant push that to the extent that
it could be done just through executive
order to push a lot of these people out
from from the the loan process we still
have a massive problem with loans
obviously a problem with the rising cost
of education but this is sort of like an
added on attribute in and so where what
is that do I have that history right
that they were pushed out of the
industry to a certain extent and they're
being brought back in no no absolutely
right push let me push out an industry
to a large extent through direct lending
and now they're being brought back in by
the DeVos administration and again this
is a stresses too
it's by ideologues so because if you
want to do a simple cost-benefit
analysis um these loans are still
cheaper and more efficient if done by
government and so if they're really
concerned about what's what's the bit
more efficient sort of product it would
be to kick out the keep the middlemen
out I'm gonna have a direct linear
program since and this is it actually
again but both but bipartisan
administrations have done studies and
research one this and so first is
Laura's Lindsay the Republican under
under under George HW Bush I mean talked
about how efficient a direct linear
program was these are the guaranteed
student loans and so but but again this
is driven by people with a sort of
particular agenda and also by this sort
of cols relationship with with the donor
class the financial donor class and
those two things have created and
created this problem I will say this is
one sort of coda to that have you is not
simply an add-on to the story of the
rising cost of college is part of the
bigger and broader
sorry because what happens to is that
federal government begins to roll back
his contributions to higher education
right and so that means is it's a shift
in that cost from the public sector from
the public sector to - to individuals
some institutions to individuals and
this is what explains apartment rising
cost of college and so it's part of this
this bigger and part of its bigger story
about public the public sector and
governments rollback of its contribution
and support for higher education all
right and and lastly I mean the you you
also have a chapter on on wage
stagnation and the implications I mean
again it's almost there's always like
sort of a push in a poll right like the
this dynamic where the federal
government rolls back funding for for
publicly subsidized colleges states cut
back on this there for loans come in to
fill the fill that that Delta because
students now are required they have more
responsibility to pay those fees and
then that gives the opportunity I mean
the if for for you know the fees to
actually go to college tuition and then
then the private industry comes in as
like barnacles on this transaction as a
way of like stripping more cash out of
that system and on some level that's
what we see - would the with the idea of
like payday lending is that on one hand
you you'd you pressure there there are
forces that that create wage stagnation
and then the other hand you you come in
with a sort of a I guess a neoliberal
solution is the some would characterize
it which is like oh we're gonna we're
going to loan you money so that you
don't actually need to get paid and but
we're also going to make a lot of money
off that transaction it's going to throw
you deeper into deeper into debt and so
you'll you'll be a repeat customer until
one day when you can't Oh
you summarized it very well oh so this
very little I can really add to that add
to that um um you're absolutely right um
that uh that uh Raza payday lending is
really the private sectors most common
ubiquitous response to to the
generational crisis wage stagnation I
mean I say most common response because
there are more payday lenders out there
than McDonald's and Starbucks and a new
study showed McDonald's Starbucks
combined so they're common there almost
everywhere um and payday loans unlike a
credit card a payday loans because
expressly designed to address the issue
of lack of money for income and so
that's why it's called a payday loan
it's the the loan for that loan you have
to have two things which we consider
sort of um um really pillars for
middle-class you must have a paycheck a
working a job and secondly you must have
a bank account you write a check drawn
from your bank and say that this check
is gonna be good
two weeks from now when I get my
paycheck and so these are these are the
markers of of middle-class status and
and so but we see that each day on petty
Linda again as has spread more wide and
get more commonplace than both Starbucks
and McDonald's um and these things we
could send markers of middle-class life
and now I'll say this too um that the
Federal Reserve earlier came out with
the port that four out of ten Americans
cannot cover a forty dollar emergency
expense and so while we could think of
payday loans is something that other
people might take out realize that
nearly half of Americans now are really
living with paycheck to paycheck and
lack and four hundred dollars to cover
an emergency expense so many of us are
just one job loss and come shock away
for payday loan and so in something that
that really does open itself up to to
more consumer than those who actually
take out on itself
Devin Fergus the book is land of the fee
and it is about the hidden costs in the
deck
of the American middle-class thanks so
much for your time today I really
appreciate it
thank you Sam and go Dodgers all right
we'll see I wouldn't I wouldn't wouldn't
wouldn't bet on it
but I appreciate the appreciate the time
thank you all right thank you Dodgers
accomplis tonight folks we could be
looking at a sweep this is you know one
of the this dynamic with these hidden
costs that are just another thing you
know in the the course of the debate
that I had with charlie kirk was just
another and this is of course a long non
exclusive to the Trump administration
and not simply a function of the
Republican Party but largely they are
you know largely a malignant force in
our politics and a malignant force when
it comes to draining extracting wealth
creating the problem than extracting
wealth from the solution rather than
just starting with the solution and
which is very often just our government
we there's no reason why we need to be
loaning money to students to go to
school we could just finance the school
and give everybody the option to go for
free that's what Charlie cook objects to
when he says don't say free stuff Sam
what he's really mad about is that
nobody's going to be able to take a cut
on well it's two things he it's that but
it's also he made it very explicitly
clear like you're gonna take money from
me to pay for somebody else's college
and now we take money from people all
the time to pay for other people's
expenses we take money from non
homeowners who pay taxes so that
homeowners can have a mortgage deduction
finance the purchase of their homes now
but doesn't necessarily make it
available to everybody because you have
to have a certain amount of cash to
start with
so it basically subsidizes wealthy
people's ability to
and the buying power of their money but
you need to first get into a certain
Club where the dues are you know X
number of hundreds of you know tens of
hundreds of thousands of dollars worth
of down payment and then you can get
there but we we do this with all sorts
of of of things we subsidize roads I
mean if you take public transportation
you subsidize roads so that people can
have commerce and make all their money
the you know Charlie Kirk and our debate
talked about somebody goes out and buys
a building I know he had a very sort of
like narrow perspective on what I'm what
capitalist did they all go out by
building and then they start the factory
and but you know that building has
running water and I can assure you the
person who bought that building did not
pay for the pipe to go all the way the
reservoir and to go to the sanitation
and to go to the treatment center and
the electrical grid and the
transportation that's involved in there
and then the fire department right and
the cops I mean they're gonna protect
that building I mean so it goes on and
on and so but Charlie cook really really
had a problem with his tax dollars
subsidizing you know something that he
either gets from his folks or from you
know some right-wing billionaires in his
in the context of his job he could get
it either way and but he built that he
built that from a well I mean he already
had a lot of scaffolding let's put it
that way folks
all right and speaking of which in the
fun half we're gonna we're gonna go over
the whoo we're gonna go after
oh yeah well we'll still thinking like
it's hard to know but in the fun half
we're gonna go over the 20 minutes of
the debate that for whatever reason
we're not we're excluded from the TYT
video that we played yesterday and it
was sort of the the most fun 20 minutes
of the debate in my estimation we're
also more information of the various
pipe bombs that have been sent we are
now at let's see CNN Eric Holder Obama
Clinton am I missing one Eric Holder was
just the most recent common Harris one
to know so there's some sketchy details
on that okay so if debbie Wasserman
Schultz apparently got one and maybe
there's more I'm maturing as a person
there you said debbie Wasserman Schultz
that I went right to the Jimmy Dore
voice it was almost like an involuntary
physical reaction and I didn't actually
do it John Brennan was apparently named
on the CNN one that's unclear oh I see
let's see so suspicious package is also
sent to Eric Holder but to the wrong
address as with packages sent to George
Soros Clinton Obama's and John Brennan
care of CNN the return address was
representative Wasserman Schultz a very
poor job of doing a false flag because
she should not have put her address on
there well and also just think of the
courage of George Soros to have a bomb
planted in his own mailbox yeah I mean
that's a and apparently Wasserman
Schultz I think also got a maybe
something sent to them in a office in
one of her campaign offices alright well
we'll continue to follow this story and
and others as we go Fox had one of those
really unfortunate moments and we will
regarding this and we will cover that
too in the fun half folks just a
reminder this program relies on its
members for its support every day we try
and bring you an interview that will
will teach you something that you didn't
know about either political philosophy
or the way our government works or the
economic system that we we live in or
what's going on with the campaigns and
it is your support as a member that
makes it possible you can become a
member at join the majority report
dot-com his way of saying thank you we
give you extra content every day so join
the majority report com also just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
our longest term advertiser on this
program probably only been a handful of
shows where I've never mentioned their
name at the end since day well maybe one
I can't remember last night was Tuesday
night Michael you had a program is my
understanding what happened indeed we
talked about the Madra goon collective
which is one of the largest may be the
largest cooperative business zone in the
world and the Bosque reasoner of Spain
and it employs a lot of people and it
shows that worker cooperatives not only
might be helpful in transitioning
economies on a macro scale but they
actually compete pretty well inside the
marketplace as it is today as well while
employing more people then Brian Mayer
co-editor Brazil wire we talked about
the whatsapp bulk buying scandal and
fake news in Brazil the political how
that's kind of a I don't know that kind
of that's amazing yeah I know that I
want to get a lot of Giotto t-shirt I
want to get a lot of Jo t-shirt we also
did a little bit of cross border
solidarity and dunked on jimmy dore
because jimmy dore credulous lee
embraced the carwash lava jato
investigation the Vigilant u.s. imperial
SIA
which literally was a term of the US
Justice Department and part of the
breakdown is that while Lula governs in
a way that wasn't hurtful to brazilian
business he'd certainly pissed off
Chevron and Exxon by not letting them
drill on Brazilian offshore oils or
privatizing Petrobras and we did that
and we did we also had a very very fun
postgame so let me just if I can
understand it correctly if he had
actually read into the story he was
covering and found out that it was bunk
it would have somehow made Hillary
Clinton not look bad and it actually
would have made Hillary Clinton look bad
that's the thing he literally had an
opportunity even make Hillary Clinton in
the Obama administration look bad he
just leo
he's just BL is it was litter it was a
 layup but because he's it's a
political corruption rhetoric and no one
bothers to do any research they actually
ended up doing a video that sort of
backed the right-wing coup forces in
Brazil and oops yeah oops and then when
we initially commented on it the
response and most of his fans were one
of two things which was either you're
being mean or this videos from 2017 and
no one could have known even though it
was a year after Dilma was removed from
office but what are you gonna do we're
all we're for sure God's
working on oh yeah God's working on all
of us super media super mean and uh
Jaime please tell me that the anti
Fattah was not mean this week we're
never mean Sam there you go we we add
learn a lesson Michael purely on the
only the purest hate which Springs from
the purest love that's very pretty
what what does a what sprang forth this
week so this week on the anti Fattah
it's coming out tomorrow or Thursday we
talked to our two friends that's right
folks not one but two guests this week
Andy battle a doctoral student in
history at the City University of New
York and Shawn Khanna editor-in-chief of
commie and magazine first we talked to
Shawn about the awesome media project
that they are
doing with commune and we talked to you
Andy battle who wrote a great piece on
the history of the New York City subway
and why it sucks so much we talked about
the tension between urban space to serve
her human needs and urban space designed
to extract profit from there we branched
out a bit to the decommodification of
movement in general including at the
borders of nations we had a bit of a
call to action some ideas for a direct
action in that space as well as what
kind of direction action not to do aka
the kind where you take your pants off
Matt did you keep your pants on for
literary hanger I did but I was also
mean to a steven crowder who for Prager
University
made a video saying that there was never
a genocide in the United States because
a if you look at any of the battles
they're just battles and be there was
never any written policy so there you go
and I found that I looked at the very
first battle in New England and turned
out to look enough alike a genocide and
I also found out that a Winthrop the
governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony had
a bit of a reputation for his treaties
and the copies of those treaties
mysteriously disappearin before he died
so interesting you know now that we're
talking about steven crowder and i guess
let me just give you a sense before we
go into the fun half couple months ago I
don't know when it was four or five
months ago three or four months ago I
was invited to politican and I am you
know I am of little ambivalent about
that conference because it in many ways
just makes politics about entertainment
and I mean we do a show like that but we
try and maintain some integrity that we
try and be entertaining but we also try
and deliver stuff that is is meaningful
and to
to center a conference around political
celebrities rather than let's say you
know policy people or activists seems to
me to be a little bit dubious but the
other part of that is I'm also aware of
the space in which we operate and the
reality of and where we operate and many
people watch this show on YouTube and
frankly the right is influencing a lot
of young people on this medium and so my
sense was all right well maybe I can if
I if I go I can get into a debate with
somebody and show some young people who
are watching videos so I know a lot of
lucky young people do that and this is
where they get their political education
and I did not want certain voices out
there to have that whole space to
themselves and present a perspective
that is I think wrong and dangerous and
unhealthy for the country and have no
one challenged it and so when they asked
me if I would come I said yeah I will if
I can debate someone and I was trying to
think about who I would want to debate
and the first thing that I wanted first
requirement was like I want them to have
a youtube following because that means
that their status is you know very
largely supported by audiences and I
want to reach their audience now of
course I threw out Dave Rubin and I was
told that he's not coming and which was
a smart move to start kicking in right
competition would start kicking in and
there was other I think at one point
they said what about my low yawn
innopolis was one of the first people
they wanted to me when I was like no why
would I
bait this guy no one cares about him
anymore no one watches him they'll
debate him for politican 2016 well
exactly exactly I mean the the point
being that my agenda was to
separate someone from their audience in
some measure not the entire audience is
the you know portion of it that might be
get about and so we went over a couple
of people in and we we finally realized
like oh steven crowder he does that
thing where he goes to colleges and
tries and makes college students look
bad because they don't know supposedly
what he knows in terms of politics and
so I said Crowder and the people are
like great Stevens interested in a
debate and it all looked good and then
at one point like they're writing me
back and they're not mentioning Crowder
anymore and I was like hey what's going
on with the debate with Crowder what day
is that gonna be and they said can we
make a we have a phone call with you now
here's the thing in this space when
there's a phone call they you know
people don't want emails released right
and I was told on this phone call that
steven crowder ghosted literally stopped
responding to their emails and decided
and i think the quote was pretty sure
the quote was somebody got cold feet
that's I guess Crowder is his mind after
all yeah there was also and and I was
like well and she said something the
person I spoke to said something to the
effect of like his team or something
he's in his crew and apparently his dad
is his manager or something
no thank you and and so now I think it
was smart of steven crowder to avoid
debating me at politican yeah he can't
just go up there and put on a tutu and
say Stalin it's not gonna work so I
wasn't one has a sign out here alright
let's get let's take that out nice try
but he has as you can see he's sitting
out there he has a sign this has changed
my mind I would like to invite steven
crowder to come on this program and I
will attempt to change his mind or I
will go on his program an attempt to
change his mind or I will meet him
anywhere at nearly any time at my
expense to have the opportunity to
change his mind with the one stipulation
that we record it on video with sound so
steven crowder if you are 1/16 the man
that you proposed to be you purport to
be I am I am issuing you a very specific
challenge to debate you if it's if I
have it wrong that you did not chicken
out from debating me at politican like
shake it out so much that you decided
not to even attend then we can obviously
very easily come together and debate on
any topic so I will host you on anytime
on any platform in any way to debate and
I guess well here look because Steven I
know you are watching or hearing this
and everybody else knows it too there's
no way you're not aware that I've issued
this challenge now you knew it was
coming when you backed out a politican
because you were afraid of debating me
and here it is so you know where to find
us majority reporters at gmail.com if
you want to get us an email or you can
tweet at me and I will of course follow
this up with a tweet to you and I
imagine you know I don't know if you'll
block me or mute me but I'm sure
somebody's gonna get you the message so
Steven we'll see you soon
and maybe I was speaking out of turn
here but you can where you're not gay
t-shirt and you can have an opening
statement right you'll let him have the
opening statement I'm assuming oh sure
yeah right wait and also I'm willing to
happen you can interrupt any time that
Sam is lying or get a fax wrong oh all
right let's take a quick break heading
to the fun half be right back all right
folks six four six two five seven thirty
nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are back
and the alpha males just want to degrade
the white man
almost has one
I am a total Johnson can we bring back
the EGP anarchy song yeah or a couple of
you put them in rotation these you're
dead well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough of a break that's
[Music]
I'm the alpha male
a lot of back
back
all lives matter have you tried doing an
impression on a college campus I think
that there's no reason why it reasonable
people across the divide can't all agree
with this psych
black
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadis
that's birthday to meet you boy I have a
thought experiment for you the alpha
males of
somebody's to pay the price to class be
around here I am a total
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report ladies and gentlemen it is the
fun half where I spend the first 30
seconds clearing out literally a dozen
Russian I am BOTS from our I am I don't
know why that's the case I don't I don't
I'm not making any I'm not trying to
start World War three I'm just telling
you what reason i turn on the IM am i we
get that alright let's go to the phones
for a moment you're calling from a 702
area code who's this yes what are you
calling from
a across the room what p okay hey thank
you can't be better now i'm sorry about
that yeah it's alright
well I'm sorry who is this
rough woman go from Las Vegas what's on
your mind oh three things number one you
Burke Charlie clerk that was great oh
well I'm dad your degree and um
congratulations by the way I suddenly
say that the kind of thing that struck
me saying maybe you could probably
library on this better than I can
is that arm it just seemed like in terms
of the right wing or the wingnuts it
almost seems like in the strictest sense
like the talking points are the argument
there is no argument II Morris like the
talking points or the argument you know
just seems like he was certainly empty
platitudes or a white still right new
talking points as the argument it wasn't
my connected to like implored or yes
I don't think that it was necessary for
me to be there for him to deliver those
lines like he was not responding to
anything I was saying he was throwing
out things and then he you know clearly
there were some areas that he just
didn't know what
was talking about like he in and and we
will probably cover it when we cover the
next 20 minutes of the debate I think
that's where some of the most obvious
ones were like he didn't know how banks
seemed to work he didn't know the role
of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Fannie Mae
in particular he confused them with
rating agencies that are private
institutions that in fact and I and I'm
quite sure that Al Franken was the
driving force behind trying to change
the way that those rating agencies were
paid and there was a lot of things he
didn't seem to understand but I don't
know I if someone came to me and said
you know in ten years
oh yeah Charlie querque he's either does
not want to be in public talking about
right-wing stuff like he just sort of
receded from the argument or he's
actually now like I don't know he's off
doing the social work in like third
world countries right you know that
wouldn't surprise me because he there
were some things he was inclined I
thought that were were we're like you
know his perspective was in the right
place I can't I can't quite tell if he
was just trying to to you know follow
some type of different template with
with Trump but I'm not sure but what
were your other two points on that I
just felt like sometimes I think just
just from the way the rhythm of his
debate he just seeded ground to you
because he knew he couldn't argue I
think that's why sometimes you straight
up agreed with me because he just made
me some differentiation so I just feel
like sometimes you just see that the
ground is like oh I might want to go
there it's no fun and my second thing is
I'm sorry if you saw on the news all the
bombs that be mailed to all the
Democrats and you know talk to the stuff
um you know I said this to Mike as to
myself to Michael said to Mike you know
when you practice on reality for so long
when talking about the right wing so
when you practice unreality for so long
you foster societal insanity and I'm
99.9% sure this is some right wing wing
nut probably a white guy ranting about
Jews and blacks and Mexicans and stuff
like that um I just think it's time to
crack down and prosecute all these white
supremacist thugs and that's what I
think it is of course look you know
eight years ago plus there was a report
put out by the Department of Homeland
Security that the most prominent threat
in terms of terrorism in this country
were white supremacist organizations
like this and the they the the
department Homeland Security got a lot
of in the DOJ got a lot of grief for
that they cut back I'm sure on the
investigations because of that because
shortly thereafter they were getting
with them also the investigators they
let me know that I need to judge also to
your point I don't know if you remember
this in 2006 I think was the FBI
released a report that white supremacist
organizations were infiltrating Police
Department's around the country yeah
yeah so so basically what I'm saying is
we are seeing a resurgence of white
supremacy alcohol in all areas of
society just for example even the
Cavanaugh hearing that was literally I
know this makes a little bit crazy but
literally the Cavanaugh hearing was just
programming an engineering society like
look white DDD's white guys they're all
planets you can't prosecutor you know
I'm saying whatever basically what we
need to do is start prosecuting these
guys . we need to start investigating
like for example Dylan roof who when he
talking to he was talking to somebody
online I mean he was radicalized online
too strange because I think there was a
report they talk about how Isis because
radicalized online you know very similar
I mean that's not going to happen under
this administration I mean you know my
point being that the Obama
administration the DOJ and the the DHS
were basically
intimidated
from doing the you know further
investigations which I'm sure would have
involved like you know which would have
involved like getting a sense of what
the networks that these people were and
they were they were intimidated away
from it by a Republican Congress and and
it metastasized I mean the only thing
interesting well I don't know if that's
a you know I know that's the right word
but the the only thing that's
interesting about what's happening now
is that usually we see this resurgence
when Democrats are in power the the
interesting dynamic here is that these
people are ostensibly in power and it is
it is a yeah it is they I think it the
difference is is that because they are
being openly usually they're not oh
they're openly courted when the
Republicans are out of power but the
Republicans are continuing to openly
court them in a way and maybe that's why
we're seeing more of them now but listen
I appreciate the phone call thanks ma'am
thanks for the competition
all right well take one more phone call
and then we'll go to a couple of clips
and then we'll do the the debate you are
calling from a four seven eight area
code who's this where you come from
Sam this is Jeff from Georgia how you
doing today Jeff and George yeah how are
you sir hey man I'm doing fine listen uh
it appears steven crowder has less
masculine for tuesday no literal
diaper-wearing man baby and i think that
that's a sad day for him I think maybe
he should take him up take you up on his
offer I am challenged if he doesn't want
to be expecially endlessly by your
surely I am willing to even send him a
year supply of Pampers if if he does
this I believe he's a Huggies guys Sam
you don't want to do a little bit better
Oppo research I'll do a little bit
Melissa
speaking of that that lizard face to
monkey loose Charlie querque you did a
you have talked to really Georgia do
they I know you're gonna get to it too
the one my favorite partners you're
going to get two courses is when Charlie
starts sputtering about how the feds
under w didn't do it an adequate job
regulating the big banks which i think
is a not a very strong right wing
talking point I think you trip them up
real bad I think I think you I think you
hit me this career and I think think I'm
damn fine party you Sam I think you did
a good job think next time the only
thing that were only reason I'd give you
a b-plus that's cuz it no point did you
throw a banana cream pie with a big old
rock in the middle of his face well that
would have been real kicker me buying
him was we hadn't contemplated buying
him not with the rock but it did did
look like I might get into something
with some of the fans at one point
towards the end there but yeah that that
was genuinely tense I was I like that to
post-divorce debate Sam that's right
don't come at them you can go to you can
go to patreon.com/scishow man I'll give
you all the pointers man I'll have you
throwing pies like nobody's business man
I just wanna tell you welcome back real
proud of you everybody come remember
story poor supported media y'all have to
do now
folks should check out thank you Jeff
folks should check out this in peasant
their Francis his Francis Perkins series
do you know Frances Perkins was from
Worcester no really
she went to the same high school as my
parents did that's cool not
simultaneously because she was
considerably older
are there other any who else is a
prominent yeah Abby Hoffman went to that
same high school classical high school
there you go
you must be fast I'm surprised you
haven't been tapping off in the movie
actually I glad you asked that question
Michael even though it's not a question
more of a state whatever works Robert
Greenwald the guy from the guy who did
the Walmart movie in the in the in the
Fox movie and he made a movie about
Abbie Hoffman that Janeane Garofalo was
in and I auditioned for that movie and
for the part of the reporter and they
ended up using a Canadian actor because
you have to use certain amount of
Canadian actors when you shoot up in
Canada the movie was not great
I like Robert but the movie was not
great movie yeah I mean right it was it
was not great it was okay but it was it
was just a little bit - a little too
biopic II for me now I was a huge Abbie
Hoffman fan and affection Otto
because he was from Worcester my parents
knew him I met him when I was in college
we brought him to speak to the school he
was on tour at that time like around the
time he was touring with Amy Amy Carter
I think so Amy Carter cuz Amy Carter yes
in doing ants okay I just wasn't sure if
it was Amy card it was definitely around
that time it was not in America right
yeah before that well they were doing a
lot of stuff I mean his his big talk and
this was 1987 maybe maybe somewhere
around there and he was saying maybe was
1988 and he was saying that this is like
1968 and it turned out it was not and he
it was a little bit sad and it was
before
or you know it was in the year or so
before he committed suicide and but yes
Abbie Hoffman died I
I was I was upset about the movie
because I wanted to make a Abbie Hoffman
movie and I thought I was pretty well
situated I think today coming from
Wooster particularly now I think that
just his radicalism but also that he was
kind of there was a he was a performer
there was an entertainment aspect I
don't know that much about him but it
feels like he this sort of dirtbag
whatever thing we're doing with comedy
and leftism owes something to him I
definitely and and I think like the
movie the problem I had the movie with
was that it was like it was shot too
traditionally and it did not do service
to what I thought was his energy not
traditional energy yeah I just like like
you know and in the way that I shot
things you know back when I was shooting
things was all more hand held and I got
into video shooting for film I was to
you know give myself a little on the
shoulder on the vanguard of that alright
but I that was a different time and and
now we got a couple of things first off
let's start with this so today we have
reports that I think now close to a half
a dozen no it's a seventh a seventh bomb
now has been sent to a congressional
male facility so George Soros yesterday
Hillary Clinton Barack Obama CNN Eric
Holder apparently Cuomo there's reason
to believe this person is based in New
York because they put the Soros one-eye
they did that hand the hand-delivered it
is my understanding I don't know so
there could be up to seven bombs but the
yesterday yesterday was Soros a bomb in
his mailbox today this morning was this
fox news clip timing not so great but
remember now they're ignoring the fact
that a bomb was put into someone's
mailbox and they're trying to develop a
false equivalence with that bomb
attempted bombing with disrupting a meal
my fear is that intimidation turns to
violence and I agree with what's been
said here both sides need to ramp it
down the glass is now who is this dude
what's the guy's name this guy who was
talking he is on he is on Fox News live
and the the the Chiron is McConnell
defiant after protester disrupts dinner
and this is Brad Blakeman he is the
former deputy assistant to President
George W Bush the restaurant
confrontation McHale defiant after
protest disrupts dinner and I agree with
what's been said here both sides need to
ramp it down the good news is you're
right the vast majority of Americans
don't buy into this well we have some
breaking news now I mean on the loans
along the same vein we've got a
statement from Sarah Sanders on these
suspicious packages roll it guys
Fox is alert now here's the statement
from Sarah Sanders from the White House
a moment ago we condemned the attempted
violent attacks recently made against
President Obama President Clinton's
Secretary Clinton public figures these
terrorizing acts are despicable and
anyone responsible will be held
accountable to the fullest extent of the
law
okay I would you like how first of all
Fox News is comparing getting a dinner
disrupted with someone planting a bomb
and then the despicable Sarah Huckabee
Sanders tries to create an equivalence
between the terror
rising that's happening in the
restaurants the terrorizing and the
delivering of bombs to people's houses
so that is ridiculous the the idea that
you would equate those two things is
really stunning
I mean upset meal and a pipe bomb yeah
but he needs to take a chill pill right
everybody's got to just calm down
you can't disrupt someone's dinner by
being by saying you know not nice things
about nice things that they did right
slash and also while you're disrupting
dinner don't put bombs in people's homes
unbelievable they're setting up for a
crackdown for that actually that is like
fascist Obama it's like so I'm on one
extreme disrupts Mitch McConnell's steak
not another there's pipe bombs being
sent around the country right people on
both sides of this need to calm down
remember we're all in this together
right we've never I remember I mean can
I just for a moment imagine what these
people would be saying with the tea
partiers who would show up at healthcare
town halls with weapons if they would
even deign to do a false equivalence
between that and someone putting a bomb
somewhere like the idea of even bringing
that up would have been how dare you
consider khun's
concerned Americans I remember something
there was a Bill Maher segment where he
talked about this dynamic several years
ago before it even got here and right on
Salam and very like conservative what
about us fashion was mentioned the
Weathermen and Bill Maher looked at him
and he literally was like he's like dude
you weren't even born yet
right like what are you talking about
right that's the equivalent there you go
and to their credit I haven't heard too
many liberals telling activists to stop
disrupting people's dinner no I've heard
a few of them haven't heard
any of them equate the two things no I
don't think so we should uh let's do
this story to four well let's do two uh
clip number one this is this is when CNN
was actually interrupted because it was
revealed while they were in studio
they're reporting on suspicious packages
sent to Clinton and Obama at this point
they did not realize it was these were
explosive devices and then this happens
no longer suspicious packages the FBI is
saying they they were rudimentary but
functional that means they were
explosive devices and to have
projectiles and that's a excuse me that
sounds like a fire alarm here we'll keep
you posted on that but to have
projectiles that that is a feature you
will often see in bombs that terrorists
use in Afghanistan elsewhere Isis has
used that kind of bomb before doesn't
mean it's exclusive just to those kinds
of terrorist groups but that is a
significant development Tom Fuentes if
you're still hearing us here they're
connected now the bombs targeting Soros
Clinton Obama and the White House the
FBI says that they were functional how
significant well it's significant that
there wasn't just a hoax then if the
bombs are capable of exploding they're
capable of
you know inflicting bodily harm or death
on somebody so it's more than just
sending a hoax just to get you know
public attention the equivalent of
pulling a fire alarm like maybe somebody
just did in your building but if it's an
explosive device it's more than just an
idle threat or something to try to get
attention it's an actual device that
could hurt somebody okay we're gonna
jump in there's a fire alarm here you
might have heard in the background we're
gonna find out what the latest is
yeah then we're gonna be right back and
then they went to break and the next
time we heard from them they're out on
the streets because of course that fire
alarm was a function of a bomb being
found at CNN so this is where we're at I
mean it's let's play this clip from Jeff
Flake do you have that
on the on the I am it's right on AIIMS
it's just speaking of false
equivalencies and somebody's showing
their true colors yeah I mean look here
is a here is you know a classic example
of this both sides Jeff Flake who was
actually came into office and the Tea
Party wave as it were and here he is
claiming that there is some type of
equivalency between protestors who have
had no incidents of violence in any
shape or form around politicians or at
these restaurants there has been no
there's been no violence there hasn't
been any arrests to my knowledge
when we're talking about these incidents
with Ted Cruz or Mitch McConnell when
they go to the restaurant there's not
even been an arrest and I suspect that
these they would be happy to call for
the arrest if somebody had they've done
anything that was in any way remotely
violent I don't know I heard some of
them were violently embarrassed yes they
may have been violently embarrassed but
there was no arrest and here is Jeff
Flake trying to create some type of
false equivalence in reaction to the
news of explosive devices mailed to
former President Obama to former
Secretary of State Clinton here's Jeff
Flake obviously is horrible
that's anytime anybody's threatened like
this is not good so there's been a lot
of this going around lately but we've
got to tone down the rhetoric posit I
want to be clear or something I want to
be clear when you send someone a bomb
that's not a threat right it's not a
rhetorical that's not rhetorical that's
not certain actions will happen it is an
action in and of itself the fact that
the bomb didn't go off and kill anybody
does not make it a threat it's still an
attempted bombing
but you roll it back a little bit on
Jeff Flake anytime anybody's threatened
like this is not good so there's been a
lot of this going around lately but
we've got to tone down the rhetoric both
sides see people as opponents but not
enemies yeah both sides gotta tone down
the rhetoric
yeah bombs are rhetoric now yep both
sides of you turn down the rhetoric all
right not afraid to get physical let's
play this last clip the other story of
course in the the news is the Republican
Party's insistence and it's not even
just the Republican Party actually put
up this this DHS thing the this is
pretty stunning the Department of
Homeland Security tweets out here let's
see the the separate ones here first
what the do they do is Department of
Homeland Security Tyler Holton tweets
citizens of countries outside of Central
America including countries in the
Middle East Africa South Asia and
elsewhere are currently traveling
through Mexico toward the US and that is
presumably right like that that almost
sounds like they're coming in that
Caravan coming through Mexico to come to
the US people from the Middle East
Africa and South Asia very dangerous
spots and Sara Sanders Huckabee press
secretary amplifies this message
Department of Homeland Security says
people from the Middle East Africa South
Asia and elsewhere are currently
traveling through Mexico toward the US
needless to say this wouldn't be
happening if the Democrats for once did
their jobs and join Republicans to fully
fund the wall I don't even if there was
a wall guess what these people would be
doing they'd be doing the exact same
thing and it wouldn't prohibit people
from joining them but put that aside the
point is she's just doing this to
emphasize that the Department of
Homeland scare this is not political
folks the Department of Homeland
Security
is telling you that these Outsiders are
traveling ostensibly through this
Caravan well and then reporter Jennifer
Haines asked if this tweet applied to
people in the caravan a DHS official
said quote the tweet speaks for itself
but we cannot release the data due to
law enforcement sensitivities yup gotta
make a favorite sensitivity gotta be
carefully and that tweet specifically
does not say there are people in this
Caravan it simply says that there are
people who are not in who are not
Mexican who are probably traveling
toward the u.s. in Mexico which would be
anybody in Mexico traveling north would
be traveling toward the u.s. not
necessarily heading there as a
destination but the idea that there are
people in Mexico who are not Mexican
seems fairly self-evident and the idea
that over the course of a day they might
face north and take a step also seems to
be unworthy of alarm ladies and
gentlemen pretty amazing the extent in
which they'll use the US official
security apparatus as a low-rent
political operation world war two
inheritance there you go
domestically - except for guess what
we're not at war with Mexico not yet
yeah we're not at war with Mexico Sam I
like to do charlie kirk move that's a
good one
all right lastly before you are aware of
that Kirk's death it is nice to see at
least one individual who is sort of
trying to say reality check here on
cable news and CNN seems to need a
decent amount of this and what's
fascinating about this is you're going
to see
with the problem with with with cable
news and with just news more broadly
when dealing with this type of just
complete lie and this complete hijacking
of US official apparatus in terms of the
way they speak to the public because
this isn't even like this isn't this
almost isn't even propaganda right like
it there's you know you can say in World
War two we put propaganda our own people
and we certainly propaganda our own
people in many ways but it but never has
such an enormous effort made to
propagandize the American public for
such a small goal right like it's one
thing to say like we're gonna
propagandize you because the the greater
mission of of capitalism and national
security and etc etc this is much much
more paty that they're using this
apparatus for I mean talk about lowering
the bar but but here is a CNN pundit
speaking out pretty it's a thousand
miles away a thousand miles go back go
back a little bit we need to just hear a
little bit how they're trying to build
this up before he comes in okay wait a
second mile yeah you were the president
there in the Oval Office such a
different sense of urgency and certainty
to him than when I heard him last night
at that Houston rally when he was you
know essentially saying they were
knocking on the door of the border
that's not true okay wait a second miles
and miles and miles away and the reality
here is one second Jeffrey the reality
that the president is you know trying to
galvanize Republicans and I think it's
working it worked in 2016 and
immigration is a hot-button issue and so
that's what he is trying to do not that
it's not a serious problem needs to be
solved but it's not an urgent problem
like he says it is go ahead Jeffrey it's
a thousand miles away a thousand miles
you know how long it takes to walk a
thousand miles I mean this whole thing
is absurd
it is a completely manufactured you know
appeal to the ugliest sentiments of
trumps coalition the idea that we are
under threat from these poor desperate
people is just absurd and you know the
lies that he keeps telling about who's
in this group with no proof at all I
mean it is just the bottom of the barrel
politics that he's engaged and then
frankly you know I wonder about our
complicity in just talking about this as
if this is some kind of close to
immediate threat but he is the president
of the United States you can't ignore
what the president of United States says
III understand that but you know we can
focus on some things more than others
and and I think you know this
transparent attempt to create a crisis
where none exists I mean yes it is good
that we're calling it out and this is a
struggle that we've had with covering
Donald Trump from the very beginning do
you cover every tweet do you cover you
know every lie I you know I don't have
the answer to that but this one on the
eve of the election is so grotesque that
it just there's something that's that's
even worse about this when you're
talking about it at all but then adding
the lies is just don't believe you know
okay now so all right do what's
fascinating about this is first off I
can tell you that the one thing that you
don't do on cable news if you want to
keep your job is question the premise of
the segment right like that's not like
you can there's no there may be like
hiring decisions that are based on
ideology I don't know I honestly don't
know about that but the only thing I do
know is that they get upset about is
like when you say like what are we doing
here why are we talking about this
that's what everybody then gets really
bummed out that's when they generally
like oh damn it no you're not supposed
to you're not supposed to do that and
and I had a moment like that on a show
that I was never invited back on we were
just talking about it today actually and
it was actually very similar thing was
over the Ebola stuff I was on the al
Sharpton show and Ebola was supposed to
be one
question of like five and the question
was gonna be why Sam are the Republicans
so focused on Ebola and literally before
he goes to me on the screen they show a
helicopter view of the nurse who had
Ebola being transported in an ambulance
to the hospital to the airport and
Sharpton was like why's why are they
covering e-boat why the Republicans keep
talking about Ebola and I'm like well
it's on the screen right now and that's
what you you can't do but the bottom
line is why can't we ignore what the
president says I mean obviously you
can't completely ignore it but once it's
been established that what the president
is saying is completely fabricated and
completely irrelevant you simply say the
president is talking about some caravan
that has nothing to do with American
security today meanwhile blankety-blank
is happening right I mean the media has
to figure this out because it cannot
exclusively be a basically a vehicle for
propaganda that they know is propaganda
and lies know just why is the president
focusing on this it's there's the
polling data that suggests that the
Republican Party is driven by racial
animus there's there's a set there's
multiple ways of sort of covering this
by covering another angle that is more
interesting I mean we're doing that now
in terms of media critique but at the
end of the day I don't care what Donald
Trump is saying other than it speaks
about who the Republican Party is so
then why Ron eclis the guys giving it to
you I mean the Republican on the panel
is basically saying that's good for the
midterm
that's a reporter oh that's a reporter
that's a reportable okay well the
reporter is unintentional
thinks showing the story they're exactly
right but really what you should have is
like a couple other people who are on
I'm like you know let's talk about
demagoguery let's talk about the the
polling that shows how racist these
people are let's talk about this lady in
Minneapolis who thinks that her lake
house is going to be occupied by people
who are thousands of miles away and
charging at her on foot with a
four-year-old on their shoulders well
it's the LBJ make the son of a
deny it thing because you basically
force the media to use their finite
resources of time to even if they're
debunking it they're still talking about
it
yeah but debunking as we were saying is
a hell of a step up and then all wolf
has is he said it he said it he's the
president when you do it it's the
president you have to say it this is one
problem though with these ostensibly
neutral platforms in the mainstream
media which you know aren't totally
neutral but like they do feel an
obligation to try and show both sides
right but like what do you do when one
side is unprintable conspiracy theory
racist garbage I mean that's the thing
it's like how do you how is how do you
prove beyond saying like there are a
thousand miles away they're a caravan of
families who are afraid that's why
they're a caravan so like how do you
prove it beyond having proved it that's
the that is the dilemma and they got it
and then they got a move on
in if they need to talk about it then
you talk about it like you know why is
it happening why is he lie they might
call that bias what we might call
analysis but there's like well there's
no such thing as a neutral news outlet
anyway so maybe they need to own that a
little more because like real talk the
people that they are trying to cover
like they did that profile of identity
Europa the other night like they don't
believe in liberal values like freedom
of speech or news that checks the facts
and they use liberal platforms in
liberal societies
to take over and impose like I don't
want to call them fascists per se but
definitely some fascism like qualities
and it's it's really scary
it is alright let's now we're going to
and so look how do I start this here
yesterday we played the a clip from the
debate that I had with Charlie Kirk at
politican and as we were playing it it
was a TYT recording 20 minutes was
missing and it was 20 minutes in the
middle of the debate and it came in at
about 20 minutes in right about 24 and
so what we're going to do and we were
gonna we were going we're doing
obviously we're playing the the debate
and we're giving a commentary we were
gonna try and stitch it in but then we
realize like wait I'm wearing a
different shirt and so we want to put
this video out there if you in
particular if you are a young person and
you come across Charlie Kirk you should
know that a lot of what he says is not
really sound and we're going through
this debate to show you that it's really
a lot less this debate at least in my
mind there's a lot less about me winning
charlie
beating Charlie kirbo winning a debate
or whatever it is or or murky what is it
Merkin yeah Merkin just go with that
Idol Sam it was really more about giving
folks who are not aware of what he is
selling more insight into this product
being defective and you know maybe some
decent packaging but when you start to
dig into it it's not very substantial
but so here is the middle segment of the
debate and then we'll just run into the
to the beginning of the debate so
forgive us but this is this is what it
is
we're picking up now we're taught
I think about taxes right and and then
we're gonna get into regulations no
you're right so tax cut we're an average
middle-class family had a $2,700 tax cut
where you have the corporate rate that
went from 35% of now I I said in the
other debate and we should also say that
we're speeding it up so that people can
go through this is you know without
spending hours the average tax cut was
$2,700 but the median far less closer to
800 so when you add together the tax
cuts of the millionaires and the
billionaires with the middle class the
average is $2,700
just like if Bill Gates and I were in a
room our average net worth would be
thirty billion dollars but I got to tell
you I did not win the Mega Millions last
night so I don't even have I don't even
have hundreds of millions at this point
but continue a lot of corporations did
not pay that they use loopholes of which
I disagree with completely went down to
20 per 20 percent effective in January
and they use that money to invest in
capital infrastructure or they repay
tree by backs so they using the money
not by not excusing so stock buybacks
how about companies where the actual
employees own the stock and then their
own net worth goes up aren't they part
of middle class I am sure there are some
members of the middle class who
benefited from the start of the tax cut
that's what I'm saying Sam the
overwhelming thrust of the tax cuts goes
in do the wealthiest pockets via either
stock buybacks or through capital gains
or through having an S corp and getting
and paying less in taxes so look we
could cherry-pick things you can say
Illinois I could say the the worst 16
the the lowest 15 states in the country
terms of education are all run by
Republican governors except for
Louisiana which had Bobby Jindal for
eight years up until 2016 but
cherry-picking doesn't work you wouldn't
a lot of things your cherry pick that's
my closet let me just say here now I
don't know if this was appropriate on my
part by cherry-picking in his
organization I think in my mind at the
time I will cop to this I was going to
maybe bring
the fact that his number two for a
couple years at this organization who he
went on to praise and praise and praise
turned out had to be fired only after it
was leaked by someone else that she was
writing all sorts of things that were of
racist sentiment things like I hate
blacks I'm sorry I'm just gonna say it I
 hate blacks or cherry-picking
like you know the Florida division of
his organization which you know had a
private sort of slack or whatsapp saying
you know don't mention Richard Spencer
too much he was a guy who was just
accused of domestic abuse in addition to
being a white supremacist and don't use
the n-word too much and don't and see if
I get this quote don't hate Jews
just because too much so you could
either hate Jews just because a great
qualifications if you had reasons too
much but or that they were kicked off
some campuses because they were
funneling in thousands of dollars of
dark money to influence student
government campaigns so that they could
and also he was caught up in something
where he was intimidating some some
left-wing voices on college campuses I
probably look out Ferguson huh that was
with Niall Ferguson right with now
Ferguson I was fun I probably well I
don't know if I should have brought that
up or not maybe it was wrong of me to
sort of do it in that context but that's
what I was alluding to I just want to
cop to it alright continue the
philosophical difference because I don't
believe when someone gets rich someone
in Harry Potter philosophy but we don't
need to but that data okay but the date
right so the day fight Sam if you want
to talk data and Charlie I'm gonna give
you the last word on this yet but I mean
so again I was thinking maybe because
again you were just talking about
cherry-picking and then you were
cherry-picking and I was trying to talk
about philosophy which is I don't
believe in a zero-sum game I believe in
a market economy when you trade eat both
parties equally get richer when you
trade and standard living those out
prices go down and you have abundance
you have an abundance problem that a
scarcity problem in the West but it's
just I'm trying to maybe maybe I'm
failing to understand how
because the left seems so adamantly
opposed to the policies that have
delivered us a 4.2 percent GDP rate the
lowest ever black unemployment rate the
lowest ever asian-american unemployment
rate the lowest Hispanic unemployment
rate the lowest veterans unemployment
since 2001 a $2,700 average middle-class
tax cut and and the economy is so good
Obama's trying to take credit for it
and so but Sam I can you give some
credence to the idea that when you have
when you when you lessen government
burden you couple that with a massive
deregulation the largest deregulation
agenda in a hundred years is there so is
there are you willing to give an inch to
say that maybe something Trump has done
has benefited the well-being of people
in middle class all right well you keep
repeating the same thing and I keep
explaining it doesn't make it less true
Sam well it makes it I'm explaining to
you why it's irrelevant because yes
there has been a trajectory where we
have seen all the unemployment games
that you've talked about we have seen
stagnant wages that is a fact the buying
power of the middle class is dropped you
talk about rolling back regulations
let's talk about that let's talk about
that I'm glad I want you to name three
regulations that that have been rolled
back that have helped the middle class
and I'll name three that have hurt the
middle class
um how about rolling back Obama's war on
coal okay that has created hundreds of
thousands of jobs throughout Appalachia
and brought down utility costs to over
30 states huh possibly I should probably
let that roll because if you let that be
a drop first of all full-on key change
the the folks who lived in West Virginia
and Appalachia in the audience everyone
started laughing at
Charlie Kirk at that moment you can just
simply go and Google JA coal jobs
created and well almost a million jobs I
actually did J coal and it gave me a
rapper J Cole drew coal jobs created in
the news and you will see that
there is been maybe like somewhere
around 3000 jobs that have been added
with coal across the country I mean
you're still seeing like well you see
this point yes so I think you can see
jobs there was there's a new round this
is from the Tribune review new round of
grants will help coal impacted
communities there's been a hundred and
20 jobs created from that I mean there's
probably you know thousands of coal jobs
maybe that have returned but not
hundreds of thousands but here continue
okay that has created hundreds of
thousands of jobs throughout Appalachia
and brought down utility costs over 30
states yes so so they're laughing in the
front I smile and I'm happy when the
people west virginia actually have jobs
unlike what Hillary Clinton said we're
gonna destroy all your jobs we're gonna
find another way to give you meaning
that's one and also if you go that EPA
agenda there is a specific regulation
under the Obama era that categorized
lakes and tributaries in the backyards
of certain farmers as oil spills that's
number two and number three we walk us
through this by saying you can't jump
yes Sam being condescending about a fact
does not make it any less true so under
the Obama era well wait a second
I'm just asking you walk us through so
how the mapping farmers dumped
pesticides in tributaries okay that's
not what I said they classified lakes
and tributaries in the backyards of
certain farms as oil spills which the
complete miss categorization and abuse
of the Clean Water Act of 1976 so that
was a that was a abuse of power under
what I like to call the employment
prevention date how many jobs do you see
that were created by that well it
definitely saved all these farmers
hundreds of thousands of dollars in
legal cost and the fact that they can
still be operating would you like more
regulation Sam how about one more how
about the thousands of consumer
regulations that were finally rolled
back under the Consumer Financial
Financial Protection Bureau so that we
do not have to go through excessive
amount of regulation to get small
business loans happy to defend that any
single day I'm happy to defend the
deregulatory agenda both Trump against
the excessive regulatory agenda of Obama
so there there's three first off
first off alright so first off let you
start with this Donald Trump has not
roll back that many regulations that's
the reality the rate in which our
regulations have grown has definitely
been slowed he's done about half of new
regulations that Obama and Bush did up
to this point that is true but let's
talk first about the regulation that you
mentioned in terms of the coal-fired
power plants this will cause 3,600
deaths
90,000 cases of asthma 1,700 heart
attacks the expenses associated with
this are in the hundreds of millions of
dollars the mercury and air toxins
rollback will cause 11,000 deaths
annually the asbestos rollbacks
will cost for up to 40,000 annual deaths
the EPA the Trump EPA says that for
every one regulation $1 worth of
regulation that costs an industry or
what not $14 of economic growth are are
generated what's an example of that
lightbulbs for years conservatives were
angry about light bulbs I don't know if
people here old enough to remember this
but the idea that the US government
would require more efficient light bulbs
was the the loss of Liberty in a to a
scope that we can't even imagine what
has happened as consumers have saved
tens of millions of dollars because they
don't have to replace these incandescent
light bulbs we've seen in terms of in
terms of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau save consumers ninety
million dollars worth of bank fees in
the last year the Obama administration
alone paws it for one second this is
incorrect I misspoke it did not save
consumers 90 million dollars worth of
fees save consumers in the last year 900
million dollars over the course of the
life of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau
up until the Trump administration
basically stopped all of its of its it's
investigatory actions its
it's attempts to stop you know mal
factors like Wells Fargo and whatnot it
saved consumers and returned to
consumers thirteen billion dollars
thirteen billion would it be but
continued real quick so I misstated that
number real quick do you think Charlie
mister took that environment the
employment prevention line did he test
that with his mom first I have it a
little bit of like that's a very funny
joke charlie very funny you use that
when you debate that'd be man from Sex
in the City that's a pepper line that's
useful if you're doing like dumb radio
well his whole thing sounded like in
that moment like a campaign speech but
you're right is a little morning zoo too
cuz there was a he else is really I
didn't notice this as much as first but
he's very in the school of like if I'm
wrong or I've said something that just
doesn't sound credible if I raise my
voice and act like the Tenjin act like
I'm no no I will I will double down on
that then that that confidence will
power me through nonsense it also seems
like some capitalists might be sneaking
into the nebulous middle-class category
when he talks about the people who own
farms and businesses right all right
let's let him go the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau saved consumers ninety
million dollars worth of bank fees in
the last year the Obama administration
alone one there has not been one
enforcement action since the Trump
administration has taken over so what's
the CFPB budget what is the budget
it is completely funded by fees that
they get from the bank not one okay so
so forcibly take money away from the
people that are depositor and then say
that they're saving ninety million
dollars of fees on the back that's not
the way it works deposit for one second
so the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau was set up in a way that would
inoculate it from a a Republican house
or let's say a democratic house that was
in some way hostile to it but it is
clearly was set up to of
avoid pressure from politicians because
it is self funding its funds its
operational funds come from fees it
collects from banks but then Charlie has
a problem that cuz he thinks that's
unconstitutional because Congress can't
defund it but here when you deposit your
money so so the famous make money by
people putting money in how's it you got
to go back here because this is also
really important for people to
understand Charlie does not seem to
understand how banks make money or he
assumes that depositors would have to
pay these fees to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau but when you deposit
money they may charge you some bank fees
your checking account maybe you get a
free checking account maybe you get an
ATM fee or whatnot Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau actually also cap
those but I think the Republicans rolled
that back but so you get fees for
putting your money in there but these
are not fees that are associated with
their fees to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau the bank doesn't take
your money to pay these fees they have
to pay it out of their profits you are
aware that the money in the bank doesn't
just sit there SAP well here we go yeah
we're bank fees in the last year the
Obama administration alone one there has
not been one enforcement action since
the Trump administration is taken over
so what's the CFPB budget what is the
budget
it is completely funded by fees that
they get from the bank not one okay so
so forcibly take money away from the
people that are depositor and then say
that they're saving ninety million
dollars of fees on the back that's not
the way it works
no when you deposit your money so so the
banks make money by people putting money
in it and then they borrow it out so
those are depositors so you're taxing
the depositors that then put on the back
end of the government agency that is run
in a the CFPB sure can be completely
abolished it's an unconstitutional
agency and it's used as a weapon bankers
do not loan out their depositors money
exclusively that's why you have capital
controls they
exclusively that is one form and
function of a bank but it goes back to
you
well obviously goes back to you know
most the money in your bank section out
in there Sam you know that right okay
that that's the way a bank works so you
have the FDIC that insurance it up to a
certain amount but that money is
probably somewhere else in the economy
on loan or on lien to somewhere else to
try to make the bank money so when
you're taxing the bank to try to fund
the CFPB you're actually taxing the
depositors you're you are you're taxing
the money within the bank the bank isn't
comprar comprise the people that put the
money in the bank
no you're taxing the profits they make
off of their land they make so so let's
talk about banking so first of all they
make money off okay with regulation they
make they make money they make money off
of most of the money that banks used to
make until dodd-frank was off lending to
small businesses and local communities
about dodd-frank completely obliterated
the idea of the local community bank we
have seen a sharp decline in community
banks we have not seen a sharp degree
happen to community banks unless you
look over the past thirty years where we
have seen a precipitous decline of those
banks because of mergers and
acquisitions right so we simply thought
I will repeat myself because it's
correct since 2010 the financial crisis
dodd-frank was a weapon used against
small community banks that has hundreds
of millions of dollars of regulation
that put on small and local community
makes you know who loves God Frank you
know who's lobbying against the repeal
of dodd-frank something that you and I
can agree with government Sachs I mean
Goldman Sachs which completely owned the
the Treasury Department in both
administrations by the way whether be
the Bush administration the Obama
administration of the Trump
administration government Sachs has an
inside-out access to our to the Treasury
Department they are lobbying against a
repeal of dodd-frank now why would that
possibly be because dodd-frank is used
as a hedge against small and community
banks to protect the Wells Fargo's of
the world the JPMorgan Chase's and the
goldman sachs and so they use regular
use in calling for a 21st century
glass-steagall Act we can deal with
government we can deal with government I
would I would actually use I think we
should get rid of the carried interest
deduction I think you and I could have
caused it now that's now listen this is
sort of stunning I will join you in
supporting another thing that will
massively benefit well no no the carried
interest deduction is is something that
we should be repealing it is so
completely
far afield from the glass-steagall that
that moment I realized he doesn't know
any of what I'm talking about
I don't think he knows what a 21st
century glass-steagall was I'm not even
convinced that he knows what the
original glass-steagall was so Charlie
if you're listening I'm going to tell
you right now and you can obviously look
this up but glass-steagall was a law
that was put in place following the the
crash of the banks in the Great
Depression and basically what it does
doesn't it the original didn't do
exactly this but the but it but it would
do more or less this it constrained
commercial banks from joining with
investment banks so that commercial
banks where people have their money
invested was not subject to the same
risks that an investment bank would take
because if a commercial bank goes under
a big one a lot of people lose their
money I mean your your inch federally
insured and that came in after the Great
Depression up to $250,000 but you are
all that money can be wiped out put it
not only a big strain on the the
government of course but on all sorts of
businesses that have more than $250,000
maybe in the accounts and so the idea is
separate these two things so that these
banks won't be too big to fail that
their failure will not bring down the
entire economy and that more speculative
business will be separated from the more
conventional vanilla business the
carried interest loophole has nothing to
do with commercial banks or investment
banks it has to do with hedge fund
managers and hedge fund managers what
they do this private equity they go out
and they get a bunch of rich people and
they say let me manage your money we'll
go and we'll do maybe venture capital or
we'll make some bets against other
companies whatever this is what a hedge
fund of hedge funds do all sorts of
different things but the managers of
these hedge funds escape
paying taxes on the money they make by
claiming that even though all they're
doing is managing other people's money
that it's like their money and so they
get so the so all right let's say I'm
managing 500 million dollars and I take
1% of what I'm managing and what I earn
and I am taking capital gains as if I
have invested money but I'm not
investing money I'm just managing that
money and that's the capital that's the
carried interest loophole they call it
carried interest because they want to
make up a name that makes it sound like
I'm just a financial advisor and I'm
don't need to be taxed on that money at
a at a wage rate I want to be taxed on
at a capital gains rate because it's
much lower I'm glad he's for getting rid
of the cat the carried interest loophole
but it has absolutely nothing to do with
what we were talking about which leads
me to believe is no any of what we were
talking about I mean it literally is the
equivalent of saying like I'm gonna open
up a dog kennel well I'm against opening
up a table kennel but I do like cats
sort of like talking to a bot online
it's weird yeah but government's acts
that's my son boom ah I can do it's
completely different from what I've done
well it's actually it's a component of
what no any people on your safe no I
will not join you in a 21st century
glass-steagall I know why all right hold
on guys
I want if you want to cut down on the
power of the big banks why wouldn't you
well okay so you would if you're sincere
why would walk me through what one home
that would actually cut in to the size
and the power of those banks because it
wouldn't do that because every single
time you try to penalize the power of
Wall Street every single time you try to
use government to go after the people to
have the power the exact opposite
happens pause oligarchic let me give you
a great example of when that didn't
happen after the Great Depression and
for the subsequent 65 years that we had
that regime it was only after the
Clinton administration when we had a
Republican Congress and Senate and a
president who was
extremely close to the banking industry
in fact his Treasury secretary was guy
named Robert Rubin
who wanted to get rid of glass-steagall
so that the Citibank could merge with
travelers and they did and they became
Citigroup and then Robert Rubin left the
government and became a very handsomely
paid vice president of if you can
believe it
Citigroup because every single time you
try to penalize the power of Wall Street
every single time you try to use
government to go after the people to
have the power the exact opposite
happens you have an oligarchy a class
that is created around Washington DC and
the biggest companies get more powerful
and it and it totally pushes out compa
to mention the financial crisis the
financial crisis let's talk about
product of the rollback of
glass-steagall get that covering the
Clinton in correctly I'll let you take
it
do your case of why you think 2008
happened and I'll tell you what really
happened well I do have talking point it
was not the cause of 2008 of the initial
crisis it was the cause of the severity
of the crisis because we allowed
commercial banks and investor banks to
commend commingle and they were too big
to fail and it almost pulled our entire
financial system under and so you
returned to a day which existed 396
where these banks cannot commingle if
one of them fails it's a problem but
it's not one that is going to throw our
entire economy into jeopardy that is why
the debt increased during Obama years
because the economy fell off a cliff and
so if you want to diminish the power of
Goldman Sachs and of Citibank and Wells
Fargo and we can agree on this let's
call for a 21st century glass-steagall
Act we can do something bipartisan this
will be great and we can actually
diminish the power of these banks so I I
will say there you'd actually find more
you find more acceptance that argument
me than most people because I think
there was there is some merit to the
argument that the repeal of
glass-steagall did open up the reckless
behavior of banks however I would say it
played in talking about 2008 it did not
it was not the primary factor in or the
secondary factor of why that financial
crisis was created it was first and
foremost Fannie and Freddie which is a
government-sponsored you see that like
actually the in and I knew the reason
why I knew what he was going to say is
because this was the major talking point
that came out of the
financial crisis if you go back you can
see I'm mouthing the words Fannie Mae
because this was the talking point and
that's what Charlie has he has talking
points and the the you you can go I mean
this it gets very weedy but as you know
the financial crisis was a function of
mortgages being issued willy-nilly to
people to people who did not have any
financial savvy in some instances
depending on the region to pay people
were taking out two or three mortgages
and flipping houses now none of these
people did it to lose money right so
they didn't really know what they were
doing when you go to a bank there's a
reason why they call them loan officers
is because they have a fiduciary
responsibility to make sure that you the
client are worthy of loaning to that is
their responsibility that is why their
banks get licensed many instances that
didn't happen mortgage industry was set
up to and what would happen is I would I
would make a bad loan to somebody I
would sell that loan and there became a
a secondary and a tertiary and in some
instances like a fourth level market for
these mortgages to be combined together
as these financial instruments and
paying off and paying out dividends
these are derivatives and then there
were derivatives on those derivatives
side bets essentially that they're going
to fail or go up almost like insurance
hedges and the problem is is that
everybody assumed that these mortgages
were good because there were three
private rating agencies Moody's Standard
& Poor and one other I can't remember
what it is and they issued them all
Triple A because of the relationship
that they had with these investment
banks the investment banks would hire
them to rate their own product that they
were selling and of course if you wanted
to get higher again you raid it well
that was a huge mistake about three or
four years into this somewhere in
like two thousand five or six Fannie Mae
which had not engaged in buying these
derivative mortgages got pressure to do
so because they were leaving a lot of
money on the table and they were a quasi
governmental agency not fully
governmental but quasi and so there was
a lot of pressure for them to make money
when everybody's making money hand over
fist they got into it very late so they
were not the cause of this this was all
happening everywhere it's just at the
end they ended up holding a lot of this
stuff not they weren't the only one
Lehman's went under bear stearns goldman
sachs had to be completely bailed out
there were others and so chase Citibank
so Fannie Mae was definitely a player
but they were no way deprive the
approximate cause it was just there was
a huge real-estate bubble and when it
burst everything fell apart because of
the the interconnectedness of everything
we can have a bursting real-estate
bubble but unless there is like this
ongoing interconnectedness it's not
going to threaten the economy like this
1000 you raise some interesting points
Sam however you you think we should pay
exorbitant fees I think that capitalists
take risks and that's a good piece the
good thing for people and they come out
of these banks so I will say there you'd
actually find more you find more
acceptance that argument me than most
people because I think there was there
is some merit to the argument that the
repeal of glass-steagall did open up the
reckless behavior of banks however I
would say it played in talking about
2008 it did not it was not the primary
factor in or the secondary factor of why
that financial crisis was created it was
first and foremost Fannie and Freddie
which is a government-sponsored
institution that has yet to be held
accountable that has never showed their
books to the taxpayers triple-a bond
rating crap triple-a bond rating
mortgages where people had FICO credit
scores that were beyond death that had
meeting income around $35,000 a year
never actually visiting the houses that
were they were giving the mortgages to
it was B & B minus loans that they were
looping together with triple-a bond
rating and they were in bed with the
rating agency so I think salmon I would
agree that there was there was
widespread collusion Fannie and Freddie
is not Wall Street it is a government
institution that's that Congress
sanctioned has yet to be wholly
they are aunt patty all right I mean
it's a government it's a quasi
government form to put its enough
but Fannie and Freddie entered into that
subprime market four years after all the
major banks though right Levite but you
were in high school at same time I can
finish III I paid attention to this now
I finish the point well are you to argue
party gave bad loans we need regulation
so they uphold their fiduciary
okay so let's I want if I'm going to
finish the point on the financial crisis
you couple that I only get to trade and
okay after that the Community
Reinvestment Act which incentivizes
these banks to give loans to low-income
communities the Community Reinvestment
Act you can read the actual language of
the bill had quotas for banks over a
certain level to give these loans out
you triple that with Alan Greenspan
artificially lowing interest rates after
9/11 so you had cheap money flowing all
around and all of a sudden people said
oh you can't question in the housing
market it's as stable as can be when you
looked at the mortgages that Fannie and
Freddie were triple-a rating a
government agency the banks were
treating the base rate exam the ratings
were by three C's that were not
government agencies AM movie and Freddie
the banks were trading off the
confidence that Fannie and Freddie gave
them because that because they said on
with Fannie and Freddie is trading it oh
my goodness we could trade it so then
goldman sachs never actually looked
through the mortgages because they were
first of course they were incentivized
to do it there the chief money from the
government and finally they had the
confidence in the conviction which was
all false by a government agency to
trade on these loans the destabilize our
economy now the baker is net lively as
Wells Fargo's executives that lied they
should be in prison you wouldn't agree
on that if there was a if there was a
scroll underneath here it would be
really embarrassing for you because
everyone who knows anything about
banking knows that there were three
rating agencies their names were not
Fannie Mae and not Freddie Mac I never
said the rating agency they were trading
them as triple-a bond rating and they
they were separated them they were rated
by the three rating agencies right
are those agencies government agencies
or what if Fannie and Freddie issue
yesterday JP Morgan a are not
governments that's right they're
independently governed hold on who is
supposed to regulate them Sam hold on a
second who is supposed to regulate them
did the SEC do their job in regulating
them no heart of God I thought the SEC
say if you're fighting the biggest
government failure of the modern era the
SCC that has a thirty billion dollar
budget every single year did not even
walk into these rating agency and say
show me these mortgages show me the FICO
scores show me how their eighteen
Harling dodd-frank if you're arguing
that regulators were not on the ball you
and I agree there should be stricter I'm
arguing that's what happens when you
continue to add these late
and layers of elation so and then you
blame capitalism for it like oh you have
all these regulators that are that used
to work at Goldman they used to work at
Credit Suisse they used to work at Wells
Fargo they go work for Fannie and
Freddie they go work for the regulations
they say oh you know just a failure of
capitalism despite government to play
behind you stand you the failure of
regulation to regulate the capitalist
who who gambled with with money that was
putting our entire economy in jeopardy
the failure of those regulators to do
their job the answer to that is to have
no regulation and just let it be
complete Wireless so I know first of all
dodd-frank does the exact opposite of it
number one number two the dodd-frank try
to reverse those 3 H Sam I'm sorry I'm
so glad you guys know the solution is
the solution is we should have let the
banks fail and make them pay a price for
gambling with our money that's the
solution because they won't do it again
Sam if you bail them out and you give
the Wall Street executives huge bonuses
and they and the one the well fargo
executives should be in prison you and i
agree with that examples are money now
this is I mean it's interesting because
I mean he's very adamant about this and
I certainly would have had no problem
with allowing these banks to fail to a
certain extent
certainly we came and and bailed out
these banks and so what we should have
done there is a middle ground between
this we can let them fail and everybody
suffers because there's no cash that you
can take out of your your ATM machine
just doesn't work at that point I had a
friend who was working at the Citibank
at the time and she had told her husband
take all the cash out you can of the
bank and you know within a 24 but she
was very concerned there's another way
that you could have done this you could
have bailed out these banks and just
said we just bailed you out let me tell
you what happens in the so-called market
when someone bails someone else out you
know what that's called it's calling it
coming in and buying a company and the
US government should have ended up
owning every dollar for dollar in fact
they should have gotten a good deal
should have been like we should probably
done two-for-one every dollar the US
government had to pump into these banks
should have come back with equity
that's definitely what Bernie would have
done III think I think so and it's
certainly what I think was Iceland did
Sweden I don't know if Sweden did but I
think I did it back in the day Iceland -
yeah Iceland did it during the financial
crisis and we should have nationalized
these banks nationalize the banks that
we needed to make sure that the system
didn't fall apart let the ones that
could die die and move on and now if it
was up to Charlie all these banks would
have gone under and I don't know what
would have occurred then we would have
had a massive massive meltdown of our
financial system because it was allowed
to metastasize without being treated you
know it's not your literally your money
in the ATM Sam you don't put it in the
machine Sam you know that there's not
actually a person inside the ATM
dispensing money you know they don't
take a $10 bill from your bank
now he's about to talk about how the
Wells Fargo's Wells Fargo and there was
a lot of these people there was a lot of
people who really abused the system
people who foreclosed on people on
purpose people who ran up these huge
things there was a company called
countrywide I want you two to google
that and countrywide I think was bought
by Bank of America and if I'm not
mistaken the that Bank countrywide had
to pay I think almost a hundred million
dollars worth of oh it was uh it was one
West I'm sorry it was one West and they
had to pay at least a hundred million
dollars in fines for what they did
during this period of time and its CEO
was a guy named unka oh I know who it
was he was he was a guy named Steve
minuchin who Donald Trump hired to be
Treasury secretary continued but you
don't have any worse you don't have
punishment they're going to do it again
yes I agree there's if you don't punish
them they'll do it again or if you let
them have the regulatory space to do it
again they'll do it again no so that's
what you're not disagree
it wasn't the regulatory space it was
fannie and
Fredi that paved the way they were the
ones that were they were the number one
district distributor falsely labeled
triple-a bonds they never actually saw
the mortgages they were trading you pay
me and Freddie to this day have never
opened their books we fund them and they
ever open their but we do not listen the
bottom line is the reason why we had
such a severe crisis was because of the
relationship between the commercial
banks and the investment banks Fannie
and Freddie bought those mortgages from
those banks four years after the run
started I agree with you that you have
some of the elements correct you don't
understand the role of Fannie and
Freddie in that crisis but it's largely
irrelevant to the point I'm making which
is the crisis was as severe as it was
because we rescinded glass-steagall
under a Democratic president and a
Republican Congress we could go back and
we could today we could reinstate
institute it and say the bank's a guy
like scooter-cide I really think there's
some merit be in jail stop I'm not
pretty hard to say personally but I
think we're we could agree where Sam and
I agrees there's something fundamentally
wrong that somehow a prerequisite around
the Treasury Department is working at
goldman sachs there's something wrong
with that and that's just cronyism steve
minuchin did not work oh he did work at
goldman sachs and then he went to one
west and basically committed such
measure of crimes that had Kamala Harris
been on top of it in California and
listen to her subordinates Steve
minuchin might have been indicted of
course none of these US attorneys were
indicted anybody and that was also a
function of Eric Holder and that's a
whole nother story where he could have
gone to but he didn't because Steve
minuchin is his daddy's daddy
essentially just about 45 seconds okay
let's just not capital is no sample so
that's what happens when you lock
capitalism I would completely untold
when you have corporations gain so much
money and power okay they're too big and
we need to make them small I had four
seconds of an agreement moment so I want
you all to remember how does the market
for that how does the market make these
entities that have too much power
smaller competition
because because you know why who's
keeping someone from competing with
Amazon so I go on at that point to talk
about the idea of like you know you can
go and attempt to challenge Amazon or
challenge Google or challenge one of
these banks but the fact of the matter
is because glass-steagall particularly
in the context the bank because
glass-steagall was was repealed there
were banks that were situated to become
behemoths that basically can now close
everyone out of the system so if you're
really concerned about the aggregation
of power you need to return to an
antitrust regime that predates the
Reagan administration when these
companies whether they were
telecommunications or banks or whatnot
we're not allowed to buy up other ones
and become so huge and you know the one
thing I will say and and then this video
will combine with the rest of this
debate is that if I take Charlie as
being sincere on some of these things
that he does have a problem with the
consolidation of power and if I take him
seriously on these things that he's
sincere about him I think that you know
as he learns more about this stuff if he
really does try to that like I say this
guy may end up not doing the exactly
what he's doing today but maybe that's
being a little bit too hopeful all right
so who's why away from my Charlie if
you're watching on YouTube we're gonna
just roll into the beginning of the
debate and folks sadly
I'm out of time it is to 36 we didn't do
I didn't do time management in the way I
want to and we've got 15 people holding
on line let me just take one quick phone
call you're calling from a 509 area code
who's this where you call them from
Oh blast them alright uh folks I
apologize
we'll be back well Michael be here
tomorrow and then of course we'll be
here on Friday until then see you later
in that it goes to get
[Music]
I'm gonna get
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
when the choice is made so the option
where you don't get paid
[Music]
break I guess fell off sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
stay
[Music]
