[Music]
- you know we'll have one segment labor
later where we'll give you know
Elizabeth Warren some credit but I
really did have a problem with this
tweet so and it's part of a larger you
know because you know as is Warren
strategy you know this isn't just a
tweet she put out a medium post where
she's framing the climate crisis in
terms of Pentagon strategy and she's
definitely noting that look the
Pentagon's reliance on fossil fuel does
make Pentagon operations more dangerous
in terms of transportation of fuel in
terms of refueling in terms of emergency
response so she said today I am
introducing my defense climate
resiliency and readiness act to harden
the US military against the threat posed
by climate change and to leverage its
huge energy footprint as part of our
climate solution senior and military
leaders have warned Congress of the
national security challenge that the
climate change poses the military is
taking steps to become more energy
efficient and resilient but instead of
meeting this threat head-on Washington
is ignoring it making it worse I think
just one more tweet is there one more
tweet above yes so this climate it's
real and it's worsening guys this is her
first tweet and it's undermining our
military readiness more and more as
accomplishing the mission depends on our
ability to continue operation in the
face of flood droughts wildfires desert
of desert desert off' occation i'm sorry
i cannot pronounce that word and right
now an extreme cold so here's my problem
one it's objectively true that the
Pentagon as a DC bureaucracy is both
massively and definitionally wasteful
and harmful to the planet right
operating a global us a global Empire of
any sort leaves a huge equal ecological
footprint then there's also the
ecological footprint of you know
munitia
being exploded across the world the
ecological footprint of everything from
drone warfare in Somalia Pakistan Yemen
ongoing military conflict and refueling
in Afghanistan look at what we have done
to the ecology of Pakistan rafia Zakaria
writes about this down to the fact that
a place like Vieques in Puerto Rico
under ongoing colonial occupation is
still recovering from being used as a US
military test tube so I do have a moral
objection to this and I think there is a
central contradiction between a serious
climate strategy and the frame of
hardening u.s. military capacity now
conversely the US military has been well
well ahead of other branches of
government in moving forward on
efficiency and recognizing the threat
the climate change poses the muted
pentagon going back to the Bush
administration would have pentagon
reports where they would note the
security challenges of climate even as
you had in practice a full-on climate
denying administration and that's why
people like Thomas Friedman when they
were doing their muscular green but dot
green let's call a geostrategic
capitalist patriotic we're always
talking about the Pentagon as the sort
of vehicle now the third component is
there's no doubt that the Pentagon has
always been a massive source of R&D
that's where the government spends we
starve other sectors but we spend a huge
amount on the military and that money
goes to state funding and the Pentagon
it goes to huge systems of contractors
and there's a massive amount of
double-dealing and corruption there um
and sometimes those innovations as we
know of filter out into society the
internet right pretty big stuff but I
think we're gonna need to question
whether we want that relationship to
continue now
in conjunction with this Elizabeth
Warren is also proposing some very good
stuff on dealing with the corruption
issues in the military you know
appropriations process and she's of
course rightly calling out Trump's new
defense secretary Shaheen is a defense
contractor the classic double-dealing
swamped corruption of Washington which
again this is the stuff where the Trump
administration looks very similar to the
Reagan administration the Clinton
administration and so on but this is
also in light of the fact that with
regards to Warren's record there is a
disturbing consistency of a gap between
her global view and her domestic view
and also as she frames these issues they
actually matter
I want Bernie to go further but Bernie
says we need to take on the
military-industrial complex
I saw him say that in Brooklyn
Bernie has opposed intervention and
Venezuela Warren has not Bernie was
willing to criticize modestly Israel
while Warren was defending even the 2014
onslaught and mass killing in Gaza where
a UN school was shelled a behavior that
was so atrocious and abominable that
even Joe Scarborough criticized it and I
want to point out and we're shrinking
here if we go back for the whole career
I'm sure you know Sanders has voted and
protected military programs and defense
allocations I would disagree with and
you know conflicts that maybe in
retrospect were wrong like the bombing
of Serbia that's fine
be criticized that having an honest
conversation I think the comments that
Sanders made about drones in 2016 were
wrong
pretty goddamn dreary in fact again none
of them including Tulsi Gabbard have
said anything clear and strong about a
radical change in drone warfare and I
have to say on the basis of who has the
best advisors and people think most
seriously about
this is definitely Sanders who would
theoretically guess the closest there
but he hasn't said it yet but he has
been the one who's talked about cutting
US military spending and most
importantly in the Trump era he's been
the only one who's done it and we should
have put this on screen but I have it I
mean this is a basic graph this is in
the Trump era in 2017 in fact the Senate
passed a military spending allocation
that was larger than what Trump asked
for presided over by John McCain who was
still head of the Armed Services
Committee Warren voted for that in fact
here's the 2017 budget 218 billion
dollars for military spending Sanders
voted no in 2000 2017-2018 695 billion
Sanders voted no 2019 717 717 billion
Sanders voted no so Sanders has voted
against all three Trump military budgets
now let's go I think it will be of a
surprise to no one or that Gillibrand
has voted for one of these budgets that
Harris has voted for these budgets that
Klobuchar has voted for all three of
these budgets that bethe O'Rourke has
voted for all three of these budgets
that Cory Booker has voted for all three
of these budgets but I want to point out
to that might surprise people so let's
start with tulsi gabbard
know again I've been giving her a lot of
credit great position being clear and
firm against intervention and us c'mon
green of Venezuela
well Tulsi Gabbard voted the right way
in 2017 and 2018 she voted no on both of
those she voted yes in 2019 on a 717
million dollar budget these figures do
come they come from veterans for Sanders
but these are sources gov track us now
Elizabeth Warren did the the opposite
path she voted no on 2019 717 billion
but
voted yes in 2018 on 695 billion and she
voted yes in 2017 on 218 billion and I
really fear that this frame along of
course with her inability to say
anything about Latin America her I mean
to put a generously total lack of
clarity on Venezuela her very late in
the game sort of moved to even slightly
moderately criticized Israel uh as well
as when he also put in the fact that
Bernie Sanders was the only member of
the entire Democratic caucus to vote
against new sanctions against Iran now
to Warren's credit again she's
co-sponsoring little Udall bill that's
being put forward to stop the Pompeo the
Trump administration Pompeo Bolton March
to war with Iran but these are seriously
uneven things in her record and they're
serious problems and to me you can't
look at a u.s. global footprint as an
afterthought you can think about this
stuff you have the luxury in the United
States of thinking about what we do you
know in Honduras not at all you have
less of a luxury about it Iran but in
any scenario you are impacting people
and it's clear to me that there's only
one candidate who is far from perfect on
these issues but as even the beginnings
of a sketch as well as the advisers who
at least are taking seriously the
relentless impact the lives the cost of
a u.s. global footprint like this and so
it's not okay with me to go for the sort
of superficially appealing tactic of
enlisting this machine in a climate
argument when the overall impact of this
machine is both again fundamentally
incompatible with dealing with the
climate crisis in terms of the raw
amount of uses that resources that even
a more efficient Pentagon with you
as well as the human global footprint of
what the US military actually does
whether we're talking about Afghanistan
or Puerto Rico and again Elizabeth
Warren obviously great on many areas of
domestic policy definitely my second
choice but the idea that we're gonna
have this whole conversation that I
think by the way is already especially
this early in the game this the Wong
curry does not matter as much as people
want it to matter but if you're not
gonna can if you're not going to include
in that a global analysis of how we are
actually functioning in the world you
have a radically narcissistic us-centric
view which I fundamentally object to and
this reifying of us Empire in service of
even a noble end is fundamentally
undermining of the actual confrontation
that we are going to need to have both
for planetary survival but also for a
far more humane in just order because
you know you frankly you can't be
closing down tax shelters while still
presiding over global fleets and every
continent and killing you know civilians
and unregistered drone wars so that's a
problem
