so Kristen Nielsen is she is really
full-time project of trying to
rehabilitate herself I think the best
case scenario for her should be she gets
on Dancing with stars and then the other
the other version should be that she
just she's done professionally unless
she goes into some type of like I think
she should be working for some
organization that's trying to help
immigrant children or maybe she just
dedicates her life to finding those kids
who are in the foster care system now
and now appear to be potentially
permanently separated kidnapped from
their parents but here she is on the
fortunes most powerful women forum there
was a policy change at DOJ that was
called zero tolerance that said now
everyone crossing the southern border
would be prosecuted in order to do that
they needed children separated from
their parents so parents could be
prosecuted in your role as the head of
Homeland Security you had to allow for
your agents to separate children from
their family you made that decision in
the spring of 2018 I'm asking you if you
regret making that decision
I don't regret enforcing the law because
I took an oath to do that as did
everybody at the Department of Homeland
Security we don't make the laws we ask
Congress to change the law Congress
reviewed the lawn 2006 and decided to
continue to make it illegal to cross in
that manner what I do wish had worked a
lot better is that the coordination and
information flow were simply
insufficient for that number of people
coming it's heartbreaking that any
family felt at any time that they had to
cross the border illegally this is a
terrible dangerous journey it's terrible
so what I regret is that we haven't
solved it and what I regret is
that information flow and coordination
to quickly reunite the families was
clearly not in place and that's why the
practice was stopped through an
executive order she's a psychopath yeah
I mean I was just following orders
and then also there was some measure of
incompetence that had nothing to do with
me
you know there the Ryan boiler had an
interesting comment about Bill Taylor
who is this career diplomat who if you
look at the timeline and just the
context of his opening testimony here's
a guy who was brought in from the
outside
these are career diplomats they are not
partisan I think this guy was first
appointed to the diplomatic corps by
George W Bush and he's brought in he's
watching what's going on he realizes in
part of the process like oh my god this
is totally messed up and he ultimately
thinks that he's corrected it now it's
clear in the text exchanges that he's
thinking that these texts are going to
be subpoenaed
but and it ultimately resolves itself
the the fact that the money the defense
funds were held up gets reported and the
the administration basically goes on to
who knows Plan C or D or whatever it is
but this the the paradigm of a
government official who gets into these
positions realizes what they're doing is
really messed up thinks that they can
fix it you know that that like I can
maintain I can make sure that this does
not go off the rails out of a sense of
like not loyalty to the to the president
but loyalty to the country like this
I can I can salvage this right like you
know the story that people used to tell
about mattes and the gut in the generals
right like well I'm keeping them from
the nuclear you know a button or
whatever it is and and and so therefore
do not blow the whistle when the
scandals revealed they'll come in and
they'll testify I like this obviously
they've done that
Kristen Nielsen is not that person she
is not that she is not that type of
player there is no indication that at
any time she tried to do anything other
than to fully execute these really
inhumane directives that were coming
from the DOJ
and to let her pretend otherwise would
be criminal and kudos to the folks at
credo I've advertised on the show in the
past they've been a sponsor years ago
I've had credo people on prior to that
to talk about their political action
here is the credo action co-director
Heidi Heidi has protesting this Nielson
appearance is part of their you know her
her program to you know rebrand herself
fortune
why don't you let her stay why don't you
go someplace else why don't you John let
her say why don't you Joe he's just her
she's just here trying to have some
accountability
why don't you just let her stay don't
touch me I'm not touching you
Hillary Clinton and dreaming
nice good for her good for her some of
those kidnap children will never see
their parents again it's just it's
unbelievable it's unbelievable and at
the very least by holding publicly these
people to account there's you know maybe
we'll see some type of hopefully with
the next president some some
accountability and some ability to
reunite the these kids it's it's it's
sick
