before you start to think that somehow
Fox News viewers are getting the truth
because Shep Smith and Chris Wallace
were fact-checking
I guess if you could call it president
Trump's oval office address last night
the next morning as these Fox viewers
wake up and they can just tell
themselves oh it all must have been a
bad dream because here is what's your
name Ainsley Earhardt Ashley Ainsley her
name is Ashley Ainsley is it Ashley
that is how I prefer to think of her
their heart I like how there's seams
here error are your heart
she basically convinces those Fox
viewers like what you heard last night
contrary to that in any way refuted what
President Trump said was just a bad
dream let me tell you the the real not
so much truth oh sure these things
really hit home when you think about how
hard you work your waking up this
morning you're trying to put food on the
table you're going to work many people
go to jobs that they don't like and then
you look at the numbers you're spending
about $80,000 a little more than $80,000
over the course of one of those illegals
lifetime to keep them here in the United
States you are paying for them and
you're working hard to pay for them then
you look at the numbers of people doing
alien stuff that's not true first of all
those numbers not true 80,000 per
undocumented immigrant that is just
simply not true
and the the number the number to you as
an individual that it would even cost
you even if that was true eighty
thousand dollars would be pennies and
the billions of dollars actually that
you're spending on things like ice and a
would be wall would dwarf that number
remember undocumented immigrants if
they're here the way that they're
feeding themselves is by working and if
they're working they're kicking in to
Social Security unless their employers
are ripping them off but it's very pause
well if they're if they're posing is as
as citizens they're kicking into Social
Security but guess what they're never
gonna get the money back
can you guess what organization that
$80,000 number comes from is it there
and and and I'm sure it's been debunked
but it's just a they've just picked up a
number I mean that's basically I put
good Hank for them
and you're working hard to pay for them
then you look at the numbers of people
that are doing illegal drugs here a lot
of the illegal drugs are coming from the
southern border and the president
highlighted that way and then to the
extent that there are any drugs coming
from the southern border they are coming
through ports of entry every single
organization that works in terms of
drugs says that the vast majority eighty
to ninety percent of drugs that are
smuggled into this country enter in at a
legal port of entry they just can't find
them in the cars or they're built into
or there you know in the the cargo of
the plane or somebody's wearing the
drugs or whatever it is that's the way
they come in they don't come in like in
this big caravan in the middle of the
desert that's a little bit more explicit
but these are sophisticated operations
little drugs are coming from the
southern border and the president
highlighted that last night and then you
hear him talk about he said something he
said imagine if this were your child
that were killed by an illegal alien
because we hear Kate Steinle parents we
heard the parents of the fire chief
parents that were in Knoxville Tennessee
their young son was killed by the
Steinle family is said to stop
mentioning us and they're styling it
repeatedly repeatedly
that were in Knoxville Tennessee their
young son was killed by a suspected
illegal immigrant you we heard about
officer sting in California this week or
last week and talked to his family and
many of you contributed to pay pay off
his mortgage he will never be there to
see his little boy grow up the president
highlighted the Air Force veteran in
California that was raped and murdered
and beaten to death with a hammer by an
illegal alien he talked about the the
Georgia illegal alien that killed his
neighbor beheaded him and dismembered
him he talked about the ms-13 gang
members in Maryland that are
unaccompanied minors that were arrested
and charged with stabbing and beating a
16 year old girl you hear all of that
and you wonder why Nancy Pelosi and
Chuck Schumer are calling this they're
not they're saying it's immoral to build
a wall they're saying it's not a crisis
look at the video listen to the numbers
it was amazing things really oh sorry
was it was Molly Tibbets who I was
thinking of that said like hey stop
mentioning us every time you want to
fear monger about immigrants I mean it's
you know that's basically there's your
your healthy dose of Fox News trying to
scare you about immigrants in the
morning and this is the fight but
they're losing they're losing this
battle and that's just the reality of it
they're the the the Cato Institute found
that the arrest rate for undocumented
immigrants in Texas for example was 40%
that a below that of native-born
Americans I mean you could go on there
and you could spend the entire two hours
of whatever it is Fox and Friends in the
morning just listening off horrific acts
by native-born Americans in terms of
killing in fact they make shows and
shows and shows of these on Discovery ID
they check out jewel facts dog the Jews
are always doing if you ever have to
hold hands that's another its dot-gov
now it's dot-gov and anti choose if you
talk to a mother whose son is in a huge
and wants blood no matter what
know it seriously it's a really fascist
 pure fascism and it's and it is
what's astonishing is like yes they lie
about the numbers but everything else
them is exactly you said it's as simple
as repeating random horrific acts that
happen to be committed by undocumented
people
that's right Bart business their whole
website of course I mean going back to
even like that war on Christmas video
like do you know there's a there's an
elementary school in Wisconsin where
they took the words Jesus out of
at night yeah you know we make the
comparison to Nazi Germany but actually
if you look at publication history in
this country in like the 1830s and 40s a
lot of newspapers were sold off of like
escaped slave stuff and then that also
that morphed into criminalizing based on
race that was a very like when this was
there the slaves are escaped do you
think range in Germany are exactly
that's what I'm trying to say like we we
can kind of I guess is it Edward say
like oriental eyes to Nazi Germany a
little bit like no not us but this is we
also we help set the Nazi Germany
playbook it's just fun to do well the
fact is is that Americans are innovators
is what you're saying
we've always been a disruptors and
innovators and the fascism article we've
always been on the forefront of this
type of stuff yeah and to a lot of talk
about Germany or apartheid South Africa
like they did it without American
ingenuity you know people say things
like this is not America like mmm what
America have you been living in I think
there's a double-edged sword to that
because it's also important to recognize
that there's been more than just white
populations in this country from like
the the founding of any of the colonies
so like you don't want to forget about
those people too but as far as like
their ruin structure definitely me
