[Music]
speaking actually you know what let's
let's continue on this thing on this
theme so tucker carlson i'll do the
usual preamble here I think tucker
carlson is somebody that is is I want to
overly state it but he's a complicated
figure in American life it is
significant in the media landscape when
at least relative to cable news you have
somebody with a hard right nationalist
agenda is also somebody who is far more
willing than almost any of his
counterparts to acknowledge actual
economic realities and social trends
that's just the truth I have no problem
of marked life going on there and
describing Kenzi and economics and
inequality no problem with that
I prefer Walter Bregman pushing back
against Tucker Carlson's obvious immense
hypocrisy and I think it is important to
remind ourselves that this is the real
engine of all this stuff Donald Trump
campaigned as a fake economic populist
and on bigotry and xenophobia he's
governed as a republican plutocrat and
has gone a hundred percent on white
ethno state politics and that's still
the bed and bread-and-butter of Tucker
Carlson which is why a Swanson Air Trust
Fund baby who spent his life being a
character of himself on cable news has
an obsessive vendetta with not only a
good congresswoman somebody in fact that
if America had any intelligence we would
use to nation brand as an example of
what a great society we could be that
somebody could literally be a refugee
from Somalia and then could emerge as
one of the most courageous and important
emerging members of our Congress and I
do this after the the Sobhan story
because of course don't forget that
again with of course always the
reception of exception in Bernie Sanders
and you know a couple of other
progressives in the cohort Nancy Pelosi
has not had
Elano more is back Chuck Schumer and
Steny Hoyer have had the opposite of her
back and I have no doubt that the Homme
sovereigns of the world would love to
get rid of her because she's willing to
speak honestly I was moral consistency
about the Middle East whether Israel or
Saudi Arabia so this pathetic racism of
Tucker Carlson is aided and abetted by
the Democratic Party elites that will
not be a hundred percent in Olano Mars
corner Amara isn't disappointed in
America
she's enraged by it virtually every
public statement she makes accuses
Americans of bigotry and racism this is
an immoral country she says she's
undisguised contempt for the United
States and for its people that should
worry you and not just because omar is
now a sitting member of congress johann
Omar is living proof that the way we
practice immigration has become
dangerous to this country a system
designed to strengthen America is
instead undermining it some of the very
people we try hardest to help have come
to hate us passionately maybe that's our
fault for asking too little of our
immigrants we aren't self-confident
enough to make them assimilate so they
never feel fully American or maybe the
problem is deeper than that
maybe we're importing people from places
whose values are simply antithetical to
ours who knows what the problem is but
there is a problem and whatever the
cause this cannot continue it's not
sustainable no country can import large
numbers of people who hate it and expect
to survive the Romans were the last to
try that with predictable results so be
grateful for you ha no more annoying as
she is she's a living fire alarm a
warning to the rest of us we better
change our immigration system
immediately or else we won't or else
have good members of Congress see what's
incredible there is what's conflated and
of course the last burst the last part
is pretty historically illiterate about
a Rome but I'll set that aside the last
point is the real point which is a
ethnic racial and identity appeal about
blocking immigration from certain
countries that's the actual point the
other points
are in fact he's wrong about you know I
would say and this is where some people
don't like me acknowledging that I think
there are some incredible strengths of
American synthesis and indeed the
melting pot because that footage of a
observant Muslim woman elected to
Congress a refugee a leader in this
country dancing to Shakira at a pride
parade uh you know what I'm actually
quite willing to acknowledge that but
you would not see that in a theocracy of
any sort you wouldn't see it in an
ethnos state at our best you get to see
it here so what he's talking about in
terms of the quote-unquote assimilation
is already here and already being
enacted by Ilan Omar and those who
support her that's it
and obviously look we can play the game
there's plenty of counter quotes where
she talks about her love of this country
I think pretty demonstrably the fact
that she's in fact chosen to at the end
of day let's face it beyond such a
mainstream path as being a college
tuition Congress person this is not
somebody who has chosen to put
themselves in the margins of American
life somebody who when she's actually
spells out her position on Israel as an
example as a supporter of a two-state
solution somebody who has consistently
said that she just wants the United
States to as an example I don't know not
support decapitating babies in El
Salvador as when she questioned the ever
odious completely morally void Elliott
Abrams she again as always is a voice
not all of our conscience and what we
actually need to do in a way that not
only is beneficial and necessary it's
actually pretty unprecedented in modern
politics and the profound tell is the
last point when he makes it about
specific countries that's the appeal
he's aiming for that
the point of the white at nationalist
atheists of all of it but then the other
point when he talks about things like a
seminal assimilation a wrong incredible
example of the synthesis that is
actually possible in a genuinely
civically bonded multi identity
democracy which we should defend against
people who would endlessly fragment us
of any sort or another and is in fact a
big advantage that the United States has
at its best
yeah I mean some people make a
distinction between nationalism and
patriotism and nationalism being
offensive and patriotism being defensive
and I'm not sure how useful that is to
make but I will say that when I see what
what Ilhan represents does make me feel
patriotic and ironically like that is an
amazing thing and I new thing there is
something American about it maybe not
uniquely American right but I who can
really say things like that who can
really say things like that maybe every
Eddy but everybody can get there but it
is here and it is something that exists
here in a positive way and it's a threat
to Tucker cross and it's absolutely a
threat to South Carlson what did you
want to play here oh yeah just his
little reference to Rome reminded me of
a another video so just was a shout out
Sean he had a response to stefan
molyneux who also likes i don't know how
well tucker and Stefan get along but but
John did a really good response to this
is it question are the commonly
referenced um around the Rome Rome was
destroyed by multiculturalism sort of
thing
