jar Adira more with Sam's Peeta the
destiny of America is always safer in
the hands of the people than in
conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous hate for me and I
hate for it we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is Monday
July 22nd 2019 my name is Sam cedar this
is the five-time award-winning majority
report we are broadcasting live steps
from the industrial ravaged Gowanus
Canal in the heartland of America
downtown Brooklyn USA on the program
today revisiting Steve bannon's promise
to deconstruct the administrative state
and in the face of massive protests were
Tory can governor says he won't seek
reelection but won't resign then
probably later will seek re-election
[Applause]
meanwhile Capitol Hill budget deal in
the works punts the debt ceiling two
years to the next presidential term
because why put extra pressure on the
Republicans as AOC calls for an
investigative Commission of family
separations it's a growing mental health
crisis amongst migrants as suicide
attempts are soaring Jared Kushner heads
to the Middle East and so what Iran
arrests seventeen alleged CIA spies
Richard Neal's primary opponent makes it
official and with the debate Oh about a
week away looking more and more like a
four-way race
and Washington braces for Muller
testimony coming on Wednesday all this
and more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen and welcome to the show a
little warm in the office today
had a so you may hear a little bit of
the sound of some fans the air
conditioning we have just is not capable
of performing in this type of weather
it's basically what it comes down to if
one unit in here and it's not it's not
sufficient so in better days seen better
days we had a couple of days so we have
a couple of days like this every saw
everywhere every summer that's just it's
gonna be dripping in sweat that's just
the nature of the business is if we're
not cranky enough already right I mean
it's not really the nature of the
business actually it's one of the things
that are generally specifically not in
the nature of the business you don't
want to do a show that's on video and
sweat profusely water and electrical
equipment but yes but nevertheless
that's what we have just a reminder the
a.m. quickie is now in your majority
report audio feed check that out
we're going to spin it off to its own
feed eventually be super easy for you to
sign up for it but still working on it
and if you have comments email us at
majority reporters at gmail.com and that
we will take your opinions and absorb
them we have what we've made some
changes based on comments that we've had
and continue to refine you can say like
why would like this at X amount of time
every morning or Y amount of time at
time every morning or I'm interested in
these type of stories or this is my
general overall feel personal preference
aside we won't necessarily like if you
write like I don't like jazz I like rock
well okay
but but there are some things that we're
responding to a lot of things to get to
today I want to talk about I want to
revisit something Steve Bannon said
years ago now I guess at the start of
the Trump administration which does not
get sufficient attention in my
estimation but before we go there let's
check in on the job that Republicans are
doing trying to clean up the mess Donald
Trump made and you know the thing is is
that you can only go so racist in the
Republican Party and here's why because
they still need a sufficient number of
white Republican women living in the
suburbs and for the most part apparently
as long as they hear someone say that's
not racist they're generally okay with
it but sometimes it gets just so obvious
and and by so obvious I mean super
obvious because even Donald Trump's like
you know when Donald Trump does it they
can all write it off as it's Trump being
Trump he's being comedic or wacky or
really raucous but when it starts coming
out of the mouths like literally when
you have a whole arena chanting
something that is racist it becomes a
little bit more concerning they start to
get a little worried and they send out
the whole team we saw Fox and Friends do
this on multiple occasions where they
said he's being comedic or there's
things a raucous or nobody can be held
responsible for their racism but now
they got to send out to even more people
and particularly in Wisconsin because
remember there are three states that
Donald Trump won that allowed him to win
the electoral college and become
president so
one of those people they've sent out
this week to sort of really shave off
the edges of send send them back is Ron
Johnson and Ron's senator from Wisconsin
and not very bright have to start by
asking you about president Trump's tweet
just this morning continuing his attacks
on those progressive congresswoman
here's what he tweeted in part I don't
believe the for Congress women are
capable of loving our country do you
agree with the president that they are
not capable of loving the United States
plaza can we just stop here and just
think about the absurdity of this
question capable like are they capable
of loving like oh I don't even know what
that means is anybody capable of loving
a country like worse than a thoughtcrime
it's like a feelings crime it's weird
it's really weird but continue good
morning Donna you know I would say in
general the whole America love it or
leave it is not not a new sentiment you
know back in the 60s that wasn't
considered racist I just find it very
unfortunate that so many parts of our
public debate right now are getting
immediately stuck inside a racial
framework when what I would like to see
is us moving toward that colorblind
society I was hoping when President
Obama was elected you'd really go a long
way toward healing that the racial
divide so we can concentrate on these
enormous challenges facing this nation
where we really could embrace dr. King's
a sentiment that let's judge people on
the basis of the content of their
character rather the color of their skin
so I would like to see everybody I'd
like to see everybody reduce the
rhetoric and let's start dealing with
these enormous challenges facing this
nation in good-faith effort you know
dantana I truly believe that Americans
by and large all have I bloody one
second while we get into the pablum
because I don't want to first of all the
America love it or leave it
he's skipping a step he's skipping your
step or two here in this one like the
idea that they hate this country these
specific for women hate this country
and that they should all go back from
where they came from but three of them
were born in this country Hey
but then he's skipping to this whole
thing of like love it and leave it and
we heard it back then when people were
protesting against the country now I
remind you these are for congresswoman
two of whom three of whom have spent
previous time in government these are
not people who are going out and I'm not
saying there's any problem with it but
I'm just saying in terms of like drawing
the analogy of love it and leave it was
used against people who were burning
American flags in in the streets because
of our involvement in Vietnam they were
not Congress people going in proposing
bills to make the country more efficient
more more humane whatever it is these
are people by by no stretch of the
imagination even on their terms could
you draw that parallel and then I should
also add if you'll recall that this love
it or leave it came in the wake of the
civil rights movement the Voting Rights
Act Civil Rights Act and had a history
love it or leave it may have been
mainstreamed but maybe the time to
question what was actually the subtext
was maybe back then here is a poster I'm
not sure when this is from probably back
in the what the 20s I would imagine
right uh yeah somewhere during Jim Crow
and this was actually very close to
where Trump had his rally in North
Carolina what a coincidence this is Klan
country love it or leave it
back in the day folks and look at the
little intersectional message underneath
it helped fight communism and
integration yeah yep yeah it's like the
opposite of what I want there you want
to promote communism and integration so
it meant something totally different
back then
Charlie focus on a character first
message for we got at all this other
mess but liberals like to play identity
politics I have a question for you yeah
I don't know do we need to hear any more
I'm not on for you Sam
yes are you allergic to lavender ah we
already know that but do you love black
people
I sure I mean in general then why do you
want to take freedom away from them by
by taking their freedom away by Sam
where does freedom come from a tree I
don't know they grow an unbelievable you
betta bill oh you're doing that that
dude what's that wire litter King jr.
but who's the other
that's a off-ramp from that one I guess
that's life or the maid show we should
probably say that one easy bribe become
a bed right here more delightful
impressions like that alright one more
clip of another this time they brought
out a family to basically say to the
rest of the Republican Party you're not
really racist oh oh this yeah okay this
is just this is uh now what is what does
Mercedes slap what does she do she's in
the press shop for the president and her
husband match lap is the head of CPAC
it's an American Conservative Union the
American Conservative Union but they run
CPAC and he is the one who said to his
formerly good friend Michael Steele that
he was made GOP chair cuz he was black
and and then of course Michael Steele
being extremely sensitive got upset
about that that the only reason why he
was picked was because he was black and
now they're not friends anymore he said
still needed to show some grace because
he's been critical of some of trumps
more conservative policies right right
right of
and so here's Mercedes slap explaining
how the president is not happy at all
with the chance that he that he inspired
sat and paraded around as they were they
were saying and then tweeted out and
reversed himself
I think somebody tweeted at me that I'm
Friday I may have said he'll disavow it
I mean if I said it was completely it
was completely knee-jerk on my part of
course she's going to disavow it like
this you're talking about the disavow or
the disavowed this he was gonna disavow
the disavow okay retweets are not
follows okay and apparently he did that
already here is George Stephanopoulos
talking about Donald Trump's classic
three-step disavowal of the disavowal
different web and you keep talking about
how the president disavowed the chant
just yesterday and I want to show it up
on the screen right now he sent around a
tweet from a woman named Katie Hopkins
which says the new campaign slogan for
2020 is don't love it leave it send her
back is the new locker up well done to
team Trump the president retweeted that
tweet yesterday that doesn't sound like
he's disavowing the chant look he made
it very clear that he disagreed with a
chant and I will tell you he stands with
those people in North Carolina across
the country who support him and why
because they love America they know that
the president is fighting for them every
day and it's African Americans its
Hispanics it's women it's men I've been
to those rallies I've been to those
events where they say I love this
country I love the American flag what
are you seeing on the other side you're
seeing the squad dictating the rules of
the Democratic Party which is very clear
that they're pushing forward you know
very disturbing statement so in other
words let me explain what she just said
yeah the president heard from Tucker
Carlson and Mark Levin that you should
not back off this and so he's back on it
and we're on it
when you ask me about it I'm not only
going to in a very sort of like a
throwaway way suggest that he did
something even though the later thing
that he did undid the thing that he did
I'm going to now reiterate the whole
point of the first thing he did and just
do it in the way that I wish he had done
it in the first place so we didn't even
have to go through the last two steps
it's amazing this that just the first
part of her answer where she pivots from
yes he does this vote but also he
supports those people who are he
supports those people and then she goes
on to say and she he also supports his
original message that they're horrible
and I don't know if what happened after
that if George Stephanopoulos said later
you just basically said the thing that
you just said that you were disavowing
right uh the chant look he made it very
clear that he disagreed with the chant
and I will tell you he stands with those
people in North Carolina across the
country who support him and why right I
mean it's it's absurd he stands with
them and he disagrees with the chant but
that could be like he wanted the chant
to last another 10 seconds and it wasn't
enough spirit but I actually think that
it's really important when they ask
people like this questions on on like
mainstream cable shows that they be
really clear that as problematic as this
country is that that type of racism that
type of demagoguery is very specific to
the Republican Party and it is not
mainstream and it's not normal and it's
not what most people are looking for
like and the polls validate that like
there's only one segment that responds
well to that and it's definitely not
Democrats and it's not self-identified
independents and even some Republicans
claim not to like in the polls so I
don't want for a second them to be able
to say like this is about the real
America or any of that type of garbage
it's it's absolutely not true and
there's plenty of people who aren't on
the Left you don't this is all about and
it's actually quite important it's all
about motivating the base to get 100%
I'm saying from a mainstream right your
perspective in terms of how you say like
hey well you know you have to Leslie in
the predicament they're in because they
don't want to be bigoted towards these
folks they don't want to be bigoted
towards these folks in the loudest voice
in the Showtime show about Roger Ailes
there's a scene in the first episode
where he talks about how we don't want
to go for every an audience of everybody
we want to go after a niche which is
conservative and nice which is
conservatives exactly and so fine that's
your that's your propaganda the cable
network but if this does not represent
there's tons of people who might not be
particularly left or woke or whatever
they don't like that kind of talk and
they understand that it should be very
clear that this doesn't represent some
type of norm folks support for today's
show comes from embarked
it's sort of a funny name
basically embarq is a service which will
give which will help you determine your
dog's DNA it is the most accurate dog
DNA test on the market the embark dog
DNA test looks at over 250 breeds in a
hundred and seventy genetic health
conditions to help you best care for
your dog I do not have a dog but old
Kelly does and she has yet to receive it
but this is what she had to say embarks
testing kit arrived promptly and the
saliva sample was easy and didn't take
long to collect I don't know I I don't
know did you know if Edie was like a big
salivate ER she looked like it I sent
the sample back and there prepaid and
addressed the envelope and received
confirmation of receipt soon after I'm
really looking forward to getting Edie's
results this week because even though I
think I know what breeds she is the
results will include testing for 20
times more genes than other tests along
with her risk for over a hundred and
sixty diseases this is especially
important to me because most of the time
it's complete guesswork when it comes to
your dog's health I can't wait to have a
good idea of what to look out
4zd grows up there you go I mean that's
that's a huge issue obviously animals
can't tell you what's wrong with them
and they they say dogs and cats in
particular keep a lot of health secrets
until it's too late
yep until it's really expensive yep
embark is the only company with stellar
customer service and vets and veterinary
geneticists on staff to talk through
your results right now for our listeners
embark I like the name that's funny has
an exclusive summer offer you can't get
anywhere else
go to embark vet dot-com that's embark
vet dot-com use the promo code majority
to save 15% off your dog DNA test kit
discover your dog more than fur deep
visit embark vet dot-com and use the
promo code majority to save do so now
also more than 70 sizes including their
signature half cup sizes third love
designs bras with breast size and shape
in mind for a perfect fit in a premium
feel just answer a few simple questions
via third loves fit finder quiz to find
your perfect fit in 60 seconds then
thanks the third loves 100% fit
guarantee you can wear wash and put your
bra to the test for 60 days if you don't
love it return it and third love will
wash it and donate it to a woman in need
hands down this is the most comfortable
bra you'll own with straps that won't
slip tagless labels lightweight super
thin memory foam cups I do not wear bras
but we had our chief majority report bra
tester she writes I like that they don't
have a zillion options so it's easy to
choose something quickly the fit is
great I usually have to return most bras
I order online even though they're in my
size I ordered to both fit that almost
never happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
but not as boring as most t-shirt bras
subtle cute details so I don't feel
basic there you have it folks
third love knows there's a perfect bra
for everyone and now there
offering my listeners 15% off your first
order go 2/3 love.com / majority now to
find your perfect fitting bra get 15%
off your first purchase
that's third love.com / majority for 15%
off today
alright let's um dig into this Brendon
we check your items let's dig into this
um into this this story here
I just let's play first this clip this
is Steve Bannon it's no longer with us
I mean he's alive but he's no longer
with the Trump administration he's in
Europe and it looks super alive but he's
he's as alive as he ever was let's put
it that way
and this is him back in CPAC of 2017
that's over the summer right CPAC and so
we're really only talking five or six
months into the election of Donald Trump
and here is what he had to say at CPAC
Steve yeah I think that I think the same
thing I think if you look at the lines
of work I kind of break out into three
verticals of three buckets the first is
kind of national security and
sovereignty and that's your intelligence
the Defense Department Homeland Security
the second line of work is what I refer
to as economic nationalism and that is
Wilbur Ross at Commerce Steve minuchin
at Treasury a light hyzer at at trade
Peter Navarro Steven Miller these people
that are rethinking how we're going to
wreak reconstruct the our trade
Arrangements around the world
the third positive I will note one thing
that and I'm not sure about light hauser
but I but I have a feeling what every
single one of those people that he just
mentioned back in the summer of 17 de
spite the fact that we've had what 40
top Trump officials I'm just pulling
that number out of my my arse as it were
but
have had to go the only ones that remain
are the ones he just mentioned around
the world
the third broadly line of work is what
is deconstruction of the administrative
state and if you so I think I think I
think the three most important things I
think one of the most pivotal moments in
modern American history was his
immediate withdrawal from TPP that got
us out of a got us out of a trade deal
and a lot our sovereignty come back to
ourselves the people the mainstream
media don't get this but we're already
work in consultation with the hill
people are starting to think through a
whole raft of amazing and innovative
bilateral relationships bilateral
trading relationships with people that
will reposition America in the world as
a fair trading nation and start to bring
jobs high value-added manufacturing jobs
back to the United States of America on
the on the on the national security part
it was certainly the first I think the
first to EOS that you've started to see
implemented here the last couple days
under general Kelly and that is the rule
of law is going to exist when you talk
about our sovereignty and you talk about
immigration general Kelly and Attorney
posit for one second just I want to make
something clear when he's talking about
national security
he's not talking about terrorism he's
not talking about anything other than
immigration demographics he's talking
about demographics and he's talking
about militarizing militarizing our
immigration policies okay good it's
talking about securing a future for
white children attorney General Sessions
are adamantly you know that and you're
going to start to see I think with the
defense budget we're going to talk about
next week when we took bring the budget
out and also with certain things about
the plan on Isis and what general mattis
these guys think I think you start to
see the other part of that but the third
this regulation you know every business
leader we've had into saying not just
taxes but it is it is also the
regulation and I think the consistent if
you look at these cabinet appointees
they were selected for a reason and that
is the deconstruction the way the
progressive left
runs is if they can't get it passed
they're just going to put in some sort
of regulation in a in an agency that's
all going to be deconstructed and I
think that that's why this regulatory
thing is so we had dr. Lee so Mick
Mulvaney was also one of those original
cabinet appointees who came in at the
Office of Management and Budget and when
it became clear that the his project of
slashing the budget was not going to
happen right our spending has
skyrocketed in part largely because of
the tax cuts this budget bill that
they're talking about now will provide
no cuts and they'll kick the debt
ceiling two years down the road I'll
talk about that later I just note that
so that you can be clear on what they're
talking about when their agenda is it's
not about shrinking the size of
government in terms of dollars it is
shrinking the capacity of government to
make sure that profits are not
privatized on the backs of social
expenses that we all bear that's
basically what it comes down to
that's what deconstructing the
regulatory state means and we talked a
little bit about this story early in the
week but I just wanted to because the
this to highlight this stuff because
it's not being borne out and I keep
thinking about the interview that we did
I think it was in December of 2016 with
Sam Bagenstos who was a DOJ who's in the
DOJ under Clinton and then again under
Obama
he said eight years at the DOJ under the
Bush administration destroyed not
destroyed but seriously hampered that
agency that it took at least four years
to rebuild it in many respects and I
think what we're seeing under Trump is
far more severe assault
I think far worse than even that you got
under eight years of of Bush they are
looking to destroy these agencies
permanently and now looking at me
remember they want to cut them right
they couldn't name them but they wanted
to cut them but instead of cutting them
what they're doing is they're hollowing
them out which is worse in many respects
because we just presume that they're
there and that these agencies are
functioning to provide us the same sort
of governmental services that they have
in the past and they're and they're not
I'd mentioned this story about the USDA
the other day I'm going to reiterate it
the US DEA the US Department of
Agriculture agriculture department is
leaving Washington DC and moving to
Kansas City two-thirds I want you to
just contemplate whatever wherever you
work what would happen if you lost
two-thirds of the employees and
particularly ones that are like highly
specialized if you lost two-thirds of
the employees over the course of a two
or three month period so everyone had
was given a choice you either move or
you leave the agency 2/3 of them
declined to move 99 of a hundred and
seventy one employees at the Economic
Research Service this is a Federal
Statistical agency part of the USDA
who's going to use federal statistics
the most other agencies and lawmakers
where are they located they're located
in Washington are they just going to
look at a piece of paper no they're
going to want to sit down with the
people who have developed these
statistics they want to find out the
nuances behind it what accounts with
you meet in person if you work in any
type of business if you work remotely
you understand the relevance of close
proximity
even in this telecommunicator world
close proximity at the National
Institute of Food and Agriculture which
manages a 1.7 billion dollar portfolio
in scientific funding 151 of 224
employees declined to relocate this that
agency is going to be restocked with
people who have no idea what the agency
does have no history with the agency
many of these people are scientists who
have been there for literally a decade
or two and not only have they been there
for a decade or two
they represent decade's worth of
institutional knowledge because they
were trained by people who were there 10
15 20 30 years earlier and if you've
ever been involved with a business that
has high turnover you understand the
implications of that I don't care if you
own a restaurant and you have to replace
all of your waiters each week I mean
forget about it
meanwhile the Bureau of Land Management
is also being subjected to the same
thing it would remove 300 employees from
a key Interior Department agency among
them the majority of top managers and
move them and disperse them out west to
different states
if I wanted to dismantle an agency this
would be in my playbook said Steve Ellis
who retired as BLM's deputy director in
2016 after nearly four decades in
government service transferring so many
employees out of Washington could
complicate the agency's relationship
with Capitol Hill
it's the vast majority of management
staff and getting them out it's
important that these agencies have a
significant imprint in DC said the
former head of the agency meanwhile at
HHS Health and Human Services apparently
there's been a decent amount of
telecommunication DC's more expensive
people spend a lot of time in their car
a lot of this agencies work does not
involve direct communications with staff
on the hill they still come in and the
agency is now demanding that people come
in as a way of putting pressure on them
they have done a survey and the survey
found that many people would leave HHS
if they Institute this and it appears
that's why they're contemplating doing
it when we talk about deconstruction of
the administrative state the labor
secretary oh wait I get one more two
more two more things we've seen what's
happening with the EPA in terms of
regulation they're rolling back the
rolling back specific regulations
they've also and I mentioned this
briefly the other day they are
eliminating the ability of individual
or community advocates to appeal against
EPA issued pollution permits before a
panel of agency judges now industrial
permit holders they can still appeal to
this this board but individuals or
community advocates can't so if you want
to fight an EPA rule that has been
issued now and you live in a community
and you're being well here's an example
Emerson Addison an unemployed English
teacher in Clair County Michigan last
year filed an appeal with the board
after the EPA issued a permit to the
Muskegon development company to inject
water into a defunct oil well in
Addison's community in an effort to
reconstitute the well I want you to
contemplate now what the possible damage
could be done by injecting water into an
old oil well if any of you live in a
rural area you understand the
implications of this you have a water
supply there are aqueducts under the
under the ground or aquifers and you get
stuff into there you're cooked mr.
Addison feared that in the process
contaminated water would leak from the
well into the local water supply this is
a poor area he said most people don't
have the money to fight something like
this in court that's what the purpose of
this board was because anybody could go
to the board and appeal a ruling in fact
in April the environmental Appeals Board
sent the permit back to the EPA for
revision ruling that it wasn't clear if
the agency had sufficiently considered
public comments or the effects of the
plan on the poor and minority members of
the near boy nearby community
well that process gone gone it'll still
exist if you're a permit holder
it just won't exist if you're a
community anymore an individual pointing
Eugene Scalia to to be labor secretary
as you know he was the son of the
Blessed Li late Antonin Scalia
he has spent most of his career at a
white-shoe law firm fighting government
regulation he's done legal work for Ford
Motor Steve Wynn casinos UBS ups MetLife
the US Chamber of Commerce the American
Petroleum Institute the Business
Roundtable really I mean if you wanted a
who's who of people of entities that
have attacked labor over the years in a
2012 profile Wall Street Journal called
him one of the industry's go-to guys for
challenging financial regulations in
2006 he helped Walmart fight against a
Maryland law that would have required
companies with more than 10,000 workers
to either spend at least 8% of their
payroll costs on health care or pay into
a state Medicaid fund we know why a cost
that got fired was because ostensibly
because he gave a sweetheart deal to
Jeffrey Epstein it also turns out that
Mick Mulvaney who is now the chief of
staff right who's been there since the
beginning who after the after it became
clear that he wasn't gonna be able to
slash the government's budget because
Donald Trump realized like you need to
pay money out to get elected he went on
to the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau there he's basically shut the
agency down you didn't have the ability
to dismantle it couldn't get Congress to
cut its funding so he basically just
stopped all of its enforcement
procedures I don't think they've brought
a single enforcement procedure in the
past three years
so I think largely this is his project
he had chewed out
Alex Acosta during a meeting this year
because according to the Washington Post
he was dragging his feet on regulation
rollbacks desired by business interests
and was on thin ice as a result what
else do we have
OSHA has the lowest number of inspectors
it's had in decades
it is doing the fewest number of
in-depth investigations into the health
and safety of workers than anybody
apparently can remember I should just
add that the EPA just recently also
decided that its investigation into
chlorophyll Oris that creates
neurological defects and kids we're
going to go ahead with that one this has
been this is the project and this is
just the ones that we know about I mean
God knows we know at the Secretary of
the Department of Education all of the
regulations regarding for-profit
universities and colleges completely
roll back you all you need to do is look
at the stock portfolios the stock funds
that trade in that to know how
significant that is the only other thing
I can tell you oh and the Trump
administration is quietly and this gets
to that point about Steve Bannon when he
talks about national security what he's
talking about is literally the hue of
national security like literally the the
color
of our country because the Trump
ministration according to the LA Times
two or three days ago has quietly
dismantled our cutback multiple programs
that were created after September 11th
oh they're not going to be spying on
people as much no that's not what it is
that detect and prevent terrorism
involving weapons of mass destruction in
other words scientists who are
developing ways to assess whether a
nuclear suitcase is coming in through
shipping and whatnot I would imagine
this stuff slowed down commerce in some
fashion
they have canceled training exercises
there have been scores of scientists and
policy experts who have left Paul Ryan
not the horrible one but a retired Navy
Rear Admiral said what we had done in
the past was analytically based what are
the threats where can we get the most
return on the taxpayers investment for
security he led the Homeland Security's
domestic nuclear detection office and he
said we're not as secure as we were 18
months ago so you have all this assault
on the administrative state remember
there was also a lot of stories by give
you look into geoff Houser I think there
was numbers stories talked about how the
Trump administration was putting in
basically shadow shadow heads at all
these agencies people who did not have
to be confirmed by the Senate because
they were supposedly temporary and
they've just keep putting in a success
of a number of temporary heads who are
just basically tasked with destroying an
agency this is super easy to understand
demolition is much easier than building
something demolition is much easier than
maintaining something
you can do demolition wrong but it only
just creates more of a mess or is
slightly more dangerous but in this
instance the danger is not to you it's
to the people use these services and the
mess
nobody cares there's one other track on
this assault on the administrative state
and this doesn't seem to be going as
well for the Republicans and that's at
the Supreme Court this can change but we
kept talking this this year about a
couple of cases one was Kaiser I might
be mispronouncing that kazeer Kaiser in
the past you've heard me talk about the
Chevron doctrine which is what the court
ruled in nineteen mid-1980s where the
court determined that when Congress is
unambiguous in terms of passing a
statute and empowering an agency to
carry out that statute you have to defer
to the expressed intent of Congress but
there are times where Congress does not
directly address the precise question at
issue so Congress says to the EPA you
regulate any material that is toxic but
they didn't know about compound triple Z
it had not been developed or people
weren't aware of it or wasn't being in
use and the EPA finds like this is toxic
so we're going to regulate it Congress
didn't say regulate compound triple Z it
just said find stuff that's toxic so if
the statute is silent or ambiguous with
respect to a specific issue the question
that the court settled was whether the
agency's
answer is based on a permissible
construction of the statute so it gives
wide berth to the agency to sort of
assess whether it has authority here not
being absolute literalists well like
literally do do your job not just
because oh that doesn't specific exacts
so basically Chevron says that an agency
can interpret a statute unless it's in
clear contradiction to what Congress
wanted
there is a nother doctrine called the
our a you ER doctrine that came from a
case in the late 90s our v Robbins that
allows an agency to interpret its own
regulation unless it's obviously
erroneous or inconsistent so in other
words if the agency says okay
compound triple Z cannot be used in any
type of procedure that might allow it to
possibly seep into groundwater and the
agency deems like oh wait a second
you're doing construction with this
material we determined that it could
seep into groundwater so the courts
going to defer to the agency's ability
to make that determination and this guy
James Kaiser was seeking disability
benefits for PTSD from the VA the VA in
1983 determined that Kaiser didn't
suffer from service related PTSD in 2007
the agency reversed its finding but did
not provide him retroactive benefits
Kizer said that determination of the VA
was wrong and he wanted the Supreme
Court to overturn our v Robbins to say
that the agency did not have the ability
to make that policy essentially and the
court ended up refusing right wingers
have been trying to push this for a long
time and it's not clear to me that
they're done but so on the courts right
now we're somewhat protected but we'll
see but in terms of practice it's going
to take it's going to take multiple
terms of a an administration that is
committed to rebuilding these agencies
so that they can actually just function
and do what they're supposed to do it's
it's hard to build institutions and once
they get destroyed it's hard to rebuild
them and I don't care whether it's like
you know the US government
short-circuiting institutions in
Guatemala or whether it's Donald Trump's
administration in Mick Mulvaney
stripping away institutional knowledge
and human capital from these agencies
that have been built to to protect us so
it's something to keep an eye on and
it's something keep in mind I'm not
going to I'm not going to talk about it
on CNN when they talk about the
implications of this election or
anything that the budget of the Trump
administration is doing but it's hugely
important to just sir your daily life
particularly if you are a person who is
living living in poverty or near poverty
or a person of any type of marginal
community or commune
used to have less political power or
frankly if you're you know anybody who's
not a corporation doesn't want your kid
to have brain damaged brain that's the
thing like I don't I don't put a huge
amount of stock into the maybe I should
a bit more into like what kind of lake
off stuff of like language framing but I
just feel like dismantling the
administrative state sounds so much more
exciting than you know like apartheid
and getting food poisoning right like
there's nothing like that that sounds so
grands and theoretical this is just
Republican deregulation right well shits
bad for you lawlessness in law response
whatever you want to call it but it is
not it's not like yes let's apply like
brilliant management theories to
government so it's better which I feel
like is that that's sort of like what
he's cueing off when he says that that's
like Newt Gingrich Newt Gingrich did all
of that stuff I read about how he was
always referencing like trendy 90's
management theory yeah so it's like yeah
here's the bill we're gonna get rid of
you know Pharma regulations to make it
easier for heart medication to end up
like you know exploding your heart or
whatever they were doing and the
language is like you know like Edward s
Deming showed that you can reinvent the
corporation and blah blah blah process
it's like dude you're you're just doing
handoffs the corporation this is yeah
this is this is the I mean you know
there was ten years ago
you know arguments libertarian arguments
of like the problem is corruption and in
the end it's in and and and it's because
corporations buy our government and so
the way to keep corporations from
corrupting our government is to make the
government so small that that
corporations have nothing to get from
them but this is the point of this is
there is a dynamic that's at play here
someone's going to fill this vacuum
and Natura bores a vacuum if there is a
vacuum of power as to what happens to
your average person corporations will
fill it period end of story
and the more you debilitate the ability
of our government to react to these
things the more corporate power they'll
be and that's what this is about
so I say both third party no matter what
no matter where you are I don't care if
you're in a swing state you really the
perfect fit on that one for 40 there you
go
honestly I mean that's this is there's
there's so much at stake so I'll save a
third party there's so much at stake and
and don't mistake what I'm saying here
I'm not saying that there first of all I
don't know that there is a safe choice
when we talking about elections but
understand that the functioning of
government is far beyond just like I
like this person or I don't like that
person I'm gonna run for them and the
vast majority of your fellow Americans
will not have access to this information
probably don't care about the
information and then a significant
portion of them will also specifically
not care like I'm sort of aware of what
you're saying and I definitely don't
care I had a conversation with a guy who
I like and plumber we were talking about
Joe immigration stuff what wasn't Joe no
not Joe but I Joe but I feel to not be a
thing anymore since 2008 and just the
the perception of like there's a certain
amount of just sort of like I'm gonna
write I'm going to write off I'm gonna
come up with a very simple catch-all
answer so that I'll have to get into the
nuance of some of this stuff and resist
that folks on
it's a massive government because we
have 300 million people in this country
fairly diverse country both in terms of
like geography psychology demographics
and to provide for it is a complicated
task and we they are dismantling our
agencies and that's I know it's
technocratic and whatnot but at the end
of the day this is the way that that
that whatever services were ever
policies that want to be pursued by
whichever of your favored candidates won
this is the way that those things are
going to be delivered and if they're
delivered improperly it's also going to
hurt the political agenda people aren't
judged just on the ideas they're judged
on the ability to deliver on those ideas
and between the courts and the agencies
you can it doesn't matter who you have
as president it's it's massive obstacles
to actually delivering even if never
mind the politics behind it even if you
could deliver from a political
standpoint and past the perfect piece of
legislation carrying them out with
agencies that have been completely
decimated in terms of skills and a legal
system that prohibits I mean the best
part of Obamacare was the Medicaid
expansion and a million some odd two
million people didn't have access to it
simply because the court decided some
badass batshit crazy ruling that even
though Congress could end Medicaid
tomorrow and then restart Medicaid with
the expanded version of Medicaid they
could not say if you're going to take
Medicaid state
you need to expand it but this Court is
willing to do what it takes to to thwart
any tie any type of progress and so
these are important considerations folks
just a reminder it's your support that
makes this show possible you can become
a member at join the majority report
calm when you do you support the free
show and as a way of saying thank you we
give you extra content virtually every
single day also go to just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
don't forget to check our AM quickie
gives you some of the top headlines
first thing in the morning and reminder
we're still waiting to find out what the
the DNA of Kelly's dog Edie is not just
to find out what kind of breed the dog
is but also to give Kelly a heads up
that the dog may be susceptible to
certain diseases that she's got to keep
an eye on going forward you can discover
your dog more than fur deep with the
most accurate dog DNA test kit on the
market right now for our listeners
embark has an exclusive summer offer you
can't get anywhere else go to embarq vet
dot-com eeehm bark as in roof roof thank
you yeah somebody needs to do it I
couldn't help myself
I kept reading embark and thinking
that's in embark vet comm use the promo
code majority safety
15% off your dog DNA test kit discover
your dog more than Ferdie visit embark
vet comm use the promo code majority to
save also I think would make a really
good gift actually people love their
dogs oh yeah dogs are the best I wish I
could have a dog me too my kids my kids
want to get a dog because okay why don't
you get it oh wait you get a duck cuz I
don't have enough time okay
okay imagine your life now imagine if
you had to take care of two three dogs
more the dog and then the other two the
others who talk the other two dogs that
walk around they add on two legs but
they want to get solved desperately
wants a what is known as a teacup of dog
what is it or a deep cut Kitty have you
heard of this a tiny one they're the
size like you can fit them in your hand
that is so weird they're like the size
of like a gerbil yeah a little bit
bigger that's that's too small for a dog
ball came up and he goes can we get a
teacup dog it costs only $2,000 I was
like running scales that that a teacup
dog would be something I would become
close to be able to do I mean they still
need to go to the bathroom gel yeah but
if I bring a teacup dog into here the
thing would run around and think it's
outside yeah it's real breezy in here
today it's like a louder cat well it's
hot outside - can you make a mean better
in here than outside anyways check out
embark vet dot-com use the promo code
majority to save and I can find out if
my teacup oh that light went out it just
burnt out again yeah all right take
quick break Oh
tomorrow night crystal ball
Joshua Khan is back we're trying to do
another lesson on the tactics of
organizing and then we're gonna have I
believe we're gonna have a Hawaiian
activist call us from Hawaii about that
action that's taking place there a lot
of focus as well as on Puerto Rico this
morning I was on crystal balls he'll
show if you want to check that out and
for people who subscribe on iTunes we
are now doing little snippets of the
illicit history shows and the snippet
that today was on this our guest ahmed
Cabello on the Sudanese Marxist
tradition and what's happening in the
Sudan right now patreon.com slash TMDs
michael brooks show on youtube
me Jamie
this sweetie Intifada there we go
this week on the anti Fattah I was out
of town last weekend so Sean and Andy
held it down with prank Stallone aka
Chris James who you may know as the man
who pray that's really annoying when on
your show before I got him on majority
of course sorry about that they talked
about screwing with right-wing blowhards
on the phone and you know the art of
pranking they also talked about a number
of topics in the news including critical
mass bike protests that RNC in 2004 the
insane Jeffrey Epstein affair and the
escalating insanity of the migrant
crisis and the struggle against it and I
was especially impressed with what they
had to say about that so check it out Oh
also I should say I'm very excited about
this I just recorded an episode over the
weekend with two of the three authors of
feminism for the 99% a manifesto those
people being TT Bhattacharya who's been
on this show before and Cinzia Russa and
you know feminism it's uh yeah awesome
name that definitely invites that kind
of presume Italy and they're both super
smart and I love them so much and I'm so
excited to release it on Wednesday a
literary hangover got one of the leather
stocking tales by James Fenimore Cooper
coming up but it's not the last of
Mohicans it's actually one that's better
than that
it's where James Fenimore Cooper
basically rewrites his father's founding
of Cooper's town in central New York but
does it without any mention of Elections
which we're actually a pretty big part
of life for the elites there I'm also
just to mention the Orwell thing it's
kind of appetite for patrons I'm doing
or Weller series so you might wanna
check that on patreon.com slash literary
hangover but George Orwell went to Spain
fought in the Spanish Civil War got shot
in the throat by a fascist and put on a
list by Stalinists for possibly
execution and he came back
not sayin Haven man vote third party but
he said there's hardly a war where it
doesn't matter who wins so I think
that's important lesson indeed - Orwell
all right folks quick break fun half see
you there Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube frees up
their buggy whipping like he's the boss
I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous a little bit yeah maybe
you should rethink your defense of that
you're idiots we're just going
to get rid of you all right dude dude
dude dude dude you want to smoke this
joint yes do you feel like you are a
dinosaur hell yeah now listen to me two
three five times eight four seven nine
oh six five oh one four five seven two
three eight 56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion
third don't you see why don't you get a
real job instead of spewing vitriolic
hatred you're left with one ball
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
seafood a woman I'm hoping that more
moves to my repertoire all I have is the
dip in the swirl fine we can double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars to
hear your to come here not they accuse
me
 you you little eat I think
you belong thank you for saying
that you're a horrible despicable person
alright gonna take quick break I want to
take a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber silastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
Rosie's people Shitler with such a
hungry no
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
news report we are back Sam cedar it is
the fun half ladies and gentlemen we
will endeavor to take your phone calls
as we often do why don't we start right
out first into the gate come from a to10
area code who's this where you come from
good afternoon Sam is Johnson San
Antonio John from San Antonio how are
you sir I'm okay
alright so yesterday YouGov poll came
out of Iowa New Hampshire and South
Carolina and they had good results for
Bernie finished second to Biden in all
three states which is an improvement in
recent polls in Iowa and New Hampshire I
was somewhat disheartened by the
question that was asked in the poll that
stated right now which would better help
you to make your decision when to
support for the Democratic nomination
hearing the candidates talk about how
they differ from each other recede 41%
and 59% said how they would run their
campaign against Donald Trump and if you
look at the question who could beat
Trump 75% of Democratic primary voters
think Biden would probably win against
Trump's we're only 50 of Sanders
supporters would probably win 46 with
Harris and 45 with Warren
even with Biden's bad performance in the
debate initially his numbers drop but
then they rose again not to the level
they're
before but but they were still he's
still in the lead in most states and is
dominant in the south it seems like no
no matter how bad of a candidate Biden
is they still support him which they
think because they think he has the best
chance to beat Trump we've been talking
about this issues for many months that
first we were in agreement and you said
voters weren't we're going to change
their minds about a electability issue
which is holding up but we have didn't
wait I did not say that but go ahead
John well I thought I thought she did
because you know before we were saying
that we should they should drive people
away from that and you said people
aren't going to change they're going to
continue to have this you know this this
idea in their mind about electability oh
oh no I think I think I think to a
certain extent I mean I my sense at the
beginning of the race was from the
perspective of wanting people on the
left to win that talking about
electability is not going to be that
helpful because obviously Joe Biden
appears would be on a superficial level
it's a completely understandable why the
majority of voters would at least before
they they watch him campaign again
assume he's electable because he's won
he was on a you know a presidential
ticket I don't know that you're going to
get people to not think that way
not specifically that it's Joe Biden but
I don't think you're gonna get people to
to not worry about electability
particularly in this environment my
point was that I think all of them more
or less are electable although I have to
say that the more I get reminded of Joe
Biden's campaign skills he like I think
he is he's got the biggest question mark
in my mind but go ahead all right so
yeah I mean I agree with what you're
saying and what you're saying is
actually holding up but I mean you know
you and many others on the Left are
making it somewhat counter factual
argument
would Biden is you know he's a bad
candidate who won't enthuse youth voters
you know which is similar to what what
happened to Clinton in in 2016 and you
may be right about that assessment but I
think other candidates should address
the fact that that you know head-to-head
versus Trump you know this early is
unreliable and because I mean it just
seems like no matter what they say as
long as people keep thinking in their
heads that you know biting the best
chance to beat Trump I mean that's
that's what they're gonna go with here's
the bottom line what is true in a lot of
things you can you there is no point in
telling people as much for in terms of
the candidates as it is showing you can
say like there's no way to measure this
right now
but people are gonna be like well then
how am I supposed to vote if if 60% of
the people are saying the most important
question is how you gonna be Trump and
then you come around and say like guess
what all the road maps that you think
you have to tell you how you're gonna be
Trump or you know useless well you're
just leaving them adrift and people
don't like to be led adrift the the way
to make the case that Biden is you the
way you make the case that binds not
electable is you show people and you
show people by like what Harris did
frankly like look he can't answer
anything and every time he gets a
question he's showing his inability to
change with the times like I mean I
think that Biden could get away with
everything that he did as a senator if
he showed at least an awareness that
things have changed
the problem with Biden is every time
they say like hey man you shouldn't be
you know like why are you it's one thing
to 30 to say hey thirty years ago I had
to deal with segregationists to get
stuff done and I may have liked them on
a personal level but they were really
bad people in terms of what they were
doing publicly and but that's the way it
was in the Senate and do I regret it
no because that's what I needed to do to
get things done but times have changed
like that's all he had to say the idea
that he can't even contemplate that is a
problem same with like Oh bless me
father I've sinned I I hugged one woman
too much or whatever it is come on like
he the more that's on display I think
the more people get the idea of like
wait a second this isn't gonna work
and I think that's what's gonna happen I
think that's what's gonna happen yeah I
mean I hope you're right and you know
and it did happen a little bit but I
mean now like I said Biden has gone up
and in the South I mean that he's
dominating there's more polls coming out
in the south and he's dominating
everywhere like yeah I think Biden is
unfortunately I think he's pretty
resilient I think that even some of
those the really substantive things it's
not necessarily gonna knock him off at
all with normal voters and I just think
that the best thing I keep saying it I
really think the most salient thing is
something like trade trade in the
bankruptcy bill should be all we hear
about on Biden and I think those things
could crack through and it's not not
just affecting to see what not in this
debate why not this he's not on stage
with anybody whose case I'm talking much
I'm talking campaign ads I'm talking
everything right I I think like I just
wanna see with which which which one is
he's just with Harris and that's an
interesting because they can't have like
the replay of the same thing but
honestly I think those two issues are
the really broad issues that can speak
across to a lot of people that can have
some salience with him okay we were also
talking about you know voters who switch
candidates and you mentioned many times
you know according to the mining console
poll Sanders voters second choice was
Biden I said I was skeptical of that
aspect of the poll because the
electability was also important to some
learning voters now I have some data to
support my theory that the you know the
they surveyed voters in June and July
you know after the debate a 69 of the
Sanders percent of but Sanders voters
stayed with him ten percent went to
Warren ten
percent went to other you know
candidates in the top four seven percent
went to Biden and five percent went to
Harris and so you know I think wait why
does that show that the the remaining
Bernie supporters their second candidate
is not Biden well because their second
candidate is is Warren no no no that's
if they abandon the you said if they
abandon Bernie I'm saying in the absence
of Bernie in the race they would go the
majority the plurality anyway would go
to Biden yeah I mean I'm just saying
that that's not what that that's not
what it did says I mean this is the
first time I've seen something like that
to where people actually change their
vote yeah but changing their voted but
changing their vote is not the same as
saying they're their second choice now
they're their first choice my point is
is that the your I was pointing that out
to argue that they were not driven by
ideology because it would be
inconsistent to have Bernie first and
Biden second out saying all the voters
but but you know in terms of like and
and that what you've just told me does
not refute the idea that their second
choice is Biden there's no reason for
them to abandon Bernie because he's
still in the race the ones you're
talking about are people who were net
worth soft supporters of by of Bernie's
that's true but I mean Biden didn't lose
that many voters either I mean he he
kept it if it's not and it's not yes but
that's not relevant to what I'm talking
about I'm talking about what happens
when one of them leaves the race you
should go on the right wing Mandela show
and dunk on and own him he don't know I
know yeah hmm you know so they you know
you give up and put out their second
iteration of the delegate projection
yeah I thought that since he is yeah
yeah and so you know I just it's image
also shows you know what has been
happening since a second since the first
debate rather is
you know everything is getting closer so
Biden right now has you know the
projections of 39% of all delegates in
the in the early state with Sanders with
Warren when in 29 and Sanders winning
seventeen and Harris at 12 yeah so you
know I think that this whole idea of a
of a brokered convention is very much
you know you know could very much be in
play yep and you know Bernie has said
himself that he expects a brokered
convention he doesn't expect the the
candidate to get 50% and at that point
you know it's it's really a matter of
you know if Warren and Sanders and
Harris can can convince their delegates
to get behind you know one candidate you
know they can take fight now well I mean
as I'm looking at this now right I mean
I guess it's pretty close just in July
the delegate estimates now this is just
the estimates for the first 40% of the
races - right so you've gotta you gotta
take it 40 percent yeah it says it these
contests account for an estimated
fourteen ninety four delegates or 40% of
all pledged delegates to the Democratic
convention next summer so it's about
forty percent you know it goes to
basically Super Tuesday more or less
based on those polls right so I mean
yeah again this is if there's a lot of
hypotheticals here but it has Bernie
it has worn at 430 delegates Bernie at
250 approximately so that's 680 if you
combine Biden and Harris they have a
closer to 750 whatever I mean it could
work in any number of different ways but
I think the point remains that the the
chances of a brokered convention are
significant let's put it that way
appreciate the call John okay can I can
I mention one last thing quick quick
latley yeah yeah okay you kept
mentioning this this paper that said 50%
of voters don't you know don't know that
the Democratic Party represented a
mature
black voters until Obama was elected and
I find that hard to believe
no it was from listen it was from the
book identity crisis the statistic is
50% of non-college educated white people
thought the Republican Party was to the
left of Democrats okay what is the
author come on identity crisis there's
no job Sam you lazy conscionable
statistics depreciate the John and now
you don't remember that name of the
author it's John sight John sides John
thank you we apologize for not having
that information Haggard pathetic
pathetic you know like I most personal
research service for him yet also a pus
job he spends a lot of time researching
stuff and he can't look that up yeah a
personal deliverer of bad polls that
John has to connect in real time and you
don't even know the authors that your
site name we're called called from a 702
area code whose this remain to see it
where you come from
hey what's up this day this is Jay from
Las Vegas Jane from Las Vegas what's on
your mind Jane I'm talking about I'm
trying to stomach CNN yesterday they're
running
they had their headline was Democrats
use racism too much the old trope they
ran that with that like forever it comes
up on the Thom Hartmann program earlier
this morning right about he's talking
about reframing and how the Republicans
are reframing everything in the cultural
and they're winning he gets a troll
caller who is angry white guy Republican
I'm sorry I'm white but we're all white
people here but we know who we're up
against we're up against angry white
divorced guys so this new calls in the
Thom Hartmann and he's reframing he must
have got this from like a Republican
think-tank or from 4chan or something
 you I had even lost witty have a
patriot good he's reframing the truth no
it's fine let Michael go it's fine no
he's reframing
he's reframing the Trump tweets he says
all they were lazy and poorly researched
because some of those women woman were
born in America but but they weren't
racist and you guys are throwing it
around too much like that's the degree
of reframing we're dealing with this
here and again he probably got that from
4chan or dab or well I would just know
where he that latter why is there a
presumption that they weren't born in
this country oh gee I wonder why maybe
you could play two or do together you'll
boy that's my way to use yet that's like
that's not a great refrain it's not a
great reframe that it falls apart on
like sort of the most basic of but yes
of course of look let's but here's the
point
these things are reframed not for the
sake of anybody but their own people
it's just like the burden of like having
to sort of deny their own racism is
difficult I was ready to roam sabe
Winnie and they walk they walk backwards
through the sand to their point yes I'm
not sure I know that I know those guys
too we all angry did we go into the
future what's that exactly what's it can
we what let's go can we go into the
future there's a rumor there's a rumor
that The Apprentice Donald Trump's
apprentice tape or he says the N word
over and over on an apprentice state
there's an internet rumor that you know
the Trump war room is keeping that in
their back pocket and they're gonna drop
it closer to Election Day so that it's
fresh on everybody's minds when they go
into the voting booth right how are they
going to reframe that because you know
they're going to and they're gonna do
you know a good they're gonna do is
they're gonna reframe that well I mean I
I think I think at this point like I'm
not sure that it it IIIi don't this I
don't know that it would make it I was
trying to say earlier though that I
think is really important to keep
reiterating in all of this that while
there might be plenty of people that are
not up to like the standards of various
you know twitter norms or whatever
a lot of normal people don't actually
approve of this people that are not the
base of the Republican Party including
people that might have moderate or even
center-right views on certain things are
actually not cool with it so if that
dropped that would mobilize his base it
would certainly mobilize the Democratic
base and it would be off-putting to a
handful of normal people and I think
that that is really important to
reiterate when it's as as blatant as
this yeah as bleating the Bulls the
blatant see is the problem I can't find
the staff appreciate the call but to
reiterate Michaels point like the idea
that first of all the left isn't losing
the culture war we need the culture war
it's losing the institutional power
right like like all these when you'd ask
generally like people might have
problems with like you know buzzwords or
can't or like or even pronouns which I
shouldn't have a problem with things
like that right if you ask them on a
poll but generally if you ask them
things like have black people been
oppressed in this country like they all
agree and those trends are going on the
right direction in the right direction
and even that poll that showed that a
lot of Americans don't like quote
unquote political correctness if you
look at what they meant by it
besides the Republican bloc was the
scolding and the annoying stuff they
didn't mean this the merits and the
second thing that they hated that came
in second right after political
correctness was hate speech which
partially shows you that people are
incoherent but it also shows you that
like pick your lane to fight on and this
is one you can absolutely pick the fight
out I do think most people at the end of
the day would pick a OC or L on Omar
over Donald Trump I think that you have
to believe that the problem the problem
is this is that most people the
percentage of people who know a OC or a
lon
Omar most of them or the majority are
learning the Republican Party and I had
no her know them through the frame that
they've gotten from Fox News well and
also well that's also institutional
failure of the Democratic Party as well
they know that through the Republican
Party and then through the Democrats you
know because what is the message when
they don't get defended you know if
Nancy Pelosi came out from day one meme
and said we have different policies
positions but she's absolutely not an
anti-semite and i 100% have her back
there won't be any gray area I would
agree with that I would agree with that
but I will also add that like it's the
Democrats have dropped the ball on this
no doubt right I mean and and they
dropped the ball on this before this
even happened they dropped the ball on
it just when they status stepped on
their own messaging for HR 1 with the
Ilhan Omar but we also have to recognize
that they don't have the largest
second-largest cable news outlet to sit
there and pump this stuff out in that
way also true but again I mean good time
to interrogate MSNBC frankly well I mean
you're not they're just not as MSNBC
they're not that right we know they're
just not that and they're not going to
be but there's a lot of pub well that's
another one right and in that case we
just need to clarify that they're not
that I still think in the public
imagination there's a lot of notions
that they are that in fact and that's
also a big problem I I think so
I think that's probably I've you talked
to normal I've talked to so many normal
people who will say like they might
understand that it's not quite as
relentless but that's what they do think
it's analogous yes they did that's
that's what makes it even worse right
right because they actually do think
it's that and it's not that and it
doesn't serve to do those things bill
kristol is not going to have Olano Mars
back and they're not going to apologize
he's on CNN now though to be frozen see
you know I don't know I think he's on
Imus I don't know I don't follow it that
much speaking of sometimes you got to
just rely on some of those Fox News guys
here is oh wait what's this oh pretty
nuts story about the blackout yesterday
okay so there was a blackout and where
it was in in Canarsie it's a part of
Brooklyn yeah and I'm just telling this
to people who are not from New York and
so we had a blackout in New York like a
week ago right and
it was in Manhattan I believe I'm not
sure which part now Midtown shut it down
Midtown maybe was Upper West but
definitely the point being this was not
I think this was not a controlled
situation Con Ed just did not know what
was going on and so they clearly have
been on their toes to try and make sure
that they not subjected to a surprise
blackout particularly with this heat
wave coming everybody's got their air
conditioning on what not understand what
happens when there's a blackout people
are trapped in the subways for extended
periods of time I mean it's awful awful
and so it appears that con Edison as a
way of avoiding a blackout in a place
like midtown Manhattan or the Upper West
Side or the Upper East Side for that
matter or really anywhere in Manhattan
or in specific places in Brooklyn that
might have more money specifically more
political power you wouldn't want that
to happen so maybe how can we save some
of our kilowatts so that it doesn't
happen in an area where we could get in
real trouble for it now what we're
hearing is that con Edison purposely
turned off the lights in this
neighborhood to prevent a bigger outage
what do you guys think about that
oh I didn't even know that what do you
think about that crazy if that's the
case so what do we are not important
enough like we're supposed to sit in the
dark while you were Soviet who's gonna
be unprotected who did productive what
about us so you're making us suffer to
preserve room who are they are
preserving so while we're not important
I'm trying to understand because I'm so
country this is news to me very exact
one apposite she understands it she
understands it so exactly what are they
looking to accomplish so we need to
suffer so that you could do what
preserve whom what about a preservation
of us yeah you'll see a lot more of that
yeah this just shows how you know class
struggle anti-racist struggle energy
justice and you know the fight against
climate change all go hand in hand
and they have to if we're gonna do
anything about it when we say was that
one by the time the Republicans and the
right quote-unquote accepts the science
which is a terrible frame my opinion it
will be the overt it will be policies
like that at a macro scale efficiency
right yeah and there's a long history of
the government doing this too like the
reason I spoke to an immoral and about
this like the reason that some people
thought that the government flooded
black neighborhoods on purpose during
Hurricane Katrina is because they
actually did that decades before hand to
save white neighborhoods right there you
go back on the racist beat steven miller
who one of those bugs you know he and
mcmalley aney
seemed to be the sort of the the
cockroaches in this administration and
they trunk they bring steven miller out
his project is very much I think
grounded in white nationalism they bring
them out apparently to speak to the
masses and I also think that they're
going like you know who better then to
bring out
our fascistic Jew in the administration
to go out and leverage anti-semitism and
also deliver for the white supremacist
like there's nobody can do it better he
can speak to both good
you are the president senior policy
adviser and his chief speechwriter his
tweets this week about those for
congresswoman and let's put them up why
don't they go back and help fix the
totally broken and crime-infested places
from which they came are the latest in a
long string of controversial comments by
mr. Trump some of which I know that you
helped draft here are a few they're
bringing crime they're rapists and some
I assume are good people Donald J Trump
is calling for a total and complete
shutdown of Muslims entering the United
States you had many people in that group
other than neo-nazis and white
nationalists okay and the press has
treated them absolutely unfairly why
shouldn't someone see all of that as
racist I think the term racist Kris has
become a label that is too often
deployed by the left Democrats in this
country simply to try to silence and
punish and suppress people they disagree
with speech that they don't want to hear
the reality is that this president has
been a president for all-american there
yeah there it is taking a page out of
the IDW it's the same as the Sam yeah
the Sam Harris playbook where it's like
because that word racist comes into it
all of a sudden we can't continue the
conversation why not it's right and when
he says all Americans that's also a dog
whistle because he considers certain
people to be more American than others
in what what is it exactly like what
would they continue to say like the the
charge is that it's racist and if you
used that charge there's no way for me
to explain that telling these women of
color to go back where they came from
and assuming that they're from a
different country and they're not
american-like they want to lead people
on a scenic route to reach racist
conclusions without it being termed
racist and the term racism really gives
people a shortcut into where they're
going with new identifiers you know
here's the problem with that term racism
it's forgets that the journey is part of
the destination and you're not able to
enjoy all the good sort of like come on
the nuanced journey exactly let's build
this wall of white supremacy one tiny
brick at a time and if you just jump
start the whole process and get to 12
feet high on the get go it's just no fun
here is he continues on as on Fox News
Sunday with Chris Wallace it's
impossible to read the quote that way
the quote what she's trying to say is
there's a dude did this idea of 10%
better from garbage shouldn't be what we
settled for this is he's talking about
her proposal I posit okay what they're
talking about is Donald Trump's going on
there and said that she's calling the
country of garbage place and in fact
what go back a little bit can you go
back a little bit earlier so we can
actually hear the quote from from from
ALC aoc is basically saying we need to
have proposals that address the problems
not garbage proposals that just help
things 10 percent is basically what it
is and so and Chris Wallace saying that
how can you possibly interpret that as
saying that the country is garbage now
this stuff is so they would I mean the
bottom line is they win when it gets
this granular when it becomes like wait
a second if you move the comma over here
and you move it like first off she's not
calling the country garbage second off
so what if she is does that justify
telling her to go back to where she came
from and fix it like as if it's a
different country she comes from the
Bronx it's impossible to read the quote
that way the quote what she's trying to
say is there's a dude did and
this idea of 10% better from garbage
shouldn't be what we settle for this is
talking about her proposal it's it's
literally impossible to read the quote
that way the what she's saying is
there's a debate of the Democratic Party
in which some people want to improve in
her mind 10% from garbage which maybe
we'll say is Obamacare where she wants
to do Satan medicare-for-all which she
uses me I guess 70% better than garbage
her point is we're starting at garbage
someone to go a little better the
garbage is to go what's doing that but
she's judging her she's talking about
policy you know she's thank her starting
about the country and the people she's
saying his garbage such a horrible work
she's saying that America in her view
right now is garbage but the more
abundant no but then I want to put
something up on that regard because I'm
gonna put up a tweet from Donald Trump
from 2014
he wrote the United States under
President Obama has truly become the
gang that couldn't shoot straight
everything he touches turns to garbage
you see that isn't al see the rats
Donald J drought this interview Chris
you're continuing to conflate Donald
Trump's criticisms of President Obama
versus a o C's deep and systemic
criticisms of the country itself and so
let me just cut to the heart of the
issue these for congresswoman to test
America as it exists as it is currently
constructed they want to tear it down
the structure of our country they want
it to be a socialist open borders
country if you as Donald Trump says want
to destroy America with open borders you
cannot say you love your country so
understand he's not out there to defend
Donald Trump in this that last segment
right there every time he keeps going
back to the original point is he's
saying these four represent the Browning
of America that's what he's saying when
he says they're for open borders and
socialism what he is saying is they are
for diminishing the white nature of this
country and it's in white is bound up
with a whole bunch of other values that
existed or we told ourselves existed
when white people's power in society was
completely unchallenged completely
unchallenged and
in fact not only completely unchallenged
but celebrated and that's that's what
they're doing here he's not going on in
defending Donald Trump understand this
this is the double down on the double
down and they're just gonna keep doing
this
some days they'll do it they'll do it a
little they'll say the quiet parts a
little bit quieter sometimes they'll say
the quiet parts a little bit louder but
this is what we're going to have for the
next 12 months 13 months 14 months
Jesus 15 months 16 months 16 months 16
months okay stop
fifteen and a half months all right
that's a wrap if we're lucky let's go to
the phones come from a 5:1 Oh
area code who's this where you come from
Sam ain't no watching your wrist but you
know what time it is man you know who I
am you know why I'm here
I begged I don't know like I do if it's
cold James Cash Sam before I comes them
yeah you know Ben versus he went on my
show an hour after he was on your show
huh
okay from the heartland of america to
the traphouse of the ghetto news network
man let me take some about Ben man yes
cuz he got a gut don't mean he ain't
hungry man yeah here's my man Ben my man
Ben let me think I'm above bed now he
just moved to Atlanta you know I'm
saying hello I'm like yo I know you
married but you got to go to Magic City
and see the logic of that booty wait a
second wait a second I'm not married and
I will wear our magic city of that booty
what Magic City is a very famous
gentlemen's club
oh you know I'm coming to Atlanta the
DSA Convention we're not talking about
absolutely yes stay on topic you good
yeah Magic City okay if you want to take
Cynthia's
comrades - that is good at Magic City
man that's where all the magic is
happening anyway I'm not even are you
from Atlanta or you just you just take
off your cosmopolitan
okay but the reason why I'm calling Sam
is I'm tomorrow 8:00 a.m. Pacific
Standard Time I will be going on the
Jesse Lee Peterson show is that right
decided he wanted to go one-on-one with
Christ himself I don't blame them
you don't saying I just save them you
notice then I need to save them and you
know i will be that i said 8:00 a.m.
Pacific Standard Time you know I'm going
Conan more well well just promise me
when he asks you if you know who the
great white hope is you say my name
Hey ooh
Oh say my name not Sam's name I think
you know what name to say Michaels upset
that he didn't think at first yes I'm a
great Jack I'm very think of a second
need to come hi got it at first no that
was a I can't give away my game plan I
understand promise you you might
actually make a segment out of them out
of my appearance there because every
loaded question he got I got loaded
answers if you know me I have a feeling
I understand what you say yes Wow so we
will look forward to it and we will we
will indefinitely done Jesse's gonna be
there's gonna be live anthers is it
gonna be live yeah Oh Fanta Fanta I'm
gonna be in studio
shut up shout the Echoplex medium man
I'm going to the studio in Campbell it's
very nice I went there last week man
they got a nice studio I'm going all out
I'm wearing a hand-tied theme sweater
just because I want to you know I'm
saying yeah it's gonna be it's gonna be
that official I guess I can't give away
what I'm gonna say
right
why services daddy John Kenton who was
 not only him but also the
movement are we gonna get into that you
don't send oh right yeah you know like I
said it was a relation on them you cut
out you cut out for a second you're
saying that the person who funds Jesse
Lee Peterson is also funding the ad OS
movement yes yeah was the founder of I
forgot what the I don't have my dosa for
me but the founder of that organization
he has caught like shoes black America
or some is also the founder of the
same Atos moment that chief at Cornell
is a part of and but the but they're
astroturf I that matters do John Kenton
who's rested and pissed right now
I white supremacist he did and so that's
why I'm saying is white supremacist dad
he's dead you know what I'm saying you
know it's like Samuel Jackson when it's
when it's slave master died in Django
are you coming yeah I didn't I don't
remember the movie but yes exactly it
that's it we got a call on Friday can I
just say I had to restrain Sam from
saying all of this when he was on
Jesse's show I had to be honest with you
I had no Chango what is the purpose of
the hentai because I like him like
tactical or strategic reason why you are
doing what wearing that but also that
the sweater the sweater is designed by
my buddy pink mega kit so you know I'm
promoting one of my sex worker friends
while I'm on his show
I'm you know I'm covering all the bases
you tell me I feel like you really let
me say I'm prep for this in a way that I
probably should have but I yeah well
well I'm a party like this you know said
I understand people be like oh yeah neck
beards and hats I wear I'm not no neck
be enough it out you got something to
say about it but you know see ya guys
nice talking to you guys Jamie I'm gonna
get back and I'll holla at y'all later
all right come on am i right God say
8:00 a.m. or 8:00 p.m. 8:00 a.m. okay
good so we're gonna come into the office
tomorrow be able to watch your
running like a beta male are you being a
male beta that's not in the know by the
way ahead ty is tentacle porn no heck I
use anime phone it could be tentacle
though alright
I thought like it's often both nevermind
I'm so out of out of my league with this
stuff I guess I got to issue a
correction on not necessarily tentacle
remote the tentacles ah let's watch this
apropos of our point about MSNBC not
being the sort of the equivalent of Fox
in terms of the defining of people on
the right I don't even know that this
really even fits into that assessment of
MSNBC but and you know I think people
know full disclosure that I am a
contributor in MSNBC I'm not not a
full-time contributor as it were I'm
sort of on an ad-hoc basis but I am
under contract and stuff like this is
and I don't I don't watch it
particularly much I've done this show
with David Gura it's the latest
iteration of up just started first by
Hayes and then I think Kornacki had it
and gora and gora seems like a perfectly
fine person
I don't know this commentator but this
is embarrassing like I mean I can see I
feel like you know we have guests like
this on this show but they're not there
as analysts of any sort and to say
something like this is a very weird
thing to say I think but this is Mimi
Roca she is a an NBC legal analyst I
think you know having
Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren next
we tell them we'll really highlight
because for me as you know again I'm not
the political analyst here but just as a
woman probably considered a somewhat
moderate Democrat i Bernie Sanders makes
my skin crawl and I can't even identify
for you what exactly it is but I see him
as sort of a non-pro woman candidate and
so having the two of them they're like I
don't understand young women who support
him and I'm hoping that having him next
to her will help highlight that because
those are the people that I if I were
her I would want to say why are you
supporting him and not me if you're
gonna choose between the two of us does
anybody do you have anything after that
does anybody say anything like that's a
very weird analysis like first off let's
just take it on like as if it wasn't
grounded in just her own personal sort
of like gut feeling I can certainly I I
can accept the argument that I want to
see a woman to be President that we have
a half the population of this country
has never has has received at least a
subtextual message that women are not
capable of being president at least in
the history of this country up to this
point I want to see a female president
I can also accept the notion of I don't
know if I would necessarily point to
Elizabeth Warren particularly in terms
of women's issues I again I could see
how she would be representative of
certain feminist values but I think
there probably other candidates who
might be more oriented towards women's
issues in particular in the Senate but
to say that Bernie Sanders is anti women
is I mean aside from baby she says I'm
not a you know a political analyst but
it's like factually incorrect I don't
think there's even a perception broadly
speaking of that now she says like I'm a
moderate
Kratt but I mean can you imagine if
someone said I'm a moderate Democrat and
so Elizabeth Warren makes my skin crawl
there's just something about her that
makes my skin crawl or if someone said
hey I'm a you know like I mean to say to
say that on television is stunning but
let's see if there's anybody who
responded to it because maybe you know
it's one thing to say it it's another
thing to say it unchallenged do your
bets in no not pro woman candidate and
so having the two of them they're like I
don't understand young women who support
him and I'm hoping that having him next
to her will help highlight that because
those are the people that I if I were
her I would want to say well why are you
supporting him and not me if you're
gonna choose between the two of us
believe it they would come back in just
a moment Mike Emily thank no all right I
would also add that I would imagine
Elizabeth Warren would say to that
commentator I've got news for you we're
more closely aligned than anybody else
on this stage you know I I noticed I
just I should have done act this I
didn't keep track of it over the weekend
because I wasn't online as much but
there was a quick like you know ask
asked candidate a question while they're
getting a plane not getting on a plane
or something like that and they asked
Bernie how is it gonna be when what is
it gonna be like when you and Warren or
on stage together and he just looked and
he went intelligent and walked off and
so like King that's mostly been their
dynamic together I mean to me though
it's not just obviously I think it's
totally disgusting and contemptible and
and just loathsome that that woman would
say that and I think that there's not
only couldn't you say about Warren I
don't think there's actually another
candidate period that you get away with
the sort of just baseless casual
contempt for right I want to bridge the
fact that she talks about a lot of
younger woman with the fact that she
doesn't just have baseless contempt for
Sanders she is baseless contempt for
poor people and working people young
women because well a lot of young women
not all I mean there's certainly young
women who are
quite well-off and privileged but want
to have fundamental change which is why
they support Bernie but a lot of young
women you know they support Bernie for
well actually because he is totally
uncompromising on things like
reproductive justice but also because
they're dealing with student loans and
all of these other serious structural
crises which which when someone like
that talks and that is why it's so
offensive when you talk about Sanders
that way because to me it's also your
your coating on a total dismissal of the
material crises of tens of millions of
people
I also found saying she knows Elizabeth
Warren policies I think to not and Frank
well I would say in a smaller way not
knowing Elizabeth Warren's policies
frankly the same contempt for working
people right it's all just yeah it's
just my personal impression I have no I
have an easy as hell life so I don't
need to know this is why we need and are
developing in struggle of feminism for
the 99% because this narrow set of
issues this elite representation just
doesn't cut it for the vast majority of
women and people it would be nice or
someone on the panel goes like what
exactly what what women's issues are you
exactly talking about well Mimi Roca has
two hundred and forty seven thousand
followers on Twitter but she her account
is protected as of right now so I think
she might have been here in Rome so she
may be in the wrong end of the ratio no
I mean I should thank people like her
honestly because you know I was a little
hesitant to throw my hat in the ring as
a political commentator once upon a time
I was like well I am a woman and I am a
leftist so everyone's gonna treat me
like an idiot but then I saw people like
her you know running her mouth off on
television getting paid to do it in the
newspaper and the TV and they know
absolutely nothing and I know more than
they do so then I was like it why
not
let's go to the phones here pair with me
come from a 478 area code who's this
where you calling from Sam is with
relative chef in Georgia what's
happening Jeff a man it's great to talk
you great tough to hold true there is
some of mine you know I'm real happy at
Kent funk so doesn't it come upon a lot
of Brooklyn baseball park as I listen to
you know in jazz perfectly mainstream
form pornography for young person get
into our first video
frankly it's not a weird technical based
although certainly tentacles do with
bent bar stuff it's a fan Facebook but
nonetheless saying like you I want you
to know that you know entire lovers can
be productive members a good well I
think we're seeing that one of them is
going on - Jesse Lee Peterson show that
seems productive right guys a real
thought like you haven't we're having a
tough time hearing you Jeff cutting in
and arms I'm sorry hear me now yeah okay
I'm sorry Bennett I was just coming
coach James Cashion's baller-ass answer
to the question of hit a glass relax
folks blackjack that's okay it's okay
the lack things sometimes III didn't
want to make one quick point seriously
about concentration camps fun topic I
know last week you were openly musing
about you've wondered how much
determined public knew about
concentration camps been set up
it's funny from old show it turned out
to be thing like that let me not know
much but the consistence now is that
that's not case not know people no can't
be
Jeff you got to go back to whatever you
were doing before is in terms of hearing
you I haven't moved man I'm so sorry I
am now yeah that's better okay I'm so
sorry saying I don't know where we're
cut off but I wanted to make pointed out
German German people didn't write of the
age of the 30s when we never said of
concentration camps the point is that
not only was it not secret these camps
were publicized Dachau was publicized in
papers controlled by the Nazis as a
model camp I death will report it there
very often it is true that the the
larger German public did not know about
the final solution but and generally
speaking later anytime a country or set
up concentration camps even when they've
done it overseas saying the Philippines
or in the South Africa during the Boer
War or the second Boer War news about
these concentration camps did come back
home in some cases it did cause a public
backlash that led to some reforms in
ending those camps such as in Great
Britain for the second Boer War but in
some cases you know public awareness not
the issue people knew what was happening
Jeff oh what's happening now I'm so
sorry
yeah I was just gonna say and nothing
that's and I think the Holocaust kind of
shows how flimsy the distinction is but
when they were advertising the camps
they were advertising them as
concentration camps right and not death
camps yeah that that is true
I believe I'm sorry work camps
yeah media is never gonna be enough
democracy dies and darkness it also dies
in broad daylight we need power that's
absolutely my point Jamie uh people knew
what was happening largely speed it
makes sense right you can't you know
imprison such a huge millions of people
like this right and keep it secret for
very long for that many people it's just
not possible right even with the
technology that they had nothing like to
work in those camps uh anyway sorry
that's not a Superfund
calling about but I appreciate the call
you guys have always a pleasure
Martin Amos has a book which i think is
one of his better ones called the zone
of interest which is a sort of dawning
realization among people that oh we were
these are death camps it's a very dark
dark book come from a 2:06 area code
who's this where you come from
hi this is Emily from Brooklyn
hi Emily what's on your mind hi I'd like
to ask you about something that you
touched on in the first night of the
Democratic debates okay so the question
that was put to the candidates was in
the case of genocide or crimes against
humanity do we have a responsibility to
intervene to protect people threatened
by their governments even when these
atrocities do not affect American core
interests and you said that you believe
in American and international
intervention if there is an imminent
threat of genocide correct and the
question was how do you determine the
threat of genocide and you said prior to
the military intervention in Libya view
and make scepter nation but then you got
cut off before you could finish your
thought of what your current thoughts on
that worth so I'll just curious to hear
what you would have said well my my
sense was is that how do you make that
determination right and because
obviously a country can make it
unilaterally as some type of an excuse
for for intervention and the UN had done
that in the case of Libya in regards to
Benghazi and unfortunately and I I
imagine it was by design
the the Allied or I should say the NATO
forces right involved France in
particular I think was taking the lead
on this they over they over ran the
mandate the mandate was to protect the
citizens of Benghazi and if that meant
shooting down planes you shot down
planes if that meant firing on
on on rockets that were positioned to
bomb Benghazi then you do that but they
basically decided to blow through that
and perform regime change and so
basically Russia and China said we're
not doing this again
and now they destroyed the apparatus in
my mind the nascent apparatus to make
those type of determinations and I think
it's highly problematic because I think
there are clearly times where this is
going to happen and has happened and I
don't know now what the best way to if
there is a way to legitimately make this
assessment and act upon it I mean it was
beyond irresponsible I mean it was just
it's horrific thing to attack the
integrity of of that type of institution
and it did it destroyed it I mean you
know and there's no it's not the
institution right it's not the UN that
makes the different the decision it is
the UN is really just a disposition
represents a disposition that each
country has and that it is a moment
where they come together and they say
we're willing to give up part of our
sovereignty some small measure to act as
a group and prevent some of the most
heinous things that can happen amongst
humanity and that was sacrificed we
sacrificed it the European sacrificed it
I mean it was sacrificed for everybody
but it was on our impetus by by
extending that mandate blowing through
it and and doing regime change and so
now I I don't know how you make the
determination mm-hmm maybe the UN can
come back together it just won't do it
in as extreme circumstances you know
like in the intensity of a
of a civil war I would imagine there may
be opportunities for this for the UN in
the future to say but I it's hard for me
to imagine now what it would be it would
have to be a country where there's
absolutely no interests right no
resource interests by over I mean I do I
do think though that's a problem even
when you you know have that a more
robust system as a country where there's
no resource interests right like that
whole process has never really worked I
mean II go are in the iran-iraq war in
the 80s which was one of the most
vicious things people have ever seen
right like chemical weapons are being
used a mass amount of people died every
single member of the UN Security Council
sold weapons to both sides of the
conflict while it was happening right so
I think that you know you I don't I some
of the things that are interesting to me
is someone like Daniel bessner who's
looking at reframing the questions of
international relations in terms of like
the foundational questions we asked
about what what it is a nation-states
job to do and what is the international
community's job to do but what the
international community even is is
getting reset right now and we can't you
know I guess it's it's you can't idolize
a system that didn't work either well
it's not a question of idealizing it's
like it's hard to come up with another
you know idea of how you do that
I mean because if we leave it to the
unilateral perspective of the superpower
to determine when there is an imminent
threat inevitably you're gonna get more
problems like that and the idea with
having competing interests sitting down
at the table and all signing off on an
assessment that this is one of those
occasions where you are looking at a
genocide essentially of civilian or you
know maybe genocides the wrong a mass
slaughter of civilians you know
potentially hundreds of thousands killed
within days you know it I don't think
you can have a perfect apparatus
or but you know it would be good to have
an apparatus and I don't know if that
exists anymore because of that but
appreciate the call yeah thank you Mike
like the only type of call you get from
like someone from like Australia or
Canada I feel like well she said she was
from Brooklyn from Brooklyn but yeah
from Australia or maybe New Zealand er
just asking a question cuz they're just
interested in the answer that doesn't
that doesn't that's not that's what I've
been hearing oh my god I did Oh
kina what look I don't want to play this
whole thing but I do think that we
should at least let people know about it
because we watched it I watched it the
other night
we watched it again in here and I was
actually teared up and I could also
imagine a lot of people this is the type
of show that people I would imagine
watch you know hi definitely and it's
just it's the CC report da CC report as
racialist cap creation nation is cat and
he's the cat is associated with Jesus in
some Fanta fashion and here we'll just
play a little clip of it it's you should
go look it up it's entitled Dave Rubin
David Rubin destroyed by orbs and logic
say creationist cat I just this
combination of political commentary and
also highly religious cats I think is
really huge also plugs of our show
yeah and plugs the show - you know I
don't we've got that out of the way
[Applause]
I love Maryanne earth Queen gosh Oh
[Music]
question Dave well just tell me a little
bit about yourself what sort of what got
you to be the person that is now
standing on stage with that other crew
we had been living for the last 40 years
under what did I believe in illusion
that all this money would trickle down
from the stockholder class it would lift
all boats Dave even if that's at the
expense of other stakeholders like
workers or the community or the
environment Dave she's making sense
she's not supposed to be making sense we
were sold on that it is led to the
largest wealth inequality since 1929
it has led us to the point where 1% of
Americans at home more wealth and 40% of
American Chopper in a richest country in
the world live with chronic economic
anxiety oh that's great myriad but
that's enough of that
Dave change the subject
talk about how racism is really coming
from the left you're great at dad all
right all right so let's let's dive into
a couple of things here it seems if you
watch mainstream media we are just
caught in you're racist you're racist
you are a bigot your ashes you're a
homophobe and unfortunately and I say
this as someone that was you know that I
still consider myself liberal a lot of
that's coming out of the left and from
the Democrats is labeling of a for
everyone as racist tuned into the that
is so good
no no come on come on people go go check
it out
get this guy some Jews a creationist the
caster's uploaded on July 20th I was
amazing
yep I quite enjoy that what's going on
in Texas ladies and gentlemen as you
know the great state of Texas just
recently
had to narrow Allah that they had
written that prohibits government
agencies from doing business with any
type of contractors who are involved in
boycotting Israel so if you're a speech
therapist for instance this was the
actual case that found that their law
was unconstitutional and they have since
changed law your speech therapist and
you're providing services to some third
graders at a local elementary school
you're helping them learn to speak but
you also decided not to buy any products
that were made from the occupied
territories in Israel where you're
boycotting them or you have divested
from stocks in any companies that are
doing business in Israel then the state
of Texas can decide not to give you a
contract based upon that the previous
version of the law the state could not
have a contract unless you signed a
statement saying that you would not
boycott Israel this was one of 25 states
that had a measure like this the new
bill doesn't change anything as a defect
in that existing law according to this
report but they did change it in some
fashion that supposedly will make it
they just keep one thing keep want to
try and pass it so the flip side of that
is when the governor says that no city
can decide upon awarding contracts this
is a little bit different if they find
that a company is hostile or
discriminates against people now there
is already on the federal level laws on
the books that say the federal
government will not provide a contract
to you if you're discriminatory in any
way but apparently these states rights
guys because it's localized they want
states rights not local rights states
rights and so in a scene that looks like
a parody people assembled in the
Statehouse in Texas where the governor
surrounded by fast food containers
filled with I don't know maybe something
or maybe just held his props signs of
bill
sort of like set up like Donald Trump
they're all doing this now oh he is well
nevertheless the way that they surround
everybody in these type of signings now
as a fast food eater I for one am
supportive of the normalization of fast
food cups on important desks like yeah
here you go and he signs Greg Abbott
signs this bill here listen to him now
discrimination is not tolerated in Texas
posit no let me
he's gonna have to parse this because
chick-fil-a discriminates at least in
terms of like they pay for people to
build in societal and institutional
discrimination against gay people but
that's not the kind that he means no
business should be discriminated against
simply because its owners gave to a
church or to the Salvation Army or to
any other religious organization what
about like a Muslim extremist terrorist
organization well now come on
he said religious okay very shifty
sunburned Muslim rugged army or to any
other religious organization no business
should lose a government contract
because of their religious beliefs the
save chick-fil-a legislation that I'm
about to sign is a victory for religious
freedom in Texas I want to thank Senator
Bryan Hughes and represent Mack oh no
keep going I want to show me on this
Nelson thanks for everything that you've
done not just with this but everything
across the board consider halt thank you
very much here he goes he's gonna sign
[Music]
[Music]
there you go America progress yes thank
you against discrimination thank God
corporations are people too my friend DP
USA this is turning points USA this is
the organization that is headed by
charlie kirk that has had numerous
problems with racist chapters and hires
dave rubin to go around the country and
did give speeches and proclaim that the
real problem the left ur is racist are
the racist the the the racists of
racists the rate the the bias towards
racist on college campuses these are
guys they keep getting tons of cash
presumably to turn
I guess young people I don't know if
it's racist fascist generally yeah I
mean it's unclear what their agenda is
it's also it also occurs to me that they
have a tough time making a solid
argument they put out a graphic which
I'm not sure exactly I guess the idea is
to support the electoral college they
want to firm up support for the
electoral college
yeah and on some level I think oh
they're not very bright but another
level maybe they just know their people
yeah the graphic states the states in
blue have a smaller population than Los
Angeles County now not in total each
state I think in and of itself has a
smaller population than Los Angeles
County and frankly it's the vast
majority of states in the country I
think the only ones that are not
in blue New York Pennsylvania Ohio it's
at Kentucky or Indiana I think Illinois
Illinois sorry Illinois Texas in Florida
Texas in Florida in California and
obviously California because Los Angeles
County and and it says the Electoral
College ensures that they have the same
voice as the coastal elites now
significant number of those states are
on the coast but I don't think that's
what those coasts but what it does show
is that we have a highly undemocratic
system in terms of electing a president
that the concept that we have of
one-person one-vote is not actually the
case in many of these states
particularly in los angeles county your
vote is simply a fraction of one vote
which is why you can have the one person
win three million more votes than the
other now we also see this in
gerrymandering to they should they
should they should do a little graphic
on wisconsin fifty four percent of the
people voted for Democrats Republicans
won 65 percent of the seats that's just
the reality but there it is teepee USA
either not aware of how anti-democratic
there graphic is or super proud of how
anti-democratic the country they like
that they don't care about democracy
like the base for teepee USA wants Trump
to be a dictator like they love it what
he does dictator stuff their hostile of
your hostile of democracy reminds me of
this and I think this was actually no
this might have been a joke when
actually sighs don't discriminate
against conservatives and whether
conservatives get
or get lower grades let's just play this
clip we should in Hong Kong there are
been extensive protests now people who
want a greater autonomy from mainland
China and apparently the there are these
squads of well brown shirts right except
for they're wearing white shirts who
begin to beat protesters it's pretty
nuts here's some clips of this they're
just coming on to
[Applause]
this is the sixth week of protests and
it's pretty nuts
yeah bashing the umbrellas which is a
symbol for their protest
[Applause]
[Applause]
it's just horrible I mean a lot of
places when you know they outsource
everything from this type of thing - you
know beatings to genocide -
paramilitaries and gangs affiliated with
the government so that would be my well
it was a triad it would be connected to
the mainland somehow and like you can
have a crackdown that's even more brutal
without actually having like you know it
obscures the message - it isn't police
it's like hey they shouldn't be doing it
but those are pissed-off citizens yeah
that's my real I was wondering who is
organizing this but that's if they're
connected to triads they could be
organized deployed pretty quickly all
right we only have two we have time for
two more calls and we got a lot of
people been hanging on for over an hour
well over an hour calling from a 203
area code who's this where you call them
from hi hi who's this weekly yeah where
you come from
yeah and this is gender from Stamford
Connecticut
ginger what's on your mind how are you
guys doing good yeah I'm coming because
I wanted to talk to you guys about a
topic that you were discussing on Friday
so I hope it's not a problem bringing it
up today sure what I wanted to go over
the rally that that happened in North
Carolina and one of the statements that
would mean when Trump was describing how
he lost his friends after he became
president and he described it as you
know the friend of you know I'm sorry I
can't quite make out what you're saying
your phone's not great but you rally in
North Carolina and and you were talking
about the Trump rally in North Carolina
and and you got your phone's just not
great I'm not fully understanding what
you're saying is this better a little
bit yeah hello yeah yeah I'm talking
about the Trump rally in North Carolina
right when he was describing about
losing his friends he said since I
became president of
all my friends you know they come up to
me they are choking can't breathe and
immediately when he said I thought maybe
you guys can go back and listen to the
speech to see if you could pick up where
he found it when he said it but I
immediately when he said that it
occurred to me I'm wondering if this guy
is trying to mock the decision that came
down I think it came down the same day
about Eric Gardner does the family not
getting anything and I'm usually not a
conspiracy person but I just got the
feeling like he was mocking that
particular decision and I wanted to just
get some feedback from you guys to see
if you know I hadn't seen that and I
hadn't seen that segment of the of the
rally but wait a second here you have it
I think we have it here I have guys I
have wonderful friends New York
developers tough guys smart guys they're
rich they're this that I have
middle-of-the-road I have poor I have
everybody have poor guys middle of the
road and rich guys it doesn't matter
rich guys call up mr. president how are
you sir oh it's Richard oh good rich hey
Richard loosen up this is a guy used to
hate on how you doing let's go to dinner
now your sir is everything oh you're
doing good sir I said Richard call me
dad it's like you always did call me
down always call me down okay
Thank You Donald thank you very much and
then two minutes later mr. president
it's been so great
I lost so my friends they've tightened
up
they've choked you know that is they've
choked they can they can't breathe
because people have such respect for the
office of the presidency yeah I don't
know I mean maybe maybe I don't know
it's weird it's a weird thing to do it's
a weird thing to do but maybe he thinks
he's signalling in some way I have no
idea but I have one word dog with both
because I'm a fantastic very politicking
like up I appreciate the call I mean
it's very possible I agree I think it's
possible just in the fact that it might
be on his mind enough guy I mean he did
he's used the phrase choke that's one of
his favorite if you a does like that
actually if you search his tweets for
choke and the word dog he likes to use
the phrase choked like a dog very
frequently he's like 18 times but I
totally buy the idea yeah it was in the
ether and he's just like oh yeah I'm
gonna mention show final I am of the day
I mean phone call today calling from a
608 area code who's this where he come
from doesn't like I'm calling from
Wisconsin Mike from Wisconsin what's on
your mind you know I was looking at the
sea level rise maps for two degrees rise
in you know to resale yes yeah and if
you look at Washington DC
Pennsylvania Avenue is underwater so I
think if we're taking climate change
seriously I think we should actually
discuss moving the capital to the middle
of the country and I think there's a lot
of political upside to that I think it's
a pretty scary thought for lots of
people but the capital should be in the
middle of the country anyway Washington
DC
the gravity year should be positioned in
a place that would give them a sense of
urgency about the problem maybe we
should do a climate change yeah you want
the capital in Kansas no you want the
Midwestern idea of climate change offer
them the opportunity
this is fake the Midwest the Midwest is
not the Midwest is not the fundamentally
opposed to the government action it's
that's that's a myth I don't I don't
know like I don't think that you know
what I think is going to also have them
buy into it the record number of hundred
year floods and droughts that they're
experienced the Koch brothers say the
capital in Wichita oh wait a second
there's a problem farmers are already
committing suicide because they can't
plant their seeds this year so I'm
pretty sure they're aware of climate
change appreciate the call I think
that's maybe a little bit too clever by
half little bit folks we're out of time
but we'll be back tomorrow until then a
deer in that
I'm going
I was just got cut
[Music]
feeling it better yeah no clock is
ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
rubber bands
brakes you fell off sweet ride
[Music]
teacher takes you
