pop this up on the screen this is a
apparently CNN spoke to a bunch of these
Trump supporters about the family
separations well this is from yeah this
is from June 19th right isn't it let's
listen to some of this immigrant
families separated at the border these
people that we have coming across the
border illegally her breaking the rules
I have no feelings for them at all
despite the images of children posit
from their path wonder if somebody's
going 60 miles an hour and they get into
an accident if people die if these
people are basically the same way or I
wonder if this guy knows anybody who is
buying their medication from Canada
which is a similar infraction if that
person doesn't it's no sympathy for
anything that happens those people well
the sounds of kids crying in a detention
center folks hear back the president
completely it's not about Mexicans
that's what everybody is so angry about
you think that people are living off of
the state you hear a lot of anger and a
lot of the president's own arguments
especially that many of the immigrants
are actually criminals posing as parents
now when you have a bad guy coming
across kidnapping a kid and trying to
come across I don't buy that I don't
really know there's a lot of people
being hurt by bad guys coming in this
country actually that isn't true but it
is what these Trump voters believe
madeleine carroll doesn't like CNN and
she doesn't like the way the media she
says he's trying to make her feel guilty
quit trying to make us feel teary-eyed
yes I do
but to me it's up to the parents to do
things right for me and legally you
support the president
100% correct not all Trump supporters
feel that way Wow all right I mean
that's just uh you know I don't know I
don't know how you convince people like
that who have constructed a worldview
where it's like I generally like
children but these children are gonna
suffer because their parents took them
from a country where they were afraid of
them of those kids being killed to come
into this country and so therefore it's
okay that the kids suffer don't ask me
to be a human being
domi don't ask me to have a basic non
psychopathic response the children being
kidnapped
they resent I resent being asked to be
right being it's not only why not have
sympathy for them I resent the fact that
you're making me feel uncomfortable
about having sympathy for them
look this is what I've been saying for a
decade and a half about Rush Limbaugh's
program as an example of what
conservative media does it basically
says get rid of that self-doubt are you
having a moment where you're feeling
apathetic okay it makes you feel bad
you're doubting yourself
stop it
like he used to I don't know if he does
this anymore I don't listen as much as I
used to but a lot of his show was self
help and that seems to be the theme
basically the way they hook people a lot
of it's self-help and they take these
principles of taking care of yourself
and have pride in yourself and don't
doubt yourself don't doubt yourself
they're trying to make you doubt
yourself they want you to doubt yourself
all of that ties in with the
conservative ideology because
conservatism is no doubt and the way
that we get rid of doubt is also to
eliminate any new information anything
that's different from us anything that
could broaden our perspective on
anything and therefore it's much easier
for these folks to see threats
everywhere including from people who
want you to have sympathy for these
children that's a threat it's nuts but
that's that's what we're dealing with
mobilization versus persuasion is what I
would suggest it to deal with this Colin
from A to Z
