I want to talk about this story I didn't
get much attention there is a story of
44 states that are suing there's just a
lot of civil in criminal activity that's
happening around obviously the drug
makers and you know at this point it
seems like it would be a radical idea to
not nationalize the production of a lot
of drugs and to inhibit and to not
intensely regulate this industry the
amount of criminality the amount of
market failure the amount of collusion
amongst drug makers would make it almost
a radical idea to not dramatically
increase regulation and to produce our
own generics we have a case where 44
state attorney generals are suing
generic drug makers over price collusion
we have the ongoing stories about Perdue
pharmaceuticals and the sackler 's who
are looking at potential criminal
liability for the way that they marketed
and produced with the knowledge that
they were basically selling a highly
addictive substance to people under
claims that it was otherwise there are
this story is just stunning one of the
other drugs that was out there that was
also a an opioid or at least a synthetic
opioid that the CDC says was responsible
for more than 28,000 deaths in 2017
alone I mean think about this you have
28,000 deaths
what is the algorithm
many of those deaths correlate to just
incredible suffering and destruction of
lives you know how many people did not
die and who are addicted to these
substances and it's destroyed their
lives it's destroyed their families it's
destroyed their their future and this is
just it's stunning it is the it is a
case it's a criminal case of the
essentially the top executives of a
company called incest that made subsys
which is a spray version of fentanyl and
I I have a good friend who got addicted
to fentanyl and fortunately survived but
was very lucky and there were five
guilty of five executives who were found
guilty on racketeering charges because
they bribed doctors to prescribe the
painkiller to people who didn't need it
these drugs were developed to deal with
the most acute cases of pain basically
cancer victims and what the what the
companies that produce these things did
was basically tell doctors like the guy
down the street who started to prescribe
these four you know he recovering from
surgery your D you've got back pain and
they're making a lot of money and that's
basically what happened he it was
approved by the FDA in 2012 only for
cancer patients who had recurring pain
and they started to do off-label
marketing for this
so these guys were convicted and one of
the things that came out in the course
of the case I'll read some of this to
you was that they produced a rap video
that involved a couple of the executives
dressed as rappers they were singing it
is very professionally done they also
introduced a bottle of subsys that is
like the inhaler essentially the video
was titled great by choice it was meant
to train sales representatives to push
subsys to not worry about the stuff as
it were basically in fact one of the
executives who was found guilty were
dressed as the spray bottle and they
pled guilty to participating in the
scheme to bribe doctors the bribes
included stuff like getting lap dances
for the doctors getting taking him out
to dinners competitions to $2,000 per
person dinners apparently at one point
there was panic in one executive who
shouted from his office about the
company keeping track of how much money
incest was making off of doctors who
were paid speakers they would go to
conferences and be paid by insist
without revealing that they're being
paid by incest and incest had a record
of how much money they were making out
of these doctors offices he was in his
office screaming we're all going to jail
and it turned out he was uh
it's correct but this is just gives you
the mentality of and really honestly
like I don't know these guys the only
difference between these guys in the
pharmaceutical industry writ large is
these guys are on the cutting edge of
marketing and just a little bit more hip
in their minds we're gonna really we're
gonna we got it we got a project baller
status to our our sales reps and here is
some of that video we have we have sped
up just a little bit so that we don't
get dinged on YouTube but here it is I
love titration and it's not a problem
that is how you get off of a substance
that is physically addictive so they're
saying like good don't worry the
titration is gonna be easy I got a lot
of patients and I've got even more of
them
this is where the subsist bottle shows
up 38 percent of the industry at this
point they had already the subsist
bottle had already cornered beast this
is a good thing to remember when
executives say that they work like 80
hours a week right
yeah there you go yeah I was very
motivational super competition would
start kicking in right there you go
it's all happening that is so those guys
are going to go to jail and hopefully
more of them will and then hopefully
we're gonna have just the the the profit
motive is the same across the board with
these people and so you know the the
last concern that anyone should have is
that we're going to become too
socialized in the context of how we
regulate and maybe produce drugs you
don't think these guys and Martin
shkreli are just bad apples right well
you know the one of the greatest myths
is that one bad apple doesn't spoil the
whole bunch in fact it literally does
one bad apple which is why you should
not keep your your apples in a plastic
bag in your refrigerator you should
separate them and try and because they
excrete as they go bad they excrete a
gas which causes other apples to go bad
so keep that in mind when bad apple does
in fact this video was like that gasps
spoil this boil the whole bunch indeed
