[Music]
let's do a compare and contrast between
Tana he see coats reminding us of our
history and I think this is really one
of the most important things about the
reparation conversation is when you get
to the actual policy implementation
details of this there's a lot of
legitimate operational questions that
people ask and flaws the people like
Adolf read have identified and there's
also some really interesting and smart
answers to them like Professor Dougherty
has put forward but to me and I with
Marisa Barra Dhahran about this and I
agreed with her that this is also just
if you look at it also as like something
analogous to a Truth and Reconciliation
Commission that happened in South Africa
for a actual full accounting of this
country's history that has regularly
lied about and obscured on a daily basis
that even this hearing in the house when
you had Tana hasty coats and you had
Danny Glover and other you know people
literally just being clear about what
our history is that is incredibly
important and it's incredibly important
because Chuck because Mitch McConnell
and 2019 can come out in public and
still say this
for slavery and if not should there be
public apology from Congress yeah I
don't think reparations for something
that happened 150 years ago for whom
none of us currently living or
responsible is a good idea we've you
know tried to for which we're
responsible or for which we're
benefiting right that's the big
distinction right there years ago for
whom none of us currently living or
responsible is a good idea we've you
know tried to deal with our original sin
of slavery by fighting a civil war about
passing landmark civil rights
legislation we've elected an
african-american president I think we're
always working who I sent out on day one
to destroy mm-hmm president I think
we're always a work in progress in this
country but no one currently alive was
responsible for that and I don't think
we should be trying to figure out how to
compensate for it first of all it'd be
pretty hard to figure out who to
compensate we've had waves of immigrants
as well have come to the country and
experienced dramatic discrimination of
one kind or another so no I don't think
reparations are a good idea oh thank you
mr. McCall thank you no one ever talks
about our own slavery experiences no I
mean I look this still is it's I think
it's actually really important in the
answer to that this is though is one of
the reasons that you don't make it this
kind of like general metaphysical idea
about whiteness because be precisely
because of what Matt said which is that
it's not about individual moral
culpability in this and whether you
directly and I by the way let's be real
here look we should obviously also be
including Jim Crow and redlining and
generations of systemic economic and
political terrorism but if you frame it
- even if you have no culpability at all
you could have the best politics in the
world
but part of your land wealth as an
example is a direct outcome of the
complete destruction of another group of
people that's a material reality that's
not some broad amorphous kind of moral
claim that's you're in a position
because of a theft and we're gonna have
a direct material response to that the
other part of that though that is moral
and is historical is getting clear on
what precisely that history is so that
as an example you could acknowledge that
plenty of immigrants have faced
discrimination and have faced very bad
things in the country but you would
never be able to come out in public and
draw an analogy between even the worst
off-the-boat discrimination and
literally being a slave for hundreds of
years in building this country on free
labor that is and of course side note
obviously Mitch McConnell has been
working very steadily to undermine and
erode many parts of that quote unquote
landmark civil civil rights legislation
some of us might call that just the
official legal end of apartheid in this
country in the 1960s but I guess and
also assuring through justices on
federal circuit courts who now in the
latest iteration in addition to opposing
the key parts of Voting Rights Act and
civil rights act are not even taking an
opinion on Brown versus Board of
Education so we probably should include
that as well but here's Tonya he see
Coates giving us sort of broader lessons
here at the testimony yesterday and so
forth century after the Civil War black
people were subjected to a relentless
campaign of terror a campaign that
extended well into the lifetime of
majority leader McConnell right it is
tempting to divorce this modern campaign
of terror of plunder from enslavement
but the logic of enslavement of white
supremacy respects no such borders and
the god of bondage was lustful and began
Meniere's coup d'etats and convict
leasing vagrancy laws and debt peonage
redlining and racist GI
Bill's poll taxes and state props
state-sponsored terrorism regret that
mr. McConnell was not alive for
Appomattox but he was alive for the
electrocution of George Stinney he was
alive for the blinding of Isaac Woodward
he was alive to witness khakhra see in
his native Alabama and a regime premise
on electoral fat Majority Leader
McConnell cited civil rights legislation
yesterday as well he should because he
was alive to witness the harassment
jailing and betrayal of those
responsible for that legislation by a
government sworn to protect them he was
alive for the red lining of Chicago and
the looting of black homeowners of some
four billion dollars victims of that
plunder are very much alive today I am
sure they'd love a word with the
Majority Leader
if I may Sam Harris does not see the
ability to have a productive
conversation with Thomas coats
I couldn't resist better get Coleman
Hughes on yeah get Coleman news on
obviously you couldn't have a brand I
have plenty of disagreements with Donna
AC coats but I think it's pretty
extraordinary that you you could have a
productive conversation with a
undergraduate who wrote a sort of
bargain bin copy of every right wing
trope about race relations in this
country and Colet you could do a couple
hours with him but you certainly
couldn't do it with a MacArthur Genius
grant winner who has a deep sense of
American history no of course not and
let alone of course we're not even of
course considering a bill Fletcher jr.
or a NATO three-door a Cornel West
obvious
