and there's a lot of overlap in those
groups but so here is a story from Brian
Williams on the eleventh hour and
there's two aspects of this it's coming
out of let's play the clips of Bernie
Sanders talking about Amazon and
Washington Post because Bernie Sanders
has been saying has been talking about
the the the coverage and the nature of
the questions that he's getting which
are all and we saw this during the
debates and he wasn't certainly the only
person who made this complaint during
the debates he just did it in a way that
gets more attention maybe but we saw
this in the debates which is that the
framing of these questions are being
framed from a right-wing perspective if
I asked about immigration I'd there's
there's four different ways that there's
the 20 different ways that I can ask
about the same issue of immigration but
ask it in ways that are leading in one
direction or another and certainly if
it's up to me I'm going to lead in a way
that is a framed by the left and I
imagine if Sean Hannity is doing it he's
going to lead by a frame of the right
but when you're doing a debate with
Democrats what is the point it's for
Democrats to figure out who they want to
vote for what is the point for boxing
them in on a Republican frame
unless you are already taking this this
primary to the general election as a
reporter because they don't do it on the
right I mean it's just simply they don't
and what will see it whether it's in the
questions of abortion or the question of
I mean we won't see these debates this
time around but we've seen it in the
past so here's Bernie Sanders making
it's not broadly attacking the media he
is specifically criticizing the type of
coverage he's getting and the nature of
the coverage
which reporters which I which
politicians like I say there was
multiple people who said this who made
these comments during the debates but
here he is and he ties Bezos into this
but listen carefully because he's being
accused of creating some type of
conspiracy as if Jeff Bezos calls up
people in the office and says you know
don't do this I do here know how much
Amazon paid in taxes last year yeah say
you know I talk about that all the time
and then I wonder why the Washington
Post which is owned by Jeff Bezos who
owns Amazon doesn't write particularly
good articles about I don't know why we
have pointed out over and over again
that Amazon made ten billion dollars in
profit last year you know how much they
paid in taxes no god it's zero any
wonder why the Washington Post it's not
one of my great supporters I wonder why
New York Times not much better now so
that's that's basically the evidence
that Bernie Sanders is peddling some
type of conspiracy theory here is a
coverage of that on with Brian Williams
this last night okay and he's got two
reporters on one is uh Kosta from The
Washington Post and the other one who is
and then the other one is a Wall Street
Journal reporter here is Brian Williams
my attention from the political Twitter
site called the horse posit okay Chris
he's going to start first he's going to
start with a with a tweet from the
political Twitter site of the horse
whisperer yeah Twitter calm / horse
whisperer this is this is the iCloud
whispering great my attention from the
political Twitter site called the horse
whisperer
okay since this is trending here's my
Bernie story the year was 2016 and
Bernie was already long eliminated from
contention an actual Democrat would have
stopped torpedoing the nominee
and work to defeat Trump but Bernie had
books to sell the end that kind of
nicely sums up how some Democrats feel
about Bernie when they hear how's it
using it alright let's just stop there
for a moment so that pot that that
summarizes how some Democrats perceive
what Bernie did and that is accurate
some Democrats do perceive Bernie as
having done that
who are those Democrats well since Brian
Williams used the horse whisperer to
represent them let's look and see who
the horse whisperer is turns out the
horse whisperer is a marketing guy who
has worked with Exxon Aetna Citibank
click on the right there this is a list
of is Lincoln he is a senior strategy
consultant independent consultant to
leading agencies and clients clients
include American Express Gillette
DirecTV L'Oreal Exxon genatech Merck Eli
Lilly those are pharmaceutical companies
Cisco Verizon AT&T t-mobile Old Navy
Time Inc etc so he's definitely a
Hillary Clinton M well I don't know if
he's a Hillary Clinton democrat or not
the point is he is a corporate he is
from the corporate sector now let the
growth efforts for u.s. offices an
international integrated agency network
in this role was responsibility with
cultivating relationships proposing
marketing strategies and programs from
major marketers including Aetna Citibank
Bristol Myers new with numerous others
now I'm not suggesting that Aetna or
Citibank or Exxon or any other of these
major corporations told the horse risk
whisperer to tweet like that okay
because this dynamic in this
relationship is really important I don't
believe that Aetna AT&T Exxon
bristol-myers Eli Lilly
whatever other drug companies he worked
for you know the ones he's not
mentioning because he thinks those might
be problematic the the Miller is the
military that's whatever I've heard yeah
I'm not suggesting that any of those
companies told him to tweet that what I
am suggesting is that the reason why
they hire a guy like that is because
he's a guy who would tweet like that and
this is an important dynamic to keep in
mind here let's continue then Trump
talking point what is the state of the
Sanders campaign as you know it well the
Sanders campaign is very frustrated
right now with coverage and they're not
alone Democrats Republicans politicians
generally start to blame the media when
they don't like coverage what is new and
what is sort of a trump-like attack line
is tying the Washington Post to Amazon
with no you know he has no evidence here
and we saw him tone this down a little
bit but we saw Marty Baron come back and
say this is a conspiracy theory but the
Bernie Sanders campaign right now he is
pulling in second or third he's doing a
lot better than 2122 people in that
field but he is not moving he's been
sort of stagnant and so he needs to
expand his support and he is frustrated
about coverage that points out that he
is not you know he's number two but with
Joe Biden is still certainly in the lead
and he is competing with people like
Elizabeth Warren who has a lot of very
similar ideas but her polling is going
upward so while Sanders is stagnant his
campaign is frustrated by coverage that
they view is not talking about all of
the great things he's doing and all of
the support he has what she certainly
does have support he's got lots of
donors he's got grassroots support but
political campaigns want to talk about
the good and not any of the bad so
Robert Costa when General Electric owned
this building in this network I was it
coincided with the birth of the the
interwebz and a lot of conspiracy
theorists had us all on a conference
call every morning with Jack Welch so
we'd have the talking points from the
electric power to
in the nuclear division electric trains
all of that of course it was never true
and I ask you just to show our homework
when was the last time you met or heard
from Jeff Bezos about your coverage
posit now I will tell you this that in
2004 I knew a and MSNBC contributor who
was very very explicit I could we
couldn't talk about it at the time but
Bob Wright who was the NBC executive CEO
and then the chairman and CEO until
about 2007 Bob Wright spoke to Jack
Welsh and Bob Wright spoke to all the
people at GE who are the number one
manufacturer of weapons manufacturer in
this country who owned over 51% of of
NBC and I know for a fact that in the
run-up to the war they certainly got
calls about people saying certain things
on the network and putting Frank Luntz
out there to do stuff so Brian Williams
might be right that Jack Welsh never
called him but why would Jack Walsh call
Brian Williams why wouldn't Jack Walsh
call Brian Williams boss and say hey now
my bet is that never had to happen
because in the same way that Aetna and
Exxon and Eli Lilly don't have to tell
the guy who works for them and does
marketing hey you should be critical of
the political candidate who wants to
take away our power you don't have to
say that to him because the reason why
you hired him was because you don't have
to say that to him so when Bernie
Sanders says that the Washington Post
comes after him and cites the
relationship they have with Amazon and
the one of the richest individuals in
the country
with a corporation that pays no taxes
the issue isn't that Jeff Bezos calls up
the Washington Post and says hey I need
you guys to toe my line when Jeff Bezos
buys the Washington Post he does so
because it's a paper that tows his line
that doesn't mean every reporter there
but when decisions are made and we know
how it went down at the times when
decisions are made to put coverage
on Bernie Sanders and when decisions are
made to ask questions of the stable of
people who are there the least
sympathetic are appointed which does not
happen does not happen on a across the
board with candidates look this is
controversial in the context of book
reviews and people are able to say hey
wait a second why are you having someone
who doesn't know anything about this
topic review that book or why you having
someone who has a problem because his
wife left him
to go with this guy's brother you know
review this book that happens all the
time and when people talk about that
there's no conspiracy theories people
say this is this is a bad editorial
assessment Jeff Bezos buys this paper
and if he doesn't feel like he has to
interfere it's because he's happy with
what it's doing for him and his
interests I would just like to add I
think another thing and may I'm not sure
you have time to play this Chomsky clip
but it really speaks to it that another
thing that's very reflective and I could
speak in personal conversations with
some journalists but actually also
people who do marketing jobs like the
horse whisperer gentleman that they are
so into this unacknowledged ideology
that they actually have there they're
being very sincere that they think that
Bernie's being conspiratorial because
they're so deep in that thought process
that they think that any even noting of
it is conspiracy if that makes sense
like they can't they can't they're not
even
disingenuously putting it off they
cannot even understand the distinction
because stupid the water Bezos is
literally that stupid water Bezos have
to be to financially support a major
publication that would be critical of it
and they under his interest and they
understand that in every other field of
life is intuitive and obvious but when
it comes to them they're so regimented
that they don't think so
alright we're going to get
