[Music]
all right let's just one more touch this
is just very quick about bado Roarke he
seems to have faded a little bit but he
could come back Pete Budig a gig judge
has Buddha judge has taken some of the
taking some of his shine and it there
was reports that a Roarke patted some of
his fundraising stuff it was money that
he got for the general election some
people were double dipping I think they
were probably maxing out on their
primary and their general donations at
one time they included the general
election donations into the primary
thing to make it look like he got more
than Bernie but whatever three hundred
thousand dollars that's not that big of
a deal but what is I think you know a
Roark is starting to run into
problematically is that with someone
like Elizabeth Warren particularly in
the race who is everyday coming out with
incredibly well thought-out important
proposals to deal with the inequalities
in our economy to deal with the material
interests of Americans it's putting
pressure on a lot of the the people
running and and frankly I think it's
educating the Democratic primary voters
and they're getting more and more
sophisticated in terms of what they're
asking at these events and it is putting
people who want to run for president but
to do so on sort of like vague
generalities in an uncomfortable
position better or orc for better for
worse I think is one of those people who
is running on vague generalities
remember this is a guy who called for
the cuts of Social Security in 2012
before he ran cuts Social Security in
2012 and now he's being a little bit
less specific but here is how he wants
to address corporate concentration
corporate concentration just think about
those words what comes to mind when you
think about corporate concentration
maybe think about grit opportunity
innovation no but seriously I want
people to think the words corporate
copper concentration think about what
corporate concentration means to you in
practice like what companies so he says
quote I think we need to do more to
ensure dynamism in our economy and to an
address corporate concentration O'Rourke
told insider at a campaign event on
Wednesday
I don't know that breaking up Amazon is
the way to do that he goes on to say but
I'm grateful for people who are talking
about different ways to ensure that at a
time of historic corporate concentration
and vast disparity in wealth and income
that we look for ways to ensure that
everybody can participate in the economy
that we try to encourage small business
development and growth which is
suffering as a result of corporate
concentration so in other words let me
just translate this I'm glad people are
talking about corporate concentration I
agree that corporate concentration is a
problem and we need to address it but
the only way to address corporate
concentration is not the way to address
corporate concentration Toodee
concentrate corporate concentration
would not be a good way to address the
problem of corporate concentration right
this is like the post America is already
great sort of liberal pose I think like
and actually Obama said that not Hillary
but like him and Buddha judge they like
rhetorically talk as if they see the
same reality you are like ensure that at
a time of historic corporate
concentration they like to do this or a
new Gilded Age and then none of the
actual ways to address that are the
example I used was Obama going into Iowa
and saying there's a crisis in Social
Security because that that means that oh
wait now whether there was no crisis in
Social Security but that signifies the
people who care about Social Security he
cares about
social security even if he's assessing
the problem incorrectly he's addressing
it but literally addressing it like
talking to the problem is simply a way
in which politicians are trying to snow
you they need to commit to at very least
a philosophy on how to deal with a
problem and there really is only one way
to deal with corporate concentration and
that is to D concentrate the corporate
concentration and the only way to do
that is to break up some of the biggest
businesses out there like a Google like
an Amazon ones that own both ends both
the pipe and the content for for you
know lack of a better way of phrasing
that so he's gonna have to get more
sophisticated in in his responses to
things a it's not a policy to say we
shouldn't do something that's not a
policy I think he's gonna have trouble I
think he's going to have trouble
