[Music]
where everyday casual Friday that means
Monday is casual Monday Tuesday casual
Tuesday Wednesday casual hump day
Thursday casual Thurs that's what we
call it and Friday casual Shabbat
gommage or a report with sam c de it is
Friday November 9th 2018 my name is Sam
cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today host
of the Benjamin Dixon show Benjamin
Dixon also on the program today host of
just kill me now and star of the Judy
gold show Judy gold also on the program
the Blue Wave getting wavier as
christian cinema takes the lead in
arizona and the florida governor and
Senate races enter into the realm of
mandatory recount votes are still being
counted Nelson still has a chance of
being on top when they enter into this
recount meanwhile in Georgia Stacey
Abrams calls for provisional ballot
caster's in hopes of pushing for a
runoff right now just outside that
margin and as protests start across the
u.s.
in an attempt to protect Muller Trump's
new acting AG can't stop existing
indictments from being unsealed
meanwhile on his way out
professional racist Jeff Sessions limits
the feds ability to control races police
departments across the country an Obama
appointee federal court judge halts the
Keystone pipeline based upon the actions
of an Obama Secretary of State and a
Clinton appointee fines against Trump on
daca but why that may not end up so well
meanwhile Ryan's Enki may take his 18
investigations and go work for Fox and
Justice Ginsburg at home after a fall
leaves her with three fractured ribs
fingers crossed and the migrant caravan
remember that Exhibit A in the media's
failure to cover an election and
Greyhound sued for its ice complicity C
complicity complicity all that and more
on today's program ladies and gentlemen
that complicity thing I don't know what
what just happened there but it just
sounded like one of those words like
when you say it of a sudden you're like
that doesn't sound like a word I should
also say you'll notice that when I
mentioned the the halting of the
Keystone pipeline and the finding
against Trump on daca we now have a new
style guide here at the majority report
where we always when we talk about any
federal court ruling we'll remind you
who appointed that judge so that the
idiots who exist out there who don't
appreciate the importance of the federal
judiciary I'm not naming any names but
for people who don't understand the
importance of the president have
the ability to nominate federal judges
and place them on the federal judiciary
this is a teachable moment
what about advocating for a reverse
axial filibuster you never hold
Democrats cannibal because you're
motivated out of fear at many MS
everybody say sure the I mean the the
Keystone pipeline is a is is a great
example of this now I I don't know if
this gets gonna kicked up probably won't
in anytime soon but essentially because
the Obama administration specifically
the State Department John Kerry's State
Department found that the environmental
factors outweighed the national
interests or at least were more
compelling national interests to the
United States that exists and that
creates a higher bar for subsequent
administration's as to reversing that
decision now a Donald Trump a point to
judge I imagine would say yes the Trump
administration could do this so it also
is a teachable moment in terms of the
flexibility of the law and so this is
pretty important stuff going forward and
actually backwards but we can't go
backwards we can only go forwards so I
just wanted to plant a flag there as it
were the micro Caravan incidentally is
in Mexico City now which one would
imagine would be creating all sorts of
concerns within the media right because
they're more north than they were two
weeks ago yet nothing really shocking
that but let's uh this has been a long
week folks and on Fridays what we like
to do is to go back in time and look
over the week so let's go all the way to
what this was Tuesday morning I believe
or maybe
day night the beginning of this week
when Sinclair media sat down although
they were sanding with Donald Trump
thing is sir anything as you look back
in your first almost two years think you
regret that you wish on you then you
could just take back memory - well there
would be certain things I'm not sure I
want to reveal all of them but I would
say tone I would like to have a much
softer tone I feel to a certain extent I
have no choice but maybe I do and maybe
I could have been softer from that
standpoint but okay so there it was and
you know of course he goes on to
equivocate and and did say but but
basically tone tone let's check in now
it's the end of the week we are now four
days later and this morning how's that
project on tone going
president Trump I think Jim Acosta is a
very unprofessional man I think he does
this with everybody he gets paid to do
that you know he gets paid to burst in
he's a very unprofessional guy whether
it was me or Ronald Reagan or anybody
else he would have done the same thing
look I don't think he's a smart person
but he's got a loud voice and he's heard
wait wait David do you mind if I answer
the Christ one as far as I'm concerned I
haven't made that decision but it could
be others also when you're in the White
House this is a very sacred place to me
this is a very special place you have to
treat the White House with respect you
have to treat the presidency with
respect we view this know if you've ever
seen him dealing with Sarah Huckabee
Sanders it's a disgrace and he does it
for you know the risa the same thing
with April Ryan let me mention it up let
me get something you talk about certain
of color includes there's she doesn't
know what the hell she's doing she gets
publicity and then she gets to pay raise
or she gets a contract with I think CNN
so go but she's very nasty and she
shouldn't be she shouldn't be you've got
to treat the White House and the Office
of the presidency with respect it's a
little thing called our yes II but wait
a second but let's not let's maybe there
could be other occasions
maybe we just caught him at a bad moment
and that tone projects going better
what a stupid question that is what a
stupid question but I watch you a lot
you ask a lot of stupid question he's
such a Donald Trump is messy
who loves drama right you know he also
is starting to like slide into very
close to where my Jewish grandmother was
when she was besieged with ailments I
don't like you you're black I don't you
got I didn't you thought I didn't do
subtext before how's this I hate you you
are a black woman I am a grotesque he
seems to be a little bit uptight he
seems to be a little bit uptight but
having a rage gasm so I would say I
don't know I can you really grade this
guy on effort I mean can you does he
have like enough even aware
self-awareness to grade him on effort I
think just I would have to give him a
really not a passing grade he's off town
project
yeah he's not even on his game for being
like funny and being a dick he's clearly
having a lot of anxiety and it's making
him tense and his performance it's hard
to build new habits okay well what we'll
talk about I want to talk about this
with with Ben Dixon about the
implications of if Ben Nelson ends up
taking the Senate and Christin cinema
ends up taking the Senate it's it's
going to create some interesting
dynamics that are very different than if
it's and then if either one of them
loses but we'll discuss that in a moment
before we get there folks you know
because I've told you and you must show
respect for the podcast the podcast
needs to get respect
Caspar is a sleeper and that continues
to revolutionize its line of products to
create exceptionally comfortable sleep
experiences one night at a time
we have to Casper mattresses between us
you have one too I just bought a Casper
last week UT excellent grid yes I did
all right good job I don't did you get
the there are three models you know that
right Michael there's the original
Casper wave and the essential I got the
original Queen there you go
well when I have Queen you have a queen
- oh you guys are making me so jealous I
think it is
it's excellent from the middle of the
country we have big beds out there I
guess so hello well excuse me the the
Matt Casper mattresses are perfectly
designed to soothe and cradle your
natural geometry not to mention the
breathable design helps you sleep cool
and regulates your body temperature
throughout the night and it's delivered
in your small to your door and a small
how do they do that size box with free
shipping and returns in US and Canada
where did you enjoy that
unboxing did you guys I did there you go
right it could not have been I mean you
just get comes there you just carry the
thing up the stairs it's nothing and
they ridges slash the Box opened you're
done it's amazing well let's be careful
when you're slashing the box you don't
want to slash the mattress just be
careful with the box yes be careful out
there
watch yourself the best part of buying a
Casper is that you can be sure of your
purchase with Casper's 100 night risk
free sleep on it trial you're still
within your 100 days aren't you nice
after lording it over them I email
customer service everything I don't know
I don't know we'll see last night was
good who knows what tonight may bring
I'm gonna try it out with a slightly
different about of drinking that I'm
gonna be doing it's a lot of variables
to test out on a human ear Casper today
yoga we're gonna see today I did yoga
tomorrow I drink not to mention the
guest look folks you spend one third of
your life sleeping or if you're like me
one sixteenth so you should be
comfortable now you our listeners can
get fifty dollars toward us
lect mattress by visiting Casper dot-com
/ majority and using majority a checkup
so that's Casper dot-com / majority
offer code majority for $50 off you
merge your mattress purchase terms and
conditions apply of course ones that I
can't get into now because I'm not
familiar with them but they're not I
didn't notice any terms and conditions
me neither I don't know you can't do
like double sessions of yoga and then
say I don't know and folks it's always
session I have no idea okay that's what
I thought I just was curious if you have
been introduced to something recently we
always well actually we we will put the
we always buy sell the offer codes in
the podcast description I went out the
other night with a old friends John
Benjamin David Cross and David Cross is
trying to entice me into hot yoga tell
me when you go through it I will go to
the same class why you think I can't
handle it I know I have no idea what you
can and can't handle I just want to be
there I've heard that's what the NBA
players do so I've been curious about
that as well all right not the amount of
toxins that are gonna come out of your
body within the first hour of doing that
class there are negatively you will get
sick they're gonna make a noise when
they hit the ground the toxins as they
drop out gonna be solved somebody
dropping change you're going to look
like those creepy dudes from the latest
season of Twin Peaks the ones took over
the nevermind alright well we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back Ben
Dickson
you
you
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program the host and
proprietor of the Benjamin Dixon show
Benjamin Dixon and also now the one of
the proprietors of the North Star Ben
welcome to the program what's the North
Star the North Star hey Sam first of all
thanks so much for having me man it's
always a pleasure the North Star is the
abolitionist paper started by Frederick
Douglass and I have partnered with Sean
King and with the permission and the
blessing of the descendants the family
of Frederick Douglass we are relaunching
the North Star as a digital platform
it's going to be a comprehensive media
plump aney that does podcasts videos
original journalism the whole the whole
nine yards so that's what we're doing
building the North Star calm that's so
awesome
I'm very excited when it when do you
launch so we started a pre this it's
been crazy man it has definitely been a
ride so far we did a pre-launch on last
Thursday a week ago a week in a day ago
and we had 120,000 people who signed up
expressed interest in participating
reading our content donating and all
sorts of things so we started that just
last week 120,000 signups and we are
looking to launch in earnest in 2019
around the birthday of Frederick
Douglass now we have a lot of things
that are happening in between now and
then February 14th which is this
birthday a lot of things that are going
to happen between now and then but
that's when we want to make our public
facing launch wow that's that's super
exciting congratulations on that thanks
so much man that's really great
folks can head over what's the the
address it's building the North Starcom
great building the North Star calm we'll
put a link to that in the podcast
description and in our youtube
description and when else the
descriptions up here alright so Ben
crazy week yeah not too dissimilar from
any other week except for the nature of
the craziness a little bit different but
yeah so all right so the the midterm
elections it seems like as the days have
passed the Democrats did better than one
that certainly appeared on Tuesday but
they did it seemed to me like as of
Tuesday about around where anybody you
know within basically the middle of
predictions I would say yeah no actually
I think they did a little better than
the predictions I think honestly we had
our hearts wrapped up into two races in
particular the governor's race here in
Georgia and in Florida what those are
really matters of our heart and our
hearts were broken and so we it was hard
to look at all of those seats that
flipped in the house and and be excited
about it because our hearts were broken
but we flipped I've got 30-some seats I
don't even know that the final total at
this point and you know of course Nancy
Pelosi has a opportunity to probably be
the speaker again while there's some
challenges to that we'll see how that
plays out but I mean that's a
significant deal anyone who thought we
were going to get the Senate you know I
was I was joking around about it I don't
care about bets I'll make a crazy bet
any day but I honestly knew the odds
were against us in the Senate with the
number of red state Democrats they were
up for reelection and you know out of
the rest they Democrats that we lost I
wish we could have lost Joe Manchin and
kept maybe one or two of the other ones
but I digress the point is it was uphill
battle and we expected that so hot takes
being hot takes people gave them that
night that became the narrative but it
panned out differently over the last few
days yeah I think it's now we're up to
36 or something and the percentage of
vote I mean here's the here's the other
thing that is is pretty clear to the
percentage of vote that the Democrats
got across the the country was as big as
some of the other past like wave
election right right right 2010
I think it was even bigger than what the
Republicans got the breakups in the
number of seats as a function of I mean
I you know there's there's still this
sort of like a mini debate is it is it
self sorting or is it gerrymandering you
know I think having talked to David
Daley I can't remember his name now but
he wrote a book about rat EFT and I'm
quite convinced that this is about
gerrymandering rather than self
selecting I think there's some of that
going on but I don't think it's that
dramatic and you know and so the
Democrats in terms of like the National
vote and that's right
it's only relevant in so far and this is
also true the Senate right like there
was 10 million more Democratic votes or
4 less Democratic senators than
Republicans and it's obviously it was
true for the past like I think seven of
eight or six of seven presidential
elections the country votes Democratic
yeah I we may have other no we do have
other sort of another layer of
determining who wins these seats whether
it's the President or the Senate or the
the house but the fact of the matter is
the country votes by several percentage
points more for Democrats and they do
Republicans and so now the question is
like you know where is the structural
reform or how much more do you need to
actually make it a governing majority
we're right and that's the well here's
the problem with what not with what you
said but the the follow-through here
you know the structural reform that's
necessary to have the voices of the
majority of America represented on the
federal level requires Democrats who are
going to fight like hell it requires
Democrats who are willing to go in and
make structural changes that are going
to seem
anti institutional right that they kill
counter to
the status quo I don't know that we have
those divots in leadership positions
I'll just leave it at that I do think
that we have some new Democrats that
have gone to the Congress who might be
willing to fight dirty
I I can't remember the name David the
author of the book who or the book fight
dirty who recommends that we get rid of
the electoral college because there
there's structural impediments to having
the voice of the majority of Americans
heard and Republicans have exploited
those structural advantages relentlessly
on top of their willingness to break the
rules so not only are they breaking the
rules but they're exploiting the the
rules to their favor the existing rules
to their favor and unless we get
Democrats who are going to go in there
and tear this apart and do it on the
behalf of the right thing then we're
going to always be fighting these
structural impediments well and I would
say the first thing that that I hope and
and I I frankly would like to see I mean
I think it's time for a change in
leadership now Nancy Pelosi has said
that this is you know her transition
year I don't know what that means
she doesn't want to specifically say
she's a lame-duck etc etc but I would
like to see that transition happen a
little bit more quickly with that said
we're gonna see what the structure of
the Democratic leadership is beyond the
top positions and if they start reaching
out to some of those people and
elevating them and putting them into
some type of like you know sort of
training positions and giving them you
know sort of like the institutional
education that that you know they need
then you know that may satisfy that
feeling but the first thing I hope that
they go in and do is and there's no
reason why they can't do it they won't
won't pass the Senate or maybe it will
pass the Senate is to come up with a new
formula for section 5 of the Voting
Rights Act yes I did bias the the
Supreme Court now remember the Supreme
Court said that it's okay to have a
formula for preclearance where you know
certain states need to need to check
with the Department of Justice before
they make changes but we just don't like
the way you've done it now so
congressman
up with a new way that should be
something they work on for instance
here's an example of this problem and
I'm not a I'm not exactly sure of the
exact breakdown of these votes cuz I've
seen two different things but I'm gonna
give the Republicans the benefit of
doubt in North Carolina they 150 point
three percent of North Carolina's votes
for Congress they have 13 seats in
Congress that go from North Carolina
they have 10 of them so you basically
have a 50/50 state and you'd imagine
that like okay maybe maybe it's eight
five maybe it's seven six in favor of
Republicans maybe it's six seven and you
know where in terms of Republicans two
Democrats it is 10 of 13 it is 10 to 3
with a 50 person that's effed up that is
a direct result of the Supreme Court
rolling back the Voting Rights Act and
then North Carolina's going to town with
gerrymandering which we know is racially
also yeah like I want to say it's it's
racist in practice but it is you know
you race is used as a proxy there yeah
they're literally segments of North
Carolina the way they've gerrymandered
that state until oblivion they're
literally strips where these district is
less than a mile wide and though that
cuts through urban centers right and so
they've they've done what-what
gerrymandering does they've grouped and
then they've cracked districts to make
sure that there's no threat and as you
can see literally see the gerrymander
map evolve every every so many years and
to how how it changed from being a 50/50
state into being this 1013 state ten
three state rather and and and it
happens on the wings of I don't always
I'm not one who always attack the
Democrats right I think that's a very
necessary institution and it's probably
the only institution to institution we
have right now in to fight back against
the Republicans but this happens on
their watch like they observe it
it's happening and and they they make
one mistake right they allow one piece
of legislation or they allow something
to happen where Republicans get their
foot in the door and they will exploit
it to the point where now you no longer
recognize the districts from North
Carolina and anywhere else so but - but
to your point I think it's actually a
brilliant recommendation that should be
the very first thing that they do and
they can pass it in the house
I good luck in the Senate you see some
hope there for a reform to the Voting
Rights Act the section 5 passed a Senate
I don't but I do see that as a liability
for those senators who vote against it
right I mean so you know II all eyes
turn to 20/20 in terms of taking back
the Senate it's still going to be super
tough because you know red states have
hardened but let's take Georgia for
instance I mean Georgia is now I think
you know if not already purple man yeah
and let's just go over like like I saw
this breakdown from I think it was a
Charlie cook so these are counties in
Georgia and and you would know these
counties and their relevance more than I
would but these are metropolitan Atlanta
counties from 2012 to 2018 when that
went to a from an R plus 9 to a D plus
14 yeah that's a 23 point swing cobb
went from r plus 12 to a D plus 9
han wow 3.3 to a deep v plus 15 Douglas
went from a D plus 4 to a D+ 20.4 fulton
went from a D plus 29 to a D plus 45 the
car went from plus the D plus 43 to a d
+ 67 Fayette went from an R plus 31 to
an R plus 13 Forsyth R plus 62 to an R
plus 42 so we're looking at money I'm
about to run against one of these
Republicans they know that's a good turn
think about it because but what can
happen to counties in particular that I
want to point out before you move on
Gwinnett County has been a natural
evolution in just terms of population
right there have been so many more
african-americans who have just moved
into Gwinnett County and and and that
accounts for some of the change Cobb
County I am blown away by because Cobb
County is one of those counties that you
just act like I used to work in Cobb
County our studios used to be in Cobb
County and you know hmm I can't really
tell the story when I tell them of
myself so marijuana is very legal in
Boston very illegal in Cobb County you
just don't you you don't even have don't
smoke weed within 30 days of driving in
Cobb County that's that's they will pull
you over and arrest you for their
suspicion I think you look high and that
disproportionately hurts black people
that's how that's how entrenched Cobb
County is and to see that type of shift
in a city in a county like that that
blows me away
Gwinnett I'm not as surprised because
demographically it's been changing but
Cobb County if you can make Cobb County
even remotely purple then you something
is definitely happening happening and
Newt Gingrich Gingrich's seat district
six I believe Lucy Macbeth just took
that away from Handel Karen Handel yeah
and that was that was the awesome see ya
the autopsy exactly and so that shows
you right so this is the real narrative
is this from from Tuesday night you know
our hearts were broken but I think the
real narrative has to be this you lay
the groundwork also after you can't take
that away from he laid some serious
groundwork there right he lost but just
a few months later Lucy Macbeth was able
to win Gilliam we'll see how that works
out in Georgia in Florida and Abrams
will see how the recounts and the
impossible runoff plays out but if they
don't win you have to understand like
this is the this is the bloody red south
this is the Confederate flag waving
south this is where you can you really
shouldn't be out past certain times a
night in certain counties it literally
is still that way and the fact that they
got that close to turning this state red
I'm turning the state blue in the
governor's seat the next the next
campaign
doesn't bode well for Republicans I
think we're in the head and in the right
direction as hard as Tuesday night was
according to the high takes and we're
what do you think what do you think
counts accounts for that for this
oh-oh-oh absolutely no I I got it uh the
organizers I have to pause I'm glad you
said that the organizers on the ground
in these two states the campaign's and
the way they worked with local
organizers a city by city block by block
I mean the canvassing that took place
was unbelievable and this is why I in
response to a tweet from Chris Hayes he
was talking about pouring a hundred
million dollars into organizers I'm like
you yes but it needs to be organizers in
the south and it needs to be black
organizers because they literally are I
mean they're changing the face of the
south I mean the style of politics it's
changing you're getting a more
progressive breed of politicians coming
from the south you know so I it has to
100% go to the local organizers you know
it's funny because on the the beginning
of election Eve night Chuck Todd was on
MSNBC Chuck Todd of all people and I am
say like this is probably I don't know
the first time in maybe more than a
decade if not ever I have ever quoted
Chuck Todd approvingly but he said at
the beginning of the night you know when
I think people still had well look
Abrams theoretically is still in it and
the guilt is still theoretically in it
and at the very least the the how close
it was you know like you say is is an
achievement in and of itself but he said
there's a message for Democrats here
between those two and and and bado to a
certain extent too because you know
doing census taxes it's very much yeah
that that may be the the the Democrats
shouldn't be looking for moderates they
should be looking for progressives in
these places and he was still echoing
that I think this week yesterday maybe
and so it's going to be interesting to
see if that message gets conveyed
think it will but I think your point
about organizing is it's absolutely
right because the there's you know
that's the way that you get back that
2008 Obama coalition right it is is by
driving the vote out and and and we saw
a good example of this one one fine
point I want to make on that detail is
is with the progressive this is I'll
just say it and however it falls it
falls there's a tradition in the black
community that is far more radical then
probably any socialist would ever really
dream of like there is a black radical
tradition that is waiting and dormant
and not satisfied with establishment
democratic politics and they want
something like Bernie Sanders and
further to the left and that's really
kind of the style of a campaign that the
stacey abrams kind of flirted with and
Andrew Gilliam flirted with but the
organizers the organizers on the ground
they understood the language they
understood what we were looking for they
understood how to convey it and that's
what mobilize and is changing this out
so I'll say it like this if you want to
win in the south you're going to have to
be radical you just have to be because
the black community is what you need
you're not gonna get us if you're
talking some milquetoast centrist
democratic language or you have to be
close enough to being radical that it
can be communicated and reinterpreted on
the multiple levels yeah you know closer
to the ground as having the essential
for radicalism absolutely you gotta at
least be in the ballpark but what you
can't be is I hate to say this you can't
be Hillary Clinton centrist you can't I
don't want to relitigate 2016 but if you
want the South you gotta communicate to
us in a more radical language and you
have to connect with the black church
and and just there's just so many things
that are present in the South that just
people who are not from here would not
understand and and this is what we've
been screaming black organizers have
been screaming for the longest hey guys
this is how you win the south and and we
see we see the results in the change
I mean we're turning returning Georgia
purple or we have turned it purple
I think 2020 it might actually go blue
so uh I mean they really need to listen
to the organizers on the ground that's
all I have to say about and and if
they're if the Democrats are gonna take
the Senate in 2020 they're going to have
to they're going to have to figure out
how to turn take a one or two of these
southern states I mean that's the bottom
line and make you know Arizona maybe
there's a you know an opportunity there
you know going forward but maybe in some
of the Southwest a little bit I mean New
Mexico is now about his debt you can't
there I don't you know like I don't even
know if there's a single elected
Republican in the entire state now and
he's go but but but moving back to the
south there's gonna have to be to get
the you know the numbers in the Senate
that's where it's gonna have to be
you're gonna have to knock off like
Susan Collins and you're gonna have to
because it's gonna be tricky
now let's just talk about this for a
moment if bill Nelson who is now
somewhere around like 10,000 votes away
from taking the lead this is before the
recount taking the lead in Florida
they're still counting down there I
don't know how many votes are extant in
like Broward County but it's not
inconceivable that he'll be within a
thousand votes when this is done before
they head into a recount and then we can
also talk about the Florida recount I'm
gonna get hives talking about it because
that's basically why I'm sitting here in
my animation is because of that recount
in Florida 819 years ago now or 18 years
ago but so the difference between having
Nelson and cinema in the Senate right
where it is 52 to 48 as opposed to 54 to
46 yeah it's pretty big because this is
where it's gonna land right you have
Murkowski and collins who are gonna be
supposedly are gonna be in that fulcrum
now right and mitt romney is gonna be
the jeff Flake and this is gonna put a
lot of pressure on Mitt Romney it seems
to me because I think he thinks he can
go in there and
and Paula Jeff Flake but the difference
is that I think Mitt Romney has
aspirations beyond the Senate and Jeff
Flake clearly just had him in the
business and so this is gonna put a
certain amount of pressure on Mitt
Romney if you know Democrats can in
Collins you know there's somebody out
there who hasn't stepped up yet but will
who's gonna have a four million dollar
war chest on day Wow yes against running
against Susan Collins so she's going to
be you know there's there's a certain
amount of discipline that is going to be
exercised on Susan Collins by her
constituents in Murkowski I would
imagine the same thing on some level and
so that these two seats make a
difference not a dramatic difference
because we're still all right
you know Ruth Bader Ginsburg fractured a
couple heads and now everybody is just
like you know this is take me here take
me yeah I think my ribs what do you need
what do you need rgbi I got you what's
your blood type we you know it's it's
going to be tough I mean there there's
two levels like you've already outlined
the actual race and in Florida there are
a lot of irregularities there's this the
fact that more people voted appear to
have voted for the Senate race versus
the governor's race that's a little
strange when you consider the the amount
of advertising and the amount of
awareness about the governor's race I
mean you see a drastic difference and
the numbers there and even now I was
just reading that they they're
protestors outside of their conservative
protesters trying to block the recount
now when you say you get hives because
it takes you back to 2000 the the thing
I remember the most were those guys from
in Brooks brother the Brooks Brothers
protest right where they stormed the
election supervisors office and try to
shut down the recount well they're doing
that again
they're right now yes incidentally was
one of them if I'm not mistaken
literally one of them did not know that
yes I did not know that Wow
so I mean but this just shows you like
their tactics haven't changed what
they're trying to do there their
willingness to obstruct just
obstruct the election process the the
friend franchisee Minh I mean they don't
care and they're willing to do all these
things so we'll see how that plays out
it's I think that we just have to have a
different approach altogether and I love
what they did with Susan Collins and and
the the war chest that has been raised
against her like I don't know if that
would know I can confidently say that
something like that would not have
happened from Democratic ranks that came
from the people that came from
grassroots and and that's that's really
going to be our salvation in a lot of
ways we have to have the grassroots
movements push the Democratic Party into
being the type of leaders that we need
right now which are leaders who
understand the score who understand that
the Republicans are fully aware that
they're lying they're fully aware that
they are disenfranchising millions of
people they're fully aware that they're
suppressing the vote they are fully
aware that these tax breaks don't help
anybody but rich people that's the
entire point and they have no problem
with hypocrisy and if Democrats are
triangulating or trying to be bipartisan
we're gonna repeat history all over
again and our only hope I think is the
grassroots movements that will hold our
leaders to the fire feet to the fire
yeah I I couldn't agree more and I think
you know we need to have Democratic
leaders who are who are who have the
ability to hear this stuff like I
honestly feel like Chuck Schumer and and
Pelosi at this point don't even have the
ability to hear it like it's just that
it's it's it's employ it's almost as if
they they just they're just the bubble
that they're in you know they may also
have different agendas which I have no
doubt but I think there's going to be I
think there is going to be a little bit
of pushback on their leadership so if
they're not particularly Pelosi you know
has the opportunity to sort of like
exemplify how she's going to transition
I don't know that it's gonna happen in
with Schumer but my sense is my
understanding is there hasn't been any
anybody public who has been complaining
about Schumer because in the Senate
because
it is not to their benefit right there's
no value in the Senate you can get away
with that in the house it's tougher to
get away with that in the Senate unless
there's a sense that like we're all in
this right you know the thing I'm sorry
go ahead
no you you continue I was gonna say that
that bothers me a little bit because I
have more of a gripe with Chuck Schumer
than I do with Nancy Pelosi now you know
there is time for a new leadership but I
can say one thing about Nancy Pelosi is
that she knows what the hell she's doing
yes the question is out right she can
get she can get it done but the question
is what is it right what does she want
to get done because whatever she wants
to get done I think she's probably the
best equipped to do it in terms of using
the the levers of power twisting arms
slamming down the hammer doing what she
needs to do the real question is what is
it what does she want to do Chuck
Schumer I just don't think he can get
anything done he don't even hold Joe
Manchin I think you're absolutely right
about this I think Pelosi is from a
practical standpoint she never brought a
bill to the floor that they couldn't
pass she could count votes much better
than John Boehner ever could or Paul
Ryan ever could they never had a moment
where they thought they could do
something and didn't do it Chuck Schumer
is I mean putting aside all ideologies
and whatnot Chuck Schumer is just
incompetent he's just incompetent he's
bad at politics and I I think he's I
think there's probably you know my
understanding there's a lot more to that
story too he's just like he's bad at
interpersonal politics he's bad at
politics and the reason why he's there
apparently is just that dick Durbin you
know people thought that dick Durbin
would step up and fight and he didn't
and Chuck Schumer raises so much money
that he has the ability to basically
create a dynamic where he has favors
being owed to him and that is the way
that people build political you know
strength and and he was able to do that
but I think the guy beyond his ability
to raise a lot of money because of where
he is situated
he is bad at politics and it's certainly
bad at like dealing with these
institutional politics but oh my god and
dealing with this breed of republicanism
like that he honestly think that he's
delusional in thinking that there is a a
time where we can actually have more
measured politics or more civil politics
I think he actually believes that we can
go back to that I don't know that I
believe Nancy Pelosi when she says that
she wants to be bipartisan right I think
that she is she's got a salud enough
just say that and stab every Republican
like you know with the ice pick i I
think she's cold enough to do that so
but the real question is IgE is out for
me I just want to know what it is that
she wants to accomplish and if that ball
is in line with what what all of us want
to accomplish I can honestly say I don't
know anyone more effective at getting it
done so if anyone's asking questions
about Nancy I think it should be is well
it should be what does she want to get
done because if you liked what she wants
to get done I don't know anybody else
who's more competent but Chuck Schumer
for certain I don't think that there's
anyone who I think anybody could be
better than Chuck Schumer in in the
Senate but III just firmly believe that
based on his record so far couldn't
couldn't agree more and and I should
just add you know for the Florida stuff
that one of the problems is going to be
and I remember this and Ron Klain who
was I think one of the attorneys for Al
Gore at the time and and Matt just tells
me to the Cavanagh I think I knew this
was also part of the Brooks Brothers
riot so oh come on seriously
yeah and but one of the problems that
that took place in Florida in 2000 was
that Palm Beach well all the counties
Broward I think it is has only one
machine to do a recount right and if
there's going to be three recounts in
that County it's going to take time like
physical time but there is a deadline by
the state that the state does not
provide waivers for and if you do not do
all your recounting
by that deadline you have to ignore the
votes that you wanted recounted well and
so this was a big issue that's what the
value of shutting down that recount was
- that Brooks Brothers riot because it
actually pushed it up against the
deadline and and then Katherine Harris
its problem is she specifically yeah
Katherine Harris said we're not giving
waivers Wow to the recount and then the
the Florida State Supreme Court said you
got a recount it and then this the US
Supreme Court said in the Bush v Gore
that they halted the recount yeah and so
and then I went on to take and I think
you know some listeners of this program
know that I took about a thousand this
is before digital cameras I took a
thousand pictures of my television
literally a thousand pictures of my
television during the course of the
recount and that the whole trajectory of
my life I think brought me to this point
but put that aside for a moment because
that's not important so Ben let's just
briefly talk about this this is the
election there was a lot of there's a
lot of other smaller issues I would say
this also one thing that's relevant
about the Florida Gilliam race there are
three state Supreme Court seats in
Florida that Rick Scott tried to appoint
the Florida State Supreme Court
dominated by Democratic appointees four
to three
I think it is would not allow him to do
it because I'm not exactly sure what not
familiar exactly but he was prevented
from doing that the next governor will
pick three Supreme Court seats and will
swing the balance of the Florida State
Supreme Court to Republicans if it is
obviously DeSantis that you know on top
of everything else that's the stakes
involved in in Florida yeah on a federal
level Jeff Sessions fired very quickly
after the election Whitaker is put in
there just briefly like we saw protests
yesterday
around the country a pretty decent
mobilization for something that is like
second order right it's not the start of
the Mahler investigation what do you
what's your take on on the Whitaker
situation so this I mean what I'm little
I am surprised that Donald Trump would
appoint someone like him and in the
fashion that he did but I shouldn't be
surprised because this is Donald Trump
were talking about I am actually
impressed that Donald Trump was willing
to just say F it and fire jeff Sessions
like what was it the same day the day
after the election I thought he would at
least wait a week maybe but now he took
it on the chin and said I'm going to do
it that was kind of impressive in terms
of what Whitaker stands for I mean it's
a complete Anatomy right it's completely
contrary to what any Attorney General
should believe particularly his
religious litmus test that he's going to
place in this position so that's that's
extremely problematic but I do want to
say something real quick about the
protests that erupted I'm seeing a lot
of hot takes about these protests being
in favor of of Muller and in more
specifically in favor of Jeff Sessions
and and that's not really what's going
on right where people are protesting
because the President of the United
States is in his own is obstructing
justice
and and I don't know what else they were
supposed to do
besides you know take to the streets and
let that their dissent being heard but
come what is that coming from the laughs
that you're hearing this yeah man you
know you know I still hang out with some
left circles so that's and and I I
hesitate say the left because it's not
it's not that it's there's the leftism
has anything to do with it as much as
sort of the dumbness jeff sessions jeff
sessions is a could not be more racist
or more detrimental or more unqualified
to be the the chief law enforcement
officer in the country but for maybe
whitaker but rather I was but
with that said the protests are not in
support of Jeff Sessions they are trying
to pressure essentially Republicans and
Democrats and the establishment of the
country in saying like look we're
watching this we're aware of what's
going on and there is reporting that the
white house is a little bit nervous
about the response to Whitaker because
you're right Whitaker so naked Lee
unqualified for this position
inappropriate for this position because
he's already publicly stated that he
doesn't think the investigation is mayor
has any merit right he's already gone
against the you know even the the
Department of Justice which concedes
that Russia interfered whether it made
an ink you know it affected the outcome
it doesn't matter
he's even were disputed that publicly so
this guy has a a you know the the
there's a a taint on him in terms of
Renaud he's conflicted and so it's
possible that Whitaker may not survive
you had the Solicitor General Donald
Trump's one of the Sinatra Trump's picks
for a solicitor general Conway I think
it was who is obviously and this other
guy you know basically a centrist
Solicitor General type of guy goes up
over the Supreme Court Neal kata-kata
all wrote something saying that Whitaker
is his his ascent there is
unconstitutional which is I have some
problems with that theory because of
what are the implications of it but
nevertheless there's an indication that
people may challenge legally anything
Whitaker does hmm a and B here's the
other thing Muller has a bunch of sealed
indictments how many but those
indictments are sitting in a court with
a judge right now Whitaker has no
ability to have those indictments
quashed they just get unsealed by the
judge or they don't and so these
protests I
think are important to basically say to
Donald Trump who now I think is like we
are you know for a while he was cause
playing ill duche Mussolini but I think
like well you know from a practical
matter we're starting to head into there
especially heavy I mean in addition to
what he's doing constitutionally what
he's doing in terms of the media the
press did you see what he did with Abbey
Philip this morning from CNN we played
it just before you came on you're stupid
yeah I mean yes awesome dangerous yeah
it's super dangerous and so there's you
know these protesters are I think are
really important and the idea that you
know frankly anybody who says that these
are in support of Jeff Sessions are the
only people who think they're in support
of Jeff I would agree to that I would
agree today it's just you know you have
to come up for air from the Twitterverse
a twitter twitter is not real life it
has real life implications right but
it's certainly it's not representative
of real life absolutely
well then I guess we will we'll see
where this heads in the next couple of
days I mean who knows maybe by the time
you know we post this podcast don't go
be out Whitaker will be out or Donald Jr
will be indicted indicted yeah or that
should make it that would be a wonderful
boat to wrap around this week wouldn't
it I mean not not to wish ill on anybody
but if anybody does know wait a sec it
would be tried okay and wishing we'll
ill on people I have no problem with
that I gotta tell you I'm not gonna drag
you down to my level but and we should
say that indictment could already exist
it's just a question of it being
unsealed and so who knows but been
always a pleasure folks make sure you
check out Ben's new project what's the
website again building the North Star
comm building the North Star calm bendix
and thanks so much for your time today
really appreciate it
always a pleasure thanks so much for
having me alright folks we're gonna take
a break and then we will go to
- Judy gold
this guy Whittaker and you know we're
gonna talk and in the next couple of
weeks we've got some very interesting
interviews lined up one is with this guy
John sides who's a political scientist I
can't remember the name of the book but
they did an extensive research he and
two others and I can't remember the
co-authors either but all this
information will be given to you on a
need-to-know basis folks they did
research which basically showed that the
election of of Barack Obama had a crazy
impact on people's racial views and the
that race during the Obama
administration became a like a tribal
signal that things became race' fide if
you will in ways that they had never
done before
but we will talk to them I know you're
skeptical of this Jamie but where things
not race to fight in this country
already well certain things were we were
actually have an white supremacy and
settler colonialism I I think you will
find that these political scientists are
well aware of that the the the they
actually have a term I think was Oh F
our old-fashioned racism they actually
delineate things apparently and this is
going to be really surprising this is
their data they found that and it was
also true of Democrats to during the the
the 2008 primary that there were some
who became who were doing there was a
lot more racist Democrats they found
that open
actually helped the left in terms of
race and made them more sort of strident
anti-racist
in some ways and I don't want to take
all the thunder for this we'll listen to
the guy but they are they found that to
a surprising degree policies that we I
think sitting in this room assumed that
most people saw through racial terms was
not the case until Obama and we'll hear
more about that and the other thing that
is coming up is what I think I've
mentioned that we have a guy who's
written the book on Mike Pence and one
of the things that he had said when we
were on a panel at politican is that
most of the people in the administration
are Pence people and I have a feeling
that Whittaker is one of those people he
is full-on God Squad who has said
basically that US law this is a former
US Attorney that US law is should be
informed by the Bible you know I just
want to say with regard to pence in
these God Squad people I spend a good
amount of time trying to explain Iran a
little bit because there's so much
fear-mongering and nonsense about Iran
and obviously you can do deals with them
and so on but when you but conversely
they do they have a limited democracy
that operates in the context of a very
repressive theocracy and you can really
do when you read about people like pence
I mean very analogous of what they're
trying to do the United States like
they're still would be a lot of these
like external electoral trappings if
some type of like supreme guardian
council cleared people's Christianity
beforehand I mean I'm only barely
exaggerating look at Iran and look at
how they actually do have an Islamic
democracy that is radically constrained
because of religion and socially
repressive for precisely what these
people want to do the United States yeah
I think most of their obsession with the
Sharia law is really jealousy yeah yeah
100
percent and if you think your
competition no literally they get to
that's my impression of consumers
perfect
no it's it's exactly I mean and that's
an actual model there
let speaking of that let's let's play
this clip of Donald Trump talking about
he's being questioned about about
Whittaker and so Whittaker there is a a
statute that says that in the absence of
a of a secretary cabinet a cabinet
secretary or you know someone at that
level like the Attorney General that you
can put in a temporary acting person who
is not confirmed by the Senate but
people are concerned about this because
there's also the opportunity to put
people in who have been confirmed by the
Senate for other positions other cabinet
secretary level positions and they could
shift over so there are questions about
Whittaker and and of course the
questions really have to do with
Whittaker not being particularly vetted
he was the chief of staff for Jeff
Sessions he was a former US Attorney
however which is worth something and but
the guy has gone on television for the
past couple of years and said like there
shouldn't be you know that the this the
investigation is is unwarranted and
whatnot and he also said in defense of
and we'll play this a little bit later
in defense of of Jeff Sessions that you
can't have the appearance of conflict
and that's why sessions recused himself
but here is Donald Trump extremely
defensive about Whitaker reaching for
just about anything he could
yeah but neither has Muller his name
posit for one second so the question is
Whittaker hasn't gone through a Senate
process to be in the leadership of the
Department of Justice and so Donald
Trump basically does the I'm rubber
you're glue what you say to me well you
know what you say bounces off of me and
sticks to you yeah but neither has
Muller excuse me you talk about the
Senate process Muller is doing the
report he hasn't gone through the Senate
process that you're saying Whittaker has
it but Whittaker has wait a minute
because he was a really distinguished US
Attorney in Iowa and he was approved by
everybody because to be US Attorney
that's top of the line he was a highly
respected in fact I'll tell you the
ambassador to China as you know Terry
Branstad who used to be the governor of
Iowa Tribune told me that what a great
choice that is that he's one of the most
respected people in all of Iowa and that
was coming from Gary branch that it was
the governor left Muller a big complaint
people have Miller was not Senate
confirmed so he's doing a report he
wasn't Senate confirmed
Whitaker was Senate confirm and he
doesn't need this but he was Senate
confirmed at the highest level when he
was the US Attorney from Iowa you know
but because Muller was not Senate
confirmed why didn't they get him Senate
confirmed he should have been Senate
confirmed we could know but because of
all the conflicts they didn't want to
bring him before the Senate because he's
very conflicted I'm doing because it's
conflicts they didn't want to bring him
before the Senate but don't tell me
about Whitaker don't tell me about
Whitaker because Muller was not Senate
Confederate guys confirm this at the
highest level will you say we don't just
do a regular confirm on this ongoing
highest level confirmed for later let's
just you know before we even address how
Donald Trump is so uptight about this
we should tell you that Muller was a US
attorney so he was confirmed by the
Senate for US Attorney not at the
highest level Muller was also the FBI
director he was confirmed by the Senate
as FBI director Muller also was the FBI
director beyond his term and the Senate
had to basically reconfirm him or give
him a waiver to be that guy they wanted
to see if he could do better as a favor
to his wife being an independent counsel
beyond being confirmed as which is which
is a u.s. senator special counsel I'm a
US attorney essentially which he had
been confirmed for is what he needs to
be confirmed for he was confirmed
exactly for the position that he has you
know I really resent about Donald Trump
but that of course is irrelevant anyways
well not if you were confirmed at the
highest level maybe you'd think that by
all the best people and Terry Branstad
didn't say great things about you either
this is one of the most respected people
in all of okay yeah I really resent the
fact that like first of all that robert
muller and james comey are like subject
to conversation and secondly that it's
all relative to like hey Donald Trump's
criminal mecca nations are running up
against these guys versus hey
they built careers on terrorizing
Muslims right and like entrapping people
and expanding the national security
state so that's another thing that I
resent Donald Trump for yeah I mean all
this is true about Muller but it's you
don't you can hold both of those well
what I do every day right I mean that's
this is it's it's sort of like I mean
it's very analogous to the press there's
all sorts of problems with quote-unquote
mainstream corporate media
sensationalist profit motive corporate
driven and Donald Trump is an
authoritarian who's trying to like
destroy media and so we need to be
aligned with Jim Acosta I mean this is
we're gonna have to have to hold a lot
of cognitive I would always world I
would also say that the percentage of
people who who who have that opinion of
of the media and express it on shows
like ours and I obviously I have a lot
of issues with the corporate media and
have had for 15 years no you don't all
of all of those people us included use
the resources from that media of course
every single that's another really
important distinction right no that's
that's a you how can you criticize
corporate media when you you're quoting
the AP all the time that's where you get
all your news cuz you're not a reporting
outfit well I mean very simply I mean by
doing that but also especially with like
the New York Times I mean I have
problems with some New York Times
reporting particularly like in the
Middle East with how they frame stories
but I'm also able to distinguish like
and you know Megan is draft this all the
people do this all the time and on also
it's able to hold both of the things in
in you know in the same time I think
there's no crowd I think people for
going out and protesting when sessions
get fired because that necessarily means
they're supportive of Jeff Sessions the
you know this horribly racist corrupt in
my opinion DOJ head is absurd I know I
do too to notions at the same time well
we can we
should and I think we usually do I
actually think there's a real
diminishing capacity for most people to
hold two opposing notions in their head
at the same time which is a bigger
problem well that's that's true humanity
is devolve aquick come back to Judy
blinking of devolving
letsa evolution with Judy gold here we
go I gotta warn you folks I think she
might have a cold all right I'll be
right back
you
alright folks it appears that I hope
she's okay but we cannot reach Judy cold
however you can still will still play
her opening because it's fun and it
reminds me of Judy calm cool and
collected his own line to keep us all
connected the matter with man the
steady hand to God she'll keep us calm
and carry you now too bad Jimmy reefer
 didn't find a worthy of a song and
he's he's such a penis head liar
[Music]
that's our the president of the United
States that's the present what some
people like this Scott he oh there you
go uh I just got a text where she's
she's gonna be she's gonna call us at
5:00 I was a little bit late and calling
her so she's gonna she's gonna yell at
me my code let's let's do see mauler Sam
he's so good it's like Robert
molar I know everybody says oh he had
the FBI but you know he's it's like he's
just he's a leader you know um
let's play this clip fat let's play
this clip from Donald Trump about well
no let's save that one for Judy maybe he
didn't know who Whitaker was yeah let's
do this one this and look Tucker Carlson
well we'll talk about Tucker Carlson in
a moment let's let's play this clip this
is Seb Gorka who apparently is drawing
lines but my favorite part of this this
clip is is when Hannity goes off
introducing these two guys and they
clearly don't know like what he's
talking about these are all just sort of
like in this business we have what are
known as macros okay so like for
instance like my macro would be about
you know Social Security and it being
the you know most successful thing or
whatnot and you know you folks know
zero-sum game etc etc for Hannity it's a
it's a series of stuff that is goes goes
is is it's old and these guys in random
and these guys can't even keep up with
it
but here's Sean Hannity trying to still
harp on the unacceptable tactics of the
Roddick
left-wing mob and let me say there was a
report on media I tonight dr. Gork on a
CNN anchor apparently is receiving
threats no conservative we don't want
you you're not a conservative if you're
sending threats to people period no with
no room for it no now we have over a
conspiracy TV MSNBC they posit for one
second well you should just know that
dr. Blasi Ford has not been able to live
in her home since the Cavanagh hearings
because of constant death threats from
probably not liberals probably not
feminists probably not leftist I don't
recall that coming up on Hannity show
but continue for a conspiracy TV MSNBC
they've Rachel Maddow is now encouraging
people to go out and protest today part
of a move on.org at effort that's you
know general betray us the same people
that you know featured elderly women
vowing to you know private part punch
Mitt Romney and burn this mother effort
down and ads comparing Bush to Hitler
possibly guys like wait wait what wait I
totally missed that because move on is
sponsoring these rallies to basically
tell Trump you can't fire Muller and
general betray us was when Petraeus
basically came back and wanted more
troops he says you know this better than
bong bong and Gorka well oh because I
was exactly Sean I mean this was during
the Iraq war now it turned out that
general betray us that's what he did he
gave away secrets to his girlfriend but
and the other stuff I can't even make
out what what Hannity was saying these
are as much as Ferguson I just love the
look on on Gorkhas face and both of them
just like gonna look like I don't know
it Bungie no blinking I did I need cash
matter
though going don't let tucker carlson
home without feeling like he could get
jumped at any moment right but but put a
pin on that remembering about the
protests that move on is doing and
continue you know general betray us the
same people that you know featured
elderly women vowing to you know private
part punch mit romney and burn this
mother effort down and I missed
comparing Bush Tyler punch so this is
the Neman Tom Brokaw is proud of this is
the this parchments Maddow claiming
she's a news person's really campaign
 punch well she's not a news person
Sean there was a direct line between Jim
Acosta's behavior at that press
conference and what happened at our
friend Tucker's house these people are
repeatedly crossing the line of what is
acceptable whether you're a reporter in
the White House or whether you're a
demonstrator in DC they're there they're
undermining or they're broadening what
is called the Overton Window meaning the
list of things that are deemed
acceptable mmm it's deadly Sean should I
stop calling Christine for Blasi Ford
and asking if she has Prince Albert in a
cab would this apply let's just briefly
touch on this Tucker Carlson thing
because obviously it was a I have to say
that I agree with Tucker Carlson and
this insofar as he said it wasn't a
protest it was a threat they weren't
protesting anything specific I had said
they weren't asking me to change
anything
they weren't protesting a policy or
advocating for legislation they were
threatening me and my family and telling
me to leave my own neighborhood in the
city I grew up in now I do not think
it's appropriate to threaten people
however I think what if you listen to a
Tucker saying I think what would have
been appropriate is for folks to go
there maybe during the day not at night
because the night can be threatening go
during the day and instead of saying you
know you and your family should leave or
else they should say things like
you should resign from your television
show or please resign from your
television show or hey hey ho ho Tucker
Carlson should go from his television
figure was 1970 when Germany a group
called the biner might Hoff gay was
founded but wait but honestly like the
the idea that I think Tucker Carlson
would disagree with Sean Hannity there
it is okay to protest against a
government action
that's what Tucker's saying and if the
protestors are gone and said something
concrete like you platform someone
specific I think that would have been a
more appropriate I'll be sure to bring
that up at the next board meeting of an
tyfa of which i am the CEO well blaze
you fought is there a homo there I would
like to homo says what haha doctor Gorka
got you again they I don't think you
should threaten people that's not
appropriate form of protest but like
Tucker Carlson says if you have a
specific complaint about what Tucker
Carlson is doing you should raise that
and I would go during the day rather
than at night so it's not as threatening
it's not threatening at all to protest
during the day it seems to me and so
that's what I would do if you know
according to to Tucker Red Army Faction
didn't just have a cool name they also
did cool things like kidnap titans of
industry and there it is folks hold on
for one second hello hello hello you're
live on the air
hi my name is Judy gold and I'm a big
fan of of the majority report and I
 hate Donald Trump so
much he is the biggest piece of
 he's got his is he's a
I can't
believe what he did at that
press conference he is a slime bag lying
disgusting he has no friends not one
 friend he's a disgusting
excuse for a human being so nice
how's your week going Judy I I cannot be
called April Ryan a loser this morning a
 that my kids don't even say that
Trice's tell me to stop screaming
Elyse is telling me to stop screaming
 agent realize that you know this
is the only place I could go this is
this is it this is this is why you don't
have to yell at home yeah this is why I
don't have to yell at home that's what
sam says oh by the way ELISA says Oh her
whole face changed when I said Sam it's
not like they're getting smaller yeah
because we're counting them you
 here's my dream okay this is my
dream yeah okay my dream is that he has
a massive stroke like the God and ends
up walking and talking like the man he
made fun of okay
right okay that's pretty good I mean
that is as far as like you know sort of
a an emotional response the idea of like
willing on him a stroke and having him
have to dare to perform his therapy in
public would be interesting to watch
right disabled reporter and and
okay that's part one now part two is
right a few weeks later okay
after he's off the life support system
cuz god only knows you know what okay I
go and open my front door and I look on
the floor and there's my newspaper and
it says in quotes on the top the failing
New York Times and there's a picture of
him in his wheelchair all you know mango
and drooling and peace in hancock and
his penis is exposed
why is like how did why is his p6 brave
level because he is in hospital gown and
you can see it and it's tiny and muscle
shape and it's a little mushroom this is
a function of him trying to explain why
his piece is small because of the stroke
through his stroke smaller part of the
medication you know I I the fact you
know the fact that people can say he did
not lock that disabled before like I
have Trump either like though that was
no that didn't happen happen and
 you Jim Acosta has more class in a
 not coming out of his nose then
you have in your entire family
now wait a second wait a second so who
in your life is telling you this stuff
that he didn't mock that reporter who
what what Trump no I had a relative okay
of mine yeah who was a trump supporter
who's the only Trump supporter relative
of New Jersey say that wasn't true
that was big yes in New Jersey oh my god
so wait a second so what do you do in
that situation do you just like pull up
a like I can't have you bent is there
involved she was you're a restraining
order involved in this are you not
allowed to talk to the well we're not
allowed to talk about politics when was
that rule sat down is this into
anticipation of Thanksgiving at a family
gathering when
when the person actually said to me
because I said really do you believe in
gun control yes and then comma but I
think the NRA does some really good
things
oh boy that was that that was the end do
you remember his his denial cuz before
he did that impression which that was
amazing he first he goes you should see
this guy I know the guy right and then
he does the impression and then the next
day is just like I don't know who the
reporter is that's the Attorney General
let's let's play that clip actually we
were gonna save that for him thank you
why like wha he's also an inventor oudy
is a little sick right so let's play
this clip this is Donald Trump trying to
pretend that somehow he doesn't know
Matt Whittaker the person he made acting
Attorney General this was Jeff Sessions
chief of staff and really would be
almost disturbing if he didn't know who
he was how do you make a guy acting
Attorney General that you don't know
right but here's Donald Trump here's
Donald Trump claiming this
[Music]
I didn't speak to Matt Whitaker about it
I don't know Matt Whitaker Matt Whitaker
has a great reputation and that's what I
wanted I also wanted to do something
which frankly I could have brought
somebody very easily from the outside I
didn't want to do that when sessions
left what I did very simply is take a
man who works possession there you go he
just took a man to working sessions yeah
that's so that's so true cuz Ron Rose is
dying doesn't you know he has nothing to
do with that department right why would
you want rod Rosen who's been acting as
it can basically be acting Attorney
General for one of the bigger cases that
they've been working on over at the DOJ
that's a stupid comment comment yeah
well he's just you know what it's I mean
he's so stupid like he does that
Prescott did you see when he got so mad
when they kept answering quiet asking
him questions and he just backed up with
a red face and was like like like a
 two-year-old walks I'm getting
scolded by their teachers okay
walks away from the podium very
Mussolini like and he's going and
everyone so means Sarah and she's
sitting there with one eye you know and
the website in like Oh Mike
you're gonna be my vice president
it's like he's such a dick Oy
he's just like they should all gotten up
and just walked out and left him
standing there I think Billy bullying a2
is so not classy Jim Acosta he's mean to
Sarah Huckabee who's a - every day it's
totally unfair now Judy gold you know
from your perspective as a comedian and
satirist what do you psycho yes
do you think they put Jim Acosta in that
front row just to create some type of
conflict to avoid talking about the
Democrats taking over the Congress I
mean what are the chances they
accidentally put Jim Acosta in the front
row this is a guy they hate right here's
the thing I don't know how it works and
who seats them but it was interesting
that you know he was right in his
 face yeah CNN was right in his
face you know I think that was done by
design I really do think that that was
sort of a you know a planned moment I
don't know how planned out it was but
the idea like putting in there and
calling on him and being able to you
know rant his lies yeah
right I think that's it we want some
conflict here today this is the way
we'll do it put Jim Acosta up front and
I'll take care of him you know he's
talked let's show it yeah this is not
sophisticated stuff you don't need to be
some type of you know you don't need to
be the desert fox to to write to decide
like oh I know we'll just put a cost out
there to make a we'll make a scene out
of it well you know I don't know I'm
sure everything is planned except for
you know any sort of intervention with
the the Armed Forces he's like look at
that face and realized he has the
nuclear codes that I would trust my
 17 year-old son with the nuclear
codes more than I would check that
I would I would imagine what I would
imagine just about everybody would like
even people won't know your son the way
he
Hey like it's just like Cavanaugh
Cavanaugh what a
screaming of your give her blood yeah
 your wife look to you
like she's scare to you and and
and you know he's just a abusive
 he likes like any of those women
why'd the woman has two front doors like
your liar but they all
behave Lincoln and what the
happened Lindsey Graham what happened
that guy well maybe maybe he's just know
anything that guy yeah he's a horrible
disgusting human being yeah but before
he was in the beginning like last year
he was a little bit like you want a mint
julep
how'd you how's your boyfriend Lindsey
how's he doing what your boyfriend that
would think I'll see you would clean oh
you're loving a guy that is a little
blue and I will not speak to nobody gold
again until I see her at her show in a
month on fire the guy who you know who
sucks your dick you know what I'm
talking about the young no one has ever
suck my dick
truly a giver do the other yeah well I'm
sure you know I'm sure you don't do
anything for anyone else you know your
hair yes
Judy did you really think more of
Lindsey Graham ever I mean come on he's
so disgusting no but then he was saying
you know you know this recipe we have to
protect Muller we have to protect and
start saying Muller okay name is Muller
no one coughing you act like you're like
they don't say his name every and
you know okay
and this is horrible but you know he's
they're probably all high-fiving each
other that that the notorious RBG felon
her awful oh yeah oh yeah absolutely
I'm a little but but but okay I wish her
a speedy full recovery and we need her
but I'm a little sore that she didn't
maybe leave during the Obama era
I can't lie well of course I mean we
were saying of course we were saying
that left contemporaneously I know and
I'm saying it contemporaneously now but
they need to court back and have term
limits they need to they need to yeah
they also need to add more justices to
the Supreme Court yeah that's the court
yeah that's a court pass that's what I
just said yeah we were you hardened at
all by the election results this week I
was heartened and I feel like you know
and it's even better when he's like no
it was a great water it was very good
you know he's just a he lies about every
like I'm telling you he's the
psycho mental patient but I was
heartened and I'm so glad that they're
counting all the votes in
Florida and you Melania I'm so sick
of people going Imani it really hates it
I feel so don't feel sorry for
that badge thing you know what you stand
by him you're full of you
you're just eat see that anyone who's
like Oh Lord Melania you thank you
she is she and it's just as bad as he is
to tell you what the bullying and the
bully this is such a hard cosine finally
finally somebody with you can say
Melania finally yeah exactly
Melania she's totally complicit she's
awful she is you don't think so I think
so completely I've been saying that
forever oh I know and do you think
Darren even knows what he looks like
they some worst father in the entire
world and I'm you Ivanka and Jared
yes you know and first of all there's a
mass shooting at a synagogue they're
like please don't come he's
 disgusting
no names noticing you know like when
someone is a president for those years
you usually have a certain style in
clothing you know you mean like
oversized ill-fitting men's wearhouse
means like Genovese family like Michelle
right she people would do like during
the Carter Administration it was sort of
like you know you know like more Ashley
you know what I mean you know sure
 wrong goddamn ugly oversized
blue coats and tied to go down to your
 ankles yeah I mean I mean Judy
really doing a lot of fashion criticism
I mean this house Milania doing fashion
wise yeah well that jacket was great
okay yeah what about that what
was that outfit where she looked like
you know where the hell was she and she
had like a whatchamacallit on like a
like she was like an equestrian getting
on tie she had a tie and she's so
inappropriate you know what I remember
what we played this clip a couple of
months ago when I was when I was hosting
and Sam wasn't here and it was it was a
fox news clip where these middle school
kids were at some anti-bullying thing
and one of them knocked over a glass of
water by accident and clearly was you
know embarrassed and she did like the
mean it was fine but she was just like
it's is okay I just want to ability and
they clipped it and they put it out like
look at just humanity in action right
and what was amazing is like you know
cuz during the Obama administration you
know they they went overboard in the
other direction but it would be like
every day would be like
here's Obama comforting a baby here's
Michelle having a nice interaction with
the guy you know and this was the one
thing they got from this administration
was her not like jumping down the kids
neck for spilling water well I gotta
tell you my mother would've been my
cabinet
the hell is wrong with you you're what
okay but you know and she loves me who's
tough love tough love
first of all birthright citizenship his
 white both of his wives the two
out of the three they wouldn't be
citizens and neither with the kids
you're fat piece of I hate
him I I mean you know doesn't feel like
your hate for him dissipated at all this
is the last time we know it's actually
the point you know like I now when I get
on stage by the way I'll be at the tree
house in Westport Connecticut smore if
you want to come tree house in Westport
Connecticut there yes don't forget to
listen to me just kill me now
what no no good what go ahead I was just
plugging your podcast you can pre-order
on on November 28th that comes out on
December 7th what else happened that day
anyway so when I get on you know it's
not even it's no longer about you you
know yeah but his policies and he's done
a couple you know no he is a disgrace he
is a laughingstock he is no it's no
there's no more his policies and my
 taxes you know no more that
there's no excuse he is unfit to this
 office and then he tells them
that you know the depression should
respect the office of the presidency
when the is the last time he
respected the office of the presidency
what about hell he was like they were
talking about the annex in the Crimea
and he was like Obama did that Judy I
have a question that will shoot your
cortisol levels up really high I want to
hear your response this but I want to
give you and everybody here around a pre
warning okay okay pre warning all right
Christie was at the white house rumor he
might be the new agey go she just died
 I'm sorry I'm sorry is that too
much are you kidding me are you
I want sadly on that you're not the one
driving are you Jude yeah okay if you're
the one driving a lie tell you something
first of all he put Jarrod's father in
jail I can't imagine he's gonna be
turned it yeah Chris Christie I'm just
telling a really good way to cook Jared
though don't you think they were at a
meeting just a couple days ago on Prison
Reform and Chris Christie and Jared were
in the same room so it's not like these
people look what one of the things that
Jared's daddy's in jail for you remember
what Jared's dad did to his sister do
you remember that oh yeah he did that
that whole video about the prostitute
right he set up her husband with a
hooker to blackmail his own
brother-in-law for his sister or to his
sister that's that's an example are
 pieces of let me tell you
something both so fat Chrissy is in
 face is awful right okay yo and
they're eating and you know some fat
 like Chuckie fried chicken okay
and they're eating like and all of a
sudden face orange face had a
massive stroke and fat gets off
right and tries to pick him up and he
has a heart attack okay I'm trying to
pick up
orange phosphate off the ground and then
my pen comes comes running in like oh my
god what's going on and mother and
mother
okay that's my mother
so yeah so he comes in he's his mother
but doesn't I mean is it end there he
gets on the phone on the desk I'm
working this out as we go along and he
calls the you know security whatever and
they come in very slowly because they
all hate him you know and then
he called mother I'm so obsessed mother
and tried alright it's getting it's
getting boring wait well I'm just
wondering like maybe you know like it's
at this point Mike Pence I feel like
then just sort of like a stage weight
drops on its head from the rafters or
something like that that's a good idea
like that it's getting a minutes getting
slapstick at this point where the
Aaron's shoot something
yeah exactly
we have a parade for Baron yeah and then
Tiffany come I'm out from my takes a
seat at the the president's desk if he
says now let's get to business and all
the exactly we've got a lot of winners a
lot of words country after we get rid of
my sister well then Jared and Ivanka fed
the piranhas I you know Judy I think
this has been cathartic for people so
we're now you know you don't feel well
great Jesus
where are you performing this week
you're in Westport Connecticut I mean we
have some Westport Connecticut on
Saturday night
okay next Thursday is my birthday the
15th
what next Thursday's your birthday yes
my birthday's in a crowd weeks as well
and I was like I was three weeks late I
was supposed to have my birthday like
around today I was like yes three weeks
late I was just like a month away my
understandings they were like trying to
drive around New York City on potholes
to try and like you know it was wrong
yeah
is that really true yeah Wow
that also explains some stuff yeah yeah
well Judy want to wish you a happy
birthday
you are national treasure
and it feels a little bit like your
passion your your passionate hatred of
Donald Trump has diminished a little bit
it's starting to wane brumbass barren
why right for he does it and Baron goes
it's not personal its birthright
citizenship exactly Judy wait a second
what is the name of your album Melvin in
my album which my publicist just told me
was stupid if they did it kill me now
cuz that's the name my podcast so it's
like great Judy when people google it
they're gonna be like oh I think it'd be
able to go to the podcast so now I guess
I have to make a website kill me now
album instead of alright kill me now
album it is yeah people will check not
yet
it'll be 11:28 November 28th pre-order
listen good I get them all right well
Judy thank you so much love you hope you
feel alright good job bye
all right folks I'm gonna head into the
fun half of the program we're in Oh what
you know what we should do this ladies
and gentlemen I promised a television
host a well esteemed newsman that I
would deal with a problem that we have
here now you should know here at the
majority report we believe in free
speech that's why we allow Judy to come
on and and talk about such thing I'm
assuming my Dave Rubin clip will be
restored shortly
I was D platform then my speech was
violated we are weird that is still
going through an Administrative
Procedure but it has come to my
attention that let's go with the
original exchange shall we I'm at that
Matlack super producer here at the
majority report has been going on
Twitter and saying mean things to the
two boorish Epstein who is the esteemed
commentator for Sinclair local owned
media so someone writes back to borscht
Epstein after boorish says something you
do realize the First Amendment does not
guarantee you the right to question
Donald Trump or any president on the
White House grounds right I realize it's
lucrative to paint yourself as a martyr
but this is maleeh and misleading
application of the constitution this is
this is a response to Jim Acosta and
then someone responds kendall bill
russian guy weighs in now Boris of
course was born in Russia but is an
émigré to this country our immigrant I
should say tolerant left using my
nationality against me we came here
legally when I was 11 and I
been a proud American citizen for almost
20 years
nice try nice we did this in the
Orthodox way wait a second he's super
young yeah but wait he's been he was
he's been here for 20 years he still has
a pretty thick accent we run I'm trying
best that's Ryan best my family came run
criminal rackets Brighton Beach like you
okay so so he's three years older than
me that's crazy that is crazy
he's good and so Michael J Fox was a man
the five-time it is it is inaccurate to
call him a Russian guy he is American
obviously of Russian heritage admit
that's a bit xenophobic it is a bit
xenophobic however I family came here
and did something for this came well it
came to my attention that Matlack
responded with quote not sending their
best of course is a quote of the
president the United States and one of
the complaints that the presidents had
that we have immigrants coming and we're
not getting the best cream of the crop
implying that boorish is subpar in some
way now
it's arguable it's definitely arguable I
mean but Boris responded with this
that's funny Matt now when you have any
modicum of achievement instead of just
being a snarky nobody on Twitter get
back to me now Schiff someone owned for
someone who is so sensitive about being
called Russian or so sensitive about not
sending the best this is sort of like
the it seems to me to be an
inappropriate act right like you know
that you Matt you obviously your your
your achieved
you've literary hangovers growing a just
record pace you're working three blood
you are the producer five-time
award-winning podcast and you have a
degree don't you a couple of them a
couple of of Education degrees probably
more than Boris probably two undergrad
in the masters I learned what I do from
school of life I also achieved a ratio
here on this 57 replies to 35 likes for
Boris that's yeah I got the same number
of I got about seven followers out of it
that's the same as the amount of
retweets there you go now what's really
stunning to me is that here Boris is on
how many stations across the country 30
television stations guys on television
look at how many followers he has it
also was an advisor to the president
United States it's 33 thousand followers
very impressive that's not very much
that's less than Mindy we called less
than Mindy for every call he's a heavy
hitter though that's not very much for a
guy we call Boris must run Epstein
exactly I mean here's the thing he's
forced on people in some ways I mean
this is like you know he's instead he's
a literal corporate plant but he's a
little extra flying presents on
television well I mean no one reads a
prompter better than that guy he's like
in a Koster in a way right I mean
honestly like he is goes is force-fed on
to people he has been a I mean talk
about affirmative action it comes this
is country this is like they need to
fill a quota of one boorish epstein
that's basically it doesn't say a lot
for how good competition is working in
the corporate media market is a very
strange like they honestly can't find
somebody more suited for television than
Boris I wonder what that deal is what
are like what why they had to take Boris
president Trump will continue diplomacy
on conventional liberals will react but
the success will be in the puddings now
that we see you're not and making fun of
them for being Russian you're make
front of him for having an
unintelligible accent and being a maybe
a little flat-footed on television yeah
as where my materials coming from as an
example I work regularly on my show with
a almost certain Russian spy Ilona
Mankowski so I have no beef towards
Russians right without and more
importantly what this means for the
American people exactly now now that
you've you've your tweet has been
highlighted on this program I wonder if
that constitutes a modicum of
achievement in his mind and maybe you
should get back to him I know I'm gonna
try to get back to him fairly often and
see just when is the time I should have
gotten in his eyes
I mean a modicum of achievement that's
not should be that much that's how much
would you need for a modicum like I
actually consider this getting retweeted
by him to be an achievement yeah that in
and of itself
all right folks we're gonna take any
find success on different terms Boris I
was gonna say you should smoke a J
bottom of achievements feels like like
what his you know it's gonna be on his
tombstone at this point there were many
mother Kim's I can tell you how did this
guy get to be special what a special
advisor to the president my father sold
Donald Trump a medallion assistant to
President Trump and how do you lose that
job so quickly
the cartel I was representing fell apart
it was appearance of impropriety
appearance of varieties but now I'm on
Sinclaire most importantly what happens
for American people supper vote changed
but sub will both go back president
Trump is going to continue to tell it as
is alright folks we're gonna take a
quick break ahead into the fun half six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty is the number we'll be right back
after this
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube he's up there buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defensive idiot we're just going
to get rid of you all right
you want to smoke this joint yes I'm
happy now everybody's taking their dumb
juice dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital
seafood I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no you all right
gonna take a quick break I want to take
a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already who's Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses
hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready - I do
see people Shitler what's up
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back Sam cedar the majority
report ladies and gentlemen let's go
right to the phone's call from to10 area
code who's this where you calling from
good afternoon Sam John from San Antonio
John from San Antonio so things have
changed over the past couple of days
John yeah yeah for the better and
excellent yeah I mentioned twice on the
air on election night that one of the
biggest factors of the night in the
house was that the Democrats were
expanding their electoral base because
of their winning seats in urban and
suburban areas where Republicans used to
win the greatest example of that are the
biggest upsets of the night in
Oklahoma's fifth district which
encompasses all of Oklahoma City
Democrat Kendra horn pulled off the
biggest upset of the night when she
defeated Republican incumbent Steve
Russell Horne was down by double digits
in all six polls conducted in this race
and Horne only had a 14-point three
chance of winning according to 538 to
classic mode in New York's 11th district
which covers all of Staten Island but
constitutes about two-thirds and
one-third of southern Brooklyn Democrat
max Rose actually won Staten Island by
one point one Brooklyn by 20 points he
defeated Republican incumbent Dan
Donovan roads only had a 23 point seven
chance of winning in 538 classic mode in
South Carolina's first district which
encompasses Charleston and North
Charleston is the largest population
center in the state a democrat joe
cunningham the republican katie
Arrington cunningham's victory
because he won Johnson County by 14
points those are the biggest upsets by
the predicted that but the predicted
toss-up seats that the Democrats won in
urban and suburban areas propelled them
to victory on Tuesday I don't want to
overstate the fact that working-class
people are moving towards Republicans
because if you look at the exit polls
from Tuesday less affluent voters still
support Democrats by by the largest
margins but as you evaluate each higher
earning demographic Republican gain
voters the Republicans are definitely
closing gaps among less affluent voters
because of cultural issues to dominate
the south the interior west with the
exception of Colorado and to a lesser
extent of the Midwest in the midterms
exit polls college graduates who
constitute 41% of the voters voted voted
for Democrats 59 to 41 percent while non
college graduates which comprised 59
percent of the votes with their votes
equally 49 49 also if you look at the
the trends over twenty four year period
you see almost a complete reversal of
college graduates who supported
Republicans to their current support for
Democrats in 1994 college graduates
supported Republican was at 39% 32% of
identified as independent 27% identified
as Democrats in 2017 38% identifies the
independent 35 is Democrat and only 24
is Republican and post-grad numbers are
even better for Democrats in these
college grads you're mostly living in
urban and suburban areas and are
expanding the Democratic map isn't that
sort of like what we're seeing is that
really we're seeing a rural sort of
urban divide like to the extent that
there were there was over performance
here it was Democrats
were performed in a lot of instances in
terms of like the numbers they thought
they had to hit but Republicans in
certain instances also over perform
particularly in terms of like rural
areas like isn't that becoming the the
the divide which also I would imagine is
also racial on some level but we're
talking about rural versus urban yeah I
mean there was there was a big polling
difference also and in you know in
Indiana and and Missouri Senate races in
the Ohio a Senate race and also in the
governor's race
I mean sherrod Brown still won obviously
but I mean the polling error was about
six points and it was very similar to
what happened in the Midwest in the 2016
presidential election and so I think
that the pollsters are still under
sampling rural areas in those states you
know where Republicans are pretty
dominant and so that's something that
you know it's pretty interesting so one
question I have is how much energy I
mean obviously you can't pass anything
without the Senate so how are Democrats
actually going to solve that problem in
your opinion how is that gonna change I
mean the map actually it looks okay
except that you know Doug Jones is gonna
have a hard time holding his seat in
2020 I mean he got cool like you were
talking about earlier you know cory
gardner susan collins you know in
there's a race in Arizona there's a race
in North Carolina Iowa Georgia Texas I
mean all of those are possibly flippable
districts right battle may end up
running against Cornyn I mean those are
all yes you've listed them in terms of
where the opportunity lies I don't know
if if the you know answer is
programmatic I think the Democrats
should keep moving in the direction
they're moving in I think like Gilliam
and Abrams gives you a sense of of where
you should be headed
in the south right like you need to run
on I think a unabashedly form you
obviously need a very compelling
candidate and I think you know what Ben
Dixon was saying in terms of like you've
got to you've got to get resources to
the grassroots and particularly people
of color and organize them and bring
them out I mean that that to me seems
like the the the biggest you know the
most important task I don't know I mean
what Democrats can do from now and then
I think is like get a couple of big
signature bills right and I don't think
we're gonna see them pass Medicare for
all in the house but that would be doubt
that's what in my opinion they should do
they should pass Medicare for all in the
house and they should keep passing it
they should they should pick three or
four major programs I think we all have
a sense of what they would be you know
free college or maybe debt forgiveness
panko and and Medicaid for all the
Voting Rights Act you know fixed section
five and then just keep Revo ting on
them can we also like the gentle rotary
get that DC statehood please right and
Republicans Republicans did this with
repealing Obamacare they did it 57 times
and the difference in this instance if
we were to do the same with a you know
three or four different bills it seems
to me the Democrats were to do that is
that you wouldn't have it's not like you
need to come up with you're already
offering something proactive that the
Republicans in the Senate would be
voting against and you start to pick out
wedge issues you know that would hurt
Cory Gardner let's say in Colorado that
would impact Susan Collins in Maine
right you send maybe a bill to protect a
choice
and you send it to the Senate and you
make you know Collins vote for it and
you make you vote for
I mean I think that's the key right if
you want to help the Senate if you want
to help to take back the Senate you you
look for wedge issues for those specific
[Music]
senators so you know reestablishing the
Voting Rights Act is gonna make a big
difference to people in North Carolina
and Georgia in Texas that's going to
bring out your base so that's hopefully
the way they'll be thinking but
appreciate the call John good point
thanks I thank you that you say a lot of
stupid things damn I've seen he who mad
I'm not a big fan of yours either let's
talk frankly he want to know the truth
in a certain sense let's talk a little
bit about Matt Whitaker this guy is the
he should be recusing himself I don't
know that he should have ever been
appointed of course not but by his own
measure he should be recusing himself
here he is on this is him let's see
where he says this is re Melbourne
covering this on Matt Whitaker on the
radio saying that he thinks the Russian
interference story has been proven false
now look whether you think the Russian
interference materially impacted the
election or not there is no one within
or without our government who disputes
the fact that the Russians interfered in
the election
sometimes it's material sometimes it's
not this is not like you know this is
not like you don't need to see a result
to have attempted to do something and
but here is Matt Whittaker the guy who
is overseeing the investigation as to
whether or not there was collusion
involving this this interference on a
radio program here it is here's this
audio that's been unearthed of Whittaker
this is Trump's new guy
denying that the Russians interfered
with the u.s. election the left is
trying to so this this this theory that
essentially russians interfered with the
u.s. election which has been proven
false they did not have any impact in
the election and that has been very
clear from the obama administration so
there he is indicating one conflict of
interest he would have in terms of he
has already prejudged an investigation
that is not that is still ongoing
here is Whittaker in several 2018 news
clips describing how Trump might fight
against Muller and Rosenstein by cutting
off funding this of course is
problematic insofar as it indicates a
certain predisposition towards the
investigation the Department of Justice
is not going to be extorted we're gonna
do what's required by the rule of law I
think what ultimately the president's
going to start doing is putting pressure
on Rod Rosenstein who is in charge of
this investigation the indictment
alleges that the Russian conspirators
want to promote discord in the United
States and undermine public confidence
in democracy we must not allow them to
succeed well I could see a scenario
where Jeff Sessions is replaced it was a
recess appointment and that Attorney
General doesn't fire Bob Mahler but he
just reduces budget so low that his his
investigation grinds to absolutely
almost yes so there you have Whitaker
before he was named chief of staff to
Jeff Sessions basically outlining how
you'd go about closing down the Muller
investigation without actually closing
down the Muller
investigation just a third experiment
yeah just a thought experiment but
here's the problem based upon a standard
that Whittaker laid down himself
in defense of Jeff Sessions recusal
Whittaker should recuse himself as well
here he is I think he was on the radio
or no this is a yeah on the radio and
maybe he was talking to the foundation
for accountability and civic trust here
he is the reason he recused himself is
not because there's anything for him to
hide right as it relates to the Trump
campaign and ties to Russia as a lawyer
if there is an appearance of impropriety
and as soon as the you know sort of the
outrage from the left occurred you know
he knew as a lawyer that there that is
an appearance of impropriety because
there there are people suggesting that
he did something wrong so he has to you
know it's a conflict he has to recused
there you go there's an appearance of
impropriety well so I think the left in
speaking out has basically fulfilled
Matt Whitaker's own standard for what
would constitute a reason to recuse
yourself and boom
thank you Matt Whittaker that's the
Whitaker standard there's no problem at
all so if you have an invention that has
not found the funding source yet get in
touch I missed that video he was talking
about something totally different in
like a 10 minute segment on a Thursday
it was so awesome
he'll help you get into a hot tub if
you're aging also the Russia
investigations total see the
White House now putting aside the fact
that Whitaker by his own standards Matt
Whitaker this is the acting Attorney
General now former chief of staff of
Jeff Sessions putting aside the fact
that by the Whitaker standard which he
expressed in explaining why Jeff
Sessions had to recuse himself according
to the winner's curse standard Whitaker
should recuse himself
and he's out late or he laid out plans
on how one would stifle the Muller
investigation without actually ending it
here's the part that also should scare
you a little bit and this is what makes
me believe this guy is a Mike Pence hire
this is schemed out from the people for
the American Way Matt Whittaker was at a
conservative forum in April 2014 he was
a candidate for Republican US Senate
nomination in Iowa he also ended up
working on Sam Clovis's I think campaign
clovis was had to leave because of his
Russia connections apparently but so
this video was saved by people for the
American Way and here is Matt Whittaker
your new acting Attorney General talking
about maybe we should have a little bit
more religion involved in what we do
well it's someone that's interacted with
the federal judiciary a time or two I
will tell you that I have a unique
perspective on federal judges and you
know while I agree I want to understand
their judicial philosophy and whether
they understand natural law and natural
rights and then the founding documents
and how they fit together I don't think
that gets us far enough because natural
law often times is used from the eye of
the beholder if you will and what I'd
like to see is I'd like to see things
like their worldview what informs them
what how would they live their lives are
they people of faith do they have a
biblical view of Justice which i think
is very important because we all know
that our government of it achill or New
Testament I'm a New Testament
and and and what I know is is is as long
as as as they have that worldview but
there'll be a good judge and if they
have a secular worldview where this is
all we have here on earth then I'm gonna
be very concerned about how they judge
that guy is awesome not only
does he look like a bouncer in the
 Meatpacking District he believes
in God and that's a big league
justice I mean I bet you hated Jew anta
the the moderator tried to point out
sort of the absurdity of what he was
saying by suggesting you know you've got
to be clear on which Bible you're
talking about a New Testament you guys I
think we're talking about the Bible
Bible that non freak people read he
could have said are you talking about
the Quran and which we are Shas about
that we're talking about the Quran shut
would you like to open a falafel stat
come on get serious your new attorney
general ladies and gentlemen still
arguable as to he's certainly less
qualified than Jeff Sessions but and but
maybe he's slightly less racist as long
as you're Christian if that was the case
we just need to get off the Democratic
plantation there you go me and my fellow
superhero Kanye working on it because
you know there's just buildings don't
have 13 floors that's divine law
Brittany's boyfriend I want to do it
Brittany's boy that is a good full right
I wanted to let all my manga friends who
listen to the majority report that we
vote by secret ballots therefore the
leverage social women possesses only
goes so far if you know what I mean
that's exactly right I was I didn't want
to be mean to Brittany and make her an
insult but it did occur to me that the
guy could be like oh yeah you know you
totally right about that we shouldn't
destroy the environment or torture
immigrant kids and wait what are you
talking about you don't remember this
call
no Brittany called in during election
night first she accosted me from making
in cells because I have high standards
of callers
right and then she said that basically
she's got like a mag a boyfriend then
she's all right hurt these guys right
sad a square Sam Mike Jamie Matt Brandon
thanks for holding it down thanks for
holding it down these two very long
years it was more than a wave bado flip
seats in some areas in the south are
slowly turning but the biggest lesson is
organizing temps put effort money in
Georgia Dixon played downplayed this you
didn't downplay it I thought he made a
point of Aqaba see Oh Cobb is
historically one of the most racist
counties in Georgia
Oprah went there in the 90s and no one
shy of letting her know that they
thought of black votes yes the theocracy
is ready to pounce after Trump regime
but I can only handle one big crazy at a
time oh my good psychoanalysis Trump
enamored of Whitaker just a younger
polish version of that Trump security
guard right that was what I said is that
cuz he looks like he thinks the AG
position is like his personal bodyguard
from so you actually hired a guy who
looks like that's what I was thinking oh
that's interesting
he's bald he's wearing it makes me feel
comfortable he looks like he beat some
Jewish kid outside of of me packing
global I think this guy's gonna be he's
gonna protect me cuz he's bald look at
him he looks like a like a bodyguard
it's a real strong strong look look at
you look at that feeling Loic feel those
arms you got guns man this ba can I give
a shout-out to former Mr member Matt
benders podcast doomed also I'm already
starting my Jeb 2020 campaign support I
think it'll surely take it this time
left his best marks Pataki on the
attackee the era of The Pajama boy is
back back back back
bull Prague's y'all ready for that
Brooks Brothers riot 2.0 going on in
Broward County yeah you know there's
reports that Jack Poe's be
and Roger stone are involved in trying
to pull another Brooks Brothers riot
type of situation
I hope the Democrats are down there
right now that's what we need a counter
protest yeah exactly a funny little
factoid for you Jimmy Dore show gave
$1000 to Tim Canova who toyed with the
rich Seth rich conspiracy all right also
Tulsi let's not rush to judgment on Asad
Gabbard characterized the Tucker
protests as terrorism thank God
what happened was was that Tim Canova
got the first computer to human virus
and Debbie wasserman-schultz did that
there's a lot of who's a rod at the Dan
say like you're voting for Democratic
Party for your base every every I have
never I've heard universally now maybe
that's not true but I've heard from
reporters and whatnot that Debbie
wasserman-schultz was disliked by
everyone in the Democratic establishment
very early on in the Obama
administration but they were nervous
about dumping her from that position
even the Clinton people don't like her
the idea that the D that the Democrats
would save all of their like nefarious
vote stealing and cheating to help
debbie Wasserman Schultz but not let's
say the the senator from Florida
look it was it was the governor of
Florida sometimes just go to my
difficult calls
I'm suspect of that this is that that to
me this is red flag olive I'm sorry but
the idea that you would not have that
you would expend your resources in a
conspiracy to break the law to change
the outcome of the vote that you would
do it for Debbie wasserman-schultz
every loves double you don't need her
but you don't think your son doesn't
listen brother Andrew you'll get another
chance but yeah between either like you
gonna win fair and square you gotta win
fair and square but Debbie's is too
important how many votes how many votes
are we talking about in that district
right like I don't know a couple hundred
thousand maybe the idea that you're
gonna change twenty thirty thousand
votes in that type of an election when
you could actually change twenty thirty
thousand votes in the Senate election
and win the Senate seat but you're like
nah let's do it for the 37th the House
districts let me ask you a question Sam
is there a reason you have you have Judy
on your show every couple of weeks right
that's your like loud overbearing Jewish
broads who say Trump
well okay she's their Judy baby I can't
let that go so the caucus talking
get everybody bagels and if
anything that would be told I told bill
Nelson I said you're gonna have to win
this one fair and square so I'd
recommend putting on some sunblock aleem
in the house twenty minutes a day if the
Democrats are you ready to engage in the
type of fraudulent elections that like
this and they do it for debbie Wasserman
Schultz they're more incompetent that's
what I was gonna say like that is a
proper knock well it's like the clip you
joined a people killed and they've done
literally everything but somehow they
couldn't beat Trump right okay brilliant
these guys attorney Andrew at the house
would do well to pass legislation
funding for federally sponsored
healthcare regardless of whether they
pass Medicare for all that would be a
good sell do things that make good sound
bites like we wanted to tax second homes
of health insurance executives to fund
your health care but the Republicans
said no agreed Ramis mister 100b while
we're talking about packing the courts
and other democratic measures we'd love
to get your thoughts on the possibility
of reforming the legislature could you
ever see a house of Congress being a
portion didn't filled by a class-based
metric instead of her in addition to the
current population base the house of
representation equal representation of
the Senate in effect the implementation
of a House of Commons
what effects might you foresee might
this have the added benefit of helping
to quell income inequality and resulting
plutocracy monopsony issues I think that
level of reform is highly improbable I
would say I would rather you know get
rid of electors first and I would rather
see rank-choice voting first and I would
rather see some measure to make the
Senate more democratic I don't know how
you would go about doing that yeah I
don't think establishment Democrats are
ever gonna do that I don't think they
were any Democrats are gonna do that I
mean to be honest with you like I don't
know who the non establishment Democrats
are there aren't very many of them what
do you call all the people who vote for
Democrats are registered as Democrats
that's not what I'm talking about what
do you think about the lawmakers right I
think they would not but I am talking
about the non-establishment Democrats I
also don't know that people would be I
just don't know that there's that much
hunger for reform well I think you're
partially right in that people do not
have a lot of class consciousness in
this country they're not even aware of
all of the barriers that keep
working-class people from even running
in the first place Alexandria Ocasio
Cortez cannot afford to get an apartment
in DC before she starts drawing her
salary as a representative it's insane
so like I would like to spread at least
this knowledge and these ideas but like
man the elected Democrats for the most
part are not they're not going to do
this because it doesn't benefit them
yeah I mean it's it's highly unlikely
that people who are in a position of
power are going to reform things in such
a way that they lose that position of
power said your mom or you know the
people whose money they rely on
yeah but it's also like just their own
they don't lose their seats right I mean
you you you rarely see people who are in
power all you know vote to give
themselves time limits or something like
that or excuse me term limits yeah I
mean they would lose their seats for a
few reasons right they would lose them
to quote-unquote commoners and they
would lose them because they would
probably be getting less funding from
the powers that be indeed let's go to
the phones calling from a 6 7 8 area
code who's this where he come from how
did this mean yes it is you hi this is a
call from Georgia relax told you yeah I
agree with your point that uh the
electorate is not going to be there on
like a lot of fundamental reforms I
think we can probably get cell court
packing maybe but by the time things get
bad enough that the people going to be
talking about like you know getting rid
of the Senate and stuff like that I
think it'll be too late
uh secondly on the Florida Supreme Court
thing it's basically this view was
basically the office holders all leave
at midnight but the new governors one
met noon so Scott's reasoning was I can
even though I'm technically out of
office I can serve in three justices in
those twelve hours and the important
vote against him correctly I'm I hate
that I'm such a nerd that I know that no
I appreciate that the fact that you know
that oh and thirdly I don't know if then
Dixon covered this but just a quick PSA
for all the NMR listeners in Georgia
you're going to have to come out and
vote on December 4th in the runoff race
whether Stacy gets into the runoff or
not you have to come out on December 4
because we already know that the
Secretary of State race is up for grabs
and you have to vote for Democrat John
Barrow because if not because there
is a blue dog he voted against the AC a
lot when he was in Congress he's not
great but let's face it the Republican
is going to be infinitely worse and I
would hate to deal with the reality of
having someone like Kemp again we're
running the 2020 presidential race when
we could otherwise maybe be able to take
Georgia so everyone get out and vote on
December 4th for John Barrow for
Secretary of State we really need to
stop this Jim Crow stuff that
they're trying to pull
absolutely good point everybody's got to
go out and vote for that runoff it's
huge
I mean you know we just saw is there any
doubt that Stacey Abrams will be
governor of of Georgia today if it were
not for the fact that she was running
against the guy who was in charge of
deciding those gonna vote on election we
need that again and again again their
shot mean the the idea that there isn't
a federal law that you cannot well and I
guess this would have to be a state law
right I mean because it's the the
governorship but and there should be I
mean there should be a law in every
state that you simply cannot be a
candidate for election and I guess run
for I I don't know how you would do that
with the Secretary of State running for
a second term maybe you just can't have
that
it just seems highly inappropriate you
need to have a different system for
determining the eligibility of voters
that is independent of someone who's
running for office it just seems absurd
ministration yes making a partisan is
really really bad I think Wisconsin has
a really good system for this but I
don't know if the Wisconsin Republicans
 with it recently but uh yeah we
did we definitely need nonpartisan
electron administration because we
cannot allow this kind of Brian can't
 to keep on going on you sound
like a sellout thanks to the
college House
quad sellout Charles so we just
mentioned this dilemma that Alexandria
Acacio Cortes has she does not draw
a salary until she is inaugurated
apparently she's going to have to stay
in a hotel the night before
she's inaugurated because she cannot
afford to get an apartment in Washington
DC and you hear these stories like Chuck
Schumer and Dick Durbin used to like
they were roomies oh god what a misery
it does seem absurd that there isn't a
that there isn't some type of like
housing allowance for members of
Congress I mean we should have a housing
allowance for everybody
Scott Pruett got a sort of housing
allowance in a way yes he did and
actually here's a clip of two folks from
Fox News who sort of are just about to
suggest something like that something
equally as illegal look she can't use
her campaign funds to spend on herself
otherwise she would be like Duncan
Hunter and would need a Republican
district to get reelected after being
indicted for spending your campaign
money but here's FoxNews people not
necessarily being aware that that's not
appropriate
Alexandria okay CEO Cortes she says that
she's having a hard time with something
Stamp do we have an hour should I wait
okay let me know when we have it so
Alexandria floor okay so you're Cortez
says this I have two months without a
salary before I'm a member of Congress
so how do I get an apartment those
little things are very real she said
this to the New York Times I think of
that it's very Alexandria aleksandrovka
zio Cortes to say this I think her
supporters what does that mean like
honestly like how how tone-deaf like
this is totally like her to say this do
they think she's making it up
no they just think that like it's just
like so I'm such a downer so it's so
it's such a core brand proposition for
her not to actually be a millionaire
it's really annoying how poor she
insists on being how many millionaires
are
they're in the house like the percentage
of I mean I know in the Senate like it's
something like ninety three percent of
senators are millionaires in the house
it's probably not nearly as high but
you're talking about wealthy people how
many are in that studio and of course
they're I mean it's it's absurd you know
the obvious response to this is like
this is a real problem because a it's a
real problem in terms of that's what a
lot of people in the country experience
in fact the vast majority of them
certainly none I mean the percentage of
people in this country who could afford
to maintain an apartment in New York in
Washington DC is probably somewhere
around four to five percent right like
maybe maybe that would to have the cash
dispose of the cash to go and just like
and the idea that their response to this
is to laugh like it just expresses how
tone-deaf they are pick it up from from
her quote are times I think of that
Alexandria aleksandrov kzo Cortes to say
this I think her supporters like it this
is who she is comes from the Bronx she's
young youngest member of Congress it's
tough to get apartment in DC I also
think she's not alone she might be the
only one talking about it but a lot of
congressmen in washington DC say given
the cost of living there it's not
exactly one thing I enjoy about this is
that I can't stop but look at her
diamond earrings as she's talking as
she's saying this and she uses the most
gringo possible pronunciation of her
name right
you know I mispronounce everybody's no
no I I know I'm not gonna you know will
hold anybody to account for that but the
other part is like this is a newsflash
Acacio Cortez is not a congressman
she's a woman and so there's other
Congress folks people in Congress
Congress members of Congress who are
going through this you should be or
Congress person they should be Congress
person talking about it but a lot of
congressmen in Washington DC say given
the cost of living there it's not
exactly the Washington I dream I think
that well it was preceded by a year and
a half ago I was tending bar in Brooklyn
which is true by the way that's playing
to race but the fact of the matter is
Washington DC and the greater
metropolitan area is the most expensive
cafe in America now so if I think what
she's talking about is all of the money
in Washington all of the wealth in
Washington all of the power and a little
simple person like her from New York can
find a place to live it is a brilliant
political line are you telling resume
that shall we just mentioned about being
from the Bronx it turns out when you
read deeper she had a lot more formative
years in Westchester County New York Oh
little riskier than the Bronx I'm from
New York and I wanna throw stones in any
boroughs or counties but she her resume
does always mentioned some of those
shoots during the campaign she had these
multi-thousand dollar outfits that could
pay a month's rent in Washington DC
you're right well I live in Washington
it's very expensive but she's been all
over the map on some of this stuff
overall what a liar and this this
segment is literally buttoned by a woman
whose main contribution to life to to
American life is lying being like a
conduit for lies about WMDs in Iraq I
didn't even know that like we have a
segment first we're gonna trash her and
just mock people with low incomes
generally because why not and then it's
like oh yeah she's an idiot she's
playing to her base by the way she
doesn't keep those dresses explain to
your base of Dick Cheney calling you on
a phone and lying to you about Iraq
intelligence then printing it and then
Dick Cheney going on Meet the Press and
saying well you know there's an
anonymous source that I just read about
in New York Times which was himself
literally laundering his own lies for an
illegal invasion and that woman is the
one in the segment she
yeah well if a OC wanted an apartment
she would have done that stuff too she
made her choice
she wasn't old enough to sleep a qaddafi
and lie about WMDs it is it is really
stunning their ability to ignore the
actual just simple reality of rather
than even saying Washington D is super
expensive most people the vast majority
of Americans do not have the ability to
put down the extra 1600 to 3500 whatever
it is is gonna be for a studio apartment
in Washington DC they don't have that
available just in their bank account
yeah I've been what she was saying is
true it is an effective political line
and just saying it with a soon Archy
tone of voice does it make it bad right
like that's a good thing that this is
her political line because low income
people are not represented in our
government right now at all yeah they
say it in a tone of like that's not fair
that she gets to say she was a bartender
last year that's what is it Abraham
Lincoln in a cabin she had she had a
good response tweet about it actually he
didn't chop down the cherry tree which
is a great political line she said there
is no reason to be ashamed or
embarrassed
mocking lower incomes is exactly how
those who benefit from and promote
wealth inequality the most keep every
day people silent about one of the worst
threats to American society that the
rich are getting richer and the poor
poorer boom and like I I've even dealt
with this in my own work in my own life
like writing about Millennials and
finances and housing and stuff like cuz
I I read in the first person a lot and
like in one of my Guardian columns I'm
like should I not admit that I am a
broke millennial who spends more than
half of my income on housing I was like
no like that's not my fault like there's
nothing to be ashamed of well it also
you know I don't know if she was raised
in Westchester and I don't I mean let's
be
I don't know where in Westchester and I
don't know the circumstances a house
it's not a mansion but but the bottom
line is but even still yeah I mean she's
a grown woman and probably her parents
how neat is the way
all right that's a big part of her story
is having to work to basically help
salvage a family home I think because
her father passed yeah if you don't know
the backstory like the guy said if you
look at it a bit closer no looking a bit
closer yeah look at exactly take their
word for it and look at it a bit closer
and incidentally look at Judith Miller a
bit closer unrelated but I think I
almost met her at Politico no Brendan
was she could have had you're Henry
Kissinger okay you could have had your
dear moment I did I totally ignored her
good because I wasn't sure if it was her
but I thought if it's her I don't even
want to acknowledge her presence and I
can't remember who I was talking to but
I think he introduced her as Judy and I
was just like and just went did one of
these and that's when I started getting
like a little bit creeped out like I
can't even I don't you want to be a
I need my security guy where's the bald
guy I needs I need I'm going to curating
from Judith Miller well I just don't
want like he's magic knowledge you don't
want the picture well it's not just I'm
not it's not like I'm afraid of of being
seen with her it's that I just if I
actually start talking to this lady I'm
I you know I don't want you know I was
saying I went to a viewing of this vice
this Adam McKay movie and it was a good
movie and it was interesting I mean most
of the stuff about Dick Cheney in terms
of what he did as vice president I was
aware of because this was an era where I
read you know every book that came out
and interviewed all the authors of the
books about Dick Cheney there was a lot
of stuff I didn't know about his life
personally at all and it was and it's
interesting but I also like I don't want
this guy to be humanized in any way
because well but in you know like it's
inevitable if you make a film about
somebody of course you're gonna humanize
them right like you want a movie and you
want to capture like what drives them
what what you know what's their family
relationships like even if it shows that
the guy's a scumbag he's still being
humanized and a my feeling about this is
that it's dangerous to humanize these
figures because people didn't Dick
Cheney's relevance to history is not
what he did in his family life and I can
understand I can see the value of it
like in the context of a book like if
you want to seriously dive in and and
and and from an academic perspective
from a very thoughtful perspective
understand what makes some of these
psychos who seek power obsessively and
use that power to the detriment of
hundreds of thousands if not millions of
well millions of people millions of
people I'm just thinking about the
actual dead which i think is probably a
closer like 750 but and Counting
probably
but oh then it is in the millions of you
counting by what he unleashed right is
right and so in my mind it's like and I
can see it wouldn't be necessarily a
very good movie to just show everything
he did maybe as vice president in the
implications of it I think the movie
captured a lot of that I just am
uncomfortable with any humanization of
people like this and that's why I never
want to see them in person or any of
that because I'm sure they're human of
course they're human all humans are
human in this zoo but for us to
understand
and the implications of what they're
doing their humanity is wholly
irrelevant
they are figures on a political stage
using power and there's not if you're
going to think about the humanity of all
the people that were implicated by the
decisions that Dick Cheney made as vice
president you could live 4,000 years and
not have the time to contemplate his
humanity
the pain and suffering that this guy
caused on innocent people on children on
fathers on mothers and brothers and
sisters it is so enormous that to
contemplate his humanity is is an
injustice to these people because if you
started down the road of contemplating
the humanity of the people that this guy
was responsible for killing you would go
insane and you wouldn't have time to do
anything else and so if any of that time
is going to be spent it should not be
spent on contemplating his humanity and
as good as the movie is you're not going
to get walk away with a sense of really
understanding it's irrelevant why in
many respects it's that because we can
never see into someone's life as to who
the next person is going to be that's
going to make those decisions you need
to look at it from the perspective of a
member of the public see what this guy
is doing and stop them and you know so I
mean as far as I'm concerned Judith
Miller if there was a law that could be
passed that like she can go out live her
life go buy an air beam you know go buy
a B&B and in Vermont or you know go to
Miami and have a ranch and you know no
go away
but you should not be
allowed to be a part of the public
discussion she should work at a bodega
staffed and owned by Iraqis right and
that's what I would have if we could do
a poetic justice
but it might be a little bit worse than
that yep
and this is a this is one of the oldest
tricks in the conservative playbook
going back to Edmund Burke q-man
humanizing the oppressor making people
care about
oh the poor aristocrats oh poor Marie
Antoinette that's it innit in and of
itself that is inherently oppressive and
inherently conservative well the phony
who made the movie is not I mean is is
very progressive its McKay right yeah
mommy Antoinette and Betty Tufte that
that I will tell you certainly not his
intention and I think and it's also hard
for me because I go into that movie and
all of the evil things that he has done
I am fully aware of so the only thing
new for me in that movie for the most
part is oh he was a nice dad until he
screwed over you know Mary in the end
for that race for his other daughter in
its pursuit of power oh he had flaws oh
he had pain or whatever it was or he's
you know a witty guy and whatever it is
so I don't necessarily see that movie as
everyone else you know does but but
Marie Antoinette had a very tough tear
because it was a tough deal that's one
of the flaws in liberalism and that's
one of its weak points and why it's so
vulnerable to fascism is that it the
idea that you have to extend some kind
of graciousness across the aisle or give
equal time and I'm talking about
liberalism as an ideology not like
Democrats no I understand what you're
saying I think I mean to me that's also
it's the fellow with with with with with
film as a as telling the story of this
stuff I mean to be honest with you like
you only have two hours
well spoiler oh damn Jesus Christ what
Dick Cheney turns out Jake Jake Jays a
sociopath I mean I think it's a good
movie I enjoyed the movie you know
someone just pointed out in my discord
though which is I think is actually a
good point that it might remind a lot of
people that are currently sort of
lionizing I guess not Cheney's much but
Bush yes Bush comes off - is a complete
I'm saying if any reminder of what the
Bush administration was is good that
that's that's that's why I'm so
conflicted about it
because I go in there and like I know
all this stuff is in the forefront of my
mind but most people do not a lot of you
and and if it takes the movies called
Vice and if it takes if it takes that to
communicate that's the thing that's why
I'm so conflicted about it
and it's not just that movie I'm
conflicted about movies that are that
are that that whole genre so but Jay
Edgar is another one I would imagine I
never saw that but I stopped it cuz he's
a homo I watched Wow Wow Sean wouldn't
even watch it because he's like I don't
give a about that guy as a person
he's our enemy and that's how we
need to be I say that movie cuz god
it was boring geez what's that awful
alright so here we have Brendan we put
that down a little bit here we have this
is outside of Broward County right and
we heard about Jack Pozniak and Roger
stone and they apparently have assembled
a crew of protesters and of course when
you're protesting you want all the votes
counted what do you say let's hear
[Applause]
[Music]
well let's hear the other one Dipset
like what are they
it's nuts they're talking about Matt
there's one more in the the tweet I mean
the I am this is they're trying to stop
the votes they're trying to stop the
boats folks
[Music]
[Music]
now if you said medicare-for-all I'm so
devoted for Dylan and I think that we
got to acknowledge that that's a perfect
powder that could have been absolutely
clipped off with a message of economic
populism but the corporate Democrats and
Andrew Gilliam when he started
criticizing Venezuela that's when he
lost that woman think of the total lack
of awareness that she is sitting in a
sea of white people she is voting for a
candidate who's whom has a if you were
to do a racial purity test not purity
per se on to the individuals but in
terms of the of how many Caucasians
let's say voted for DeSantis like what
percentage of the Santha suzuka Cajun my
guess is it would be well into the 80s
and this woman is saying that this is
identity politics for people who come
out for a a progressive candidate that
one of the most progressive candidates
that we've seen in Florida running for
governor in decades but she won't be
saying that if Gilliam quoted the bread
book well speaking of identity politics
there I saw some talk on Twitter that by
picking latina lieutenant governor
Jeanette Nunez that kept de santis a--'s
margins up enough in certain places
especially with right-wing Cuban that is
pure he won that well as he wins that's
why well we played that clip the clip
where De Santis was eloquently you know
pinned on his racism he actually did do
pure identity politics in the
a sense that we all criticize where he
literally ignored the merits of
conversation argument and said I'm a
veteran which I oppose I don't agree
with that kind of deployment of identity
to not deal with argument or policy
across the board I agree I critique that
and that's what precisely what he did is
okay of a non yeah and people think that
uh I don't know there's something really
nonsensical about Hispanic voters who
would vote for a Republican but it is
not that simple
within the Hispanic cohort of quote
community there are so many different
currents saw and if you are a well-to-do
Cuban in Florida you probably will think
that a Republican represents your
interests not even a well-to-do I think
first generation Cuban tend to vote more
Republican because they in part because
Obama dropped the embargo but prior to
that it was the Republicans who were
very Pro embargo of Castro and at least
you know through the 80s in the 70s
Elian Gonzalez that whole issue became
you know weaponized by the right Ted
Cruz I just wanted to get him back in
the arms of Castro why would you live in
a capitalist hellscape when you could be
there with your comrade uncle here at
corporate selling your corporate it's
your mother's corporate sellout but your
father doesn't do decisions based off of
fair so we gotta get you better I want
to show this video to everyone who
thinks we need bipartisan compromise and
respect for the system and the norms
still like no the what happened was
Gilliam stopped talking about free
college education that lady went off the
bat went off the deep end that's exactly
what happened because of these
corporate sellout dams the the I've told
the story but not in a long time when we
were in Cuba my wife at the time was was
shooting a movie or I guess he was my
maybe my fiancee and MLS and
there was a statue of Jose Marti who was
a Cuban like national hero from the from
the 1800's late 1800s mid to late 1800s
and he was sort of like I don't know
what the equivalent would be here like
I'd like a sort of a George Washington
type a little bit and at least in terms
of like sort of wait popularly presented
and there was a statue of him that was I
don't know about maybe like half a mile
from the American consulate or whatever
they called it it wasn't actually a
consulate but the the American outpost
and it was the base of it was almost
like washed away it was it was it had
been you know brass and it was like all
green Dover and the base the cement was
washed away and you could see like the
rocks in the cement of the base and he's
holding a child and you go up to the
statue and you realize he's holding
Elyon oh and they have made it like
Marty's statue has been there forever
with holding Elliott like the distressed
quality of the statue was built into it
that's powerful invented traditions
exactly yes ringing temperately bringing
Marty you know what I love about Castro
is that he you if Matt made that
reference in front of him he probably
wouldn't be Alexei exactly I was reading
Hobbes bounds and I have with that
statue that's not like exactly what
would happen no that's exactly the there
was a lot of propaganda there that was
sort of fascinating particularly coming
back around here at that time in post
9/11 and we were still heavy in that and
it was a very similar quality to some of
it where you you know I remember landing
shortly after that in Nebraska and
Lincoln Nebraska and seeing a a
billboard that was something to the
effect of like when others ran away they
ran in
and I'm like I'm in Lincoln Nebraska
what it was weird
calling from a two four zero area code
who's this where he called from okay
good day person whoever that was called
from a two one five area code who's this
- one five - I am yes
damn Wow Mindy hi how are you
I'm well how are you double dose good
sorry about the other day I was okay
here's what I wanted a here's what I
want to say I think I don't understand
why the Democrats are being so passive I
mean we took we've had a really good
victory on Tuesday I mean we what do we
got 34 seats something like that we
unseated some room 36 we unseated some
real bad racist guys and we were up
against a really hard Matt I mean I
don't mean to be take any of the funds
away from John from San Antonio but I
mean we had to defend 26 seats and the
Republicans had to defend 9 in the
Senate and in 2020
we have to defend they have to defend 20
seats and we have to defend 11 and
everyone's walking around so depressed
and we did really really good yeah I
think I think you know been touched on
this there was and and it was what I was
saying the day after - is that there was
such an emotional investment in an
Gilliam and in Abrams and in Baden still
might get it well he still might get it
but there was you know two days ago we
didn't we didn't think that that was
gonna happen
there was even a chance I still think
it's a it's a long shot but I think
there was just such an emotional invest
like you know there there is a equality
of folks on the Left who really they you
know they want to love their politicians
and to have people who we think are so
exciting and represent so much hope lose
is you know it's an emotional letdown
but I think you're right when you start
to look at this with sort of more sober
eyes Mindy and you're right you're right
it looks more hopeful and now the
Democrats themselves like look I am
willing if I believed that Chuck Schumer
and Nancy Pelosi were saying like we've
got a reach across the aisle and blah
blah blah and they they were just saying
it to say it I would feel much more
comfortable when it comes out of Chuck
Schumer's mouth I'm just convinced that
he's actually that's he thinks he's
being clever I have a proposal what
about we confirm all your judges you
know their new slogan show you our
bellies 2020 exactly I don't know I
think that we're letting them the other
thing that I'm having a problem with is
I think we're letting the Republicans
run the narrative here I mean like we
were acting like we want walked away
with our tail between our legs and we
haven't ceded some really fucked-up
people and we have the opportunity to do
way more damage in 2020 we could
basically take the Senate keep the house
and possibly if we get our crap together
we can put up a really good candidate or
twenty thousand out of eight or whatever
and we could you know run the table in
2020 and I just think that our attitude
we're so burnt out you know yeah so but
there's no cheerleaders there's nobody
saying oh my god we did a great job like
like Trump goes on TV
and he says you know we was a split
decision it wasn't a split decision we
had no opportunity to take the Senate
right zero and zero and we were putting
all of them Oliver like behind Stacey
Abrams who probably really won and and
Gilliam who probably really won and
we're going to be pastas and
with this whole recount think now
because we're so polite and and I just
think that we should just you know we
need somebody like I don't know getting
up there and cheering for us because
everybody seems so defeated and it's
swag I don't well listen listen listen
listen Mindy I think I think you're
right but I think I think burnout is is
you know I think there's a big emotional
letdown you have this motion but I think
you're you're right and I think you know
let's give people like a week - yeah a
week and then start up again because
people need to continue to organize
right like now is the time Mindy for you
to be building those networks and you
know going out organizing and so that by
the time you know 2020 rolls around
you'll have already been pressuring the
Democrats to do this stuff you'll be
pressuring your local Congress people
and you'll also have a network of people
that you can mobilize yeah I mean you
know I think oh by the way my neighbor
one I'm sorry to hear that are you gonna
my neighbor one welcome any no I think
that we should start dissecting the
Republican Party now like Mitch
McConnell's optin and Lindsey Graham's
up in Coria gardeners I've been we
should start going after the weak links
we should start like decapitating them
now I don't mean the capitate but we
should go after the now like we should
just start digging up the capitation
strategy yeah don't you think I do I am
a hundred I could not be more with you I
wish you were advising and writing
speeches for Nancy Pelosi 100% I wish I
wasn't
I wish you were Nancy Pelosi to
principal these guys are alright
so you guys have a great weekend but I
think everybody needs to have it I mean
take the weekend but like the middle
next week or so you know we're going to
start putting pressure on everybody that
they're going to have to start like
pulling up their big-girl pants or blue
pants and we're going to have to get our
crap together because we can do this in
2020 because like after 2020 we're
screwed I mean we picked up what six
governorships we can unjeria's or six
states now I mean it's beautiful what we
did I know that I think it was great
what we did alright that's a great way
to end the phone calls for the day Mindy
I love you back you let me know if you
want me to send some anti Phi interns to
your neighbor's lawn okay you know folks
I'm sorry we are we are done with calls
for the day I know a lot of people
holding on will do a couple IMS and then
we'll get out of here
just got a report PayPal is canceling
the accounts of the proud boys Gavin
McInnes however also Atlanta antiva
Antipas Accra Mentos the anti-fascist
network is according to a source
familiar with the matter I don't know
what that yeah I mean that's the problem
with things like this it can be just as
easily used against the left BLT
platform and they'll look for examples
to do so exactly it's a losing game okay
I'm going to refrain from talking about
something that I probably shouldn't talk
about Wow would our morale of this whole
process
bad wagon didn't do it Rachel do a
segment a while ago about two Santa's
being one of the first Republicans to
benefit directly from the Russian stolen
dem emails he asked
for help from them yeah DeSantis was
identified as the candidate that asked
for and benefited from the Russian
stolen emails remember that came out
there was a Republican candidate that's
interesting
rain sank cheers on rainy Friday from
Mississippi Mr Crew the constant flood
rising frost ISM and far-right
conservatism through both our politics
and daily conversation in personal
relations outrage becomes harder to
distill as people obviously discussing I
feel that outrage on a daily basis do
you think on some level we all deserve
to burn for letting this happen
well I don't know if we deserve it I
don't probably gonna get die people item
yeah I agree I don't fancy people
sentiment Garrett where can we find the
song you guys played to go into the fun
half a marked heart on Soundcloud mr
tart on soundcloud oh we should be
putting this on a similar fun by tart oh
yeah we should putting this into the
Spotify account we're gonna set up that
mr Spotify account Sean Rick Scott
yelling fraud because they found votes
that he suppressed is like a kid
claiming invasion of privacy after his
mother's find horns at his sock drawer
that's totally what this is Emma
Finn iced tea is their way to I am
through the web the only way I know
through is the mobile app we're working
on that
Winnipeg Craig is there even a real John
from San Antonio I don't even know
anymore
tea MBS is my jam Sam which one is the
worst Boris Johnson or Epstein Johnson
that Stein's
got a look at power thick Mulvaney what
is the best on what Trump has on Lindsey
Graham dead girl alive boy I think just
a desire to be Secretary of State
I'm just small power one more Nick Matt
where are you degrees in does anyone
else said Mr have a post-secondary
degree I've got English and
communication studies undergrad and
media culture communication for masters
suck it media culture yeah I got a year
worth of lob school it's not quite a
degree I spent time at Law School I
don't know I got I got into a
prestigious graduate program that was
all I needed
full of life Michael was going to I was
gonna go first came here you were gonna
go off to the LSE or something right
that was accepted Scylla see it's the
only grad school I applied to some gizmo
I have a comment about the sessions
protest that refers back to a previous
guest of the show pretty please pick up
the phone I can only call him Friday's
I'm sorry sorry something positive thing
interesting baby doc gooden Matthew
Whitaker looks like an orderly in some
southern retirement home us aghh
obviously this is way too early to know
but give him the even with all the
expectations for this year the Dems lost
ground in the Senate and we'll have even
more seats they'll have to flip in 2020
how many depending on Arizona and
Florida pan out they may need five what
we'll talk about that later but I think
it's gonna be tough I think it's gonna
be tough but but I also thought this
year would be a lot worse so calling
from Nebraska suggested for Sam's tinder
profile hey ladies if you voted left
swipe right we can have a collective of
women at my place where I'll cook a
delicious dinner from blue apron while
we hunt to kill it okay I don't have
time for all the rest and the final I am
of the day SEMA is running against
Cornyn okay folks see you Monday
to get to where I want but I know son
I'm gonna get
I was I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid for
the rub
[Music]
I love sweet ride
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
they play
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
