[Music]
so Bernie Sanders has been putting out
incredible policy proposals and he's the
reason that things like Medicare for all
who he's still absolutely the only
candidate to trust on Kamla Harris has
fully reversed herself and backflipped
on that Joe Biden is over that he does
does want to keep major elements of our
failed and catastrophic health system in
place and even Elizabeth Warren has not
foregrounded that issue and has danced
around it significantly enough that if
this is your primary issue which is that
every single human being in this country
gets full health care with no BS and no
nonsense Bernie Sanders is that
candidate in the last couple of days
he's put out groundbreaking proposals on
criminal justice labor and now an
amazing new Green Deal proposal now I've
criticized the rhetoric of plans before
and I want to make a really clear
distinction here the reason that this
sort of fetishizing of plans is
problematic is because nobody is going
to just go into the White House and put
through plans we don't live in the
British system we don't live in the
Westminster model so the only way you're
going to have a prayer of getting
anything passed is with a massive ground
movement around you to get it done the
first phase of Bernie's campaign and
ongoingly is showing you that he
actually has that movement which he does
completely incomparable compared to any
other candidate in terms of ground level
volunteers and always leading in small
level donations he will have the context
to put forward these bold radical and of
course the most progressive proposals
this is let's do it string of tweets
this was beautiful he said this
yesterday if there's gonna be class war
in this country it's about time the
working class won that war let's get it
hell yeah that's the truth then he said
this fossil fuel executives should be
criminally prosecuted
destruction they have knowingly Claus -
hashtag green new deal I'm look I'm not
a car so I'm not a you know I'm not a
prison person in general but absolutely
at the very least financially liable and
certainly held criminally accountable
for literally the suffocation and ending
of life prospects for planet Earth
that's what the CEO of Exxon and the
Executive Board of Chevron or BP or any
of these companies are doing I mean at
the very least since corporations are
people we should see some corporate
death sentence oh definitely
corporations of people gonna be neat -
throwing out the death sentence all over
the place then he said this about jay
Inslee as I said jay Inslee was really
one of the only also-rans who had
anything useful to say congratulations
to jay Inslee on his impactful campaign
to bring climate crisis to the forefront
of the national conversation there's no
more important issue facing humanity
together we'll work to pass a green new
deal and create millions of new jobs and
I'm gonna quote now a little bit from a
write-up on Bernie's green New Deal the
proposal
Bernie Democratic presidential hopeful
Bernie Sanders released a sweeping
sixteen point three trillion dollar
climate plan on Thursday vowing to
create twenty million jobs and
completely zero out planet heating
emissions by 2050 the proposal outlines
easily the most ambitious vision for a
green new deal to date which calls for a
massively expanded public ownership of
everything from power generation to
groceries see this is so fundamental
because that green new deal of course
also needs to be a jobs plan so it has a
broad buy-in it needs to be a radical
deployment of renewables and that
includes breaking up energy monopolies
and reabsorbing a lot of those parts of
that industry into public ownership and
democratic accountability and it also
applies to things like food systems
which of course are a also a major part
of the climate crisis which is why
Bernie's leadership on breaking up
agricultural conglomerates fits in but
in addition to that this is a another
area that we need to talk of as a public
good it is an insane and fundamental
global public threat that so much of the
food supply is in
is in private hands that is
fundamentally dangerous just as with
health care and housing and also of
course food is a justice issue there's
still tens of millions of people in this
country that are food insecure so this
is an incredible proposal the scope and
challenge ahead of us share some of the
same similarities with the crisis faced
by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt
in 1940's the plan states faced with
battling a world war on two fronts both
in the East and West the u.s. the United
States came together within three short
years and restructured the entire
economy in order to win the war and
defeat fascism as president Bernie
Sanders blode lee embraced the moral
imperative of addressing the climate
crisis the plan opens with Sanders and
continuing to quote the plan opens with
Sanders vowing to slash USR missions
seventy one percent below 2017 levels by
2030 with a 100 percent renewable
electricity and zero emissions vehicles
he declares war on the fossil fuel
industry with the proposed bans on
fracking drilling in public lands and
all imports and exports of oil and gas
and the and threatens companies with
civil and criminal charges for polluting
and obstructing climate and obstructing
climate action he pledges 200 billion to
help developing countries reduce their
own climate pollution by 36 percent in
the next decade that is a brilliant
brilliant model for a healthy
partnership with China and India as well
as developing countries across the board
and this also has major implications for
civil liberties because when he talks
about criminal and civil liability for
preventing climate action that would
also have a very trend be very
transferable for all of these federal
and state initiatives to criminalize
protesters like the water protectors in
Dakota he and so I'll just say a bit
more it has a generous plans generous
pledges for workers animate Sanders
plans Sanders proposal the plan which
comes the same week the campaign
released its plan to propose Union
promises - promises five years of
employee
unemployment insurance wage guarantees
housing assistance job training pension
support and priority job placement for
all workers displaced by the transition
and an author's quote early retirement
support for those who choose or can no
longer work and it proposes high wages
and union protections across nearly
every sector and how do you pay for it
well you scale back military spending
drastically spent on protecting the
global oil supply it's 100 percent right
and 1.3 31 trillion from federal and
state welfare due to the creation of
millions of good-paying unionized jobs
and that is actually true you will have
less people utilizing emergency programs
like food stamps if they have full job
protection Union benefits and a high
wages nothing wrong with acknowledging
that you know I usually when the
proposals are small small-bore I have a
big problem with that framing but when
you're talking about a radical
restructuring the economy which would
improve the baseline for everyone I have
no problem acknowledging the obvious
that of course most people prefer
serious Union jobs as well as retraining
and early retirement assistance and
Pensions to stopgap programs and then
there's a variety of other proposals I
mean look this guy there's also a
writing the New Deal's wrong sections
which focuses on the civil rights
dimension that's how important the plan
calls for a 40 billion dollar climate
justice and resilience fund as well and
it promises to adhere to the principles
of environmental justice first set forth
by the first national people of color
environmental Leadership Summit in 1991
and the United Nations declaration on
the rights of indigenous peoples look
I'm sorry guys if you have any type of
remotely serious left politics or even
just any type of keen understanding of
the future and concern for the broad
base of humanity this is the candidate
and this is also the only candidate who
is a prayer of enacting any of
stuff because he understands that just
as it would be profoundly foolish to
dismiss the power of the federal
bureaucracy and actually acquiring the
instruments of state power it's also
delusional to think that you can do it
without a mass based movement in concert
and coherence with you the Sanders
campaign is not just the best campaign
it's a completely different thing and I
hope people get serious about it
absolutely I also like that as far as I
know his plan sidesteps any nod to the
kind of green militarism that we've
heard from about cutting their injury so
cutting military spending draws the
connection very clearly between oh how
are you gonna pay for it and what are we
spending way too much money on right now
and when Elizabeth Warren talks about
green militarism she could never support
the UN declaration on the rights of
indigenous people because if you cannot
see a direct line between as an example
- why did bolson ro visit CIA
headquarters when he first came to
United States uh Matt this is important
what is this
yeah and we're actually just now getting
an ad block on it but basically the US
government is basically the number-one
polluter in the entire planet producing
more than Sweden and Denmark right Green
that up no I mean and even inside her
their own bill there's an emergency
waiver on some of the targets that it's
deemed to be like a national security
necessity and I'm I'm sure that there
will be no funny business with that
inside the Pentagon
I mean look once again it's just a
question of where we're at I mean I
remember 10 years ago 15 years ago and
people at Thomas Friedman were saying
that you know the US military would lead
the way on climate and it would be a
muscular green New Deal and I understood
some of the political mechanics behind
those arguments fortunately we're in a
much better place due to this do to
occupy do the Sanders campaign do two
movements all across the country we
don't have to play that game we can
start to work to fundamentally
restructure and that's what the Sanders
campaign represents and that is also why
in fact he does have the broadest base
of support amongst working people of
every type of background
yeah I mean I gotta say I was
disappointed that full decriminalization
of sex work was not included in his
criminal justice platform this is
something that we just passed a
resolution on at the DSA Convention to
try to hold our endorsed candidates
accountable but this is a movement
that's picking up steam right now sex
workers are becoming a constituency and
an active voice for the first time and I
mean maybe I'm being naive but I really
believe that he can be pushed on this
well I just also want to just say like
of all of these candidates who would be
pushed on that I'm not even there saying
he will but like who has the
constituency the policy advisers and the
inclinations yeah and I and I and I
think it's just obvious and I and I also
just want to say I totally hear that
that's very important and very valid and
also like a plan that would if enacted
immediately cut the prison population by
50% that really needs to be foregrounded
I mean that's that is that is that is a
radical decrease of human suffering
along with ending cash bail I mean
banning the death penalty that plan
cannot be de-emphasized how radical that
is and and also as soon as the dynamic
shifts and in fact I think you'll see it
in the coming months the dynamic will
already shift he's gonna get hit on that
plan from the right by Harris and Biden
and others and and certainly in a
general election Trump is gonna fear
monger the hell out of all this
