[Music]
Nancy Pelosi has an evolving perspective
on impeachment I'm not sure I know what
this means
but here's Nancy Pelosi talking to
Washington Post Robert Costa and the
Democrats I mean there's clearly a
scenario that's playing out where the
Trump administration seems to be daring
Democrats to impeach him they are they
are pushing it and I think the theory
from the Trump administration is we're
playing a game of chicken even if they
come after us and try and impeach us I
can't get removed from office it's fine
for Bill Clinton it'll satisfy those
people who are Democrats may be more the
base of the Democratic Party but
independents the polling is supposedly
bad on impeachment and this is going to
alienate the Democrats from from voters
that they will need that is undoubtedly
the administration's perspective on this
Nancy Pelosi may accept that calculation
or may be slowly realizing I cannot
avoid there is too much to be lost by
not impeaching in terms of the
enthusiasm of the Democratic base and
but the point is at one point you got to
cut bait and make this decision and then
you got to go full hog and explain to
the people of the United States why this
guy needs to be impeached that doesn't
mean removed from office
it means like it's a form of censure
because the we know the Senate is not
going to remove him and convict him and
so you know I
I'm starting to think that and I think
like you know this is one of those
situations where it's like my hesitation
about impeachment has been you're not
saving anything for the second term but
I think you may have come around to
where I think that you know the same
things that are moving closely like if
you don't impeach him now it looks just
too weak they are challenging it too
much and it's making the Democrats look
too weak and it's making them look
muddled seems to me Nancy Pelosi could
come out now and say we're gonna pursue
impeachment we know it's not gonna
remove him from office but there's been
an extraordinary amount of law breaking
we need to Center him on behalf of the
American public we will move forward
with the operations of government
because he will be the president until
that election but we need to impeach we
need to impeach because we need to send
a message that law breaking is wrong and
this is the only mechanism and if the
Republicans won't join us that's on them
here she is with Costas about Don Magan
you're facing challenges not just from
the AG but the White House is citing
executive privilege thinking about
asserting it as they make their case
against Congress can you hold him in
contempt mr. McGann for refusing
congressional demands well we don't know
that he has yet let's take it one step
at a time let's see where it goes and I
have said the president is goading us
into wants to go to send to impeachment
because that he knows as a do I that
that that's a not a good thing for the
colonel maybe he knows that but he knows
that I think that let's put it that way
they knows that I think that but the
point is is that every single day
whether it's obstruction obstruction
obstruction obstruction of having people
come to the table with facts ignoring
subpoenas and the rest every single day
the president is making a case he's met
he's becoming self impeachable in terms
of some of the things that he let's see
let's pause there that's an important
point you just made
you think about 1974 yeah
House Democrats had their articles of
impeachment against President Nixon
article three of the impeachment
proceedings then was about obstruction
of Congress about abuse of power could
there be an option for Democrats that
you would consider of a narrow
impeachment proceeding against President
Trump about the issues you just raised
obstruction of Congress let me just say
that right now we have our committees
doing the investigation that since you
mentioned in 1974 at that time Congress
took months months to build a case they
did investigations semi-urban wasn't
there Judiciary Committee that was the
committee that was doing the
investigation and then they with the
information they gathered they came to
that conclusion but we really you know
we ran and won on for the people agenda
yeah you can chew gum and and walk at
the same time I mean the the for the
people agenda cannot be implemented if
you have a chief executive officer of
the chief of the executive branch who is
breaking the laws repeatedly I mean
that's just the bottom line
and I I I think the idea is be honest
with the American public we're not going
to be able to get them out of office we
need to impeach as a way of putting down
a marker the American people need to say
to not just this president but to any
future president you cannot break the
law without some accountability and the
Republican Party can stop you from being
punished they can pardon you they can
commute your sentence but they cannot
keep us from holding you to account for
your law breaking that that should be
the message and that way you can also
implicate the Republican Party because
they are implicated in this they are
completely implicated in this in all of
it in all of it
here's Jerry Nadler chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee basically
saying that we are in a constitutional
crisis at this moment as the president
is denying and the executive branch are
denying lawful requests of information
subpoenas from Congress this is this is
you know this is beyond norm breaking
these are constitutionally valid
procedures that the president and the
executive branch are breaking and the
tough part is they can go to the courts
but but the judiciary is very hesitant
to get involved in a fight between these
two branches of government impeachment
is really one of the few ways in which
the judiciary will step in and say okay
if you guys are taking it to this level
we can adjudicate that so by having
let's say a joint so you know like a
Select Committee on impeachment let's
say so you're not actually starting the
impeachment procedures you're starting a
committee to investigate the issues that
would be a form of impeachment just get
it out there that will provide some
measure of authority to these
congressional attempts to get this
information I mean and I think Nadler is
now just out there and he's trying to
get public support for this it sounds
like you're what you're you're saying a
monarchy but by another name it's a
constitutional crisis where do you think
well the phrase constitutional crisis
has been overused but certainly
certainly what certainly it's a
constitutional crisis although I don't
like to use that phrase because it's
been used for far less dangerous
situations the phrase has been overused
I hear you but you feel that we are
currently in a constitutional crisis or
headed for one no no we're in one we're
in one because the president
is is disobeying the law is refusing all
information to to to Congress which
means that he's taught that I mean when
when when he told the head of the his
nominee for head of Homeland Security
closed the border and then and he said
well that's illegal he said don't worry
I'll protect you
it's a lawless administration we cannot
have a lawless administration there you
have it
I got you covered I got some good
lawyers
you need to lose some money I can work
that out too I can see my way to looking
past this but what if there wasn't Allah
I'm giving it back
dream with me special all right one more
thing I wanted to talk about
