we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday October 23rd 2018 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority reporting we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
khashoggi body parts supposedly found in
the Saudi embassy in Istanbul as aired
Awan says the whole thing was planned a
meanwhile Republicans need a caravan
just to carry their lies and it's 13
days until Election Day though polls and
early voting numbers start to come in
meanwhile a New Hampshire voting
restrictions struck in Georgia voting
restrictions working overtime Supreme
Court shields Wilbur Ross from
testifying about the censuses attack on
immigrants and the Bible Museum in
Washington conned proving there's no
trust amongst grifters and the Trump
administration continues it's all
assault on health care
and three proud boys are arrested and
charged for assault in New York and
meanwhile Trump administration starts to
attack trans rights and a bomb is found
in George Soros's mailbox happy Tuesday
everyone all this and more on today's
majority report yes folks back from the
west coast Brenda and I were out there
at this weekend for politican which I
thought John Fugelsang there and he had
the best description of it for me he
said it's like comic-con but with a lot
less integrity and he he was right it
was a it was a bit of a freak show I
mean it was nice there were there were
plenty of fans out there of the majority
report and of of TPMS and anti-fat on of
course literary hangover which was nice
to connect with some of those people
it was also super creepy to be you know
walking around and seeing Bill Kristol
walk by or Ann Coulter or some guy
wearing a three-cornered hat wearing a
full Patriots outfit and not being for
the Patriots the football team I mean if
you do if you dress up like that as a
mascot that's ID you know okay I mean
theoretically right you're getting paid
for it and it's it's it's dung
tongue-in-cheek but there was there was
a lot of that in him but it was just
it's very creepy to be walking around I
find I don't like you know walking
around folks like Bill Kristol I mean if
he won't you know obviously he needs to
walk and he's allowed to walk
but I own guilt or II yeah there's like
a there's an expectation in and I don't
you know you know I don't want to I
don't put the you know the the people
who work on the conference on the spot
you know they're just volunteers but
when they're like oh do you want to say
hello and I'm like absolutely not no
actually people fall in tier to work at
this thing well I don't know if they're
volunteers I don't know think they're
volunteers but they they they're just
people who go to work I don't think they
do it for free
no I think they get paid what I need a
but I mean like they're they're people
they're not they don't work for the
venue I think they work different I was
talking to somebody who's like I wasn't
gonna do this one then I decided to do
it and so volunteers the wrong word I
was gonna ask who pays to go to this
thing
a lot of people I don't know and but it
was it was strange the whole thing was
strange we did two panels one was on
Mike Pence and it was really not so much
on Mike Pence as much as or directly on
Mike Pence as much as it was on the
question of like would it be worse to
have Mike Pence as VP and actually our
guest from on Monday show the
pre-recorded Anand Anand gear dhatus was
on that panel at least Jordan who had
worked for condi rice and now actually
makes a point of saying that she don't
longer identifies as a Republican and
the author of a of a biography on Mike
Pence and he was interesting we may have
him on Mike Pence is a sort of a
terrifying figure according to his
biographer he is the most powerful he is
the I want to say he is the the
theocratic aend more power in America
than any other theocratic ountry or he's
the most theocratic
to attain that type of power I mean he's
full-on theocratic and I think I knew
that but I didn't hear it quite as
explicitly and that was actually an
interesting conversation I think and and
we had another one the should we be
socialist panel that had no socialists
on it and I think when she decide well
the interesting thing is that there was
nobody arguing for you know because
there was no socialists on the panel no
one came out and said we should be
socialists I think this panel is gonna
be running on c-span at one point but
the argument sort of broke down more
into sort of like tactics and I feel
like it was an interesting crew of
people Bakari sellers Markus milita's
Kyle kolinsky David Pakman and Ana
Kasparian and much of it sort of fell
along the lines of of of tactics and you
know should Joe Manchin I don't know
what there was should Joe Manchin
everybody agreed that Joe Manchin should
be primary but then after that there was
some other sort of like we need to get
rid of Joe Manchin and then it was
unclear to me how that would happen
outside of a primary but there was a
there was a lot of that which is not to
say that people were defending Joe
Manchin but I think the argument was in
terms of well I don't know I don't know
what the argument was really I mean and
I was the moderator so that was I did my
best and but but it was interesting
nevertheless and that would there was a
lot of people there and Kyle kolinsky
had a huge fan contingency there and
then on Sunday I debated charlie Kirk
from turning-points USA and I you guys
played the clip of him freaking out with
uh with jank with jank we also played
him demand the banking war
okay so late
in the program probably in the fun half
we will I think we're gonna do the whole
debate at an accelerated speed like
literally run the debate at like one
point three times speed but we'll do
some running commentary like a DVD extra
I will say this though just to give you
a sense so I the only thing I saw that
debate I mean I think we saw like like 5
minutes of the debate with Hasan
which is where actually charlie lost it
with with jank I guess in the question
answer period but that was the only clip
that I had really seen because it was on
Twitter and so I and we had a fan sent
me a link it's not hard to find a link
to the turning points USA tax filings
and it's a 990 form and you can see it
for the whole years and so I wrote I had
some notes and they were just basically
you know things to remember to bring up
and I and I probably should have
organized them different cuz there were
some things I forgot but on the outside
of these notes I wrote TP USA 990 form
yes that's a 990 a and I don't know
during the debate you can see I'm like
flashing it like this and before the
debate when I you know when we met
Charlie I I asked him about I said yeah
I heard you got into big squabble
yesterday with what jank and he said
yeah and I said what was it about your
pay there's nothing like that and he
said yeah yeah we were talking about ok
and then I go because I looked up your
tax filings and it's pretty amazing for
million dollar budget you can only make
$27,000 a year he's like yep and I was
like for 65 hours a week boy you should
see somebody about a raise and then he's
like well actually no it's more now and
I said oh so you gotta raise this year
and he goes in and in 2017 it was
$49,000 I'm but well that's not what it
says in your 990 he's thanking me yeah I
should talk to my accountant I'm like
yeah you should and then I said and I
also noticed that you're shipping your
postage it's two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars a year that's a lot of
money on postage he's like yeah we send
out a lot of kits to colleges oh my god
and one point 1 million dollars for
travel I do think I mean it probably
would be a bit of a favor for Charlie on
some level because it sounds like his
accountant may have messed up on that
pay thing maybe I looked at it wrong but
I was pretty sure it was - 2017 990 and
you can ask for more audited expenses I
think that's public because it is a
tax-exempt organization because they
don't do any campaigning supposedly and
so that was it was it was fun just
telling him that you should probably get
his accounting done but that was that
was all behind the scenes stuff and you
know I was just joking around with a guy
and he's he's very well behaved offstage
yeah leave it on the field
yo yeah Lee totally leave it on the
field and but so we will go through the
the debate later oh boy yeah that should
be fun
I'll give you a sense of what I was
thinking and I have to say like I don't
know if people have seen it and they may
skip our assessment of it but I would
say I give myself a b-plus I feel like
there's a couple things I could have
done better and then there are things I
could have done you know you know it
would have had to have hit like a Grand
Slam
so you know - the Grand Slam there was a
couple of points I think I could have
done a little better but overall I think
I did
fairly well and I think it's uh this is
actually this is someone clipped this
this was a fun part so there was a
segment during the debate and it was
this the bank I don't know what this
isn't bacon yeah yeah what I mean there
were a couple of places during the
debate we'll go through this in real
time but Charlie seemed to be a little
bit confused about how banks make money
and the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau the reason why Republicans
ostensibly
want to get rid of it is because it's
too independent because Congress does
not fund it so they can't inhibit its
operations by cutting its funds which is
what the Republicans want to do because
it's funds have we're set up in such a
way to insulate it from those kind of
attacks by lawmakers who may want to
help out the big banks the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau and I got
this number wrong during by a by a 0 by
a factor of 10 since 2011 really I guess
for the last four five years after that
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
saved consumers almost thirteen billion
dollars billions with a B and the
funding to operate the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau comes from
fees paid by banks not unlike the FDIC
which is you know sort of which is
basically depositor insurance federal
government backstop sit but there's some
fees associated with it but and the way
a bank makes money is they loan out
money at an interest rate higher than
the interest rate they give their
depositors there's that arbitrage and
they make that money in between often a
bank will loan out even more money than
they have but there are capital
requirements that the US government
insists upon so that you don't loan
- too much money that you don't have
nevertheless those fees are paid by the
profits the banks make the Delta between
what they pay out an interest in what
they take in an interest charlie didn't
seem to have a really tight grip on that
uh money he doesn't just sit there in
the back so so somebody took a small
clip of that audio wizard rumsfeld again
lizard rumsfeld roseville and he player
on twitter yeah this is pretty good
and as you know or may not know I play
Hugo on the show Bob's Burgers and
here's a scene that lizard lizard'
Rumsfeld took the audio and put it into
a scene with Hugo and Bob what is the
budget it is completely funded by fees
that they get from the bank no okay so
so forcibly take money you were not to
say forcibly take money from depositors
which is not actually how that works
that is really good Oh folks do you ask
we just got our box today incidentally
do you love the thrill of an escape
escape room I don't know if you've ever
been to escape room I have not I want to
though this is high on my list where you
are looking for clues and solving
puzzles
well now you can bring the mystery home
with Hunter Killer Hunter Killer is a
monthly subscription where you become a
detective immersed in a murder mystery
each month a fictional serial killer
will send you cryptic clues objects in
letters that you can actually use to
solve the crime in real time this may be
something I actually could do with my
Lois you might this might be fun
actually to do with you kid if they're
old enough I don't feel like I would do
it over the five year old I feel like
that might be a little scary it's so
interactive that it feels real perfect
to play solo on a date for a game night
with friends or join their online
community and work with other people who
are at the same point in the story as
you are
we just got the box literally it showed
up today and I'm going to take this home
and I'm I'm pretty excited to do this
actually it's not I don't get a lot of
opportunity to do fun things right now
just for our listeners you can go to
hunter-killer dot-com slash majority for
10% off your first box
they only accept 200 members per day so
hurry to take advantage of this offer
that's hunter-killer dot-com slash
majority for 10% off your first box
hunter-killer dot-com / majority check
it out also today's show gets support
from third love third love is a company
to use millions of real woman's
measurements third love designs its bras
with breast size and shape in mind for
an impeccable fit and incredible feel
they got cups from A through H and bands
up to 48 third love offers double the
number of sizes that most other brands
offer plus their brands their bras
rather feature tagless labels meaning no
itching that seems to me to be obvious
to all bras not do that know many most
bras have itchy labels oh my god that's
ridiculous
they have straps that won't slip they're
lightweight super thin memory foam cups
in an ultra soft smoothing fabrics check
out the new cotton collection which was
created as a result of customer requests
for especially soft breathable bras and
underwear you'll want to wear everyday
and remember if for some reason you
don't love their product returns and
exchanges are free and easy now folks I
don't wear bras and so I had a friend
check some of these out this is what she
wrote and she's she's extremely fashion
conscious okay she says I like that they
don't have a zillion options so it's
easy to choose something quickly the fit
is great I usually have to return most
bras I order
online even though they're in my size I
ordered two and both fit that almost
never happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
but not as boring as most t-shirt bras
what our t-shirt bras it's like a plain
seamless bra you wear under t-shirt
doesn't show through and she also wrote
there are subtle cute details so I don't
feel basic so there you go
fashionable comfortable size is correct
what's that do you need any help with
that Michael the first read callback Sam
that's all you know third love knows
there's a perfect bra for everyone so
right now they're offering my listeners
15% off your first order go to 3rd
love.com slash majority now to find your
fur your perfect fitting bra get 15% off
your first purchase go check it out this
is a yeah I mean it'd be great to find a
place that you could regularly buy your
bras that fit that third love.com /
majority for 15% off today alright so
the Republicans like I said at the top
of the show we're 13 days away from the
the midterms in many places you can vote
early and if you have any sense that
you're going to be out of of town get
your absentee ballots in as you know I
vote up in the 19th district in New York
this is where Antonio Delgado is running
against a faso my understanding brief
conversation with a democratic election
official up there a lot of absentee
ballots which is a very good sign but
and there's very high numbers for early
voting Republicans are coming out I mean
keep in mind
on the some of these special elections
we saw Republicans come out in higher
numbers than they normally do as well as
Democrats Democrats just came out with a
little bit more higher numbers so voting
is going to be key
they have been activated in many
respects by anti-immigrant policies I
mean right now you see there is a reason
why Donald Trump is talking about this
Caravan and we will talk about it of
Central American essentially families
crossing through Mexico at this time
with the hopes of getting into this
country maybe even hope some hopes of
getting asylum in Mexico as well but
here is Donald Trump at a rally where
was this rally last night this is in
Houston very well attended is my
understanding this is the one where I
think Ted Cruz went and did the sort of
simian thing where he held his hand out
like this and butt out down Trump
here's Donald Trump listen you can't go
up in front of a national audience and
say hey we're going to put it to the
Jews but you can do this radical
Democrats want to turn back the clock
barred the rule of corrupt power-hungry
globalists you know the globalist as you
noted lovely
my globalists is a person that wants the
flow to do well frankly not caring about
our country so much and you know what we
can't have that you know they have a
word it sort of became old-fashioned
it's called a nationalist and I say
really we're not supposed to use that
word you know what I am I'm a
nationalist okay
[Applause]
national nothing use that one now I mean
Donald Trump there really it's unclear
to me that there are any policies that
he's pursued that have been you know
ones that you could call nationalist I
mean Donald Trump is for the most part I
would say the tariffs right what I was
gonna say for the most part a
functioning as a typical Republican with
the with the two exceptions of one
he's his foreign policy is slightly
differently aligned probably more
tracking his own investments like
literally his own personal investments
in some fashion and then the other one
is the tariffs now the tariffs I don't
know how you would call that a
nationalist policy it is hurting
American businesses and there are some
American businesses it's helping there
are a couple of massive steel
conglomerates who are coincidentally
also big supporters of his that it is is
helping but farmers are suffering under
the retaliation on those tariffs you
have Chrysler going to be laying off a
significant percentage of its employees
because of the tariffs and well they're
nationalists just because they don't
work that well doesn't mean they're not
nationalists in their orientation like I
say the aside from those policies
they're they're nationalists but if
there's other policies you can find that
are nationalist I'd be open to it but
he's he's essentially a neoliberal still
your right wing of neoliberalism yeah
like I say typical Republican policies
as a Republican
that's why he's the leader of the
Republic
party that's why he's enormously popular
Republicans and that's why he's the same
as congressional Republican but the
point is is that he's also he's just a
liar and so I mean he calls himself a
nationalist not because it's aligned
with any type of policy prescriptions as
much as it is one in which it's easier
to embrace that than to say like we're
gonna really stick it to the brown
people and read between the lines
yes you know who else was a nationalist
but I'm a nationalist okay I mean I'd
like to fight and regular people
Republicans have been so trained to
think like well not all nationalism is
bad just because liberals are gonna
freak out and the negative against it
right well and also like we know how
globalists have been used by the right
right I mean it's it means one thing for
the left and it means another thing for
the right anybody just being Jews though
well like I say immunization is a real
thing what I said was it means one thing
for the right and another thing for the
left do you disagree with that I think
it means what it means no well there's
like a dog whistle element to it
certainly there's an anti-semitic
element I think some of it is what we
would call structural anti-semitism
which is not like literal hatred of Jews
but this more esoteric thing that
moisture post stone wrote about where
Jews came to represent the hidden parts
of capital which was why National
Socialists quote-unquote so let me ask
you this when he uses it what do you
think he means I think he's talking
about economic nationalism he means it
to me esoteric sense where jewels become
a performative machinery of capitalism
Samantha's so in other words the jewel
alright well we we will agree to
disagree on this okay I think that bras
off with one finger I think when Donald
Trump uses the term
mobilis he is trying to trigger in the
right-wing lizard brain what the way
that it's used in right-wing circles
which is to mean a cabal of people who
are trying in the same way that the John
Birch Society has used it the the
hundred year tradition 75 year tradition
that has been used on the right to imply
that there is a cabal with Jews and you
friendly people and who are trying to
create a one-world government that is
going to part of the reason why the UN
is a problem the reason why all
multicultural politics are a problem I
mean I think that's what it signifies
now it's possible there are people who
have a more nuanced take on that when
they hear Donald Trump and they're
cheering for him that's possible because
anything's possible and maybe I'm
talking too broad of a thing but that is
pretty much what I'm convinced that he's
he is he's trying to do there I don't
think it's a coincidence that he's
introducing this concept at a time where
he's also saying that we there are
hoards of brown people who are coming to
invade this country I don't think that's
a coincidence some people might think
it's a coincidence I'm talking about
immigrants and more than he's talking
about Jews thank you okay
and who do you think they have said paid
for that immigrant throng a big Jew who
just had a bomb put in his mailbox so I
have left-right smearing that I'd I
think I mean you can i I'm not sure what
Trump is discussing symbolic categories
Daniel smearing him yeah I guess so is
that the argument do you think I'm
smearing do you think I'm I'm I'm
aligning Donald Trump by saying this
stuff yeah okay globe emoji globe emoji
globe exactly I'm just saying it has two
meanings well that's what I meant when I
said it has one meaning
right and one meeting on the left oh
wait wait I'm gonna get a little
pedantic here I'm sorry we it has
critiques of globalization of two
meanings nobody on the Left says
globalist globalist is a right-wing term
yeah sure okay thank you
moving on to where Trump wants people
wants reporters to embed themselves in
this migratory van to find all the
despicable people amongst these families
now you can take that in two ways
maybe I don't think you could a lot of
people representing it symbolic capital
in those caravans exactly a prop exactly
listen this is a nuanced perspective I
have about this Caravan I'm not gonna
argue on this one thank you here is
Donald Trump asking reporters to please
go down there and do the work which
incidentally they've done there have
been many many reports of people
interviewing these people who are coming
in this Caravan and why are you coming
oh because Honduras is overrun by
criminals and it's extremely dangerous
for my family and I can't make any money
and I'm afraid for our lives in fact the
whole reason why people are travelling
in a caravan is not because they think
that somehow you know they're gonna
swing their four-year-olds at the the
Americans when they get there and and
and and overrun the country we're gonna
use them as human shields right right
it's because they are afraid of
traveling alone it's because they don't
have the money to pay for smugglers and
are afraid of those people and they
think that there is strength in a larger
group and so Donald Trump is asking
people to go down there and embed
themselves in it and this let's listen
to him as he gets off the plane
[Music]
you know they find a lot you can have a
bother capital with what way to say
weights but here you have you're gonna
find Middle Eastern whatever that means
you're gonna find Middle Eastern in
ms-13 in the middle there so I mean the
idea is that somehow this Caravan they
think these people from Honduras think
it's in their best interest to hide
Middle Eastern terrorists and or you
have thousands of people traveling
together
because they're afraid for their lives
and their I guess supposedly protecting
ms-13 in there what happens is is that
first ms-13 protects the people that are
fleeing ms-13 and then ms-13 is scared
so they bring in Hamas to protect them
and then how Qaeda comes when does North
Korea get involved here is not anymore
cuz Trump negotiated here here's a piece
from the The Times you have this tweet
Matt we sent Brenda we sent it to map
this is a clip from the New York Times a
piece they had written yesterday and it
is about the perspective that this
triggers in the right-wing brain and do
you have it it is a clip that's right
that reads but mr. Trump's dystopian
energy mr. Trump's dystopian imager
imagery has clearly left an impression
with some Carol shields 75 a Republican
in northern Minnesota said she was
afraid that migrant gangs could take
over people's summer lake homes in the
state what's to stop them said MS
Shields a retired accountant we have a
lot of people who live on lakes in the
summer and winter someplace else when
they come back in the spring their house
could be occupied that's great
I mean so there are people who are
susceptible to all sorts of imagery and
it's effective in some respects because
there's a tremendous amount of ignorance
out there particularly amongst you know
white people who are living outside of
areas where they have some type of
interaction with people who are not
exactly like them here is Mike Pence he
is being asked by Robert Costa on the
Washington Post live show I guess about
this Caravan and here is the lie that
Mike Pence tries to push just to finish
on the midterms you're gonna be heading
out on the campaign trail soon yeah
immigrations become a major issue the
president keeps talking about this
migrant caravan and he references Middle
Easterners that are part of this caravan
without evidence why is that and where
is the evidence if any well it's
inconceivable that there are not people
of Middle Eastern descent in a crowd of
more than 7,000 people advancing toward
our border in getting the truth is well
let me just expand it for one second now
he wants to offer statistics it is very
conceivable that in a group of 7,000
people in Central America and it's 4,000
I think but let's just say 7,000 because
he wants to double it because apparently
4,000 is not scary enough for retired
retired accountants living in a lake is
enough to take over Texas 7,000 could
take over Texas if you have enough
four-year-olds to swing around and uses
human shields but the idea that it's
inconceivable that there's no middle
Eastern people in this caravan is
naturally pretty easy to conceive of
right right that's and what would they
do in this caravan they're gonna move
freely through Mexico they can move
through freely through Mexico anyways
but let's here let's let him complete
this lie because Costas is like what
Middle Eastern people what is that
supposed to mean in Canaan the truth is
well let me just expand it more than
more than more than ten terrorists or
suspected terrorists per day at our
southern border from countries that are
referred to in the lexicon as other than
Mexico that means from the Middle East
region I mean the the the idea that they
would not be in this large throng that
was that what the president Honduras
told me was organized by leftist groups
in Honduras financed by Venezuela and
sent north to challenge our sovereignty
and and challenge our border all right
the idea what does that mean by
challenge our sovereignty like we like
the the idea that somehow we're going to
open it all right we give up and but you
should know that and this is a pretty
big story and I I don't blame people for
not not being worried about this there
were 10 a day and you notice how the
media doesn't report on this at all and
it's not like they didn't get a heads up
because back in February of this very
year Mike Pence said that the government
was napping seven terrorists or
suspected terrorists a day on the
southern border
it's obviously gone up now what's very
strange is that no one else has reported
this no one else from the US government
has reported this fact it's just Mike
Pence decided to drop the
now maybe that's why it was so pensive
the no pun intended when he was going to
answer this question because he was not
sure if he should leak this obviously
very top-secret information that no one
else has in our government well he
doesn't want Isis to know that he knows
all right ms-13 we're like me scroll
down because he's gotten this is on the
politifact and it's pants on fire level
of and can I the FBI's terrorist
screening center in a fact updated in
January 2017 said that a known terrorist
is an individual has been arrested
charged or convicted in the US or abroad
and a crime related to terrorists or
terrorist related activities her person
identified as a terrorist pursuant to
the National Security Council resolution
and scroll down
the FBI says that they haven't gotten
anywhere near those numbers there are no
data for terrorists apprehended at the
border as far as anybody could tell and
the thing from the president of Honduras
just you know because these things do
kind of run in kind the president of
Honduras represents a far-right party
and it's been plagued by corruption
allegations right yes and has it from
comes from the coffe hotel and media
sectors
I wonder how Venezuela's getting this
money I mean seeing this Venezuela's
getting this money to men as well that's
the funny thing is that simultaneously
Venezuela is totally broke which they
actually are but then they have all this
money I mean yeah the money that
Venezuela is still circulating comes
from like smuggling drugs through the
military and I don't think they're using
it to challenge us sovereignty they're
using it to they're using it for
communism right by which they mean
buying houses abroad for when the thing
collapses if you scroll down here even a
little more they there was apparently in
2016
211 people apprehended from Chad Iran
Libya Somalia Syria and Yemen
and that's obviously not seven
terrorists a day it's not even seven
people a day it's one person two
terrorists is a pretty wide concept
forget Mike Pence yeah exactly right
right but Brendan just said I mean he
could be including gay people people who
listen to music that is not that is
quote unquote ethnic at a loud volume
but this is working I mean it's it's
it's clearly working well you know what
I said yesterday they're returning to
their core brand proposition choices for
the midterm right course it's working
well and that's you know in part because
there doesn't seem to be like enough
energy left in the in the tank as far as
the national anthem so lastly here is a
Fox right-wing a-hole who I seems to
think that he is involved in some type
of like wartime reporting here I mean
he's he's got the whole thing I'm
surprised he's not wearing a flak jacket
he does hushed tones yes here we go this
is that guy Griff who usually they send
out to harass like you know actors or
something like that to get them to say
like how come you didn't how come you
said you know America love it or leave
it or something you know but here he is
here is these guys ease in the woods
folks down at the border we've been
hiding in the bushes waiting to witness
one of these crossings let's go they're
coming right now
I can see you can see they've come in
they've got a family and a raft
sir we tried to cross into America
illegally yeah there they are
there it is so we're witnessing now six
people a family three or four kids that
one has a scimitar that was paddling in
the raft this is a an attempt to
illegally cross and they've gone back
over there we seem to have fold this
attempt but officials tell us that he's
probably just gonna look for another
spot
you know it's an illegal crossing yes
yes but you came anyway why why did you
come is what I'm asking you can you tell
me why you came illegally the situation
of hundred you're from Honduras yes what
are the conditions there you cannot have
work and erica's the criminals always
who got your money yeah I wonder if
Griff speaks Spanish I mean what idea of
like bringing me actually sending
somebody down who could actually
communicate to these people in some
fashion very fortunate for Griff that
this Honduran speaks two languages and
because I know more languages than he
does right exactly it's crazy that he
thinks that he comes off well in this
does for their people for their people I
think they do they're not as a lure
completely divorced from any type of
basic human empathy like you have to be
pretty far gone to watch that and listen
to what she said and think that these
people are like scary terrorists you
have to be pretty far gone could be the
description of the Fox News viewing base
but but you know what Titan other--
thing to Tucker Carlson does that's
intelligent he'll say a lot and very
manipulative he says a lot conditions
and many countries are horrible and
that's not a good thing and you should
feel bad about it and maybe you should
even do something about it but it's not
our political
possibility that's how you offload a
ping of conscience right and I mean of
course it's not hard to make the
argument that it is it is in fact our
political response well well of course
that's the other conclusion you could
draw a map of I mean even ms-13 was
literally created in Latin America or in
LA migrated back to Latin America and a
lot to do with what Reagan was doing in
Central America in the 80s which was
absolutely vicious right and we
destabilized a lot of these countries
supported coos in these countries we our
drug policies have encouraged all sorts
of cartels so you it's easy to find a a
political responsibility you live to a
ground probably yeah every single place
that has an immigration crisis you could
link whether it's World Bank IMF
policies or the coos things are talking
about you probably draw linear
relationships between u.s. foreign
policy and certainly anywhere in the
Caribbean and Latin America and one
thing that did not come up in the
context of the debate which I lament was
the implications of immigration on
things like wages in this country and
since it didn't come up in the debate I
guess I'll drop this now but the vast
majority of studies show and to the
extent that there are studies that are
contrary to this they've been debunked
by some in some instances by right-wing
think tanks that immigrant labor largely
does not substitute one to one for
American native labor and there is as
much data that argues that if you were
to restrict immigration particularly for
immigrant labor when it comes to things
like farm work that you would end up
getting far more automation which would
ultimately knock out native workers as
well additionally apparently restricting
immigration
can have adverse effects for high
skilled labor in that immigrant labor
provides domestic services which allow
many instances mothers some instances
fathers to return to a workforce earlier
because they are given because there's
there you have childcare none of this
has to be undocumented you could have
all these people documented and they
could still function in the same way it
may raise some prices a little bit but
the market for nannies I think is you
know a function of of demand in a
certain area and certainly with migrant
workers it would be nice to bring them
into the system so that they could get
protection in terms of wages but there's
no there's simply no data to support
that they have a significant impact on
lowering wages and then on top of that
we are aging out the white population in
this country the native population is
getting old and we need more workers to
support our society like things like
Social Security I mean this is even more
extreme in in the UK and it's actually a
big problem in China as well right it
means one of our competitive advantages
is that we have AI so Japan actually
undercut their boom there you go
population here's the thing though like
I don't like to argue on their terms
about this stuff like whether immigrants
are good for the economy or whether in
some sectors they have been used in the
past to break unions and drive down
wages that's not how I decide what
rights people have you know so like
humans have the right to freedom of
movement and if the system cannot
support that then the system needs to
change period I mean that's I I don't
have a problem with that argument
but I'm addressing to the extent that
there's an argument out there that wages
particularly in the context of
middle-class debate what hurts the
middle class that the that immigrants
present some type of threat there is I
think obviously another argument that we
should have no borders or that were that
people should have the rights to migrate
wherever they want but those are kind of
different things right like I'm just
that's right the sort of thing it's like
you're it's one thing when people say
you know we should support immigrants
because they do xx that connects which I
agree with you cuz I think there's an
eight values at work and it's another to
just say you're literally lying about
what they're doing here exactly I'm
addressing the arguments of the woman
who owns the lake house who thinks that
migrant towards are going to take over
her house I'm addressing the arguments
that we hear from from people who may
not subscribe to the idea that that we
shouldn't have borders that there is
some type of material harm that is being
done to to American citizens or American
workers by immigrants and my argument is
that's not the case now yes you can take
undocumented or even documented
immigrants and use them and leverage
them against happened yes I know you can
do that you can do that with with scabs
too
I mean who don't necessarily have to be
undocumented and I'm not even sure that
it's you know sort of it may be easier
to manipulate immigrant populations than
not if that's the argument that you're
making or other economically
marginalized populations right I mean
that's so maybe it's not a good idea to
say that they are I mean you tell me do
you think immigrants are more easily
manipulated than than others to break
unions
I mean you it's happened in the past
it's happening immigrants it's happened
with other marginalized populations well
on by bosses who want to pay people less
do you think that they're more
susceptible to it I mean yeah if you can
threaten to call ice on somebody of
course
right and so I mean I think that's a
problem but that's why I think we should
we should that we should be brought in
to legalize them in this instance but
that is I don't think that the right is
concerned about their their negative
effects against unions well of course
not it's pretty disingenuous on their
part but that also the way they're
making a material argument like I and I
like it that you're arguing with them on
that level I guess but um yeah you need
to deal with the material facts at hand
and in the past like yeah there have
been benefits to our economy and there
have been there have been bets bad
things to bosses have abused
marginalized populations and use them to
drive down wages but the answer to that
is to always incorporate everyone into
your workers struggle yes all right well
look we got to take a break heading to
the fun half and then we're gonna go in
we're gonna do a rundown of the debate
we will do the debate at one point three
one point two seven five we'll go about
1.2 1.3 like that talks about speed the
same way I'm really confident airline
pilot yeah
about 30,000 feet we're gonna be hitting
a little bit turbulence so you just
probably bring that up to 45,000 feet
let's see if we could fly over those
depending on the tail winds we get we
may get you there a little bit early
today so sit back you may actually find
that you actually observe the
information a little bit better
had just a heightened speed of another
point you uh so just sit back listen to
Charlie Kirk's talking points and uh sam
cedars debunk i think we all have a
pleasant flight and enjoy the fun half
the show i just want to let you do the
Wi-Fi is out today alright folks a quick
break and then we'll head into the fun
half don't forget you can support this
show by becoming a member go to join the
majority report dot-com join the
majority report calm for just pennies a
day you could become a member and
support this program also just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea
in chocolate you get the majority report
blend if you want there you can get
other blends too they've got a bunch of
different coffees it is the official
coffee of the majority report today is
Tuesday that means that the Michael
Brooke show is happening Michael we are
doing a deep dive on the mod rogue on
collective in Spain workers cooperatives
and how Jeremy Corbyn has a concrete
policy proposal on actually
transitioning a car and surprises to
workers owned enterprises in the UK
which is interesting and then Brian
Mayer from Brazil wire is going to talk
about this new basically reporting that
there was actually a giant illegal slush
fund that bought people's what's app
information and spread fake news in the
Brazilian election and the Supreme
Court's reviewing it and there's a very
tiny out sized chance that the election
might be annulled Wow we'll talk about
that and of course we're on the
anniversary of the political
imprisonment of Lula so a whole bunch of
other stuff patreon.com slash TPMS and
Jamie on the anti fada yeah so this week
we had on two guests one of whom was the
editor-in-chief of Commun magazine which
is a cool new leftist leaning magazine
to talk about his media project we had
our friend Andy battle who writes for
the magazine talk about his piece on why
the New York subways suck so bad what it
means for public transit all over the
place and the public transit and freedom
of movement in general as a potential
site of struggle between competing
visions one of transit as a human right
and a public space for public good and
the other as a space for capital
accumulation so we had a really good
talk about that and then we went into
some of our utopian visions for transit
in the future in a post-capitalist
society and that's a bonus mat yeah yeah
I did a very nonfiction version of
literary hey hang over the
time the Mystic massacre and the Pequot
War it's a sort of first textbook
genocide of New England check it out
literary hangover or patreon.com slash
literary hangover and check it out on
YouTube actually that episode isn't up
on YouTube yet so you're gonna have to
go to the podcast keep looking for it
yeah also thank you to Margie Gomez who
well a listener who sent us all sorts of
apples it's like a Applefest in here
Fall Festival thanks again all right
folks quick break add in to the fun half
see you there six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty oh we had oh
yeah one more uh
you have that still yeah way to have it
bear with me one second oh yeah
folks before we go hunt a killer don't
forget it's a monthly subscription that
sends you cryptic clues objects and
letters so you can solve a crime in real
time it's so interactive that it feels
real we just got the Box super excited
this is what's gonna bring mile and I
together yeah honestly if this is the
one thing I can get her to talk to me at
age thirteen this is going to be huge
right now just for our listeners you can
go to Hunter Killer dot-com slash
majority for 10% off your first box
they only accept two hundred members per
day so hurry up to take advantage of
this offer that's hunt a killer calm
slash majority for ten percent off your
first box hunt to killer dot-com slash
majority folks if you start playing let
us know how it's going I want to hear
different people's reactions to this
because I think it's pretty pretty fun
stuff that's a hunt to killer dot-com
slash majority see you in the fun app
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report it'll take one IM and then one
skype then we'll go into the into the
debate midwest mike sam the thing about
the lady scared that brown folks would
invade her lake house rings true my
parents had summer home in the Ozarks
and when i was a kid it was a tradition
for dad to go down a few days before
moral day to get it ready for the
holiday the joke was always if i don't
come back in three days call immigration
i guess it was because my dad was
worried there be mexicans holed up in
the house anyways i never thought it was
funny until one year mom and the kids
left early to meet dad at the lake only
to find him flitting about the house
with a man named Cesar in what looked
like scene from The Birdcage my parents
sold the house that fall oh my god
chief hey Sam I loved the product idea
hunter-killer I was thinking of creating
my own version where I send out Clues
and letters to a schizophrenic only
clientele leading to that's not funny
larson hi curious have you read the NY
Times piece about Eric Prince and his
secret private army and the UAE also
there's a Reuters War College podcast
episode covering his proposed to create
a private Air Force privatize the Afghan
war and I sent you a fan piece while
back wonder facade not sure a square
last one good discussion yesterday Mike
Brenda thanks for calling and reminding
us that yes attempts to strip the
transgender community their personhood
and humanity is not only scary and
disgraceful it's the continuation of
dehumanization other nests brown people
Latinos blacks that Jews Muslims
feminists we are not human we all know
well we know how this ends I'm scared
that racism will win on November 6th
racism is the constant in American
history and preceded capitalism it's the
thing unto itself like a virus durable
and intractable nevertheless we fight
Jamie is the problem of them okay that's
just not true
race modern concepts of race and racism
arose from a material set of conditions
in history and I know it's hard to
imagine because it's so pervasive now
and it just
like the way things are but if you view
racism as a trans historical evil that
lurks in the hearts of man you can't do
anything about it that's not what that
person or I was saying I think I think I
will that's no what you were saying well
I think this is what I think the
distinction is like I think you have to
take a Marxist analysis of racism I
think that's fruitful but I think when
you insert capitalism as what what
produced race like I agree with you that
scientific racism emerging I mean I I
was reading abram Kennedy's book on stem
from the beginning on race and it
preceded capitalism it just did disagree
there's no real contradiction here it
was a dialect of if in terms of Adolph
Reed who I do agree with and Marxist
reading but the maybe there are
different brands of racism but there's
obviously if forms of racism going back
to literally even like Romans taking
slaves yeah yeah I mean so so I don't
know matter look if the really narrow
point is that it's something
metaphysical that we could never
overcome I think that that's important
to disagree with and debate me too but
most important yeah but conversely like
picking apart all the different ways its
forms can get you know I think too
abstracted especially from like where
that perspective of the I am is coming
from which is like yes and a very real
historical and political level this is a
it's like Ronnie Kasrils
I'll quote that again the former South
African militant revolutionary he fought
to overcome apartheid he said the
origins of where apartheid came from go
back to imperialism colonialism where
you have to build race narratives
justify going in and murdering and
raping people and stealing their
and as it emerged it very much became in
a Grampian sense which is actually
sounds pretentious but it's simple just
that there's cultural institutions that
go along with the economics and the
politics and they feed each other yeah
that's so we're playing all the stuff
that I think well no I I mean we were
splitting hairs but I think like the
capitalism and race emerged at the same
time from the same right you right so
that's why I'm saying and
did one another I am NOT disagreeing
I've not disagreed with that at any
point I'm saying that to say capitalism
proceeded and formed racism will strike
people as a historical because they came
out of the same milieu yeah we had a
pedantic argument about this on Twitter
last night I think we're mostly in
agreement
the most important takeaway for me is
that these concepts don't just come from
nowhere it came from a set of material
conditions in history humans have not
always had these concepts and perhaps we
don't always have to have them in the
future well I'm pretty sure humans have
always had the concept that there are
that that the concept of these other
people who have the thing that we want
are less than us and that's I think is
necessary which came first wanting their
stuff or deciding that they were
inferior I would say probably they
arrived around the exact same time but
maybe maybe they wanted their stuff a
moment earlier but that's not capitalist
but what yeah wanting wanting that stuff
preceded capitalism sure I don't know if
we resolve this right now
but I think we just ya know like slavery
existed in different forms listen I
honestly don't want to argue that
capitalism preceded human greed okay
certainly okay that's all that anybody
saying but like that's that is all
anyone is saying that's all that's being
said is that the desire to take other
people's stuff and the subsequent
rationales behind that I'm sure there
are some people who just started with
like I don't like those people even
though I don't want their stuff there
less than me but to the extent that
creating someone as being less than
human than them because they wanted
their stuff and I don't know the answer
which preceded which there but I'll just
even stipulate that the desire to have
their stuff was what preceded their
deciding that they were less than the
desire the human desire to have
other people's stuff existed long before
capitalism and if we can agree on that
then we don't need to argue this anymore
all right let me go to the phone call
from John from San Antonio
John what's on your mind is that you
join up Dan and Pham comfortable - yes
it is thank you that's right yes it is
thank you what's okay I yeah when asked
who's better at handling the the economy
in the latest NBC poll Republicans had a
43 to 28 lead so you're probably right
about debating charlie Kirk on Trump's
economy but you would have probably
dominated him on cultural issues also
I've completed my most thorough listing
for the most livable districts and I
want to talk a little bit about the
different layers of the highest
percentage of slipping these districts
five to six top of the top most of
liberal districts are occurring in
Pennsylvania thanks great great to the
great work by the activists there the
question the state constitutionality of
the gerrymandering there and one
Democrats are expected to flip the fifth
the sixth the seventh and the 17th
districts while Republicans are expected
to flip the 14th district New Jersey
second district is expected to be an
easy win for Democrats from the seventh
most livable district to the 18th most
listenable district if you average the
top eight aggregators who evaluate these
races and traditional states of toss-up
lien likely and safe majority these
ratings give the Democrats the advantage
in every race all of the aggregators who
break down these races as a percentage
also have Democrats winning every race
and Democrats are leading in polling in
all of these races in Minnesota's eighth
district which is the 18th most
flippable district Democrats incumbent
Rick Nolan decided to retire Trump won
this district by 16 points and most
aggregators have Republicans slipping
this district publican pete sauber has a
15-point lead in the latest c in a poll
so
so a were at number 19 on the most
flippable district at this point in the
top eight aggregators have the majority
the next eight races as toss-up races
but a smaller percentage give the
advantage to Democrats an example of
this is the is it number 19 the sixth
District of Illinois is where two
aggregators have have leaned Democrat
one tilt Democrat and five have these
races of the toss-up and most of these
races polling is is very close and
breaks about fifty-fifty right so this
first district is currently represented
by Tim Waltons has decided to run for
governor in this district he'd flipped a
Republican seven of the eight top
aggregators of this race had this is a
toss-up in one saying it's Republican
the only poll by the highly partisan
Republican pollster Harper has
Republican Jim Hagedorn winning by
fourteen points while 538 currently has
it's only as a one-point win for Hackett
Don so we're now at number 28 on the
most flippable district let's assume
Republicans win when three seats
there's expected to win if if Democrats
win all of the other races like many
aggregators say and they're going to do
there'll be at 220 seats over the 218
they need to take the house if you just
go by polling there'll be at 214 the
next four races the majority of
aggregators that I mean this is gossip I
mean it's it's it's it is tightened
significantly at least in terms of the
polls right I mean we don't know no it
hasn't
well I mean there's there's some races
that are purely tight races like you're
talking about the 19th race 19th
district Antonio Delgado's that just had
a poll that came out that had a
one-point lead by Sienna
let me go ahead and just break go down
to two it breaks it down the most you
know so so let me just break us down the
top and the top 18 seats Democrats are
expected to win 16 of them fairly easily
all across the board they say that so
all I'll need is seven seats at that
point so in the next twenty
six seats I said sure toss-up right so
you're saying so so we we need to win
seven out of 26 pure toss ups assuming
that the pulling on those first 17 are
correct to take for the Democrats to
take the house right it's not just one
pollster every all all eight of them are
saying that nobody's nobody's saying
like you know that the edge of that or
the race is let's say in Minnesota is
second and third where they're
consistently on average about a five or
six point lead
so all right well you know I want you to
do this is to you know start to pick out
those races that you think are going to
be the sort of the indicators on on
Election Day because we're gonna we're
gonna be doing our election coverage
next well not next Tuesday but two weeks
from this Tuesday and we want you to
call in at least a couple of times but
certainly at the beginning of the night
to give us a sense of like where we
should be looking and what what could be
breaking all right buddy all right then
all right
okay baking all right let's do the
debate callers I don't know how much
time we're gonna have oh yeah we could
it's only gonna be an hour so we should
we should be able to do this relatively
quick quickly I didn't mean to do that
all right so colleges when you're so
conscious you know what here in collars
here is the here is the the debate now I
should say at the beginning of the
debate that we had to submit and fill
out or submit questions like a series of
questions that were supposedly going to
keep the debate on track not only did
the moderator it seemed like a perfectly
nice guy not only did he not ask those
questions
he didn't even introduce us which was I
thought a little bit weird so we went
right into it but
here's the debate we're going to play
the debate at one point two times the
speed and we'll be stopping it 2-1 to
correct Charlie and to correct me and to
give some insight as to what's going on
so here is that debate between Charlie
Kirk and Sam Seder
it's cedar
not Seder good so for those who don't
know me my name is Steven Olli Cara I'm
the founder of a non partisan
organization called millennial Action
project I'm honored to be back at
politican for the fourth year and we've
got a great debate for all of you
discussing the middle class and whether
Trump has been helpful or hurtful to the
middle class and will debate all of that
here my one request of the panelists is
that we want to have an exchange of
ideas and so we want to focus on the
substance avoid personal attacks and my
request on behalf of the audience here
is that we don't yell over each other
because then they won't be able to
understand what you're saying so are we
on board with that yes yes we do all
right very good are you all ready to get
started
okay so again we're here talking about
the middle class and I think perhaps the
most consequential apposite one thing I
did notice and the reason why we're both
having have handheld mics is that I
noticed in the the debate that Kirk had
with a Hasan that Hasan did not
wear I didn't had a lavalier mic and
Charlie had a handheld mic now of course
you do this if you want to scream over
somebody because you can modulate your
voice in a different way and so I think
I had not exactly sure I wasn't sure why
Charlie didn't show up for the wiring of
the mic but when the guy said what kind
of Mike do you want I said I'll take
what he's taking and and so we both
ended up with handheld it's like a duel
yeah and some level it was like if you
want to play this handheld mic game I
will play that game too so there's a
little debate tip for you folks
president Trump passed related to this
was the tax bill last year so I'm gonna
start with Sam what was your take on the
tax bill and more broadly do you think
Trump has been helpful to the middle
class
well let me answer your second question
first no I don't think he's been
particularly hopeful for the middle
class I don't think that across the
board I'm sure there are some measures
perhaps but across the board net things
are not better for the middle class now
and certainly down the road they're
gonna be a lot worse because of policies
that we've seen at least in the first
two years of this administration 65% of
the tax cuts went to the top 20% of the
country this was you know in nominal
terms the biggest tax cut for the middle
class in history or at least a you know
recent memory but at the end of the day
if I turn Charlie's microphone up from a
five to an eight and mine
from a five to a 12 or a 10 that is the
dynamic that we have going here with
incredible wealth inequality middle
class losing out in terms of wages and
versus inflation certainly at least in
the first 18 months of the Trump
administration versus the last 18 months
of the Obama administration where was
basically flipped and with increased
wealth inequality you get things like
middle class being priced out of the
housing market in the top ten
metropolitan areas across the country
you see it in in in other areas as well
so broadly speaking at least in terms of
the tax cuts it provides some very
inefficient stimulus to the economy but
no this was for the very wealthy Charlie
your response um I first want to say Sam
I think you always come about your ideas
very thoughtfully so I look forward to
this discussion sincerely so Nick thank
you and so the first thing I would come
from the argument that Trump has helped
the middle class and let me build it out
in a couple ways first of all you did
say it was the largest middle-class tax
cut in recent memory and that's not
saying a lot because there hasn't been
done a lot for the middle class but
let's define what exactly we mean by the
middle class the middle class in some
ways is a uniquely American concept the
way that most people would label the
middle class and you could have your own
definition is you have the comfort to
send your child to a relatively good
school and your child's life has a
greater than likely chance that will be
better than your life that you have
meeting here I mean like I'm not sure
what the point of this was it is a
uniquely American concept insofar as in
most industrialized Western countries in
fact maybe all you don't the the
opportunity to send your kids to school
and to get health care and to lead a
comfortable life is basically taken for
granted it is not something that has to
be aspired to or you know a a roll of
the dice but it's like what makes them
in a class special here is we have more
of a precarious so you write about it
there's a chance it may not happen so we
feel good that we have those things
allows you to live comfortable that you
could take maybe one to two vacations a
year and that you don't have it to have
an instrumental amount of debt but that
being said when Americans are polled
anywhere between seventy to ninety
percent of Americans think they're
middle class which of course only 50% of
Americans are middle class that's it
it's really amazing to see that the the
separation of day of how many people
think they're middle class
versus how many people actually are
middle class cause it now I understand
what he was trying to say here he was
trying to say that those people think
they're middle class and they also think
that they are living the life that
Charlie uses to define the middle class
and he did this a little bit clumsily
but I see where he was going here he's
saying the the concept of middle class
and you may have your own definition Sam
and so might all those people who define
themselves as middle class may not think
that like hey my life allows me to
vacations a year and I can send my kids
to college no problem I don't have
excessive debt because the vast majority
of Americans don't get those vacations
do have the debt worry about sending
their kids and getting a good education
and they still may identify themselves
as middle class because who wants to
because I know I'm not in the top 1% or
10% but I don't want to be perceived
myself as being at the bottom rung of
society now I suppose I could have
addressed that but I only now understood
his point because he didn't quite
deliver that succinctly but
reason that I would say that is for that
is that we have an elevated standard
living in this country that goes beyond
just income and goes actually that
people that are earning 30 or $40,000 a
year have access to higher quality goods
that in other countries they wouldn't
let's talk about the Trump tax cut in
particular first of all there's a lot of
demonization against corporations and
against businesses when businesses
thrive they have to employ people and so
3.5 million jobs have been created since
the start the Trump administration most
of those are middle-class jobs
wages have gone up about 3.8 percent in
the last year they were flatlining under
the Obama presidency
my favorite number I'm sorry well that's
not true excuse me oh do what you just
did
excuse me well I'm not gonna sit here
Sam and have lies about facts everybody
has a phone Google Google middle-class
wages so see if they're stagnant versus
inflation those three point three point
eight percent wage increase over the
last year for the median worker Hispanic
incomes at its highest level in American
history at $50,000 a year my favorite
number of the Trump administration is
that three point nine million people
have gone off food stamps and into the
labor force three point nine million
people now why is my favorite number we
know how many people are on food stamps
and in the labor force like I don't get
that well no what are you saying you say
look here's the thing about about food
stamps food stamps is what is known as
an automatic stabilizer of the economy
when the economy has a dip or let's say
a crisis like in 2008 more people become
eligible for food stamps it's not that
it's not they're not it's not that the
program is expanded it's that more
people unfortunately become eligible
because their wages have disappeared and
their money has gone away and so yes as
you get further out from this crisis
more people get more jobs incidentally
well as long as we're talking about job
creation and this is something I
probably should have brought up during
the the debate there were some things I
simply forgot to to raise but job
creation under Barack Obama's last 20
months
was higher than under the first 20
months of of of Donald Trump here let me
get these numbers here we go 20 months
the last the first 20 months of the
Trump administration 3.8 million jobs is
that what he said 3.8 million jobs I
think that's what he said yeah right in
the last 120 percent no no that was that
was he's arguing wages but he said more
jobs created in the last 20 months of
the Obama administration 4.15 million
jobs were created so job creation during
the Obama years last the last 20 months
higher than the comparable amount of
time that Donald Trump has been
president the wages he has exactly
opposite although I think what he's
doing is he's taking the increase in
wages in a very short period of time
he's not taking it for the entire time
that Trump is in office he's taking a
very isolated month to make that
argument but if you look back in the
past 20 months and you look at wage
increases versus inflation it's a net
loss for workers including middle class
number for us conservatives we do not
judge success by how many people go on
government programs but instead of how
many people go off into independence now
I will not say that our economy is at
its optimal level I think it's the best
economy in a generation we looked at
four point three percent GDP growth
three point seven percent unemployment
rate and so if you drive pause it now
again he's looking at one quarter and it
is not there we don't haven't had what
he's using a term that is for a very
limited period of time true but
worthless in terms of making an
assessment as to the policies put good
well class by two major things which is
standard of living increase of which
you're seeing that happen dramatically
and the second of which is education we
have a lot of work to do on the
education side I think you and I would
both agree on that we could have a
extended conversation about that on
policy but the economic metrics are so
good but the New York Times says quote
this economy is so good we're running
out of ways to critique it and so again
it's not a perfect economy but for
middle-class
Americans that care about rising wages
creating jobs and tax cuts the average
American family had a two thousand seven
hundred dollar tax cut under this Trump
tax cut here is where I had one of my
bigger failures I didn't really pay
attention to what he was saying there
but there is the average family he uses
that figure as opposed to the median
family so that's the old if a Sam cedar
and Bill Gates are in a room the average
wealth between the two of us is
somewhere around a billion dollars or
two billion or whatever what does he
have like 50 billion
I don't know 25 billion dollars that's
what the averages
that's if we redistribute it all the
wealth that well that's what the average
is but the median is something very
different because the median is where
the family sitting in the middle and for
the median family the tax cuts was
actually closer to about $800 now $800
isn't nothing but it if like I say if I
give Charlie a raise in his volume by
three units on his microphone but I give
me seven guess who you're gonna hear
more from folks it's gonna be May and
that's the problem your purchasing power
is and your political power is
diminished if I give that much more
money to billionaires that's good for
some consumers consumer spending power
that's good for savings and it's good
for of course what you would say is more
demand side economics coupled with
supply-side economics that created jobs
and repatriated trillions about was our
wealth back to the America so everyone
here has a phone and they can Google the
first 18 months of the Trump
administration versus the last 18 months
of the Obama administration wages have
gone up 1.7 percent under the deal at
the first 18 months of the Trump
administration they have inflation is up
3.8 percent that is simply a fact now if
you if you narrow if you narrow the time
horizon you can come up with numbers
you're talking about and this is why
people have to be careful about
statistics because I can come up here
and manipulate anything yes
Latino wages are up in fact the middle
class is making more money
today than in a $61,000 than in the past
however like I say inflation is uh the
cost of higher education has gone up a
hundred and ten percent since 1994 so it
doesn't matter if the middle class is
making sixty one thousand dollars if to
lead the middle class life that you were
talking about is that much more
expensive if the middle class like the
tax cuts they wouldn't disfavor them far
greater than they do even Obamacare at
this point right I mean so the bottom
line is we can throw out statistics but
if they're not contextualize it doesn't
matter okay so everyone knows the tax
cuts went to the wealthy am i demonizing
them no the point is that they have an
inward in amount of wealth and income in
this country and it turns into political
power and I know you have a problem with
that and the way to solve that is to
flatten the tax it's to not give them
tax cuts and more power and give
corporations more power in cash to pay
off their their shareholders which tend
to be the Board of Directors and the
CEOs but rather to spread the wealth so
okay there are some things I agreed with
however to contextualize it further it
doesn't make the economic growth
economic success any less exceptional or
any less historic because following the
same circle but the administrators like
this okay so he hasn't screwed it up
sam'l sam'l III I routinely restrain
myself during your comments through like
thank you for that Charlie and that's a
big deal for me if you watched yesterday
feel free to interrupt me when you when
you think I said something wrong if you
heard it everyone heard it oh this
nutshell such lucky we don't want that
one more time that is such a smart move
it's so - I had to cuz he just lies of
course but also practically I mean
practically because he just lies but I
mean there's no escape but what is he
gonna say no we should stick to format
so I can why a beautiful and then also
you look really accountable like hey man
let's both be honest totally by all
means if I'm being if I'm wrong or god
forbid being dishonest please correct me
here a couple points there the first of
all the big misconception I have with
your original analysis is that just
because someone gets rich someone got
poor that is categorically false if a
wealthy person in
their net worth they did not exploit
someone to get wealthier they had to
take a risk and play a bunch of people
buy a building who had a really good
idea and people had a club right now in
a slightly different topic I would have
would have said I would have I would
have addressed the fact that of course
yes they're exploiting their labor
they're both doing it in a in terms of
like a Marxist critique but also many
times in this country particularly under
Trump when you have rolled back all
sorts of protections for workers they're
doing it in a more explicit almost
illegal well you're doing it in a
liberal way which is your your you're
violating contract law right exactly
that's pretty simple exactly those
products over and over again and you and
I will have a philosophical and economic
difference in this I come from a
perspective that does not believe in a
zero-sum game and does not believe in a
fixed pie fallacy instead I believe that
when someone gets richer they must
employ an extraordinary mount of people
they take a huge risk that a higher than
likely chance no no wait a second a lot
of people thought that that was he was
like baiting me on that but the what we
have talked about zero-sum it has not
been in the context of economic growth
and that I think they just pick I mean
I'm you mentioned that it's hard to
imagine that they didn't have some you
think I mean he gets at fort I would
give him some credit I'm sure he or
somebody around him listened to the show
once we get a total misunderstanding of
are you telling okay oh the succeed they
probably borrowed money and then they
had to create something that all of us
had to buy over and over and over again
that inherently allows the sander
letting to increase for all people
prices to usually go down and then you
can enter competition it's very very
difficult to do that time and time again
and you see in market-based economies
you have to have really really good
ideas for a long period of time to
accumulate that kind of wealth but that
being said those that get wealthy
because of access to power such as 8 out
of 10 wealthiest counties in America
around Washington DC they're not
actually creating anything that I would
consider to be a value to the middle
class because they're they're being
rewarded to their geographic proximity
to a four point four trillion dollar
federal budget that is extracting money
away from middle-class Americans those
are the lobbyists those are the trial
lawyers those are the people working for
the corporations that are lobbying not
on behalf of middle America but on
behalf of people around Washington DC so
in that you and I will agree well okay
the people who live in that the the the
counties are talking about are
well mning Lee armed sales and
military-industrial complex people I'm
not the front administration raised the
budget that I military I don't agree by
seven hundred billion dollars over the
next many of its and that money is
flowing into the wrong I don't agree
with that though so I will okay that's
it
my point is Donald Trump is the one who
is leading but your action so first of
all but let me finish it a new second
interrupt you if you said if I said
something wrong yes so it's only seven
hundred million dollars of our budget
every single years but what's the rest
its to entitlements it is to properties
about the government contracts for
housing urban development government
contracts were helping you mister you
were talking about the government
contracts yeah so those those counties
look at the government contracts outside
of the defense contracts or also what I
like my critique a minuscule the three
point two trillion dollars is not
medicine the lien on to made up number
let's talk Kansas for a moment shall we
because I wish I wish to explain why I
was a made up number well alright so the
the fact of the matter is that our
budget the the biggest expenses we have
our Medicare Social Security and the
military and then the entire rest of the
government is like about a fifth of the
remaining money that we spent maybe it's
a little bit less than a fifth but let's
just call it a fifth and so any like the
HUD contracts he's talking about are are
minuscule compared to the rest of the
budget and I Got News for you here's
what no one in those counties are making
money off of Social Security there's
just there they're not there's no way
for them they're not selling Social
Security I like how he agrees with you
about the military industrial
contractors in Virginia but the second
thing he had to mention was as opposed
to that the most famous thing in those
suburbs
he mentioned trial lawyers there are
there's no trial lawyers living in those
areas either I would say that the that
is that is probably one of the few
jurisdictions where there's just not a
lot of trial lawyers about all the trial
lawyers think tanks in Arlington that
are funded by Lockheed Martin and
Raytheon part of the problem is is like
with some of the times and this is
something that I get to work on the
context in survey is like I couldn't
even understand what his point was it
was so like sort of disparate so I had
to choose one and that's basically the
trick in these things is that what is
the you know the the overall notion is
that you're getting ripped off by five
different groups that are just maybe
associated what he's talking about maybe
not and so you pick one but then I want
it to basically take the offensive and
talk about Kansas because theoretically
we were still talking about the tax cuts
because it was the only question you're
asked okay can talk about what a small
business does for employment
I'm a small businessman and I understand
what small business does in Kansas if I
had been living in Kansas I would have
gotten a huge huge tax break because you
I'm an escort huge under Sam Brownback
back in 2012 he brought in Arthur Laffer
who I'm sure you're familiar with is the
God for folks like you in many respects
the idea being if we cut taxes on the
wealthy they will spread this wealth it
will trickle down on all of us it will
will shower down on us right it will
rain upon us and we will all be
sprinkled with this golden shower if you
will and and the economy will explode
and people will have jobs and everything
will work out in fact revenue will go up
that's what Mitch McConnell told us
after this tax cut - and what happened
in Kansas was a disaster it was such an
unmitigated disaster not only to destroy
Kansas is educational system the
republican-controlled state House rose
taxes four years later because their
economic growth lagged their employment
lagged and then Sam Brownback was
literally made ambassador to like ether
right he's like the ambassador to
religion now he's been jettisoned into
the atmosphere in some way because that
is the perfect example of the Republican
conservative philosophy and it failed
and we know that or now international
level night repenter because Mitch
McConnell made the same promise about
the deficit in fact Larry Kudlow the
chief economic advisor of the president
made the same promise in July and we now
have a deficit that is twice the size it
was when Obama left office and now Mitch
McConnell wants to cut Medicare and
Social Security
let me cut up those taxes you're not
you're not gonna hear me you're not
gonna hear me defend
for one second now I will just say this
there some people had a complaint that I
was using the deficits in this context
because there really isn't a problem
with these deficits
however deficits are used exactly in the
way that Mitch McConnell has used them
which is to use to justify because most
people in this country and I am NOT one
of those people but I live in this
country and I have to take the terms as
they exist on some level I could argue
that deficits don't matter but then I've
taken myself out of this argument and
once I argue that deficits don't matter
in this context I don't have a response
for why for you know the way that Mitch
McConnell uses them and so they are
using these as a justification these
deficits as a justification for cutting
Social Security and Medicare and so I
didn't want to have the argument about
mmt in this context because it wasn't
just the modern monetary theory but so
just I just want to note that for people
I don't think deficits are that
problematic except to the extent that
they are used as a justification to cut
the most important programs for
Americans so really in many respects
when you get a tax cuts like this it is
zero-sum because if if it wasn't
zero-sum for them they wouldn't pretend
to care about the deficit or are
exploiting national debt quickvac rock
obama had ignored dino the present u.s.
Esther you know offend what do you
defend these tax cuts that have doubled
the deficit so the tax cuts should have
been coupled with spending cuts however
we have explosive economic growth we
have more people in the labor force then
if that's revenue commentary have
trillions of dollars repatriating back
to America let me finish I allowed you
to have your cans example now that we're
talking about States let's talk about
the juxtaposition of the failed state of
California with the successful state of
Texas
[Applause]
and I think I want a country that's
gonna look a lot more like Florida and
Texas and a lot less like Illinois in
California now what up states like
Illinois and California done well
they're losing citizens number one
they're losing job creators they're
losing entrepreneurs because they have
raised taxes they have reckless
politicians in both states like Illinois
in California what have Texas and
Florida done they've kept their taxes
low both have no state income tax they
have deregulated their economies and
samadeva agree with that Texas during
the Great through during the Great
Recession 2008 2009 2010 comprise one
out of three all jobs created across the
country and and if you couple that with
if you check the post that you will now
like you know all through this diatribe
we had basically the oil and gas and
fracking like in North Dakota there was
also like huge job creation because of
fracking which you know our our have
large costs associated with them win-win
right in terms of climate change and in
terms of people's health and I don't
think Florida is the place you want to
go to talk about enormous economic
growth but and Illinois has a Republican
governor but the point it's like all of
this stuff is pretty narrow but this is
where he wanted to go so this is I
continue that in the Midwest the Midwest
is booming except Illinois every state
in Midwest at a 3% GDP growth Illinois
has a 1.8 percent GDP growth despite
Chicago being an exceptional city has
being screwed up by corrupt politicians
in one political party and you look at
California that should be the most
prosperous there should be the richest
state in the country and yes you'll say
you'll say it is the richest country it
also is the most populous country with
the most amount of homeless people with
the most amount of people living in
poverty with crumbling schools closet so
yes one would expect the most populous
country to have the most amount of
people associated with societal ills so
if you have the most amount of people in
the country living in a state the most
populous state will more than likely
have the most populous homeless populace
and also I mean even you
more but it like there's I was actually
just talking with wise about this the
other day like there's more of some
certain aspects of homelessness around
LA as an example the further because the
weather is nice
well yes easier place to do that so
people come from other places so they
don't freeze to death in the winter sort
of makes well but also I would even say
like just slightly more substantively
like and you don't have time to get into
this but like this also is a difference
inside the broad center left to left
coalition because certainly like the
more liberal California Legislature has
proposed doing a bit more for this stuff
and Jerry Brown's the tightwad you guys
want to spend money and they don't want
to tax the Silicon Valley people so it
to the extent it even is true because of
policy it's true from a left you know
even just a Kenyan Kensi and critique
Democrats aren't as socialist as yeah
thanks yeah yeah right did Democrats or
basically keeping taxes lower why they
should be doing more right right but in
the conservative mind homelessness is
not something that is a situation that
has happened to people being on food
stamps is not a you know providing a
baseline for the for so that people can
eat it is a virus that is distinct from
people and that you can catch as opposed
to a condition that people find
themselves in for a myriad of reasons
that we could impact the condition but
they there is a certain you know
morality that is associated with this so
they think it's like something like that
is a virus that spreads to people if you
have Democrats around them let me finish
and I know you got plenty differences
but as long as you want it if you want
to talk about states allow me to address
the Kansas example wet Kansas if you if
you if you look at Kansas versus state
like Connecticut Kansas had higher
economic growth was creating more jobs
versus similar size similar population
blue states during the Brownback tax
cuts there are a lot of other
contributing factors to why Kansas was
not exactly a pristine example how to
run a state such as government
corruption such as miss allocation of
resources and other diminishing
businesses that went to states like
Texas that had a zero zero state income
tax and so if you want to talk about the
contrast the states it's the red states
that are eight nine out of ten of
pro-business states in America and
Republican governors and Republican
legislators the most proud road ok
states in America run by Republicans I'm
glad you mention it though the reason
why I bring up Kansas is because the
dynamic is identical to the one that
Donald Trump is we're talking about that
Donald Trump and the Republicans did on
a national level now here's how the game
works and this is why it is zero-sum
because you give these massive tax cuts
to the wealthy and you repatriate money
from overseas that ends up going into
shareholder buybacks to stock buybacks
we know that eighty four percent eighty
four percent of stocks in this country
are owned by the top ten percent this is
a great well and great and 60 percent of
those tax dollars that were repatriated
went into the hands of those people we
saw no job growth as a function of that
repatriation we saw no no totally
trickled down that were supposed to see
we see these tax cuts and then Mitch
McConnell brings down the hammer we're
gonna cut Social Security we're gonna
cut Medicare these are the most popular
the most successful programs in the
country and the only way the Republicans
can cut them is to create an economic
crisis and that is by giving money to
wealthy people date so let's talk about
the stock the stock buyback so let's
talk about the stock buyback so you say
84% what that doesn't contextualize to
use your word is money managers that are
controlling money for pension funds so I
think it's acts controls money we could
harness a pension fund it's categorized
as goldman sachs control that money
matters the pension fund so when the
stock market goes up the teachers a
firefighters the police officers their
401 K so what their pensions go appender
net worth goes up so it explodes the
network I allowed you to finish you're
lying okay so what for example when when
when GCT our partner from Chicago Sam
answer the question when goldman sachs
controls the california state pension
funds the classifies the california say
pension fund buying securities are gonna
tax Bynum securities Lohmann sacks so
when you use but you know that's true
eighty-four percent I will tell you what
the number okay Google so you need four
percent your number and stock racks
deliver to add context to it Sam is that
the money manager is in the 1% but the
money they're managing is pension fund
money that our people in the middle
class upper class so what you're saying
is not incorrect but it's only half true
because it is the middle class people's
money that they're managing with that
being said okay when let's use an
example zero zero evidence that
repatriation create any jobs all use a
microcosm example how about Foxconn that
create 4,000 jobs in Wisconsin because
they repatriate the money away from
Chinese manufacturing jobs to America
man you fell right in for one second our
first off I have tried to track down
this
concept that he's suggesting that the
manager of what is that they're coming
from oh I don't know maybe that's coming
out of my think all right that the the
manager of a fund is listed as the owner
of the fund now I don't know how to
disprove that I'm looking at the the
Edward Wolfe nie bar paper two four zero
eight five issued in November of 2017
that talked about the asset plunges
prices plunging between 2007 and 2010
and who owned the stocks and it includes
401ks and pensions and whatnot I don't
know if pensions would be classified by
who manages them that does not make
sense to me because it's called the
California pension and we have some
awareness of that yes that is a huge
several billion dollar pension it's a
lot of people nevertheless there are
trillions of dollars invested in you
know all sorts of Minar in our market
and by the way that's another maneuver
there too right not that you had time or
it would been useful necessarily but
like yeah maybe we should have a debate
about Goldman Sachs and other Wall
Street banks well Iping out public
pension funds with reckless bets on
policies you support it being deregulate
we do we do actually later in the thing
but yeah and then he goes on to talk
about Foxconn now he talks about Foxconn
repatriating funds to Wisconsin from
China and I should have addressed this
because I was aware that Wisconsin is
paying out four billion dollars plus to
Foxconn in incentives to get them to
function in their country
I had not heard that first of all I have
presumed that it was more jobs in 4000
plus his use of repatriated does not
make sense the repatriation is about
American companies who had overseas
profits and we're bringing that money
back in a as part of the tax deal at
lower tax rates than they otherwise
would have paid and that's what
repatriation referred to and so when he
brought the Foxconn thing I should have
pushed back on this and I think at the
time I was thinking like I don't know
what he's talking about like he's
talking about something that I think is
different from what I know about because
he's using the wrong words you know
Foxconn is not repatriating anything
because they didn't start here they're
getting a sweetheart deal to open a
factory yeah they're repatriating all of
these Chinese villages that they stole
from America because of globalist trade
deals well but that was that was part of
the problem there and so I got sort of
thrown off and I should have I should
have pushed back on that because first
off this is the guy who doesn't want
government intervention in our in the
free market and this is not terribly
free market II from my perspective but I
can tell you subsidy and Fox four
thousand new jobs were created in
Wisconsin because the Trump tax cut that
they directly attributed to a
pro-business pro-american mindset that's
four thousand jobs in Wisconsin that
otherwise would not exist exist under a
Republican governor Republican state
legislature and a president oh that's a
microcosm example you said there's your
evidence that's a piece of evidence well
look people can look at the last time a
Republican president repatriated that
money it was the American Jobs Creation
Act 2005 George Bush promoted this he
has come out and subtly said he got
rolled because all those companies that
wanted that to supposedly add jobs cut
jobs we know the these money went to
buybacks we know why buybacks are legal
now because of the Republican Party
changed that regulation in the 80s when
it used to be called stock manipulation
and we know that it benefits the CEOs
and the shareholders and that 84 percent
and it does not it includes the
California pensions it includes every
municipal and state pension and 401k in
the country
thank you sir so but here's another
thing I do want to talk about because
you talked about can you explain to me
when someone gets richer who exactly
gets poorer can you explain how that
process works like meant like for
example when 20 so ghetto folks you
understand the idea of buying power
right if I give you ma'am
ten dollars and school costs ten dollars
you buy school but if school goes up to
twenty dollars and you don't have the
same buying power what drives the price
of let's say housing for instance it is
wealth inequality and you see this in
ten cities across the country the
biggest metropolitan areas in the
country the middle class cannot afford
to live there anymore because we have
real estate going through the roof
you're right and so you have you have in
states such as Illinois in Connecticut
in California because of excessive
property taxes people don't want to
purchase some of those houses so you've
wanted to give one or two problems that
happen is that the middle class gets
priced out so the wealthy if you will
the people that you are demonizing will
go up a bracket and they'll say well if
I'm going to pay thirty five thousand
dollars a year in property taxes I might
as well buy this XYZ house therefore the
middle class person who's trying to sell
their house with an excessive property
tax burden has to all property tax are
one of the main reason I know what the
axes are they're not nearly as much as
if the price goes up against only say
it's like Illinois this property taxes
can be anywhere between six and a half
to nine percent for a state that doesn't
work for schools that schools are
completely and totally broken so but
like let's the fourth the foreign
investment thing so I'm still trying to
go back I like I don't I I didn't know
how to address what are you saying there
because he's just the the words don't
connect he's mentioning the state taxes
if state taxes were so high it would
have an adverse impact on prices it
would drop the the the the the price of
the house I mean overall you could say
it's too expensive but it doesn't it
doesn't even track with what he's saying
but he does just keep going he's got a
deep well of talking points and it
doesn't really matter how relevant they
are it's pretty impressive in that
respect
but but some game when an entrepreneur
renders a service and employs a bunch of
people and you buy that service who is
getting poorer in that transaction
because you said zero-sum game
understand guts no you're right so tax
cut we're an average middle-class family
had a 2700 our tax cut where you have
the corporate rate that went from 35
percent effective understand a lot of
corporations that not pay that they use
loopholes of which I disagree with
completely went down to 20 20 percent
effective in January and they use that
money to invest in capital
infrastructure or they repatriate
buybacks so using the money not by not
expect buybacks
how about companies where the actual
employees on the stock and then their
own net worth goes up aren't they part
of no class I am sure there are some
members of the middle class who
benefited from the start of the tax cut
that's what I'm saying some be
overwhelming thrust who's keeping
someone from competing with Amazon what
was that it looks like the TYT cut that
out
I don't know that's the stream here
that's strange wow did we lose well I
that couldn't have been much it could
have been just a blip who's keeping
someone from competing with Google okay
sometimes I think someone nobody but you
know who's keeping that from you know
who's trying to compute you to prevent
them from keeping to the prevent against
Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan the
dodd-frank bill because I had so much
regulation and so and such cumbersome
rules it dis allows the local community
bank from ever competing against the
local community bank is going to compete
against Goldman so I'm so glad I've been
part that's a great question where do
these banks hold on for one second
alright you got and I am going back to
the pension funds and I'm glad something
hi Sam Kirk is wrong about pension funds
classified by the money manager
I do Securities Litigation and these
kind of statistics are formulated by the
13f reports pension funds report these
13f separately and they are specific to
the fund I have no idea what he's
talking about here now honestly like in
that situation you need to have a
securities attorney
maybe debate isn't the best place to
hash some of these things out yeah I
mean some in those areas I think you
just got to I mean the the idea that I
was like III don't know how to I don't
know how to disprove this like an
argument to neckli
yes exactly but continue and Wells Fargo
start it started as a local community
bank that eventually des very good job
of running their balance sheets and then
they became one of the Wall Street banks
it's not it's not
heard of it there was no job Frank
exactly right it was before dodd-frank
Sam Lee and they were not allowed to
have to merge until that 96 no I get I
think there is some merit to your
glass-steagall argument I do not think
that is the primary factor why 2008
happened nor would I say that
reinstating glass-steagall will have
possibly can we miss that all that
glass-steagall stuff there's a big gap
in that that's strange there was a big
gap what we were talking about the
glass-steagall because we're returning
to it all right well let's continue here
well we'll try and find that that
segment that's missing it's weird Wall
Street we will get competition back on
Wall Street when we decentralize the SEC
when we do decentralize the FDIC we make
it easier for people to give out loans
and have it and have FDIC deposit I
don't know what the words decentralized
the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation means like I don't like
that's the thing is that there are times
where you would say stuff like I don't
even understand what the work what the
what like I know what the FDIC is and I
want to decentralize means but how would
you descend Insurance Fund so that when
you put in money into a bank up to two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars I
believe it is for each individual
depositor each at each Bank in the event
that the bank goes under because they
have made a series of bad loans let's
say and the loans go south and certainly
in the run-up to 2008 we started to see
this quite a bit they make too many
loans the businesses go out of business
and because they loan not only out you
know what's in the bet you know what's
in the deposits but a certain percentage
more than that people could stand to
lose all their money and so the only way
these banks can function in a way that
is confident for people and you don't
get bank runs is if the federal
government says I could look we get you
covered for the first 250 grand you got
in that Bank and I don't know what it
even means to decentralize it like I
don't know
honestly like I know it's it's taking a
we like there was a line of people I
think who some were sort of associated
with like critiques of bureaucracy in
the 70s that has barely has almost
nothing to do with what they're talking
about today and then maybe maybe it's I
don't know he doesn't know well there's
no explanation why point is well my
point is the real explanation is that
you could connect those words with the
tradition that he is not a part of in
terms of policy but what that is that's
a nicer way as I see not at all I
understand why not at all and that's a
nicer way of just saying he wants to get
rid of insurance people's deposits right
I mean that's the only order no it must
the Treasury Department no or your check
should come from several different
agencies instead of one no it means that
um he doesn't know what the FDIC or he
doesn't know yeah all right here
continue surance backing that is so hard
to do right now because goldman sachs
doesn't want that competition it's very
simple when you have someone from
goldman sachs running the treasury
department that will probably work for
Goldman Sachs after and they work for
them before they're gonna try to protect
Goldman Sachs interests what does that
look like create rules and regulation
that make it very hard for other banks
to compete with goldman sachs you and i
agree with that we agree that the middle
class is suffering for trump's
continuing to allow goldman sachs in
there maybe we should both vote for
Bernie Sanders well so is the myth war
and and again it's important to remember
it's it's not just a Republican or
Democrat thing both parties allow
Goldman Sachs to run the Treasury
Department but let me say this Elizabeth
Warren and Bernie Sanders definitively
well she might she might one one
thousand twenty fourth allow it to be
run but oh there you go do one one
thousand for the Treasury Department
might be run by the Birchwood I honestly
did not hear that so when I saw you I
thought Sam is so done right now that
he's not even gonna alive be like yeah
oh my god right like now you didn't even
acknowledge that dude was talking the
the the the moderator here scroll back I
missed that completely
ortant it to remember it's not just a
Republican or Democrat thing both
parties allow Goldman Sachs to run the
Treasury Department but let me say this
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders
definitively well she might one 1020
forth allow it to be run but one 1020
for the Treasury Department might be run
by someone from Philly so again I want
to make sure we talk about trade and
tariffs I suspect there might be some
agreement some disagreement here I'll
start with Charlie give us your take on
Trump's trade policy his tariffs yeah
positive and it's the whole thing where
I said we should get together agree with
it support a 21st century yeah because
hard and all right well let's
continue it's very weird will we'll have
to track that down ulster take I've been
more nuanced opinion on it I think what
he's doing with China is terrific
I think China o pleasant they also
missed the part where he was talking
about the banking about they feel like
they missed the part where you
challenged him to list the three no that
regulations comes up later doesn't it or
no I think I hope yeah partial okay to
Behram it has been an unfair actor on
the on the world on the world stage for
far too long they still are categorized
as a developing nation in the World
Trade Organization which allows them
access to subsidies they're allowed
there they build a coal-fired power
plant every single month which as soon
as they exit as a developing nation
under that certification it would be
much more difficult to do that Sam and I
might actually agree on that posit and
there's also sort of amazing is like you
just justified the huge subsidy for
Foxconn do you know 20 minutes earlier
and you're crying subsidies to help
China now on some type of principled
level like it's it's just but could you
look China steals our IP so the way it
works in China is if you want to trade
with them you have to essentially form a
partnership with the government they'll
copy or good or service and then they'll
sell it back into the market that you're
competing and probably quicker than it
will take for you to manufacture back in
that country generally I'm a free trade
guy and if the goal is to get too low
tariffs with some of these countries I'm
all for it but with China I consider
them to be the great existential threat
of the west and of American I called
totally completely support what Trump is
doing with China IP is not free pro free
trade
just technically speaking right well
technically speaking but I mean in terms
yeah I mean I also the United States has
written every single trade agreement
with loads of IP regulations that are
bad for Public Health
internet so like you know what country
built its publishing industry off of no
copyright didn't IP laws in the 19th
century United States the United States
they sure did but not when it came to
South Africa delivering generic aid
strokes their people then you needed to
tighten up on that the Trump tariffs on
China and there are issues to some
extent with China the Trump tariffs on
China are attacks on the US middle class
Ford is going to be laying off close to
12% of their workforce as a function of
these steel tariffs you have a lot of
smaller companies that are looking for
exclusions to these steel tariffs that
make pipe fittings or whatnot
the Trump administration because they
have big donors who are major u.s. steel
manufacturers have denied every single
one of those waivers you see it with
Iowa farmers who are paying stand up to
about six hundred twenty million dollars
worth of of cost to Iowa farmers so from
a middle-class perspective I think the
tariffs are are damaging them there's
some benefit in the new NAFTA to some to
some Auto Workers but it codifies the
monopolies by Big Pharma by forcing
these monopolies on Canada as well and
really you look the number one issue
that the middle class is facing is
health care and that's why we see every
election across the country we see
Democrats running on health care and
Republicans pretending that they're not
signed on to the lawsuit that will
destroy some of the most popular
elements of the Affordable Care Act
slash patient protection bill so maybe
we could turn to that where we'll be a
little I mean the trade I think we can
agree on part of it and disagree let's
talk about health care first of all the
top tax cut also included a repeal of
the individual mandate which was the
largest tax on our generation and if you
don't believe it's a tax just read John
Roberts opinion that upheld Obamacare it
is a tax on people that do not need to
necessarily buy health insurance by
force and we're being forced to buy
something that was completely out of
their income bracket but but in health
care in particular
there have been bill after bill that
would have lowered premiums that would
have allowed health insurance we bought
across state lines that have been
opposed bitterly by Democrats and some
Republicans because they're bought by
the health insurance companies and I
would be much more on the underside of
that we need to actually have a market
in health care we have anything but a
market we have an ole agape an oligopoly
controlled by a consortium of health
insurance companies that are in bed with
the pharmaceutical companies I agree Sam
that are also embedded the regulators
from the FDA and so you could kind of
see a constant theme on in health care
in higher education in particular which
are two things I talk about a lot the
reason why prices continue to skyrocket
in my opinion which Sam will totally
disagree is an inside-out relationship
between the the entities that are
raising the prices and entities that are
controlling those markets and the
government regulators and government
situations and government politicians
where you actually allow a market to
happen and you deregulate and you like
competition entrepreneurs to cut prices
that will that will end up that will
change like there have been probably a
dozen waivers for in various states
across where insurance companies can
sell across states they don't do it
because their risk pools they're much
more comfortable in dealing with markets
they know when they go into other states
they lose money and that's why they
don't do it the idea that there's any
inhibition for insurance companies to
sell across states but there's no
federal law that says that they can't do
it each state has their own insurance
regulators that is not a federal law
whatsoever so they am trying it time and
time again the risk pools are different
they cannot make money that's why
insurance companies don't do it what is
going on now as twenty Republican states
are suing the federal government because
of that small tax that was that the
individual mandate which incidentally
has risen the cost of premiums by almost
15% since Donald Trump estate so it
proves that young people were
subsidizing this backwards healthcare
system it proves that our generation was
being taxed that's right okay so it's
that's right so our generation has to
pay more for something we're not gonna
get well you don't know that you won't
get it right
now if the Republicans have their way
you will lose your pre-existing
conditions if you had is not correct so
that is 100 percent correct the bill
that we had that was not down I'm
talking to lawsuit by 20 Republican
states that is not being defended by the
Trump administration goj if that lawsuit
which is not being defended by the
federal government that has the law is
successful at the republican-controlled
supreme court if you have pre-existing
conditions you can be denied your health
insurance or you can be charged through
the roof if you're 26 or younger you can
not be on your parents thing you will
have lifetime caps you have yearly caps
you will not get essential benefits you
will not get your free colonoscopy you
will not get your free man nothing is
free Sam stop saying that's nothing I
mean it's not something someone got some
tax payer someone is before it's acts
supported mammograms or your
colonoscopies and we will end up paying
even more because nothing is free we pay
a nation to set free pulling out well
yeah Charlie no taxpayer-funded
colonoscopy would be a better way to put
it are you paired with a microphone no
right you're they're paying me to be
here so weird yeah okay look the bottom
line is yes when government provides you
services it collects tax and that's the
way pay for is it pay for way it's paid
for it is far more efficient to have a
single payer for health insurance then
then the private insurance industry in
part for the reasons you mentioned in
part because there's no profit off the
top but for those reasons we should
probably have single-payer health
insurance program in this country so but
um I hear this argument alot and I'm
hearing you imply it that somehow
somehow a market stops working as soon
as it goes into healthcare is that
something I mean well it works in food
it works in housing works in technology
well it doesn't work down how old he
goes up it doesn't work in housing it
doesn't work at housing no we have
generated yourself we have we have how
many homeless do we have in this because
California has excessive environment
regular yes it Texas therefore more
deregulated anymore no do they have
homeless people of course but far less
than the state of California housing
sorry
do they have section 8 housing in Texas
yes but again more homeless of course
so in housing we see the failure of the
private market we see it circus homeless
or almost this is not failure here's the
thing so the idea is that somehow if you
eliminate profit from health visitor
that that help profit should not be
involved in healthcare that's that's
right possibly one second I just want to
give you some more specific specifics as
of 2017 there were six states that
enacted laws to allow cross state sales
Georgia Kentucky Maine Rhode Island
Washington and Wyoming
none of those states as of in 2017 had a
single new insurer enter its market
because of its law when asked about
their laws state officials insurance
expert in those states agreed that
establishing a competitive provider
network is the primary barrier to
new market entrance not law it's just
simply it's too hard to go into a state
across state lines because you actually
need to know the people in the risk pool
that's involved and it's too risky
insurance companies are basically
gamblers and under the ACA there was
what we're derided by conservatives and
again I would prefer scrap the entire
private industry because this is just
more proof that it is not capable of
delivering this product but there were
you'll recall there were slush funds for
insurance companies and that is because
whenever they move into a new market in
this instance it was providing
individual health care to people not
associated with their jobs remember the
only people who bought new insurance via
the ACA were about ten million Americans
who were buying through the exchanges
four to five percent of Americans tops
there was another four or five percent
got it from Medicaid
the only implications for the rest of us
was that the amount of profit you could
get on insurance was capped at 20
percent and what insurance had to
provide was also mandated so these these
so these these slush funds would
essentially inoculate insurance
companies from having to service a new
clientele because they couldn't predict
how sick these people would be and how
much it would cost them to provide
services versus how much they would take
in in premiums and so that these
so-called slush funds were set up
essentially to smooth that out we're
gonna backstop how much you can lose in
this situation
OCC blend market for that right the
market actually this is just it's a
horrible Sam have you been to Texas but
continue here
not not only is that so you would say
food is essential to health to living
white white why not have government
subsidized grocery stores we do ohhow
sugar corn wheat we pay farmers not to
grow it's the opposite of we literally
activity we subsidize not realize all of
these products to tell that's we
subsidize farmers not to Purdue 1972
here's a market no matter where love
being active even health care and so
what so how we subsidize these are I
mean in some instances we we tell them
not to grow it that raises the price
that is a subsidy like we literally hand
the money that is a subsidy I don't know
you know like you get stuck native like
wait you're you're describing a subsidy
and you're saying you're trying to prove
the fact that it's not a subsidy and I
don't know beyond like you know flashing
a dictionary up it's a subsidy we
subsidized food of course you do know
that corn doesn't come from magic seeds
so you you you always see prices go down
quality go up and more people have
access to it I know you know the
principles in the market but it off
working because you don't have a choice
if you need health care LASIK eye
surgery is elective wait so it's awesome
when it sees I'd be blind that gets
LASIK that's somehow elective because
LASIK LASIK eye surgeries dealing with
one your vital organs it takes some of
the hi-hi special specialization degree
I I had seen a debate that he had done a
year ago where he brought up lazy guy or
maybe it was friend and so I was I knew
he was going there so I just jumped on
it before he got there because that's
his big example of a surgery that cost a
lot of money when it was first done and
then when it was widely adopted it did
the price of it went down now
incidentally it's the opposite with
Invisalign braces I've known noticed and
I imagine that in the context of LASIK
surgery because it's not one specific
product that they don't have the same
to gouge people but again LASIK eye
surgery is elective that's why I kept
pointing to my glasses
I have not elected to get LASIK eye
surgery I don't have a choice if you
find a tumor in my colon I'm not gonna
be like eh I'll live with it because
maybe I won't but continue and well
sight sight might be elective to you
you're wearing glasses but I wouldn't
say that's necessarily elective but so
but it requires a specialized
specialized technician surgeon doctor
and so it's not any less important
here's the thing there's two domains
there's health care and there's health
insurance two totally different things
we have very bit we have the best health
care for those who can afford it
correct how do you how do you expand
access to something and get the price
down a market it works in everything Sam
there's a lot of medical error in
America that's one of the leading causes
of death United States as metal Clara
yeah yeah it has failed and we don't
have a market and health care we do not
we limit the amount of doctors that go
into healthcare verson we're having
national doctor quota that the American
Medical Association obviously I know you
never heard of it you should you should
google it because it's what we have in
this country we have a national quota of
doctors at the American Medical
Association the American Medical
Association many allow for second heard
apparently we have a I I've never heard
of this quota frankly and I didn't know
anything about it now there is a I'm
looking at a page here the Jo see doc I
don't know what the Jo see is the doctor
quota this is from 1997 and it is
possible that the AMA won't accredit
enough school so I guess I'm not sure
what's involved with that but I
certainly am in favor of driving down
the price of doctors I mean the the pay
of doctors but I don't let's see I guess
there's some type of rationing of
medical degrees in the United States
in terms of the number of medical
schools now maybe that's conceivably
possible but I also saw an earlier
debate of his where he talked about the
the ratio of doctors to patients and he
said it was one to one thousand and so I
brought that up but it turns out that
the ratio of doctors to patients in
other places is actually like higher so
I mean a lower I should say so but here
this is that explains where I'm going
with this doctor is in there how many
doctors per patients do we have in this
country enlightenment
we have what one to a thousand is it no
I'm asking you enlightenment I think
it's close to one to one so when you
have more doctors doing something
therefore you're not more competition in
that pool which would bring down prices
and by the way it's all rising smaller
ratio for a larger ratio in the other
Western industrialized nations and in
fact they spend far less on health care
and have they paid in taxes owed Sam
here's the thing so you Kondo Mercado
3zu you're familiar with the Mekons
study yes no tell me what it is ricotta
is for Cadis I'm sorry the Makeda study
for like the Mercator stuff which scored
Bernie Sanders 25 trillion dollar 32
trailer T 2 trillion right it's scored
Bernie Sanders single-payer health care
program at 32 trillion dollars over the
course of ten years it's scored what we
would pay as a nation for health care if
we didn't do single-payer as being 35
trillion dollars right so so yeah your
your solution would then be to take that
in taxes and to appropriate it for a
single payer that's correct I don't want
to live in a country that has a 55 to 60
percent tax rate the paper is something
that I'm never going to benefit here's
the problem you have
here's here's the problem don't tell me
what to do with my money will take away
60% of my earnings on Charlie for
something that I'm not gonna benefit if
Charlie doesn't want to live in a
country that appropriates his money to
pay for health care for other people
he's got nowhere else to go except for
maybe a third world country because
every that is that there's an West
rights rise country I'm gonna give you
the last we're doing that for their
citizens and they are saving money and
providing better health care outcome
with 56 level highest tax rate the
highest tax rate in a country that Sam
likes to talk about a lot in Norway is
78 percent that's not a country that I
want to live in and maybe it is maybe
this country has a 90 percent highest
tax rate for 30 years
during the best marginal versus
effective Sam you know there's a
difference do not demagogue it margin
explain to the audience marginal versus
effective you just demagogue something
like you're worried demagogues so much
well firstly all that marginal versus
effective
like I don't why does he think opposing
I don't they're not he I don't think he
understands fully what that difference
is like the marginal rate is like it
runs contrary to the point he's trying
to make I think like I the the the
effective tax rate of people at that
time back when the marginal tax rate was
ninety percent for every dollar made
after I think it was four hundred and
seventy thousand what would be
equivalent to somewhere to two to three
million dollars today the effective tax
rate would be like after you do all your
tax loopholes how much do you really pay
so it would be less but I'm making the
argument in this country that we've paid
more taxes and those tax loopholes
haven't gone away so I don't know any
way I can interpret it as if he's saying
like yeah it was ninety percent but they
weren't actually paying that because
they were right enough till down to like
40 but I don't think that even if you
said that what that would be I mean if
you were saying people didn't pay 60
percent of their taxes which I don't
know like there's a lot of loopholes out
there but Compton's 50 years ago we're
not
yeah mountains 50 years ago we're very
creative and the thing is that the
taxation in Norway is also sub is
marginal as well I don't know I couldn't
figure out if he was saying there and
they also get the thing rebated to them
which is their collective share of a
nationalized oil industry which they get
a direct deposit back from the
government from alright well let's
listen to where he's trying to go with
this marginal tax rate means that for
every dollar okay so was it the
effective that's the difference it's
effective tax rate in Norway is a
different the effective tax rate was
probably about 80 percent it was it was
it was 38 percent then it went up to 44
percent you just say the tax rate that
was that I should tell you we go back
here a little bit you can hear somebody
yell at me shut the up some dude
did and now it turns out that the that
he was that the Charlie was wrong it's
not an effective tax rate it's the
marginal tax rate in in Norway I don't
know what the effective tax rate would
have to be to get 78 percent maybe 90
but it's 78 percent and for some reason
some guy over in the corner so was he a
sovereign said is it could have been the
guys he thought he said about the
Norwegian he says shut the up and
you'll notice I put my microphone down
and I tell him to go F himself fancy to
alpha well look I will take it I
was I was ready like I know you're ever
interrupt me when I'm talking about
taxes exactly son-of-a-bitch here we go
highest tax rate the highest tax rate in
a country that Sam likes to talk about a
lot Norway's seventy eight percent
that's not a country that I want to live
in and maybe it is maybe this country
ever say 90 percent highest tax rate for
30 years
during the BET's marginal versus
effective sam you know there's a
difference do not demagogue it margin
explain to the audience marginal versus
effective you just demagogue something
what's marginal versus marginal tax rate
means then every dollar okay so was it
the effective that's the difference it's
effective tax rate in norway it's a
difference the effective tax rate was
probably about eighty percent it was it
was up it was thirty eight percent then
it went
to 44% you just say the tax ring at
nights the tax rate is under and I'll
point the tax rate under 19 Eisenhower
went all the way up to 90% on the effect
of not every dollar after $400,000 was
taxed at a 90 percent rate that would be
at about two million dollars a year now
and so the marginal tax rate you can
work it out we have such an incredible
wealth inequality than when you're
talking about some of the billionaire
funders that we might know or the tax
rate we're not getting an effective tax
rate is going to be quite high maybe 85%
okay yes I love doing that created
millions of jobs and wealth for all
Americans I think we should applaud them
okay all right he should he personally
should absolutely we're out of time here
but I actually thought that was a very
constructive one second now we should
tell you for whatever reason
let's respond to James II know this wait
but this we have the time code on the
other one all right can we we play that
other one because the it was 19 minutes
long that that we lost 90 minutes yeah
it was that whole section where you
where you had him name three eight three
things that help the middle class all
right we'll do that tomorrow because I
think the best section of the debate
yeah they clipped out the juicy stuff
why did they do that it's weird the best
section of the debate where I think I
got him to do the worst was on when I
asked him to name three regulations that
Donald Trump has cut and how they've
helped the middle class and the first
one he mentioned was the coal like
basically rolling back the coal the
restrictions on coal which have led to
which create a tremendous amount of
obviously the problems from a standpoint
of global warming but also from health
problems but he claimed that it created
two to three hundred thousand new jobs
in West Virginia which would mean that
something like 1/6 of the total
population of West Virginia
new jobs in the past few years
what's the other one about this like was
it Superfund sites where it's like
farmers and he said the Consumer
Protection find it and the CFP the we're
gonna we got to go back and find that
that's very strict like that whole
section yeah all right well we've got to
get in touch with the TYT and ask them
why they have that stepping on your
shine a protecting exactly all right
let's take a couple of phone calls some
people have been hanging on for a long
time and some AIIMS and then we'll get
out of here but we will we will link if
you're watching on youtube to that the
debate we will link to that the update
call from a nine one six area code who's
this where you come from nine one six
nine one six all right out there all
right we have time for one more call up
folks I'm sorry calling from a to 0-6
area code who's this where you come from
this would be Mike Mike what's on your
mind
the caravan I've been hearing
conservatives thing at this point a lot
about who's paying for it who organized
it you're accusing George Soros and you
know just liberals in general of
encouraging these people to come up here
so that they can all jump over the
border immediately folks and I can't
help but wonder because conservatives
projects everything and it makes me
wonder yeah
who is paying for this who organized
this who benefits from this that timing
is just cuter you know
I just I don't see anyone asking the
question they've got you know media well
I'm not sure we are you Wow
you you ask the question because I'm not
exactly sure what you're getting at
well I'm getting at there you know I'm
kind of wondering if it's just it's so
convenient that this happened just in
time for the midterms just in time to
drive the base that Republicans would be
but oh I see I mean well yeah I don't
really think I think of them as
conservative i I just based upon the
reporting I've seen it some of it
happened as a fluke there was a
television station that reported that
people were gathering together for this
caravan and that somebody had reported
that another guy was was funding it this
guy I'm not exactly sure who was and I
don't know I mean I guess that's
possible but to a certain extent I think
what you're seeing is this is the best
time to travel from those countries
because it's not so hot because it's
summer but it's not other seasons where
I think the weather may be make things
more treacherous and there's been
caravans in the past too because there's
safety in numbers but maybe but I you
know what's the point
you know what I mean what are you gonna
do about that I mean I think you got to
argue on its merits that it's not as
people shouldn't be as fearful and what
if we found out that you know some
Republican operative planted this story
and it's snow balled and it worked out
successfully what are you going to do
about it
I mean the bottom line is people have to
go out and vote against Republican
candidates period Republicans make this
accusation and then no no no we didn't
do it we're not we're not doing this on
purpose but all why can't we turn around
a like yeah but but dude what what is
the value of that there's a lot more
value in saying what are people afraid
of what are these
families who are desperate who are
escaping their homes
what what what risk do they present to
us they're running from violent people
that's why they're coming well just make
that argument because I'm telling you
you can yell back on Twitter at
conservatives and say maybe you paid for
it but it's not going to mean anything
all you're doing is continuing to say
that this is a some presents some type
of problem to this country the idea that
there's three or four thousand people
walking through Mexico right now is not
a material threat to anybody I am fully
aware of that yes stick with that
because they're fanatics right so go out
but yes well you're not gonna prevent
that are you all right your arguments
not going to prevent it so all I'm
telling you is expend your energy and
your anger towards something that is
productive because now is the time that
you need to be productive I appreciate
the call your theory may be may have
some merit but I just it's not a useful
one in the context of politics right now
the chances are if you're thinking about
it you're probably not spending enough
time on Twitter all right look I'm sorry
we got to we got to go let me take some
items I apologize that that debate thing
went later than I wanted it to longer
and we didn't even get to the part
demagogue it Sam train boy you all need
to check out the new escape room in
Midwood Brooklyn that is designed to
mimic the experience of a Jewish family
in Tsarist Russia trying to escape the
programs No thank you do you escape room
or not Jesus boy week at the Negro
spiritual and the number one reason I'm
eagerly anticipating the midterms
election DJ Dan turkeys inevitable drops
in the Blue Wave JB do the Middle
Eastern people in the caravan from
Central America have bone saws if so I'm
scared yeah
the washing her examine er broke the
real ms-13 story here's a serious quote
one anonymous woman who moved her plants
inside of her home out of ms-13 liken
the city to a bomb about to explode
here's the link to the story it produced
an overwhelming sense of impending doom
Ryan from California a list of people
Mike Pence considers possible terrorists
transgender people with twitter accounts
his neighbor's swarthy gardener man who
don't call their wives mommy and mommy
who wear bras they don't have itchy
labels men who sit down with women they
don't call mommy Michael Ryan I just saw
this thing with Jesse Lee Peterson and
David Pakman I would not call it a
debate because this guy's an idiot I
never heard of him before but as a black
man hearing him through a black
stereotype after stereotype makes my
blood boil
I sees the type that provides the cover
racist swamp but can't say out loud if
uncle ruckus and Samuel Jackson's
character from do Django had a baby it
would be Jesse Lee Peterson attorney
Andrew I'll say people a bunch of time
on that hunt a killer game it was Sam
the victim was Seth rich and the weapon
was a bra Jameel Smith is reporting that
on leaked audio from a Brian Kemp
campaign event where he expresses
concern over Georgians exercising their
right to vote interesting we'll check
that out
Ola Sam have you heard of Bo Burnham
he's also a comedian a member of our
community just got o watch his movie
eighth grade I will drink Alicia's how
did the pool from Occupy how did the
pool go from occupy to hanging out with
Mike Serna oh how did Tim pool go
from occupy to hanging out Mike Serna
 yeah Sam's tinder profile
hey girl swipe swipe right you see me
wipe the floor with Charlie Kirk on the
banking rules and dodd-frank ain't I an
alpha male
Marty Sam I thought you did a great job
poletik on you shown the you've shown
the best way to defeat someone that Gish
gallops you is to be very informed on
the topic it still tickles me thinking
of Charlie's saying deregulating Cole
was a good thing
bull Prague Trump continued while I'm at
it I care a lot even the most about
preserving our social fabric too I guess
I'm a socialist too oh it's a dirty word
but I'll go ahead and say it I'm a
national
socialist California uber alles can't
wait for DJ anarchy to edit Sam saying I
don't wear bras into the next half 1/2
interlude my Allah cedar mom dad's
talking about bras again Denver Dave
ancient Greece was racist another side
love the show heard the argument for
three or four days at this point
capitalism and racism in America are
intricately linked Jamie is right
Jeremiah I said 22 literally what
everybody said Sammy Curt gross salary
$27,000 a year now let's find out what
his penthouse apartment is worth do
middle-class people live paycheck to
paycheck know Colin from Nebraska can
Michael do a solve voice of Sam raging
about the bras and itchy tags and they
have these itches and it hurts well it
hurts the woman's back so whatever you
say about the larger broader street
Charlie there's itchy backs from from
the labels ah the crystal Epoque oh I'm
confused as Jamie think that if
capitalism goes away that racism will
disappear no no you're calling from okay
really cool thou shalt not covet thy
neighbor's stuff is probably a pre
racist commandment I'm guessing two
things about food stamps many workers
remain eligible and reliant on snap ie
Walmart workers people often lose their
eligibility due to cuts and restrictions
while continued that need that
assistance though that's true alright
the final I am of the day I lost my
sound board campaign gumshoe
campaign contributions records reveal
Charlie Kirk lives at home with his
parents do you think his mother asked
him how his debate with you when see you
tomorrow
[Music]
to get to where I want
but I know some
I'm gonna get
I just got cut
[Music]
feel in defense
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
kick
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option will you tell get paid
[Music]
brakes you fell off sweet ride between
the one
takes you
[Music]
