so Heather in the last segment we were
talking about Nancy Pelosi's
proclamation that impeachment is more or
less off the table
we both disagree with it I think similar
reasonings but I mean you know we're
living in an era where I think George
Bush should have been impeached I think
that it may not have maybe shouldn't
happen in 2006 but maybe or you know you
can be impeached in retrospect and the
idea is less about getting Donald trum
you know George Bush out of office in
2008 obviously he's out of office hours
should say 2009 when Obama actually
takes over he's out of office but the
bottom line is the American public there
is a vacuum that is created when you
have massive malfeasance and the circle
is not closed you create a vacuum when
you do not say this is why this happened
these are the players who were
instrumental in making it happen this is
wrong and we're holding them to account
when you don't do that you create a
vacuum that allows for you know the
narrative to get twisted in a way right
where Donald Trump is not the elite
where he is the one who's going to
punish the elite where Steve minuchin
ends up being the Treasury secretary
instead of you know the guy who's
supposed to be in prison you know maybe
doing other cellmates accounting work I
mean this is this is all very
problematic and and and the way that
that Pelosi left it I think it's even
more so I know if you have any more to
talk about this in terms of this
accountability but it's a real problem
it is a real problem and I agree with
you and I'd even go back to our earlier
conversations about pardons the fact
that Richard Nixon was pardoned I think
led to a you know that was one thing
that led to this idea that there's some
kind of impunity for presidents who you
know commit crimes in office well the
whole moral hazard right yeah I mean it
definitely they use they love to talk
about moral hazard for some poor schmuck
who buys you know a house and you can't
afford his mortgage you know because
they're offering some
you know some great deal but they don't
talk about moral hazard in this way and
it seems obvious I mean remember when
Obama came in you know he said we don't
want to look in the rearview mirror big
big mistake you know you have to do that
you've got and I'm not saying you going
you know some kind of crusade to you
know get to lock her up you know I mean
I'm not for that I mean obviously you
know there are limits and we have
disagreements and some of this is
political and some of it is ideological
and we have different ways of looking at
this but you can't just just sweep
things under the rug over and over again
and expect that you know the people
aren't going to be on to it and go hey
you know no problem I can do this and
the fact that the Republicans I'm not
even blaming Donald Trump in a lot of
ways for what for what's happening now
because he's perfectly in his you know
it right in thinking that he can get
away with all this all the Republicans
are backing him they're telling him no
problem keep going nobody's saying one
to him on his own site it looks all
partisan from his point of view and so
he figures hey this is the way it's done
I mean he's an idiot of course you know
so he doesn't understand or care about
things like you know history or legacy
or anything like that which does you
know motivate some people in public life
but you know he is that this is this is
the new way of doing things and Donald
Trump is just sort of the perfect
example of it and if you don't have if
you have people saying well we can't do
this because it's divisive it's the same
thing as saying we don't want to look in
the rearview mirror or I'm pardoning
Richard Nixon or or you know George HW
Bush pardoning all the iran-contra
people I mean this just goes on and on
and on and it is well you know no biggie
go ahead you know what's going to happen
to you I mean there's a few you know
sort of fringe players who end up doing
some time like manna for it maybe Roger
stone or something like that but you
know Trump figures hey whatever you know
I've been a few casualties for the team
not a big deal so I mean this is
terrible and and you know it's not just
in politics it's obviously happening in
business and you know these people get
rewarded for you know we're destroying
their companies by getting these well
look at somebody like les Moonves or or
even megyn kelly you know who you know
fails at her Pressburg TV show and get
leaves with 60 some million dollars I
mean there's just something true
well you know that people at this elite
level can just do whatever they want
fail succeed commit crimes do whatever
and they just keep making more and more
money and getting more and more
accolades it's just unbelievable and you
know what strikes me sort of like
thematically that is similar here is
part of the the culture and and this may
be a little far afield but is this
college admissions cheating scandal
where you have I mean what I find
fascinating about this is that there is
there's still it seems to me implicit
particularly in the coverage of this is
that we are protecting the broader
structure of what is it seems to me
equally problematic if not more so in
that it affects it is systemic right so
what I'm saying is that in the context
of this cheating scandal
it's like going after Bernie Madoff and
saying he's the reason why we had the
financial crisis right he is he's a bad
actor he stole from people the guy
obviously should go to jail etc etc but
there was a more systemic problem that
existed and we're paying attention to
the sort of shiny object I definitely
think obviously these people should be
you know prosecuted to the full extent
of the law etc etc but at the end of the
day there was a US attorney who was
announcing this these you know the the
results of this criminal investigation I
think thirty nine parents were you know
indicted
they said this is you know fraud this
was not somebody donating a building to
get their kid into a university and they
hate you know guess what that's super
super corrupt as well except for we're
using that as the standard of saying
that's not you know this is this is
really wrong you know and it's not like
doing business as normal which is
somebody just going in and paying the
money directly to the college I guess
and a little bit more money I mean
that's you know and it's this like this
ignorant
that seems to be on display about the
two-tiered sort of justice and fairness
system we have in this country and we
just got about 25 seconds left and we
can talk more about it
in the next segment but that is what
Nancy Pelosi is projecting when she says
impeachments off the table it says the
apparatus to hold to us to account the
apparatus that makes our society fare is
irrelevant if it is in some way you know
an expense to uphold that I think is
highly problematic we got to take a
quick break a digby if you'll join me on
the other side we got two more segments
of news and we could probably fill them
about ten times over we'll be right back
after this Sam cedar ring of fire radio
