the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any Alisa
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar it's Tuesday April 9th 2019 my
name is Michael Brooks on the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program
Sam welcomes their hatred I was playing
it's a pre-recorded a debate slash
actually what I haven't listened to it
but it sounded like very civil
discussion it's a free exchange of ideas
but actually you look like an actual one
in the in spirit of the Enlightenment in
the spirit of the Enlightenment project
between Glenn Greenwald and Sam cedar
hopefully the last time will it'll cover
the Russia story on this show though
probably not this is a good conversation
picking some things apart this was
recorded last Friday so it's still hot
off of the presses and then the team
will take over in the fun half and we
will talk about a judge blocking Donald
Trump's policies of sending asylum
seekers back to Mexico even as there is
an administration purged of ice calling
for even more vicious vindictive and
vicious policies and family separations
in brexit news Teresa may still looking
to pivot her way out of this crisis and
avert an election Kate McKinnon still
portraying people like Teresa may
somewhat favorably yeah really
she's trying to best okay oh my god get
the out of here oh I'm sorry sorry
Ron chill for swearing but that is
better sorry
I mean Teresa may is is if you look at
Windrush she can go head-to-head with
Donald Trump on anything but anyways
yeah go do silly Senate Live sketches
better why do you guys get me angry even
in the show setup usb-drive found that a
jailed Morrow at a jail mar-a-lago party
crasher contained self executing code
Shiv that baby straight to gunshots and
tear gas fired at Sudanese protesters
but the military is playing an ambiguous
role echoing the Egyptian uprising of
eight years ago the State Department
identifies and bans 16 people in the
roles of the murder of Jamal khashoggi
but MBS is not one of them democratic
reps are pressing for civilian official
counts of civilian casualties in Yemen
as the Trump administration promised a
veto on the Sanders co√±o legislation to
end u.s. support for the mass murder
there this pace weekend marked the first
year anniversary of the political
imprisonment of lula da silva and tens
of thousands marched not only in Brazil
but across the globe and he published an
op-ed in Brazil's largest newspaper or
will have some footage from that and
read from his op edy
all that and a little bit more on
today's majority report how's everybody
doing yeah you know pretty okay
whoa that's start of the week strikingly
non peppy for you Jamie all right what's
going on well our insurance ran out so I
haven't been able to pick up my vyvanse
so I'm a little bit sleepy oh that does
sound the pharmacological explanation
from Jamie pharmacological explanation
from Jamie Matt I'm just I mean it's
Tuesday once it's used once Tuesdays
over smooth sailin really Wednesday's
the tough day for me Brendon how are you
I was gonna ask Matt if he's going up on
a Tuesday throw it back to 2015 you
remember that song no no someone in the
chatter online well this is normy
Brendon coming through no army Brendon
coming through culture No
Brenden Normie Normie Bren I saw in some
norm votes Brendan was always the clear
leader I was usually following Brendan
although there was some competition
between you and I Matt and then Sam and
Jamie were rounding out the edges this
is like having I'm sorry this is like
having the loudest Whisperer contest
guys we are this is our best year in
Florida the best snowboarder in Hawaii
all right let's uh deal with this um
Meghan McCain is getting spicier by the
day she's straight disrespecting joy
let's think about this for a second
on the view you have Whoopi Goldberg who
is an iconic actress and comedian who's
been working since the 1980s then what
what is her name sunny sunny Hostin who
I believe is an attorney in addition to
being a talk-show host then we have Joy
Behar who's and I've been doing talk
shows for I mean at least well over a
decade and I think she was also a
stand-up comic I don't know all of Joy's
biography but the point is some very
accomplished people who have gotten
there through their merit then there's
two daughters of prominent Republican
politicians the least Abbie Huntsman
sort of has the sense somebody pointed
this out on Twitter like Abbey Huntsman
at least is kind of like hey you know
what let me at least like pretend to be
pleasant Megan McCain is maybe the most
bratty person then I have like
encountered in any form real or virtual
who is like above five years old it's
kind of mind-blowing and Joey was I yeah
what is joys I love Joey I want to know
more about joy was born to a church
drive her father and a seamstress mother
she got her start in show business as a
receptionist at Good Morning America and
has been building her career for decades
since then so if Megan McCain that's
Orange Jeanette kirova Chuck driver and
a seamstress she would be like I don't
know like being like unhelpful at
t-mobile or something which by the way
there's no problem with at all but it
just megan mccain does not
conceive of herself that way so sure her
vision of herself and reality are
shockingly out of step and this was just
I was shocked that joy didn't smack her
and I think it's incredible if you think
of all the other like class and racial
dynamics of the situation that whippy
has to step in to calm everybody down
awkward order states many friends of
mine this is the number one and only
issue and if we sit here and act like
there isn't a crisis basically Meghan
McCain is defending people who are
totally freaked out and have paranoid
delusional views about what's going on
the border even though I believe now for
like the third year running there's net
negative migration go ahead order states
many friends of mine this is the number
one and only issue and if we sit here
and act like there isn't a crisis that
it's just it's crazy people living in
border states and think that there's a
crisis like I said this guy who's coming
in wants to help those countries that's
the way to solve the problem keep them
they're happy or whatever solvent give
them a house give them food helps them
help their children even if I'm rates
well we've had you know hold on ends in
aid let me just finish
yeah but part of your job is to listen
to me we're not gonna do this everybody
gets a conversation piece everybody gets
the same we don't like what we're here
and just let folk stop
who is I had no idea that Michael Ian
Black was so worried about immigration
[Laughter]
yeah I mean border states aren't all
like like there's Democrats in the
touristy doing better in say Texas or
New Mexico like in certain parts of
Arizona I don't think Meghan McCain
quite has the pulse of border states as
well as our people in border states who
cross the border every day to go to
school or my father didn't do that he
didn't cross people is he actually from
even Arizona no I don't remember from
but I how would you feel if I busted
that one out next time you interrupt
Michael it's your job to listen to me
actually would be pretty funny if I can
isolate that isn't drunk I think that
could I think that drop could be used to
make fun of every single person in this
staff except for Brendan it could
certainly work for any of the rest of us
even you at times Matt which is shocking
but listen to me that's mostly part of
your job is to listen to me that's
mostly Sam that's Sam a job is to listen
to me
and it's actually true what what's so
interesting like the only like thing
about this besides her just being a
terrible person is that all of her
defense like joy is actually just
articulating the super moderate obvious
position which is like you will have
less migration period if you have better
conditions in other places which is just
like a truism
but like you know sound like all of her
Meghan McCain's like upset is always
about like the emotional expression of a
small group of elite people that she
knows like well I know people in border
states who feel this way or scared
they're really scarred and this is
really scarred I mean sometimes it's
literally just her own emotions when
like she's freaking out about you know
one of part of her trust fund getting
taxed or something but like when
somebody pointed out there was a they
were talking about the racism in the
Republican Party and her and she's like
oh you really think we're all racist
like it's it's all like she is the elite
version of that aggrievement politics
that Sam's always talking about like in
a nutshell and and perfectly positioned
to because instead of waking up and
being like wow like I have totally
middling talent and capacity and I sit
on the view every day and make millions
of dollars and I sit next to people who
had to work their asses off and I just
got grandfathered into Columbia and or
it's gonna be fathered into Columbia and
fathered into show business and like
maybe I should just I think that is a
difference maybe it's just because Abby
Huntsman is a Mormon and there
kind of friendly but there does seem to
be like and and I'm seeing Abbie
Huntsman call for like cutting social
security like she's terrible but there
does seem to be like this tiny glimmer
of recognition that like you know I've
had a pretty nice deal so let me be like
slightly less unpleasant yeah she
probably thanks God every morning
whereas Megan McCain I don't know ask
Santa Claus for more things some bangin
McCain's just like I'm so why didn't
Michael Ian Black text me back what the
hell
backs don't care about your feelings oh
my god
majority report is supported in part by
simple habit simple habit is the mobile
yeah app that provides massive diverse
library of five-minute guided
meditations and the majority report
audience can try simple habit totally
free for an entire week when you go to
simple habit comm slash majority there's
a growing body of scientific evidence on
the benefits of meditation richard
davidson at the university of wisconsin
is using MRI imaging to show how
meditation can do everything from
decreased stress to potentially even
increase empathy and compassion there is
a lot of research on this simple habit
has over 2,000 guided meditations
specifically designed for different
parts of your day and just about
anything you might be dealing with in
life they have guided meditations I
wonder if they have any for joy they
have guided meditations for mindfulness
meditation for anxiety for depression
from when you're having trouble falling
asleep meditations from when you're
wanting to overcome procrastination or
when you have something important going
on at work meditation designed for
parents they have meditations made
specifically for when you're waking up
or on your lunch break or when you've
gotten home from work when you go into
bed I've primarily used the sleep
meditation to help me knock out at night
and that's been incredibly effective and
cut down on my wing and looking at the
ceiling time which anybody goes through
that super unpleasant different people
are trying to accomplish different
things with meditation and simple habit
is able to cater to just about anyone
regardless of what their goals are with
meditation or how much past experience
they have with meditation the variety
of meditations on simple habit is what
sets it apart simple habit just won the
2008 Google Play award for best
well-being app it's available on iOS
Android and web browser and the majority
purport audience can try it for free for
a week by going to simple have a.com
slash majority if you're watching on
YouTube we've put a link to it in the
video description this is about 55
minutes folks
glenn greenwald and sam seder
sam cedar on russia
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to this program grant Glenn
Greenwald he is of course a Pulitzer
Prize winning journalist founder
co-founder of the intercept Glen welcome
to the program hey it's great to be back
on your program Sam thanks for having me
so all right so obviously the big story
in the news last I guess a week or two
weeks ago was the the bringing of the
malla report I guess to the DOJ the
submission of the Muller report to the
DOJ essentially the end of the Muller
investigation at least under Muller
himself some of the prosecutors my
understanding is have have gone off to
other jurisdiction and and could very
well be working on some related
investigations but the the Muller
investigation as it was constructed is
over at this point and we have seen as
of today Friday when we are recording
this only the four page summary from
from bar on the the Muller report so all
right and I got not a lot of criticism
but some pointed criticism for having
any coverage whatsoever of the
investigation as it was going on we
you know I think we we do a daily show
we had maybe three or four interviews
that even were tangentially related to
the Muller investigation or maybe more
that we're tangentially but in terms of
like the the main thrust of the Muller
investigation maybe three or four over
the course of two years and to me that
seemed like it was a legitimate amount
of coverage to provide for this I think
you obviously have a critique of of the
excesses I think we share in that that
critique but so let me give you an
opportunity to explain like why is this
such a big deal I mean the the amount of
coverage because I think we agree that
there was there were there were
certainly elements of the media that got
obsessive about this there were
certainly some politicians who were
ringing alarm bells I don't know that we
know all that they know or not there's
no way to know but certainly politicians
will will leverage what they can but why
is it why is it so important as it seems
to be in terms of the what you've
expressed well so just let me just
address first of all the issue of the
coverage of your show and the media
brought more broadly I don't actually
have a problem with the media covering
the Moller investigation or any credible
allegations of criminality or corruption
on the part of the president I think
that's what the media ought to be doing
in fact um my criticism has typically
been of media outlets that aired only
one side of the story and refused to
bring on not just people who believe the
more that investigation would lead to
the uncovering of serious criminality or
who believe the Trump Rush a conspiracy
but then kept people who questioned or
were skeptical of that theory off their
airwaves so that there was really almost
never any debate which i think is just
generally unhealthy and I don't think
that was true of your show as I
understand that you talked to Matt
Taibbi a few other people who have
raised questions over the years about
this so
my my problem to the extent that I have
a problem with the media coverage isn't
that they cover this story I think they
had to cover the story the problem was
the way in which they covered it which
was often unhinged and irrational
excluding of dissent which like I said I
think just generally produces an
unhealthy media environment as far as
why the story itself was always so
important in my view is because if you
look at what the core allegations were
going back to the 2016 campaign and then
especially once the steel dossier shaped
the public understanding of what the
allegations were they were inherently
grave and and and and serious not just
in terms of our domestic policies but
also geopolitically because of the
possibility that they had to seriously
influence for the worse relations
between two nuclear-armed powers that
was always my - those are my two
principal concerns is what is doing it
to our domestic politics and then what
is it doing to us Russian relations so
if we looked at the if you look at the
two dominant allegations the first of
which was that the Russians interfered
in the 2016 election with the help or
participation or collaboration of the
Trump campaign and then secondly the
more serious allegation which is that
once Trump won he was in some way
beholdin to the Kremlin and Vladimir
Putin such that Trump was essentially
like a blackmail victim that a foreign
country could force him to make
decisions that were beneficial to that
foreign country and adverse to our own
those are really serious allegations
right like if either of those were true
those deserve major major political
coverage I just from the beginning
believe that neither of them had any
basis and evidence and I think the key
event was not the issuance of the
four-page bar letter that people have
since fixated on for me the key moment
was the day before when Muller closed
his investigation without indicted a
single American
for conspiracy between Trump and Russia
over the election without indicted Trump
jr. and Jared Kushner even though they
testified for hours and hours and hours
and hours about the Trump Tower meeting
about everything else on the issue of
whether there are other prosecutions
there obviously are other cases but the
whole reason there was a special counsel
appointed in the first place was because
a decision was made by rod Rosenstein
after Jeff Sessions recused himself that
the Justice Department because it
reports to trump can't investigate or
prosecute Trump officials or Trump
family members or people related to the
Trump campaign for Trump Russia
conspiracy with regards to the election
so there's you know a southern district
investigation into the stormy Daniels
payments into various forms of trumps
financial dealings but in terms of the
core allegations have dominated the
media for the last three years which is
the question of collusion in the
question of blackmail those
investigations are done no the judge
Department can't investigate those one
smaller closes investigation without any
indictments on those core questions
those investigations terminated but
that's why I think it deserved media
coverage right and in in was it your
understanding before the investigation
happened that there was and look I have
said nauseam on this program that it
would be very difficult to to to
quantify to what extent the the Russian
leak and or I should say hack and then
leak of the of the emails influenced the
election and that there are I think
maybe a dozen other reasons why Hillary
Clinton lost to Donald Trump but was it
your understanding before the
investigation started that it was
established that Russia had had
interfered in the election I mean
regardless of I know I don't think it
was established I think that there were
enough allegations being raised that an
investigation was warranted
my concern from so from from
mid-2016 when these first out when these
allegations first arose that there was
something going on between Trump and
Russia which were first raised publicly
by the Clinton campaign when it produced
a video saying what is Russia have on
Trump what's going on between Trump and
Russia until mid 2017 when Moeller
indicted GRU officials or it might have
been later in 2017 was that we were
getting a lot of assertions from the US
government from the Department of from
the from the Director of National
Intelligence from the CIA that the
Russian government was behind the
hacking that Putin himself ordered the
hacks and my position always was that
it's certainly very plausible that
Russia could have done it right because
Russia and the US this is exactly the
sort of thing they do to other countries
and to one another for decades so I
could be insane to come out and say oh
my god this is Russia didn't do this and
this is above Vladimir Putin this of
course is not above Vladimir Putin or
any great power to spy on and interfere
and so my issue simply was I want to see
evidence for it before I believe it
right I think that's just our
journalistic obligation but I certainly
never denied it or even suggested it was
implausible and in fact one of the
frustrations I had going back to January
and February of 2017 was that the only
things we were learning about all of
this were very selective leaks coming
from agencies that have a long history
of misleading the public who were
protected by anonymity and therefore
shielded from accountability and I what
was so frustrating was we were getting
these piecemeal leaks and all these
claims but no evidence to back it up and
that's why my position had always been
even before a burglars appointed was we
need some kind of comprehensive
independent investigation that will dig
into all of this once and for all and
then at the end of the investigation
inform the American public about what
really didn't didn't happen and so I've
always been an advocate of that
investigation and still AM to this day I
want to see the Moller report released
as fully as possible so well I mean and
and we should say that the I think the
only leak that ended up getting punished
from the had any accountability was was
was reality winner right I mean in terms
of
of what we knew about Russian
interference into the election yeah you
know this is something that's actually
kind of amazing because obviously I've
worked with sources and whistleblowers
who have been accused violating the law
including the Espionage Act particularly
Chelsea Manning and Edward Snowden and
under the law the most serious kind of
leak where it specifically says that not
only the government official who does
the leak but also the newspapers that
publish it can actually be found guilty
under the Espionage Act
what there's only a very small number of
categories where you can actually be
punished as a journalist for publishing
leaks of information one of those
categories is if you leak intercepted
communications between a foreign
government and someone with whom they're
communicating like the NSA eavesdrops on
a call if you as a newspaper publish
those intercepts under the law you as a
journalist can be punished for that and
yet somebody leaked somebody leaked the
communications that Michael Flynn had
with the Russian ambassador to the
Washington Post which is a leak I was in
favor of because it proved Michael Flynn
was lying but that was that's like the
most serious leak that you could
possibly do and yet there's been no one
punished for that leak where his reality
winner the leak that she did was
something really benign I mean she
leaked the document that although it was
marked top secret was clearly something
that belongs in the public domain and
really didn't jeopardize anyone or
anything because she gave it to a news
organization the intercept and we
redacted information in conjunction with
the NSA that they told us with
jeopardize people safety or sources and
methods or whatever so she was
incredibly responsible in contrast to
say David Petraeus who leaked much more
sensitive information not to inform the
public like reality what her did but to
get a more positive book from his
mistress and didn't go to jail at all so
there's clearly an imbalance there but
you're right she's the only leaker to
have been punished okay and so
so I mean if there was so much extant
that we did not know during this time
how I mean what is when we hear stuff
like people saying I don't know if
you've said it specifically but that
this was a hoax that this was a scam is
it easy it's basically what you're
talking about a media critique because I
want to get on to the domestic and
foreign implications but I mean I just
I'm trying to get like at like what was
so problematic because it seems like the
I mean is that a fair assessment is that
when you when we hear things like hoax
or scam it's really just a function of
like a small relatively small group of
people in the media not not I mean
certainly obviously not Fox was was was
not scamming on this particular time
well but Fox Fox scammed I mean Fox
promoted a disgusting conspiracy theory
about Southridge but no no so obviously
I do have a critique of the media CNN
and MSNBC in particular but it extends
beyond that so I think the Democratic
Party politicians like Adam shaft and
Eric SWA well and Chuck Schumer as well
as particularly ex members of the
intelligence community John Brennan and
James clapper and Michael Hayden who
despise Donald Trump very much were at
the forefront of creating this
conspiracy theory which I don't mean in
derogatory sense and just describing
neutrally what this is it's an
allegation of a conspiracy that took
place that never had any evidence that
that conspiracy theory but if we're
gonna define it that way that that was
that was rod Rosen Stein right I mean he
tasked Muller with with that test this
conspiracy theory that there was
absolutely right he did the right thing
he he said investigate this right which
is much different than going on TV and
asserting that it's true so I'm saying
is that these people did not develop the
theory I mean look they may have I guess
but I mean as far as I can tell the the
the the edification of the theory of
conspiracy was
literally a message from Rosenstein to
the Muller investigation this is the
same that happened in in in in the
spring of 2017 and there was at least
eight or nine months preceding that in
which the allegations were constantly
being voiced about this conspiracy the
reason that there was a there was an
investigation was because people were
alleging that this happened well that's
why I became a criminal investigation
the reason why the investigation
launched in the first part was because
there was there was evidence from a
foreign envoy who had had talked to
Papadopoulos I guess and that began a an
intelligence investigation and coupled
with the fact that Trump had brought on
a an advisor who was already under I
guess suspicion of being some type of
Russian asset Carter paid her page that
that this there that's the you had a an
Intel investigation at that point right
so well I mean it's but it's unclear to
this very day what actually started the
investigation some there's been news
reports that it was the Carter page
suspicions that initiated the
investigation there are reports that in
fact it was George papadopolis and then
there are separate reports that at least
within some sectors of the FBI what
really convinced them was the reporting
of the Steele dossier but let me just on
the question of whether this is a hoax
or a scam or anything like that explain
to you what I mean by that I do not mean
by that that the existence of an
investigation itself was a hoax or a
scam because as I said I favored an
investigation from the beginning because
they really wanted to get to the point
that we're now at where every an
investigator who pretty much everybody
believes or agrees is at least credible
not perfect but credible Robert Muller
had unlimited resources subpoena power a
massive team of FBI and
gaiters and prosecutors that everyone
said was the top-notch top-level
top-flight investigators and they spent
22 months digging into every nook and
cranny of what happened and so
presumably the mobile report is going to
tell us more or less definitively what
happened which I'm really glad about
that we no longer have to rely on little
bits and pieces of anonymous leaks what
I would the reason why I say things were
our scam is let me just give you an
anecdote that Michael Isikoff talked
about on MSNBC the last time he was on I
don't think he's been on since Michael
Isikoff to his great credit because he
was one of the earliest reporters who
along with david korn injected the steel
dossier into the public discourse when
i'm an MSNBC and said not only is it the
case that the core allegations of the
steel dossier he doesn't mean like the
PP tape or the prog meeting he means
like the overall narrative of the steel
dossier that there was this elaborate
extended multi-level conspiracy between
the Trump campaign and the Russian
government not only has that been proven
to be false because of the lack of
evidence for it but we all had ways to
know that it was false and had we simply
been using our rational capacities as
opposed to our dug in kind of invested
mentality we would have on many
occasions realized it was false in the
example he gave which to me is one of
the most convincing although they're a
lot of these is when Robert Muller
indicted Roger stone for lying to
investigators if you read that
indictment it's really amazing because
what it says is that what Roger stone
lied about to investigators was the
nature of the communications he was
having with the Trump campaign and the
communications he was having with
WikiLeaks and rot Robert Muller got the
text and the emails between the Trump
campaign on the one hand Roger stone on
the other and all the way into September
or October of 2016 so like not just
weeks but days before WikiLeaks released
the Podesta emails
the Trump campaign was saying to Roger
stone hey it seems like Julian Assange
is saying he has some serious dirt on
Hillary Clinton can you do anything to
find out whether that's true and what he
has
and as my solace cough said the minute
Robert Muller says that that is the
proof that like the Trump campaign was
not a participant in this effort because
they had no idea what WikiLeaks had if
they were in bed with the Russians the
whole time they wouldn't have needed
Roger stone to try and desperately get
to London and find out from Julian
Assange whether or not he had any dirt
and the fact that none of us or some a
very few of us stopped and said wait a
minute this indictment shows that this
narrative that we've been fed for the
last two years is false it negates and
refutes the narrative I think that's
what I mean by hoax and scam that there
was no real effort to find the truth
there was this interest in hoping that
the Moller investigation would lead to
Trump jr. and Kushner and trumping
frog-marched out of the White House and
handcuffs and that episode kind of
encapsulates for me how I think we
failed in our discourse now we should be
clear that that stone was not part of
the campaign so he sort of falls outside
of the scope of what at least Barr has
said you know was being looked at in the
context of this Cano conspiracy and
stone maximizing with WikiLeaks when the
the best time to release these things
would also not be a would not be
criminal unless there was some greater I
guess the the way that WikiLeaks got the
the emails I mean we don't know but I
guess to the extent that there would be
any type of chain it's broken between
stone and the campaign is he's not a
member of the campaign and theoretically
WikiLeaks and and Russia so I just want
to make that that clear to people so now
you but just quick with just cookie on
that Sam Tigers insert when appointing
faculty is if like WikiLeaks has always
said both publicly and then even
privately in private chats that got
released Roger stone is an ass
and a liar Roger stone keeps claiming
because this is what Roger stone has
done in his whole career right is he
like makes himself more important than
he really is so he's going around
claiming that he had special knowledge
of what WikiLeaks had the molar
indictment shows pretty much that Roger
stone was almost entirely in the dark
that he was trying to find out what
WikiLeaks had but knew nothing and in
fact when he tried to speculate he got
it wrong he kept saying he thought that
this was gonna implicate Tony Podesta
and that it was about the Clinton
Foundation and that's obviously not what
it was about so even Roger stone was in
the dark he was trying to find out like
well that we don't know everything that
is that has happened in terms of with
stone right I mean it's still
conceivable that there's stuff to happen
so I don't know if that chapter is
really is is is written yet but but but
up to this point yes that that's correct
now when you know I noticed like when
you talk about the the Muller
investigation you're not saying there's
no evidence that he found no evidence
anymore all you because all we know from
the bar assessment is that to the extent
that he found any evidence and maybe he
didn't find any but he could have also
found some right but just not enough for
an indictment you agree with that so so
we're not gonna know until them all our
reporters release what exactly Rob Lowe
said right but so but I do think it's
important to note the following in
general
prosecutors have a very narrow mandate
right they're supposed to answer one
very technical narrow cramped question
which is not is somebody guilty of
wrongdoing or not but is there enough
evidence to justify an indictment with
some degree of certainty that you can
prove beyond a reasonable doubt in a
courtroom that they're guilty of that
crime and oftentimes prosecutors
declined to indict somebody even though
they believe they're guilty because it
doesn't rise to that really high level
that we've said as a society for
criminally convicting somebody right
beyond reasonable doubt and in general
that's all prosecutors are supposed to
do they're supposed to just say I'm
indicted or I'm not and when they don't
indict there's not supposed to accuse
anybody of wrong
doing because it's really unfair right
like imagine if a prosecutor says I
investigated Sam cedar for pedophilia I
decided not to indict him which means
you have no chance to defend yourself
but there was a lot of evidence that sam
cedar is actually a pedophile it just
didn't rise to the it's that would be
the most unfair thing to you possible
because then you're accused but you have
no chance to defend yourself that's why
people were so upset with what Jim Comey
did to Hillary Clinton right he held a
press conference and he said I'm not
going to indict her but she did all
kinds of terrible things and there's
like the probe made what Comey did was
that you're not supposed to do that
within a certain distance of an election
I mean that is one of the sort of the
key principles of public corruption
cases but but yes there were other
issues with that but yes yeah I mean he
I mean he was unfair to Hillary Clinton
because he accused Hillary Clinton of
wrongdoing even though we didn't indict
her which something prosecutors never do
and commis defense is like look I in
this case it was such an exceptional
case that had I simply said I'm not
inviting Hillary Clinton with no
explanation 50% of the country would
have concluded that there was the
Justice Department was corrupted for
partisan reasons so that's usually what
prosecutors do Moeller
as I understand it as the rod rod
Rosenstein letter says and as the
special counsel statute describes it has
a much broader mandate than that he's
not simply acting as a prosecutor
deciding whether or not the evidence
rises to the level where indictments are
warranted we already know he indicted
nobody for conspiring with the Russians
over the election we already know that
he didn't indict Trump jr. yeah with the
Russian government right we already know
that he didn't indict well he didn't
indict any Americans for conspiring with
Russians over the election well but that
wasn't his mandate right I mean the the
what we know from the bar letter is that
very specific like you say there was a
very very narrow mandate as at least as
that no members of the Trump campaign
right conspired a coordinated with the
Russian government in its election
interference activities so theoretically
they could have
inspired a coordinated with the Russian
government in other activities and
non-members of the Trump campaign could
have done that and Russian Russian I
don't know
friends of Russia and government
theoretically could do that in terms of
like what that line says we don't know
anymore without seeing the model report
is my ok but ok that's that's that's
fair enough although I think in order to
know them the mandate are the Moller
investigation the key documents look at
is not the bar letter but the rod
Rosenstein letter appointing robert
muller and describing what his
investigation was supposed to examine
and there it was pretty broad it was not
just did the Trump campaign conspire it
was also links between the Trump
campaign on the one hand in the Russian
government on the other individuals
associated with the Trump campaign and
the Russian government and whether there
was any coordination between the
campaign and Russia's efforts I mean and
we don't know yet though right I mean
that's the thing we don't know how we
just know what Barr has presented to us
but but we do know smoke weed assemble
wood you know some things so like I said
we know that Rogers that the Trump
campaign as late as September October of
2016 didn't know what what kilig sad
which is why they were trying to get
Roger stone to find out we know that
Muller closed his investigation without
indicted any Trump campaign officials or
members of the Trump family for doing
any of what you just read having links
to the Russian government or conspiring
or collaborating with them over the
election right there are no indictments
and the point that I was making just now
is that Moeller's mandate is not this
narrowed standard prosecutorial mandate
of tell us whether there's enough
evidence to justify an indictment the
Moller mandate as a Special Counsel is
write a report telling us what actually
happened so this segment of the bar
report that he quoted which you know I
don't think anybody thinks that barges
fabricated a quote even these anonymous
objectors who are saying that bars
letter left incriminating stuff out have
made clear that they're talking about
the obstruction such
the bar letter and not the collusion or
conspiracy section but we need to know
what that sentence is but when when when
Muller says the evidence doesn't
establish that there was collaboration
or conspiracy between the Trump campaign
and Russia I don't think he's simply
saying I don't I didn't find enough
evidence to rise to that really high
level of reason proof beyond a
reasonable doubt I think he's saying I'm
speaking as somebody here to tell you
what my investigation found happened we
already know he didn't indict he's he's
saying I'm this reporters as I'll tell
you what happened and the evidence
doesn't establish that this happened now
we should wait for the molar report to
say for sure but that to me is my
understanding of what Robert Millar was
doing in that report okay so you're
saying that there's the standard of
where I'm gonna bring an indictment then
there's the standard of what I believe
and then below that maybe some evidence
but this is the level of establish
here's indictment here's establish
here's anything down to completely you
know exonerated I guess precise I mean
nobody would say no evidence right like
the Trump Tower meeting is evidence
right so the question is is it like
compelling evidence is it convincing so
yeah yeah I agree with you I agree I
feel like there were people who are
getting out in front of their skis on
this stuff and you may be right about
what establish means in that instance
we're not going to know until we see the
the report and i hope we we do end up
seeing that all right so let me ask you
this about the stakes this is the thing
that I also don't understand and I agree
with again I agree with the critique I
feel that people went overboard with
this
I'm not surprised certain politicians
leveraged it and you know to the extent
that we didn't necessarily spend a lot
of time critiquing it but basically what
we just did is did other stuff that we
thought was more important I mean
implicit in my editorial decisions every
day is a function of what we think
people should be paying attention to but
what what are the stakes
from your perspective because you know
one of the things
you cited Matt Taibbi Speas about it
being like weapons of mass destruction
and I get the I think it's a bad analogy
and I get the idea that this was a that
people perceive it as a big hoax or that
they were carrying water it was a
conspiracy theory but it seems to me the
import of a hoax and whatnot is the
stakes that's involved here and because
I don't see really I mean there's
marginal implications to this to this
investigation to Adam Schiff you know
hyping it into maybe Rachel Maddow
dedicating too much of her show to it
but I don't really see the what what the
what the massive stakes are that it that
seemed to be there okay
so I'll give you my view of that The
Bulletin of Atomic Scientists has this
Doomsday Clock that is measuring how
close humanity is to apocalyptic
catastrophe basically the destruction of
the planet and has had this clock since
the end of World War two and that clock
is currently at two minutes before it
midnight midnight being the destruction
of the earth and humanity as a species
which is the most acute rating it's
given to humanity since 1953 when the US
and the Soviet Union came very very
close to nuclear annihilation and in its
report explaining why it's at two
minutes before midnight it lists two
principal reasons one of which is
apocalyptic climate scenarios the other
of which is the threat of nuclear war
between the United States and Russia so
the US and Russia even though the Soviet
Union fell and the Cold War sort of is
over although I think it's been
revitalized over the last three years
continue to have thousands of
intercontinental ballistic missiles with
nuclear tips pointed at one another
cities and so when you create this kind
of narrative that Russia is our enemy
something that President Obama to his
great credit and I credited him
contemporaneously was desperate to avoid
he was desperate to avoid provoking the
Kremlin
putting the u.s. in a position where it
was geopolitically adverse to the
kremlin when you create this narrative
that the russians are our enemy that
speaking to russia is evidence of some
sort of sinister motives I think it's an
extremely dangerous and reckless thing
to do and and and and then the other
part of it is I think that there has
been this revitalization on the part of
a huge number of people who are paying
attention to politics for the first time
because of fear of Trump of putting
faith in these institutions that the
left had finally successfully convinced
people at the in the wake of the Iraq
war to start distrusting like the CIA
like the FBI like the NSA like the
military
I think there's been this very kind of
jingoistic Pro military Pro security
state ethos neo-cons being integrated
into MSNBC into the liberal kind of
fabric that I also think is
independently damaging from a domestic
political perspective okay first off in
terms of like the atomic clock thing
from 2018 the first three paragraphs of
of the it's now two minutes to midnight
assessment talk about North Korea that's
from 2018 in 2017 it mentions the United
States and Russia but then climate
change comes in and they also include in
that first paragraph Pakistan and India
and in 2016 I mean I think it's I mean
there is in 2016 it is the same and 2015
it's the same in terms are like there's
no change 2016 was more climate change
of course but there the the amount of
change that we're talking about in that
that 30 seconds is a function of of
North Korea and so which of course has
nothing to do with this and I agree with
your I mean so that I that to me seems I
think a dubious impact from this I'm
looking at polling from where the
American public looks at Russia and
there's no doubt that there's been you
know it's more in the popular culture
maybe Saturday Night Live is talking
about
but the polling shows no difference
between 2015 and 2017 2018 19 between
your overall opinion of Russia 70% were
unfavorable in in 20 in February of 2015
and 73% in February of 2019 and that's
within the margin of error that change
same with like in terms of whether
they're a danger like the atomic clock
thing I think is really I think it's a
non-starter I mean maybe there could be
some element let me address the other
one right the other one about the the
institution's MSNBC was tacking to the
right before Donald Trump won in
anticipation of Hillary Clinton winning
this is this is public knowledge they've
they've almost every contributor that
they've hired over the past couple of
years has either been at this point a
prosecutor former prosecutor and I agree
and or a Republican and I I think it's a
shame believe me I think it's a shame
but like I you know MSNBC is not a you
know an important pillar of our society
so like I think like these are I think
there are legitimate critiques but I I
think they're overblown frankly I mean
they're I just don't see the fallout
from this and it's not like Russia
didn't do what you know and you and I
agree I think that it was probably not
as significant as people make it out to
be but that part of it is not even a
function of whether Donald Trump
colluded with it or not right so right
right so I mean right so you know I
think I do I do think that the kind of
disproportionate treatment of this kind
of like Russia interfered in our sacred
democracy rhetoric is misleading and
dangerous because not only have these
two countries done it to other countries
far worse forever but even to one
another right like the u.s. boasted of
helping Boris Yeltsin you get a letter
let's say that that's very problematic
and lets us
not doing like to leverage that as
that's a bad thing to do so therefore we
should not be involved in any way what's
going on in Venezuela I'm bright both so
but let's so let's look at this because
this issue about the state of us-russian
relations and I've reported a lot on the
bulletin of Atomic science and in front
of me I think that we have some
differences about the extents which
they're emphasizing the dangers of
nuclear war between those two countries
obviously in 2018 when Kim Jong and and
Donald Trump are threatened to
annihilate one another on Twitter that
became something that got the attention
of The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists but
throughout that reporter there's a
constant reference to the US and Russia
because under the Trump administration
contrary to the prevailing wisdom there
has been a far greater proliferation of
belligerence and confrontation with
Russia in really dangerous ways so you'd
look for example I think the one of the
most difficult one of the most
disturbing examples is the question of
sending lethal arms to Ukraine probably
the most important country
geopolitically to Russia in 2015-2016
you can google this Democrats and
Republicans were demanding that Obama
send lethal arms to Ukrainians to fight
against the Russians and he said are you
out of your mind why would we risk
provocated provocation with Russia over
our country that's of immediate interest
to them but not to us so Obama refused
the Trump administration sent Leath arms
to the Ukrainians the Trump
administration is currently in the
process of trying to destabilize and
remove from power a really important
leader of a very important geopolitical
country or an oil-rich country that is
in a longtime ally of the Kremlin which
is the Maduro regime while the Russian
military is on the ground trying to
defend the Maduro government from being
removed on top of which you have Donald
Trump going to Germany and badgering
Angela Merkel's successfully to some
extent now to stop buying not
gasps from Russia and instead buy it
from us companies on the not
unreasonable ground that the u.s. spends
huge amounts of money through NATO to
defend Germany so why should Germany be
buying natural gas from Russia instead
of buying it from the US an incredibly
threatening thing to do to the Kremlin
because if Europe stop buying natural
gas from Russia it would probably take
the entire Russian economy so you see
the US and Russia there's a huge naval
buildup in the Black Sea
the Americans confronted Russia for the
first time in the Japan Sea since 1987
there's a possible military base being
constructed and pulling in all these hot
spots around the world you see Russian
us tensions increasing at the same time
the climate in Washington is such that
you can't even talk to Russians which is
why a lot of these Trump officials lied
about their connections with Russia
because every time you talk to a Trump a
Russian official it gets depicted as
some kind of treasonous conspiracy or
collusion and that's what I think is so
dangerous is you have this increasing
belligerence and escalation between the
US and the Russians on the one hand and
hotspots around the world
Syria being another that I didn't even
mention Trump bombed
you know Assad very limited in a very
limited way but Obama refused to because
he was scared of the escalation problems
that that would bring and at the same
time an inability to talk to the
Russians which miscommunication
miscalculation in the past is what led
to in everton nuclear exchanges so I do
think minimizing the danger of that is
is ill-advised and then just quickly on
how we see but wait wait let me just let
me just address those because every
single one of those policies that you've
talked about
we're long-standing Republican policies
I mean every single one and whether it
was Chavez or Maduro right Ryan gas from
the US is a function of all you need to
do is look at some of Donald Trump's
biggest supporters the same ones who put
you know every head of EPA in there they
all want this they wanted this from day
one they basically built two petrol the
first there's a reason why
he built his his first version you know
Trump cabinet v1 was basically just full
of oil executives and in generals and so
the idea of I mean all of these things
are completely consistent with long term
Republican agendas and to the point
where where when they when when manna
fort probably I'm not I don't know if we
know was so insistent on changing the
Republican platform that's why all the
lights went on you know started flashing
because and it was specifically about
that provision about not selling lethal
weapons to Crimea I mean that's why it
was such a big deal that it was such a
divergence from standard-issue
Republican policy that it but Sam Donald
Trump himself is a huge divergence from
standard Republican ideology he ran
against the Iraq war even though well I
know what he did in the election he but
but I don't you mean what has he done
that has been divergent from Republican
orthodoxy since he's been in office I
mean he just well I mean like calling
for cuts in Medicare
he just had massive tax cuts no he I
mean no domestically he's a he's a full
I visit one of the things that I think
is true about the Trump presidency and I
actually said this last week is that you
have kind of his freakish circus
tweeting that obviously is wildly out of
the range of normalcy for how presidents
speak and conduct themselves and that
stuff he says his campaign rallies and
then you have over here kind of the
actual governance and the governance
itself is I think well within the range
of standard Republican orthodoxy I agree
with that entirely I was simply saying
that Republican orthodoxy and by the way
democratic work that poor that actually
remember Obama's refusal to act against
Russia and Ukraine to bomb Assad was
wildly criticized by the whole
bipartisan foreign policy class in
Washington they they thought Obama was
appeasing Putin constantly so I agree I
think I agree totally with you that that
the Trump administration has been
belligerent toward
Russia in a way that Republican
orthodoxy has long called for which is
why I have been so contemptuous of the
idea that Donald Trump is this Russian
asset sitting in the White House forcing
the United States to act in Russian
interest when in fact Russian American
policy over and over and over and over
again has been directly contrary to and
threatening to vital Russian interest
not ancillary Russian interests but
vital Russian interests I think there's
an argument that the the sanctions
relief which he certainly pursued which
is basically just putting money in
people's pockets at the end of the day
that is a pretty big monsanto I mean so
you know for every for him following all
the Republican orthodoxy and the this
national security establishment
orthodoxy you do have things like we're
gonna burn the translator records or
we're not gonna take any records of this
meeting between these two heads of these
two states I mean that's fairly that's
the only unorthodox thing he's doing and
that's a very like you know I can
understand why people would be like wow
that's a very strange thing to do and
what's behind that I mean that's fairly
intriguing right I mean we're gonna have
no right you can look at it that way or
you can I where you can look you know
what the Trump people say is every time
Trump talks to the Russians it ends up
leaking because people in the CIA or
people in the FBI who wanted to pick
Trump as a Russian stooge which was
going on since the campaign end up
leaking what he says to Putin and you
can't have Frank relations between
leaders if both of them think that what
they end up saying to one another is
gonna end up being leaked and so taking
precautions to make sure that those
conversations aren't leaked doesn't seem
like an entirely sinister thing to me at
least to do I mean there's that that
seems like a fairly rational thing but
let me just address this the second part
about public perceptions of both Russia
and the FBI I
if you look at overall polling you're
right that if you compare 2015 polling
about how Russia is perceived or the FBI
is perceived to 2019 polling about how
Russia or the FBI is perceived or for
that matter WikiLeaks it kind of stays
the same so the number of Americans who
view Russia favorably in 2015 is the
same as the number of Americans who view
them the same in 2019 view them
favorably in 2019 but what has changed
radically is the partisan breakdown so
in 2014
Republicans adored and revered the CIA
and the FBI and the Democrats are
skeptical that has now almost completely
reversed there's a huge upsurge in trust
in faith the Democrats place in those
institutions and a complete collapse in
the trust and faith or Republicans been
putting them because Republicans have
been fed the narrative that this is a
corrupt deep state trying to overthrow
the democratically elected government
whereas Democrats have been fed the
opposite narrative that the these are
the agencies that are gonna save us from
the criminality of Trump same with
Russia 2013 2014 Marco Rubio John McCain
all of those guys were saying Putin is
this evil regime Obama is appeasing them
so that the Republicans were being told
that Russia is this grave threat that
Obama was insufficiently standing up to
that is completely reverse the 22 2012
said geo it's the number one
geopolitical threat Obama mocked him for
it said the Cold War once there or the
1980s wants its foreign policy back so
all of its kind of been fundamentally
reversed right in the way that often
happens when the parties change the
White House so you're right that overall
the perception is the same but I don't
think there's any question I think to
point out here referring to demonstrates
I know it does on the question of the
FBI I'm almost certain it does and the
question of Russia that Democrats see
Russia as a greater threat than they did
three or four years ago which would make
sense the Democrats trust the FBI and
CIA more than they did three or four
years ago and that's what I'm really
worried about is that you know for a
long time in this country we did have a
Democratic Party that were the cold
warriors right Harry Truman is the one
who dropped two nuclear bombs on Japan
it was John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson
who prosecuted the Vietnam War the sort
of Iraq
that generation and I'm really worried
that the Democratic Party is embracing
and it's wide the neocons are now
migrating back to the Democratic Party
this kind of militaristic imperialistic
jingoistic ethos that I think is really
harmful and that I've always been
opposed to from the time that I began
writing about politics that's the worry
that I have not that overall the ball of
body politic is embracing these
narratives that Russia is a threat in
the FBI and CIA are good and trustworthy
but that Democrats in particular are
because not just MSNBC and I mean Rachel
Maddow is really influential it but it's
not just her at all it's it's CNN also
has a huge number of former prosecutors
former military officials that they also
hire to help shape the news those are
the sources at the New York Times in the
Washington Post quote I just think that
there's been too much of a
rehabilitation of neo-cons and the truth
of these agencies and that's whatever I
couldn't just I couldn't agree with you
more about that and and I think you know
III think that's I mean I think that's
true and I think to a certain extent
some of that is inevitable I mean as a
you know a joke that and fortunately I
don't think it's been him as much
although some to some extent but one of
the biggest problems we were talking
about in the summer of 2016 was if
Donald Trump wins then we all have to
pretend like Jonathan Chait knows what
he's talking about again and and I
listen I agree this is all but to a
certain extent this is all sort of
predictable in cyclical and in a
function of of who's in office and who's
not out I mean that's why I like it
seems to me all the critiques you're
making we're just as valid regardless of
what the Muller investigation found I
mean you know like it wasn't hinged on
in my mind as to what we find in that
report all those things are true
regardless as far as I'm concerned but I
don't know that we've left anything on
the table do you
know that you think that did you have
something that you I did I did do you
think I needed to apologize to have
Marcy wheeler on the program no no I do
I I do not I don't that is not I do not
look my god you know what you know let
me just let me just say but let me just
say this about those of us who have been
expressing skepticism about the
overriding narrative that the nan Fox
media has more or less unanimously
embraced and there were people inside of
these news outlets I heard from them all
the time who also had a lot of
skepticism about what was being reported
and what was being said and kind of felt
like they weren't able to express them
because they saw what happened to those
of us who were doing that we were
banished from a lot of media platforms
that previously we had regular access to
I think the last time Matt TI Taibbi
was on that MSNBC was like December of
2016 or January of 2017 I don't think
Jeremy Scahill has been on in three
years I haven't been on since December
2016 when I talked to raml burr about
the need for skepticism but you know I
that I think that a lot of us who are
expressing the skepticism we're vilified
not just for being wrong which is fair
enough that's what happens in political
debates but for being trump apologist or
even trump supporters or even paid
agents of the Kremlin I don't mean by
random trolls on Twitter I mean by like
really prominent people so I can
understand why after three years nerves
are kind of raw Mike Matt Taibbi and and
and and Michael Tracy talked about the
psychological toll this is taken on them
but you know you can kind of dismiss and
mock but at the same time but you know
it is real when when you're trying to
kind of push some dissent into you you
feel like you're standing up kind of in
front of a trait a freight train and
when you feel like at least some of what
you've been doing
has not not been fully vindicated but at
least somewhat been affirmed like at
least the need for skepticism all along
I think there's a recognition that at
least Rachel Maddow and people like that
went too far
I understand why people are being a
little overly zealous and I also think
the issue that about what Marci did with
turning in her own source to the FBI not
be in the face of a subpoena but
proactively and voluntarily and then got
celebrated it for it by the media is
something that we ought to revisit at
some point I don't want to talk about
Marci when she's not here but I do you
know but no I don't I know I think Marcy
is an extremely intelligent diligent
reporters she's one of the first people
I tried to hire when we started the
intercept who we did hire I would if I
had a show I would put Marcy on so no I
don't think putting Marci on has
something that you ought to apologize
for but I do think there's we should
revisit that issue about that turning
and of the source I have a feeling we're
gonna were you know that will be ample
opportunity in the future I don't know
if we've we've you know maybe we'll see
the investigation when we see the report
we'll have a sense of what the
implications of that are and I imagine
that's a story and that's certainly I
mean from my perspective when I came in
on that Monday after the report had been
dropped I was like I guess we're gonna
have to talk about this today and and
push our you know I don't want to
counter program with somebody's talking
about the implications of slavery and
politics you know Antebellum civil war
but having Marcy on it seemed to me
would be more apt when we have a sense
of what the full report says but but I I
appreciate that and I do appreciate the
the that there has been a an excess on
the side of people who you know really
wanted to believe that Donald Trump
would be removed from office over this
and maybe other things I don't think so
but
I don't think it's impossible I'm gonna
be possible to get them out of that
office in that way but but yes I think
that there's been excesses on on both
sides of this argument that I think have
been you know inappropriate frankly but
but Glenn I appreciate your coming on
and talking about it and I guess we now
wait to see what's actually in the
report
[Music]
clanky we all come together as one
I can't elaborate from like what the
office version of that joke that bid is
but keen observers could fill in the
blanks
all right folks we're gonna go to the
fun half become a member the majority
report today majority dot F M slash
become a member Sam who's enroute to
Vegas Thursday I'll be in the main chair
I think we're gonna do a news day and go
over the Israeli elections some things
that are happening today I will go over
them bit as well in the fun half I
thought that was actually pretty solid I
don't necessarily know how much more
there is to say about it I feel like
that horse has been beaten a little bit
I think so I hate that phrase but I
think you're right I love that phrase
because I'm from the Dakota from the
Dakotas it's the literal format I beat
that sumbitch I don't why I give you
that voice but it's funny become a
member of the majority birthday majority
dot F M slash become a member less than
a cup of coffee they leave us a rating
on iTunes subscribe on YouTube spread
the word all of those things and of
course you can follow us on social media
uh on tonight's Michael Brooks
Schofield's Biederman's in studio we're
talking we're gonna do a real deep dive
into the longer history of the Megan
McCain Joy Behar drama we're also
talking about Dave Rubin to me
they really come on something here q and
on and the Gambino family much more
stuff Sonya Shankar on India's elections
and a kind of history around the BJP and
Hindutva become a patron patreon.com
slash T MBS get the whole Michael Brooke
show experience and also Matt can we
throw up on screen we have I don't know
exactly how many tickets left to the LA
live show at the bootleg feeder mom on
April 20th
with special guest Nando viola big waz
was Neil hombre and Ana Kasparian at the
end Turks I know The Young Turks I think
are gonna start doing a promotion on it
and we're already well over halfway sold
out so these will go and have been going
quick so I would get your tickets now
you can also you can get your VIP
tickets or your regular Minton's tickets
and we will see you in LA April 20th of
course Matt and Dana Chris come along
with me Jamie what's up so this past
weekend the guys from street fight fret
pain and murder Brian were in town for
the epic live show they did at
Littlefield so we took the opportunity
to record with them because we are in
many ways kindred spirits they are the
number one and narco comedy radio show
in the country so we had them on to talk
about workers inquiry kratom parenting
drugs and small business tyrants and I'm
really excited it's out now for patrons
and tomorrow for everyone so check it
out
sweet Matt yeah literary hangover the
Oscar Wilde episode is up on the podcast
feed and the King Philip's War episode
is up on the YouTube subscribe to the
YouTube I'll have the Oscar Wilde
episode up hopefully today unless I made
a typo in the exporting of the video
which sometimes happens and takes
another 14 hours to pump one out so
we'll see and of course I should say 7
p.m. tonight on Michael Brooks show
YouTube channel we'll see in the fun
half
left is that Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy with me like he's
boss I am NOT your employer you know I'm
tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
[Music]
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you idiots we're just going
to get rid of you alright but dude dude
dude dude dude dude you want to smoke
this joint yes exactly I'm happy
now oh yeah now listen to me two three
four five times eight four seven nine oh
six five oh one four five seven
56:27 1/2 5/8 3.9 billion don't you see
everybody's taking their dumb juice
dance dance dance
[Music]
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we can double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no wait what you
make under a million dollars just come
here not bad use me you all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there take whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber laughing I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready - I see some people
Shitler what such No
[Music]
thank you for calling into the majority
report them we'll be with you shortly
[Laughter]
bull Prague is super talented as always
as our DJ Dan our key as our I don't
know
there's too many uh to me there you know
that now there between like the redirect
Ronald Reagan's really really good
podcast ghetto News Network which is a
really good podcast Jeff from Georgia
has a good bike just a peasant dissonant
peasant has a good podcast we've got
like this whole ecosystem ISA
historically is a great podcast although
it's very up my yeah sure I'm actually
not familiar with that one I'm sure it's
a good one
I'm sure it exposes a bakra see um
alright let's take a quick call out of
the gate you're calling from a nine
seven two area code who are you were you
calling from hi can you hear me alright
could you tell me your name again door
door yo are okay what's on your where
you calling from door yeah
I'm calling from Israel how you doing
what's on your mind man coming in you
know getting your take about the
elections I've been somewhat peer
pressured by my other leftist friends to
I'm sorry about the captain hours to
stop not to vote for like an actual
leftist party but for ever to like
new central party that's the whole
purpose is to just be able to you know
be posing to meow getting out about this
mm-hmm but in terms of like the peace
process or anything we don't really have
anything you know we don't really have
much of a big play right you're talking
about Benny gay like the Benny Gant's
coalition exactly and I think one would
be remiss to not mention that Ben gangs
was their Israeli chief of staff during
the 2013 yeah absolutely
there were like 30 percent people cattle
killed not gorillas no they run
operations in 2014 were so vicious and
so brutal targeting Gaza that Joe
Scarborough did a segment saying like
what's going on here because they bombed
a UN school I mean when you have Joe
Scarborough talking about Palestinian
humanity do you realize how you know I
mean the obscenity of the crimes that
Israel engaged in in 2014 would be hard
I think for most people to comprehend so
yeah I mean look I can't I I feel really
weird telling people in other places you
know I just could tell you how I would
vote I would vote for a Left Party
because to me and granted I'm not of
course things like you know fiscal
policies and austerity versus non
austerity policies matter I don't
necessarily know that the centrist
coalition is necessarily even that much
better on those things in the Ettin
Yahoo but to me like you know you just
can't you can't think about or vote or
analyze Israel outside of the occupation
you can't I mean that is the central
defining characteristic of the place so
you know I would have to register I mean
that last election cycle I certainly
would have voted for the joint list and
you know those are the parties I support
and his
if I was voting in Israeli elections for
sure right now I always went wrong with
the Spartan utilitarian valued for
keeping Netanyahu and replacing him with
a new faith that the world still hasn't
learned through these five so to speak I
think there is a truth that right
Netanyahu is very easy to dislike and
he's you know a horrible brand
ambassador for Israel and he's
distinctly unlikable I think that that's
a good thing that's probably a good
thing
I mean fried American context he's put
himself in the context of you know House
Republicans right I mean when you have
beta O'Rourke which he did again at a
campaign rally yesterday saying
Netanyahu's a racist Netanyahu is doing
some work for slightly clarifying
although it also goes the other way
because he's such an obvious villain and
he's such an obvious creature of the far
extreme right and a Republican yeah that
it's easy to personalize a policy to him
that as you know as a policy right like
and there's a lot of structural factors
behind where Israel has been and then
even more so like where it's going right
so I think it goes both ways I think in
some ways yes Netanyahu obviously is
horrible for the brand of Israel because
he's just such an unlikable person but
on the other hand there's gonna be I
think that's actually going to be the
new democratic move right it's
increasingly untenable to defend Israel
if you're running any type of modern
center-left campaign so what are you
gonna do you're gonna isolate it to one
particularly unlikable person versus a
policy that frankly I mean as you know
literally goes back to 1967 I mean you
know these are and the expansion of
settlements has actually inside
sometimes the rate of increase has been
faster under labor and I think you know
a guy like a hoot o Mert who I actually
really you know where I differ from some
other people on the left I would not put
him in the same category as Netanyahu I
do think they represent different things
but I also know that
you know he is responsible for
incredible war crimes during his tenure
as Prime Minister so you know I don't
know III don't I I don't know the answer
I know how I would vote I would rather a
joint list candidate for sure right you
wouldn't you wouldn't agree likes being
strategic about it luck and because I
think it's out of parallel to us like
the dilemma the lefties have in America
for 2020 like do are we being pragmatic
we don't vote or you know why are we
voting what we want to like
ideologically I wonder I mean you could
be right I just don't know if to me like
in the United States there's still
enough even in the worst possible
choices right like if Hillary Clinton
kept in the Iran agreement and you saved
a couple of Supreme Court seats that
already is enough of material difference
on people's lives
now again I'm speaking from the
perspective that maybe if you were to
tell me that there was a party in Israel
that was terrible and you know totally
Pro apartheid and so on but was going to
significantly reverse austerity and
privatization then I would say look
that's a more complicated choice I don't
know what to tell you but my
understanding of voting left in Israel
is that in fact like the jointless
parties are also mainly primarily
socialist so you're sort of registering
what you want to domestic policy as well
I don't I mean when I see these centrist
parties run it seems to me that the
primary agenda is just that Netanyahu's
an and will look better
internationally without him no
difference on domestic policy and no
difference on foreign policy so I know
that's kind of where you know yes I
think you had someone like Olmert
running saying that I'm actually going
to these are the specific concessions
I'm gonna get like I'm a you know I'm
pretty open about being a sort of a
bi-national democracy guy but if you had
a campaign that set off one candidate
saying we're gonna give up the West Bank
no and pull out of Gaza versus
Netanyahu saying I'm gonna annex the
West Bank then I would say you got a
vote
I would say that but that doesn't seem
to be an option right now that's what
I'm feeling about it oh by the way sorry
the party had like an election ad M but
extra donut kind of looks like fan
theater I could send it to you by then I
am okay that sounds funny take a look at
that okay we need Israel to do better
ostensibly all right good luck man thank
you good luck take care I feel for
leftist in Israel I mean I feel kinship
and left us everywhere obviously but it
really sucks to be on the left in Israel
man yeah well you have to join the army
you have to join the army you have to I
mean I think what people really don't
understand about like there's all these
fights between say like leftists and
liberals or whatever and some of them
are real some of them are actual things
that matter some of them are just sort
of silly brands positioning but you have
like a basic there's some sort of shared
parameters on like I'm not even talking
like ultra woke stuff but just like
super basic like hey racism is bad right
and I'm telling you like you guys is
real like that is not the ballgame like
they're they're like they have moretz is
like the closest to like Democratic
Party positions on this stuff and they
are totally obscure marginal party at
this point and labor is not like that
like labor does not echo those same sort
of like basic civil society sentiments
like it is a massively racist society
and only getting more so oh but I hear
there is a viable candidate who wants to
legalize marijuana so that makes it all
okay right that's a good point let's
actually play this this is important
these are this is some video footage
from
what's happening in Israel on election
day so several years ago in Netanyahu
ran for re-election he put out a video
at the last minute warning that Arabs
were coming out to vote um and said and
Rianne affirmed that he opposed the
two-state solution he reversed himself
after he won but everybody knows what
his position is this time with the
active support of the Trump
administration he's promised to annex
the West Bank which again this is just a
formalization of what already is so but
that's a that is a formal apartheid
declaration I mean that is we are going
to into perpetuity govern another group
of people and control their movements
and bodies and they're not gonna have
political representation now again that
has been the case for decades but
there's always been the notion that in
the mainstream we'll stop that at some
point and clearly they won't and clearly
that's not where his political Coalition
is but they're stepping off of that then
there's the question of what's inside 67
borders is there a real democracy and it
is more complicated and it's different
than obviously being in the West Bank or
Gaza but it is not a full democracy for
everybody and this is reports and
granted is some of the complexity of
Israel because in this case apparently
election monitors and police are
actually disrupting this but these are
this is a young man who says he's from
la cude and Netanyahu and he's putting
cameras inside our voting stations Arab
predominant voting stations - apparently
monitor them while they vote and the
people are saying what are you doing
here and he's saying like I was sent by
like the governing party to do this
your hymns and sang la cude police are
complicating things cameras and
recording places and I think nan Yahoo
will probably win um
I do I think he'll be returned to power
um what does that make of his corruption
charges well the really interesting
thing about the corruption charges is
that they're not just standard
corruption charges I mean there are
actually charges that implicate like the
Free Press in Israel because part of it
is using the leverage of Sheldon Adelson
has a free newspaper that he prints in
Israel that runs pro government
propaganda essentially and Netanyahu
part of the charges against him are him
leaning on other press outlets for
better press coverage apparently I don't
know I mean on the other hand Israel's
like has extremely corrupt politics and
I don't think that you know all mert
served the prison sentence for
corruption there's all sorts of
allegations against other senior
officials I don't I don't know I don't
think it will make such a big difference
to be honest I mean I could be wrong but
I doubt it
Dragonslayer I respect will n Greenwald
but I think he's been stretching to
stand by his argument for such a small
purse Mart person to fall back on the
argument of the Doomsday Clock is hard
to understand Sam deserves props for
asking about marcy wheeler - um yeah i
mean i'm somewhere in between Sam and
Glen on this but I I think I think part
of it is really how you frame what the
most important lessons are so I think
like I think in terms of the actuality
of the investigation in the case
Sam is on very strong ground to be
honest I would need to relist into Marcy
wheelers appearances right and let's
also disaggregate between somebody being
an about her on Twitter versus
the merits of all of her claims those
are different things right so I think
like she's somebody that I certainly
have respect for and when I started
reading her it was to understand what
happened with the NSA spying on
Americans um to be honest I mean I
recall a certain level of certainty in
her interviews which to me have not
panned out but I really would need to re
listen to those and I think you know
valid criticism of her is great but you
know not I mean I mean Glenn said it
right glad most like of course you
wouldn't apologize for having Marcy
wheeler on she's a great researcher so
but I I think that the consequences of
how the story was covered and obsessed
over are more negative than maybe Sam
does and I think of it primarily in
those terms that's what I'm most
concerned about because I think it was
so overhyped that frankly over short of
Donald Trump being frog-marched out of
the White House it was overhyped on the
other hand history didn't stop in 2017
so even over like the last year it was
already way more mellow overall than it
was in the first several months of Trump
yeah I just hope all of the liberals who
have been using this psychologically to
avoid doing real politics are having a
total analysis are gonna take a second
look right now maybe it's a teachable
moment and you know what maybe there
aren't as many of them as I thought
there were I've had some discussions
some debates with Sam about this so I
hope that he's right West Coast comrade
of a full-grown Bratz doll meg McCain
was raised working-class parents you now
be selling makeup in a Midwestern strip
small to fellow pogs I don't know what
that last part is but everything else
sounds it's an acronym for something it
is yeah let's move on Oh
I gots and I think the first part was
very accurate though Bugsy I just
listened to yesterday's show hard
recommend for year-end best of clips
nothing like what do we do I assume
you're talking about the climate change
doom being sorry
oh okay I thought it was very good
not the most uplifting but important no
it was very important I agree Gleason is
a OC planting lavender and her community
garden direct shot at Sam Sam didn't
open the text machine yesterday can I
get a shofar for my birthday yes you can
[Music]
Winnipeg Greg where are all the hosts
where do all the hosts fall in the great
Celsius verse Fahrenheit debate how
about metrics vs. imperial measurement
keep in mind Lula uses Celsius in metric
well obviously then we know which side
I'm on a metric cuz of Napoleon I'm
metric because of Lula anybody else so
I've tended to have like an
anti-american bias in favor of the
metric system however I recently moved
into an apartment where the stove tells
me the oven tells me the temperature in
Celsius and it's very annoying so now
I've kind of turned against it I don't
want to have to do math every time I
cook something yeah mmm you can't
reprogram it I have not figured out how
to do so I think that landlord must have
got a deal or something tough that's how
cheap landlords are in the city of
course they are all right um so let's go
over this a little bit there's been a
coup so the the reporting that's coming
out of the White House is that
apparently Donald Trump is incredibly is
livid that his war on immigrants his
terrorism of the immigrant community is
not vicious enough and he's even
floating things like completely shutting
down the border he's very upset about
this border wall right so I don't know
about all of the man's weirdness and
oddities and fixations
and his obvious bigotry and obviously
this is a huge advantage for you know
the ever disturbing Stephen Miller which
we'll get to in a minute but I think you
know well let's just run through this
quickly do we have sound of Trump let's
let's I just want to read actually a
little bit from two reports so one is
from the LA Times which is that a judge
has blocked Trump's policy of forcing
asylum seekers to remain in Mexico so
basically what this means is that the
Trump administration is telling people
because you know how they frame always
they say people go through the process
do it legally do it
the appropriate manner all of this crap
these are people who are doing it
precisely in the legal manner they're
going there they're applying for asylum
then they're getting shot out of the
country back to Mexico and complete you
know contradiction to law and a judge
Richard C born in San Francisco has
agreed with a request from civil
liberties groups to halt the practice
while their lawsuits move forward his
decision to put on hold until Friday to
give US officials the chance to appeal
and so that's and of course they will
appeal it but I just want to give you a
sense of what's happening there then
there's Trump is set to force out and
purge top homeland security officials
from the New York Times
president Trump moved to clear the
senior ranks the homeland security of
Monday a day after forcing the
resignation of its secretary Kirsten
Nielsen as he accelerated the purge of
the nation's immigration and security
leadership the White House announced the
departure of Randolph Ellis the director
of The Secret Service who had fallen out
of the behavior of the favor with the
president even before a security breach
at his Mara Lago Club that the agency
effectively blamed on mr. Trump's
employees government officials who work
not were asked not to be identified
discussing personnel changes before they
were announced said that at least two to
four high-ranking officials associated
affiliated with Miss Nielsen were
expected to be leaving soon hollowing
out the top echelon of the department
managing border security presidential
safety counterterrorism natural
disasters customs and other manners now
just we'll get to the sound in a second
but this comes on the heels of and we've
already know that the family separation
policy the damage that it's inflicted on
families the terrorism of those
kidnappings are still playing out in the
sense that children have not been
reunited with their parents they're
still separate from their families
because of this horrific obscenity that
they stopped well now and this again is
from the New York Times Trump signals
even fiercer immigration agenda with
possible return of family separations
president Trump's purged
nation's top homeland security officials
as a sign that he's preparing to unleash
an even fiercer assault on immigration
including a possible return of his
controversial decision last summer to
separate migrant children from their
parents again let's be clear kidnapped
children from their parents current and
former administration officials said on
Monday mr. Trump shook up the ranks of
his top immigration officials after
spending months demanding that they take
tougher action to stop a surge in
migrant families at the border and
seething at what he considers to be
their overly overly legalistic refusal
to do what he said was necessary this is
also the other major political reality
is that the Trump economic populism scam
is done so Bernie's been running very
effective ads actually reminding a
people of Trump's lies on universal
health care of safeguarding Medicare and
Social Security and while we can debate
endlessly what role has economic
populism played in winning 2016 election
there's no doubt that it played at least
a small but significant role in
geographically pivotal states that's
undeniable just as it's undeniable that
a vast majority of people who voted for
him were motivated by the white
nationalist message but with that
economic populism done sure he'll lie
and he'll spin but that's not gonna be
his bailiwick it has to be all
hundred-percent in this white
nationalism yeah God and like just to
give you some idea of what it means when
they send asylum seekers back to Mexico
we actually our producer Andy
interviewed a guy on the anti Fattah who
was seeking asylum because back in
Honduras the his dad was tortured and
killed because he was going to testify
on the connection between the police and
organized crime and they told him if he
didn't they told him that he would he
and the rest of his family would be next
and he needed to keep his mouth shut so
he fled he applied for asylum just the
way you're supposed to from Tijuana they
called his number last week he was held
in the US for a few days and then they
sent him back at which point he
quit his job to go to the u.s. he had a
low-paying job in Tijuana and now he has
nothing he has no money to live on his
living situation is tenuous like this is
what it does to people's lives
absolutely and this is Donald Trump
saying that the our country is full
you're gonna hear this more and more and
more this is gonna be one of the most
barbarous overtly fascistic campaigns I
mean it's gonna be more so than 2016
it's a colossal surge and it's
overwhelming our immigration system and
we can't let that happen so as I say and
this is our new statement the system is
full can't take you anymore whether its
asylum whether it's anything you want
it's illegal immigration can't take you
anymore we can't take you our country is
full our area is full the sector is full
can't take you anymore I'm sorry can't
happen so turn around that's the way it
is so look in the argument against this
we could say all day that in fact there
is not migration has stabilized tirely
over the last several years I believe
it's actually in a net negative at the
very least even out that the amount of
asylum seekers that we take from
anywhere in the world is incredibly
small even under less authoritarian and
bigoted administrations but that's not
the point
I mean the point is this is pure racism
this is pure xenophobia this is pure
fear-mongering
so you need to argue it on the merits
and you need to have an answer to it and
it needs to mean substantively
abolishing ice as an example I'm afraid
and I don't I'm really like you know
people can say their piece I'm not
really particularly interested in having
this argument at the moment but I think
that we need to look is my goal
politically at some point open borders
yeah absolutely no doubt the immediate
use of that terminology is not as
effective as things like demilitarizing
the border because that is an actual
within the real-world policy option
right now and when you get specific like
that that is how you can both
at Trump and forced Democratic
candidates that have much more
specifically filled out and clear
immigration agendas and I know I'm
speaking indirectly here but that's
honestly like my stance on Sanders I
want him and all of the candidates to
move left word on immigration in some
respects and take this on in a very
aggressive way because it's
fundamentally important and that is not
gonna happen through our more utopian
discourse on open borders which again
I'll say for a second time I am NOT
opposed to that is part of a longer-term
project in the short term right now the
question is do you demilitarize do you
abolish ice do you recall donate the
United States with international law on
things like asylum and do you
fundamentally reframe the parameters of
this conversation so that it is one of
humanity versus exploitation race and
capital that is the question and if you
frame it correctly then you can actually
both attack Trump and move the party in
a more substantive direction because
even the ones that have signified in the
right way on this the specifics of their
things like abolish ice plans are very
they're not they're threadbare they're
they're talking about renaming an agency
in some cases we need to be much more
specific about demilitarizing the border
and supporting Mexico and doing the same
process and then more broadly if you
want to stop this you start supporting
you know sweatshop economies and
right-wing governments in Central
America because we're part of that same
chain that Jaime talked about before yes
so I mostly agree with you however I do
think Bernie needs to frame it
differently what he said kind of played
into the right wing talking point that
immigration is bad for US workers and
would force the u.s. to impose some sort
of austerity which is just not true like
I think we all need to do a good job and
I think we have a lot of work to do
judging from my mentions on Twitter
right now connecting in people's minds
the fact that uh
quote-unquote open borders or emigration
of workers it's not a neoliberal Koch
brothers idea we already have open
borders for capital we already have open
borders for the wealthy and it's not a
coincidence
as daniel denver noted in an excellent
twitter thread that the criminalization
of migration and beefing up of quote
unquote border security coincided with
predatory trade deals like nafta that
enabled us corporations to exploit
workers abroad as well as exploit
workers here
because when you're criminalized when
you're undocumented it's much harder to
organize and form a union with your
fellow workers yeah I mostly agree with
that I mean I I think more broadly for
people in like Twitter spaces and other
things you got to be very conscious that
as an example over eighty percent of
Americans oppose open borders so I'm
interested in though on the other hand
picking off the types of issues and
conversations that really could get to
the heart of the human rights and basic
dignity crisis at the border and that
also includes decoupling and debunking
myths like immigration is bad you know
here's the thing that's so amazing to me
if you want to know what Labor's
position on immigration is it's really
simple you can go to the afl-cio website
which is hardly like the most radical
you know union in the world but it's a
venerable and honorable big union that
represents millions of people and they
are a hundred percent on board with
solidarity and rights work in those
countries and also robust for real
immigration reform here it is support
pathway to citizenship this is the ACL
u--'s sort of main point here so there
is also just like as a matter of
practicality there isn't but yeah and I
think the rhetoric also could change and
I understand that open borders is often
a boogeyman
used to scare people because
yes most Americans oppose it if you put
it in those terms but also most
Americans are in favor of immigration
yeah no absolutely I mean look Bernie's
got to fight those fights and but he
also has to reject certain premises that
are really problematic about immigration
and the economy and he just needs to
needs to find a way he doesn't have to
say yeah I'm for open borders but he's
to find a way to put it in his words
that rejects the premises of those sorts
of questions I I agree with that and I
also I'm gonna still continue largely to
give him the benefit of the doubt
because most of his career obsess
suggests that we should give him the
benefit of the doubt and I just I get
you know there are times where it's like
guys he's running for president United
States he's not running to be like a
study group leader at you know a TSA
meeting like this is a little bit of a
different job and sometimes he's not
gonna echo your talking points now that
being said I totally agree that he
should have framed it differently and I
think he will that's how I see it will
happen so um let's go to Sudan where
there are major movements taking place
across the country the security forces
are aiming guns and tear gas on people
in the military is in some cases
actually um protecting people now this
movement started a couple of months ago
fundamentally an anti-austerity movement
as in some ways you could look at
actually the uprisings in Egypt and
Tunisia that way as well Alexandria the
second city in Egypt is a very high
concentration of labor power and there
was a huge impetus for that movement um
coming from labor and I think one of the
very interesting things about how Sudan
has gotten so little press is that
several years ago when there's a you
know huge amount of focus on the crimes
that the Omar al-bashir was committing
in Darfur as an example Sudan was on a
lot of the sort of top-line media and
liberal concern group focuses
in the last couple years not only has a
Sudan fallen out of focus even as abuses
and atrocities and continued this
austerity uprising um has barely been
noticed until muley quite recently and I
think it should be noted that Omar
al-bashir is sort of in some ways worked
his way it back into global good
standing by of course actually helping
eurozone nations with vicious vicious
anti-migrant policies so this is
empowered by students and some powered
by labor unions it doesn't rely on the
traditional opposition parties as much
at the same time I think anytime you
sort of you know practically they should
be appealing to the military but we also
saw what happened in Egypt and that was
a tragedy
essentially it wasn't a revolution it
was essentially a military enabled a
head of state change but let's but
regardless of that sort of cautionary
note this is also just people with
incredible courage risking their lives
to fight a regime that's ran that Omar
al-bashir I think has been in power
since the late 80s and this is just
incredible courage and correct demands
that we should be in solidarity with so
let's just play some of these clips this
is this one is iconic this woman singing
here we could play this
[Music]
I've been doing this for months for
several months now and this is another
of the tweet from nesrin Malek this is a
soldier calling on the rest of his rank
to join the people and he's make sure
he's being recorded before he starts
this clip and absolutely he and others
could absolutely face execution for
doing this this is incredible courage
here let's play some of that yeah he's
making sure that he's being recorded
while he does this and he's calling on
his fellow soldiers to join in the army
to basically protect the revolution and
in some cases there have been barracks
that have been opened for
revolutionaries to protect themselves
and this is interesting though this is
very different because you know in Egypt
there was this sort of like I wonder
like the extent to which the difference
but this is revolutionary bottom-up
activity right here these are like
ground level soldiers responding and
wanting the change to I don't know what
the leadership of the military is in
this position but this is incredibly
inspiring and I think you know very
revealing that Sudan was at the top of
the agenda when it was you know a
absolutely a story of atrocities and
abuse but it's not at the top of the
agenda when it's people with actually I
think some similarities in terms of
austerity and wealth concentration and
authoritarian politics of the right-wing
variety that you might find in many
other parts of the world including
obviously the United States right now or
Brazil in some respects this is also a
cross religious and cross ethnic a
movement which is really important Omar
al-bashir has been a master of using
these types of things to divide his
populous and it might be I might be
running out for him and we could only
hope so it's amazing to watch this sort
of scene which has happened like in so
many different places across the globe
and so many different types of
revolutions except this time it's
covered with that you know he's got like
the megaphone and they get a cell phones
around him it's like it's it's a
different kind of world it's a very
different world also like people are
displaying agency right now I feel like
the mainstream press is more interested
in the Sudanese people or whoever when
they're just these like suffering masses
and when they are joining together and
taking action they're like yeah what's
much use out by it it's much easier for
the media to take like sort of like an
NGO report and make that into a news peg
then like try to figure out what's
actually happening independent of that
those sorts of data gathering
organizations but right let's so let's
go back to what's happening with
migration briefly so what this means and
the Trump administration is that Stephen
Miller is empowered and he's definitely
like the cockroach of this regime an
incredibly resilient and effective and
obviously has this you know six and
biotic relationship the Trump and knows
how to play to all of his worst
tendencies and is his worst and most
obscene grotesque tendencies so what
does this lead to it leads to Ilan Omar
the best member of Congress the one with
the most courage and clarity and basic
conviction and willingness to say things
as they are girl boss
she's definitely um Somalia boss girl
boss
Ilan Omar refugee birth or refugee boss
Ilan Omar says the absolute obvious
about Stephen Miller Stephen Miller is a
white nationalist the fact that he
stills an influence on policy and
political reports is an outrage of
course Don jr. you know the big you know
the idiot trying to get his dad's
approval quote tweets this now again
this is within days of somebody being
arrested for planning to assassinate
alone Omar and we should be remembering
you know that the incitement against her
by these people as as obscene as the
fact that her own Democratic leadership
has not fully had her back in this
environment as well Don jr. says I seat
at the head of the thermicon fan club at
Elan Omar took a break from spewing her
usual anti-semitic bigotry today to
accuse a Jewish man of being a white
nationalist because apparently she has
no shame ironically this is like just
pure dumb token identity politics and is
a great example of using identity to
evade from substance in fact Steven
Miller is widely recognized as being a
white nationalist including even by
appalled and horrified members of his
own family and so this leads to this
follow-up Joel really just I
mean God Steven Miller Joe in
one segment God is Joel writes
Steven Miller is a Jew an American Jew
and a patriot not a quote-unquote white
nationalist I don't believe you should
be calling a Jew anything miss Omar okay
so this is and you know I have to say
not address him
don't response in but I just have to say
like if you are concerned about people
not taking the the stain and threat of
anti-semitism seriously point your
finger at these no one has
done more to turn something that is so
toxic and pernicious in a world that has
led to the murder of millions and
millions of Jewish people into a border
lying joke than a Joe Pollak or a Don
jr. it's disgusting and Rep mark Pocan
from Wisconsin points out the pretty
obvious or you know raises the pretty
obvious question here last year I called
Stephen Miller white nationalists but
Rep Lee's Elden and Donald Trump jr. Lee
Zeldin
also got into this never accused me of
anti-semitism rather than attacking at
Ilan Omar why don't they stand up to
white nationalism and presidents and
president Trump support for quote
unquote very fine people well I think we
all know the answer to that because I'm
gonna do an omnibus they're all white
nationalists well speaking I think we
have the the sheriff of white
nationalism Richard Spencer weighed in
on this in a Vanity Fair profile of
Miller from 2017 Spencer says he first
became aware of Miller at Duke after the
start of the lacrosse scandal he
certainly understood the median how to
get his message out there Spencer says I
could only be impressed the two met at
the Ute at the Duke Conservative Union
in 2006 but that's a great place being a
few years older and graduate school
Spencer says he mentored Miller but I do
think that Stephen probably would have
ended up more exactly more or less
worried as today whether he had met me
or not he's his own man he's a strong
American nationalist you could say
American nationalist it responses has
certainly not a white nationalist but he
is an American nationalists and Civic
nationalists or a public nationalist
Spencer praises Miller for having had
the guts to support the lacrosse players
when it was unpopular to do so it was
racial politics at its heart and
whenever you touch on that case you're
playing with fire so so is he as Richard
Spencer we call him an anti-semite oh
wait I think we are actually in fact
you're calling from a five 3o area code
who are you where you're calling from
yeah hold on a second let me take you
off speaker phone please sure hello okay
what's your name are you calling from
this is the passive aggressive
progressive compelling from Chico
California hey what's going on my coffee
yesterday okay I called him yesterday to
talk about the 2020 race uh-huh and I
had some problems with my phone and
wasn't able and was into the show so
whatever it's a new comp no call what do
you got what he got what do you got now
let's go
so can you guaranteed me that Bernie
Sanders will win no both the primary and
guarantee you that no I can't guarantee
you anything dude I'll guarantee it okay
Brendan one rlt you guarantee me
powerful ways does not win the primary
yes that any of his supporters will vote
for the candidate that does win no I
can't get why are you calling with such
nonsense
I can't guarantee what other people will
do and I can't guarantee a future what
early are we doing what's the purpose of
the fall what's the purpose of the call
good don't don't do don't you know I'm a
little worried that if certainly Sanders
isn't the nominee that there's a few
voters that might okay well oh I'm
worried that if Sarah and worried that
if Sanders is that there's a few voters
that won't so let's just have the
primary out see what happens that way
you call let me ask you something no I I
don't want to do that there's no read
that yeah I got another call I'm sorry I
don't want it as ridiculous
like we're Annette we're we haven't even
started voting yet like get your head
here you're calling from a five 100 area
code who are in it and if history is
anything to go by less than 10% of learn
Eve otres didn't vote for Hillary
Clinton
so let's stay with that which is a much
better percentage than in the previous
election yes it's a jesus the
self gaslighting of like democrats and
liberals to say like we need to have
someone who's electable is such a
cellphone I think we should remember
that phone number and maybe give him one
more chance before ignoring it look if
there was some strong empirical evidence
that someone other than Bernie was like
way way way more likely to beat Trump I
might have to consider it but guess what
there's not you're calling from a 5:1 no
area code who are you where you're
calling from you know what it is when I
call man it's the exact opposite it's
the exact opposite time of what it just
was I'll tell you what 5:1 no is Oakland
is the Bay Area's all right no none of
that right now thank you so so yeah Mike
you know my name is Col James cash yes I
now run the G&N channel 10 patreon.com
slash CNN channel 10 ghetto news network
man this is a really good show me out
earlier it's much appreciated
really really good well thank you
thank you we have I'm calling because
first of all you know I want to say that
anybody who ever said that they want to
support black and Latino businesses you
go to patreon.com/scishow
Matt if you support black businesses
businesses at the patreon otherwise all
[Laughter]
sounds fair to do right but not for real
man you guys have shown me a lot of
support man I'm just being belligerent
and self-promoting go but I just want to
say that first of all man this Friday
me and Ronald Ronald Reagan
we're doing a joint podcast man it's an
episode for both our show that is
 cool crossover this out yeah
that's awesome yes yes welcome people
mr extended universe huh how can people
listen to it or watch it um see now now
I'm looking stupid oh it's gonna be a
joint episode meeting so I'm gonna post
it on my soundcloud posted wherever he
posts his uh where he posts his um so
basically it's gonna be an episode for
both of our shows now you're on
soundcloud how do you on are you on
itunes yet can people subscribe on
itunes yet do you know what i have an
issue with my stupid itunes account but
they can find it on google google play
okay google whatever okay no mate I'm a
patron yeah you can go to
patreon.com/scishow SoundCloud
accomplished Union Champaign and Michael
I will be seeing you next Saturday man
yes sir awesome I will beat it you know
yes yes I was born a mask yeah no I will
not be showing my face yes yes you know
and it's not my fault if 35 women are
surrounded by me and want to give them
just want to get a glimpse of me now
it's not my fault
Mike I can't do nothing about that man
you're welcome to it okay but but yeah
nonetheless I'm really looking forward
to really looking forward to being I
appreciate all the support you guys have
given and and show me you know what I'm
saying and one thing I can honestly say
is that when I present stories I present
them as just a regular person I don't
pretend to be an intellectual and when I
noticed for a lot of people our color
man that they want that man they don't
want people dancing around you know
they want just a direct you know not
giving these people intellectual quarter
ben shapiro should not have intellectual
for it right dave rubin should not have
intellectual quarter you call these
people with the they are and all
this you know really should debate a
 debate you know discuss why he
looks so up you know how would
you respond how would you respond to the
call that we just got like
let me actually let me do it um I have a
hypothetical question for you can you
guarantee the Bernie Sanders will win
the primary I mean like I can like I can
guarantee the Kim Kardashian gonna put a
blue in my face thank you you know
that's clarifying I mean like call him
with these hypotheticals man and Michael
man I I gotta warn you I will be stealin
the mic at you Jonah we'll see about
doing it
WWE runnin we'll see let's feel it you
know we just we just got a black world
habitat world championship in WWE just
finally got a black champion I'm feeling
myself right now
I'm gonna get kicked out the show and on
it well that's a hypothetical my friends
you know it's a hypothetical Yeah right
I can't wait to see ya
second I can't wait to see you everybody
check it out telling them again one more
time before you get off seriously this
is like the episode you did on ms-13 was
like that what like this is this
honestly like there's a lot of
subtleties that people need to
understand about a lot of stories and
you're picking up threads that other
people aren't picking up like people
seriously check it out tell them one
more time where they could find it well
before I even tell him and that ms-13
story was with some of the deepest work
that I've done because I feel like no
journalist addressed all the little
intricacies that go into it
YMS can't expand why the 13 in their
name basically restricts them
permanently and why here in California
the home of gang banging let me thank
God it like they're they running no hood
like that especially not up here you
know thank God it like that and you
should be looking at what it took for
them to even form a gang but even more
so I've looked into in the pet what
happened in the past that led to
jackasses like Elliott Abrams excusing
murder of pastors murder of you know a
Catholic bishop murder and rape and
beheading of women and children that led
to the mentality that didn't have him to
even form the game out
I went into all of that know you and
your ex me at patreon.com slash Jian
channel 10 soundcloud.com /gn channel 10
Thank You Man see you soon
no no problem Mike I'll be seeing you
soon you got my number man and everybody
would you call hurry up and play what
the you gotta say cut off you
get clowned by me on my show I got high
Mike thank you I appreciate that you
know I love that inside outside strategy
because everybody thinks I'm so tough on
callers but that is an example of what I
would be like if I was actually tough on
callers I think I'm very patient he said
it so you don't have to thank you that
was great just cut the preface as guys
yeah just get introductory material it
got me quick just seriously gotta be
quick guy jump think about the fact that
Lula is in prison before you do one of
your mind pathetically we are
gonna talk about that so on this past
Sunday by the way people are asking
where I've got these Lula shirts I was
at a teach-in at the people's forum and
Saturday in Manhattan and I bought them
directly to support a local solidarity
group and they might want to do some
stuff of me so I'll see and hopefully
I'll have a pathway for people to get
the t's so let's just put that out again
I Thea Slee if you're following me you
know that this story means a tremendous
amount to me and I think that it needs
to mean a tremendous amount to everybody
because it is a symbol of all of the
sort of main trends of our world generic
anti-corruption politics is the
handmaiden to fascism if you don't have
a discussion of corruption politics that
is structural that deals with markets
that deals with sequestered wealth that
deals with oligarchy that deals with
capital then it's gonna be just a sort
of moralistic tool that will play in the
hands of demagogues Trump Paulson ro
Modi and so on also Lula again as an
individual was an extraordinary leader
he helped bleed Brazil out of a military
dictatorship in the 80s at this event
on Saturday one of the speaker's was a
director of global strategy I believe
for I think the Food and Commercial
Workers Union and he first met Lula in
1981 when he was doing solidarity work
while Lula was in prison then bar then
Brazilian military Hunza and he said
ever since then he and Lula stayed in
touch and that anytime Lula visited the
United States including as president he
always met with labor unions right after
he had met with his counterpart so when
he met george w bush in 2003 within the
next hour he was at afl-cio headquarters
and one conversation lula told him one
of the main AG conglomerates in the
United States is actually a Brazilian
multinational and he's like Lula would
tell me like tell me what's going on
like all as in like I'll talk to them if
you're giving your people problems he
was a trade unionist leader in a way
that there were definitely been other
heads of state that were trade unionists
but not necessarily all of them
demonstrated the same level of
continuity of commitment the same
achievement of bringing 30 million to 40
million people out of poverty massively
expanding healthcare and education labor
protections and resetting Brazilian
foreign policy this is a tremendously
important leader in a strategically
vital country this is one of the biggest
countries in the world and the biggest
country in Latin America and if you
don't think that the governance of
Brazil affects you or any place that you
might be interested in your frankly not
assessing it properly so there were mass
demonstrations again he's in jail with
absolutely no material evidence they
have put into solitary confinement only
allow him to meet with his lawyers now
for 30 minutes at a time have blocked
his communications set him a captain out
of the presidential race which he
comfortably led over bolsa narrow
without a shred of material evidence I
would be the first one to tell you that
if they found Lula and some like petty
corruption charge I would still say what
he has accomplished for people far
outweighs it I'm honestly shocked than
an effort that has cost this amount of
money and had this many resources put
into it with the backing of the DOJ that
they have not found anything is actually
mind-blowing
like it's shocking and if you talk to
people around the Workers Party they'll
say no Lula actually was quite careful
because he knew that he couldn't make a
single mistake if he was gonna be the
first bottom to the top president of
Brazil this is a report from Michael Fox
in the world news network and then I'll
read briefly Lula published an op-ed in
Brazil's largest daily the first op-ed
they let him publish in a year but these
are from some of the protests in
Curitiba on Sunday
Brazilian congresswoman benedita de
Silva read a letter from former
President Dilma Rousseff even in prison
you are the greatest enemy of the
neo-fascism that is threatening us over
these 365 days of unjust imprisonment
you have shown the Brazilian people that
it is possible to resist even in the
worst conditions Lula was arrested last
year after he was convicted of accepting
a beachside apartment from a company
seeking government contracts but his
conviction was based on plea bargain
testimony and scant evidence he and his
supporters have always maintained his
innocence
Lilla left office in 2009 then suddenly
in 2017 after his name was floated as a
potential presidential candidate
supposed evidence began to surface
although none of it was concrete so you
start to think all right
something is not right here it's a smart
kid there Brian Mayer at the Brazil wire
which I always shout out you need to
read that site has translated this piece
from folow de sal Paulo which and the
title is why is there so much fear of a
free Lula and Lula rights among other
things today it's clear that my
conviction was part of a political
movement which started after the
re-election of President Dilma Rousseff
in 2014 beaten at the ballot box for the
fourth consecutive time the opposition
chose the road to coup to return to
power restarting the authoritarian
addiction of the dominant Brazilian
classes
the coup of impeachment without a crime
of responsibility was enacted against
the model of development with social
inclusion which the country had been
building since 2003 in 12 years we
created 20 million new jobs lifted 30
million people out of extreme poverty
increased the GDP fivefold we opened
universities of millions excluded and
overcame Hank hunger this model is
unacceptable to privilege and Prejudice
layers of society they were a powerful
there were powerful economic interest
from outside Brazil while the pre-salt
petroleum reserves drew the greed of
foreign petroleum corporations Brazilian
companies began to compete for markets
with traditional exporters from other
countries mark Blythe talked about this
several years ago and how the workers
government actually leveraged mid-sized
Brazilian corporations to become
multinationals and then funneled the
money back into social programs at home
Lula concludes why is there so much fear
of a free Lula if they achieved the goal
of blocking my election is there nothing
to sustain this imprisonment the truth
is that they are afraid what they are
afraid of is the organization of the
people who identify with our national
project they're afraid that they'll be
that they will have to recognize
arbitrary actions that they committed to
an elected incapable president who fills
us with shame they know that my freedom
is an important part of the return of
democracy to Brazil but they are
incapable of coexisting with a
democratic process that's a hundred
percent true we need to stay on this I
would ask any single democratic
presidential candidate that you have an
opportunity to ask a question what are
you gonna do about this both as a
political prisoner and also broadly the
reassertion of a u.s. permanent coup and
interference stance in latin america
which again the coup against Manuel
Zelaya in Honduras in 2009 which was
backed by Hillary Clinton at the State
Department is incredibly important for
understanding this reversal it starts
under Obama and accelerates under Trump
Bush Bush tried but apparently was just
and part of the kind of sick ironies of
history was that they were so consumed
with waging global war in the Middle
East and South Asia that they had less
time
to interfere in Latinamerica you're
calling from a nine one three area could
who are you where you calling from nine
one three nope you're calling from a 305
area code who are you where you calling
from
oh yeah sort of you're not on speaker
are you oh yeah now you're known
actually now you're a lot better if
you're good like that what's your name
hear me now yeah you're good what's your
name where you're calling from yeah yeah
Romeo I'm calling from the Bay Area I'm
a student at Stanford and I'm an
organizer with SJP so I just wanted to
put out a plug if there are any
listeners in the Bay Area we're bringing
Eli Valley home I know him yep sure yeah
I just had yeah yes sorry Jamie I said
yeah I just had him on the anti Fattah
thick yeah so we're having him over for
Palestine Awareness Week
SJP chapters usually do like a week of
programming around Palestine so if
anyone in the Bay Area who's listening
is going to be around follow us on our
Facebook page Stanford students for
justice in Palestine and we'll have like
flyers and information in a week of
programming up yeah so just a quick plug
for that and also just wanted to thank
you guys for all the work you all do I'm
a long time listener but I'm a student
so I'm usually like listening like at
night or something and like especially
to Michael like all of your programming
around Lula's like just really really
really good thanks and it's been like
really important in like just talking
like friends and family back home who
I'm my Eric O's 305 some from Miami and
I'm like around a lot of like really
rich latin-american folks and it's like
definitely worked my perspective on
unlike politics in the US and abroad and
it's been like a really great way of
like helping me reframe how I you know
view the world and stuff so yeah huge
like shout out to you guys for all the
work you do honored man
you really appreciate it and people go
see Eli Valley and thanks for your
organizing work at Stanford man yeah I'm
also like I just like a quick ask
I'd really like love to see a little bit
on your show or you know whatever you're
doing worked a little more coverage on
Guatemala my dad's one of mine he
migrated to the United States when he
was 17 during the Rios Montt
dictatorship and like his alcohol like
was disappeared it was was like you know
killed but no disappeared when my dad's
uncle was organizing against the Rios
Montt dictatorship so that kind of
like means a lot to me and there's like
a lot going on like similar to like Lula
in terms of like criminalizing the
Social Democratic Party okay you know
I'm Donna it's her name and yeah I don't
know it'd be cool like so my thing with
I would love to talk about that more so
my thing is like I just there's places I
have more grounding in like I have a
little bit of grounding in Brazil I have
a touch grounding in Haiti and then I
kind of try to like work based off of
that so I've been doing a lot more haiti
coverage on my show so as far as
something like guatemala goes if you
could you know like i mean obviously if
you're if you're a team because patron
you can just hit me on discord with
resources but you can also tweet at me
or whatever else i'd love to do more on
a place like guatemala I just need to
know where to start but definitely yeah
I I can't like afford to Oh
subscribe for your patreon yeah you're
soon I hit like hit me on the side hit
me on the side we could we could figure
that out for sure yeah I will yeah yeah
cuz yeah there's just like so much like
ridiculous going on in Guatemala
presidents like kinda like a like a joke
version of Reagan I'm like I'm like a TV
comedian funny funny I'm always
with you or doing more Guatemala
coverage although these right-wing
ghouls were like cruciate the call seems
to add insult to injury who are you
talking about he said that the president
was like TV comedian you're calling from
a - OH
you're calling from a 205 area
definitely they'll hit me up I will
cover more Guatemala you're calling from
the 205 area code who are you where he
calling from my name is Don Juan I'm
calling from Birmingham Alabama I'm
sorry Lee time okay again sorry name one
more time Taiwan Taiwan calling from
Birmingham Alabama what's on your minds
all right I wanted to ask this like
months ago when don't you cos was on the
show okay but uh this has to do with the
KU talk that was happening in Britain
with Jeremy Corbyn mm-hmm
do you have do you have any idea how we
would go about organizing around the
debt or the incapacitation of our
leadership because the thing that's what
happened in in Brazil basically you're
talking I mean you're saying like your
Bernie gets elected like in the uoe
turning get the life a brain gets
assassinated Bernie gets a gets arrested
anything any kind of roadblock like that
I will say that the situation like the
institutions are less powerful in a
place like Brazil but I think in general
and I wish I hate giving like generic
left-wing advice like this but I think
like in a case like this and by the way
this is true even borrowing a bad
scenario right if you elect Jeremy
Corbyn prime minister or Bernie Sanders
president I mean I feel exhausted even
saying this but like it's gonna be so
much more work after they're elected I'm
gonna saying it's gonna be a Herculean
task to get them elected it's gonna take
an unbelievable amount but like Bernie
Sanders the Democratic frontrunner right
now and you could totally get elected
president and as soon as that guy is
elected there's gonna be a transition
period where people should like you know
take a rest but we are going to need to
be so civically engaged to support the
agenda and take on all of the interests
that even passing something like
single-payer health care would mean
taking on that to me like I mean you
really gotta like be out in the street
literally and figuratively
and honestly and I think that that does
have something to do because party yeah
so that's not that bridge when we come
to it
I'm single quest that we won't hopefully
we won't come to it but you but
regardless you need to be out to have an
inside-outside agenda for these leaders
thanks for the call man it's like it is
possible here like our institutions are
a bit stronger but you know sectors of
the ruling class wanted to stage a coup
against FDR that's true and you know if
you've watched the play against Harold
Wilson you know that there was some
funny business going on there and the UK
and it absolutely could happen here
definitely I mean I think I think it was
easier in previous media environments to
do something that I guess say out in the
open things like that I mean I'm I don't
know I think generally this is kind of
focusing too much on the individual as
like the sort of Guardian of the
movement and the point you're making
Michael is like you have to widen this
beyond that individual it's gonna take a
lot more than that individual and Bernie
Sanders old anyway right I mean it's
really important who is president and
you know like that's cannot be
overstated
but again even in the this like less
catastrophic scenario that's another
reason that Bernie's the best candidate
right if you watch his speeches he's
telling you you need to be out there to
help me do this
it isn't just that I have a policy ideas
it isn't just that I have a you know
idea about how to work the bureaucracy
I'm gonna take on some some pretty
fundamental fights
I think the phrase now that is floating
around is he's like a class warrior
social democrat which is actually a
decent you know if you care about these
reframes I don't particularly but he
gets it that is where he is actually in
fact the socialist like he really does
have an understanding of class politics
and mobilization and he's saying you
need to do this with me and that is just
a true of any ambitious progressive
project even borrowing these more you
know these other scenarios yeah I mean
I'm more concerned about measures that
the
class is gonna take not like a violent
coup necessarily but just to block all
of the things that we want to get past
via a Sanders government like the
Capitol strike is a very real
possibility and you know all kinds of
other legal funny business what they're
gonna do with the courts I mean there's
gonna be and even again like even if you
look statewide at all of the
criminalization of protests that have
already been passed like sometimes those
like coup conversations are problematic
because it's both like I don't think
it's exactly gonna look like something
that you would see in Brazil and then on
the other hand it already is here like
you're passing laws on state levels that
it absolutely criminalize people's civil
ability to protest private corporations
that already is on the books people the
right to run over protesters with your
car right which which part of the Bill
of Rights is that right exactly
let's do a final piece of sound this was
just actually no this isn't all right
let's just do two quick pieces of sound
I think this is important this is Henry
Louis Gates was on Joe Scarborough this
morning and again you need to connect in
my mind the terrorism and attempt to
ethnically cleanse America through these
ice and immigration policies with voter
suppression it's a strategic white
supremacy and this is really the part
where like the fact that there are some
real ghouls and goblins in this
administration who really believe this
stuff and people like Paul Ryan who I'm
sure like oh I don't want to be
associated with that but they have
absolutely the same agenda and partially
it's just and it's a power agenda right
this is designing your electorate and
Henry Louis Gates is going to explain to
Scarborough the scale of voter
suppression taking place in the Trump
era paved by the Roberts Court gutting
the Voting Rights Act as an example and
submit that think that it was only the
South rising again you're absolutely
right it was a confluence of events the
north and the south grew weary of
reconstruction granted
we suppress the Ku Klux Klan remember
the 13th amendment that abolished
slavery is ratified on December 6 1865
about the same time that the Klan is
born and grant suppresses the Klan in
the early years of his administration
but after that his re-election and the
panic of 1873 which is officially called
the Great Depression interests in the
north grew weary as well do we really
need to commit all these resources for
these former slaves didn't we free them
they should be on their own can't they
stand on their own two feet and so
starting in 1890 the former Confederate
States had sought constitutional
conventions that suppress the black vote
that'll give you a dramatic example in
1898 there were a hundred and thirty
thousand black men registered to vote in
Louisiana by 1904 that number had been
reduced to one thousand three hundred
and forty two think about that and and
that happened in large part because the
terror campaigns because of the Klan
because governments weren't weren't
doing their jobs is it is this what
we're going to also read about in stonee
the road oh yes absolutely
look voter voter suppression and a very
conservative Supreme Court that in 1883
declared the Civil Rights Act of 1875
unconstitutional so think about it 12
years of black freedom followed by an
all right roll back and a president who
refused to renounce white supremacy
Andrew Johnson does this sound familiar
absolutely I was reading exactly Robert
Paxton
Paxton's the anatomy of fascism and we
often focus I think rightly on the
capitalism angle of what leads to
fascism but Paxton makes a convincing
case that that the Klan was actually
maybe the first fascist organization
we've had and sort of response to
increased franchise meant and sort of
like bringing in more people into the
political process they realize
we need something to rile up our people
to like the difference between
authoritarianism and fascism is fascism
likes the people riled up
authoritarianism wants them excluded as
much as possible right all right all
right we'll take a final call you're
calling from an eight-five Oh area code
who are you where you calling from uh hi
hi oh yes what's your name where you
calling from oh yeah my name is Robert
I'm from Florida
hey Robert you guys were talking about
this thing about like talking to like
normies and stuff like that I was
thinking like probably the best position
to take would be kind of more like a
democracy first kind of position like
because I think like um I mean on the
right you kind of have like deadlock
recei kind of weaponized you have these
Elliott Abrams kind of like we got to go
into Venezuela and stuff like that you
need a great way to like take that away
and it's also something that's like
pretty much anybody I don't understand
whatever I'm sorry I don't understand
what you're talking well I can instead
of like saying like like I'm a socialist
but if I'm talking people are normies or
something like that or kind of more not
in to engage in politics
I think if you kind of frame things more
about democracy first kind of I agree
with where you're talking about so I I
like that what is it but I have what
does it have to do with Venezuelan
Elliott Abrams well I told the right
like once you like Elliott was talking
like oh when Ln Omar was grilling him he
was talking about like how great it is
that he brought democracy to Nicaragua
and Guatemala and it's like yeah you
killed like all these people who would
vote against you yeah I mean that's just
that's just that's just Orwellian lies
but I I agree in general I actually
think I mean I I am I like to use the
word socialist because I think it's an
honorable important political tradition
I think people need to not be children
about reading Marx and we need to
overcome you know read phobia in this
country but in general yeah I think
things like post capitalism and economic
democracy like yeah I'm with it
I think you're totally I think you're
right
but I want to enlarge democracy my they
don't I agree like you know like a
casual conversation about politics like
I mean I always come from like a
reactionary kind of background yep and
they kind of like are very good about
getting to you where like it's very easy
to go along with you kind of already
like you already see where it is like I
see on like the left words like okay
you're talking about socialism that's
very easy to criticize with like the
Soviet Union and stuff like that but
when you come I was like you know if you
put like democracy first like I'm just
talking about like you know in a casual
like you know workplace conversation I
like it I think it's a good point this
is why I like it this is why I sort of
often like in these contexts to collapse
it to who's making this economic
decision is it or the capitalist just
because he happens to own it or is it a
democratic process that I dig thanks for
the call Robert I dig it it's always
good to use the values of dare I say
classical liberalism the founding values
and democracy against it because if you
want to fulfill them for real guess what
we need more democracy we need democracy
in the workplace like freedom equality
Brotherhood like why do you have to go
to work eight hours a day and you have
no say in what you do during those eight
hours well that's actually I mean that's
a very how I read Marx you know is like
it's a completion of the quote unquote
enlightenment and there always is and
there always has been right and left
enlightenment anyway so let's like
defend that term and argue it on our
grounds and the point of Marx is that
people are free thinking capable people
capable humans who should have power
over their lives that extends to the
economic domain and so that just as
you've been liberated from like the
great chain of being of religion or
monarchies and even politics to some
extent that that democratization needs
to apply to the economic sphere that's
really that is actually the argument and
there's nothing in in that sense not
radical at all it's just the
continuation of what had come before
yep those things but for real exactly
are you guys familiar with Dom Joly of
trigger-happy TV it was that Comedy
Central show where he had like oversized
phone and he would scream into it like
hello I'm on a phone sounds good
google it trigger-happy TV some funny
things but anyway I like this tweet yeah
so dave rubin has a new animated project
with Praeger um yes Rubin says what is a
classic who puts first animated project
and Dom Joyce has primarily an easy way
to spot a bit of on Twitter sorry
for the swearing but he's British so he
can say that perfect he's allowed to say
it alright final couple items of the day
qualms qualms Guam Michael just saw your
convo with Hasan yesterday got a good
laugh at the description of you in the
video it wasn't host of T MVS or
co-hosts a majority report no it was
Obama Impressionists that's actually
pretty funny that said can I get a
I always direct the white Devils into a
circular firing squad all right you just
got it uh let's see let's see / producer
Lauren I guess Jackie Schecter of
investigated Russia won't be on anytime
soon
BBC News is reporting that Russia's
interfering in elections in Madagascar
note that I mean guys come on I mean
look if you really want if we're talking
about global election interfering then
that is where I'm gonna have to be
pretty firmly on the side of let's start
at home Jesus yeah I mean come on I I
don't know whether you're joking note
that and then Bowl Cynara Russians help
get uh yeah I'm sorry I don't know if
they maybe it's all Putin yeah it's all
Putin that guy gets around yeah
Tomcat yeah I'm sorry I'm not on board
with that a frame of Russia we need some
bigger Russia Russia Russia in
Madagascar
you know it's north of Madagascar the
Seychelles and what happened in the
Seychelles Eric our prints the you're
almost 1976 it's getting too easy
it is alright the final I am of the day
what is it we're good
what happens uh it appears that the
screen is up instead of okay let's go
I'm just looking for the final I am of
the day all right J tingle let's just
give it to him he got it don't be
hearing this am and the House Judiciary
the hill is giving Candice Owens for
blasting dams but down but ted Lieu
counters by playing recordings of Owens
defending Hitler's domestic policies in
lieu of questioning her okay
why didn't will play there some of that
tomorrow all right play some of that
tomorrow thanks everybody
to get to where I want
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was I just got
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
