[Music]
Donald Trump and he did not say this
after the terrorist atrocity at the
Christchurch shooting he did not say
this Donald Trump but he acknowledged
that the al paso shooter part of his
manifesto was one of white supremacy and
racism it was also one of them eco
scarcity as well there's a lot of
dynamics there so but we know that there
is a global ideology right now that is
of white nationalism white supremacy and
we also know more broadly there's a
there's a resurgent nationalism some
which likes to disaggregate itself from
overt racism there's a really prominent
Israeli intellectual whose name is
escaping me at the moment but he's sort
of the architect of this as a sort of
cerebral movement he's very tight with
Netanyahu it is spanning the globe
hungry United States Poland Brazil and
then different variants but in a
synchronized fashion Turkey Philippines
India Russia obviously Israel we see
this specifically when it comes to white
supremacy rhetoric we know that the
rhetoric of replacement the horror of
birthrates the obsession with refugees
this is a through line that connects and
parallels the el paso terrorist
manifesto and the Christchurch terrorist
manifesto now sam Harris and I just want
to say it seems to me from this clip I
have given myself a pass from listening
to this guy's talk in this dreary voice
ever since I finished the chapter on him
in my forthcoming book from zero books
so I will stipulate that maybe before
this whole clip were about to play Sam
said I would be a complete and utter
idiot and hypocrite to say in which case
it would be violently out of context we
will apologize for it and so on and
obviously you know I know
everything with Sam is out of context
that's still the shtick but it seems to
me and my interpretation of what he
appears to be saying here is that one
he's getting a lot less careful and two
that this is truly extraordinary because
Sam's just horrific aliy childish a
historical writing about Islam that it
was basically to understand this massive
complex phenomenon from terrorism to the
nature of the religion itself to over a
billion people that spanned from Senegal
to Kansas you just needed to read a
couple of hadith and Quran quotes in
English translation you didn't need to
know any history didn't need to know
anything about international affairs you
need to know about different competing
philosophical religious forces in Islam
I mean again people don't like to hear
this and they like to say that you're
it's being politically correct but
literally this is embarrassing
it is embarrassing to reduce things that
level and you know the response from
people that defended Sam was like oh
well you just don't want it to fit
confront that there is a toxic ideology
here that's ant animating group like
al-qaeda and of course it was like yes
absolutely there's a toxic ideology here
that's animating group like Al Qaeda and
we have to look at why one element could
be that the Quran is easy to use you
know by these people right that maybe we
could confront things in terms of some
of the aspects of the text that would
certainly be true of the Bible or the
Torah it's definitely true of some Hindu
literature these things can be used and
distorted in certain ways the primary
thing for Sirius we'd have to look at
Saudi and US foreign policy not in terms
of just doing wrong to people but a dist
in terms of literally materially what
ideology was funded as an example
through the Mujahideen why did the
Pakistanis and the Saudis always pick
the most extreme Mujahideen fighters as
an example obviously none of these
things they were interested in dealing
with but the point was was that Sam's
whole shtick was it's just you know I
you have beliefs and then you have
actions and that's all that matters
and now what he appears to be saying and
this is just incredible in this if this
is what he's saying what he appears to
be saying this unbelievably delusional
way now he's of course he's still not
gonna go to broader historical political
conditions because he doesn't think like
that but in a case where you have a
literal manifesto from a literal
terrorist except this terrorist is
talking about white supremacy and in
fact it you know if you're Sam you want
to take all the FBI statistics and
everything else seriously we all know
that these that white supremacy our ISM
is infinitely bigger threat to all of us
particularly obviously people of color
in the United States and Europe New
Zealand and Islam listen to what sam
harris has to say about this there are
people it seems who fall into one of
these two categories who are living in
an online culture of trolling now we're
killing people and writing semi bogus or
entirely bogus manifestos merely
designed to confuse the media is
becoming a new phenomenon right these
are people who are not moved by a
sincere ideology they're just quote
shitposting the behavior of trolling on
websites like 4chan and hn has been
exported to the real world
in the form of mass murder designed as a
troll and some degree I believe the
Christ Church shooting
in the mosque had this form right still
not entirely clear what happened there
so this is it okay it's an out there
yeah I mean look you can read his
manifesto and again I it's so funny to
me because I'll just do you know Sam
Harris Aslam talk right now which is
it's a manifesto it exists you can read
it he stated his own beliefs these
things are all readily available for
anybody to read if they want to read and
it goes beyond the manifesto the Christ
Church killer was an email contact with
Martin Sellner of the identity movement
right this is a very important part
right I'll read briefly from this an
Australian far-right an Austrian
far-right leader with ties to American
fascists sent a coffee invitation to a
man now accused of murdering fifty
million Muslims in Christchurch in New
Zealand
Martin Sellner the leader of the
Austrian identitarian movement received
approximately one thousand seven hundred
dollar donation from Breton torrent in
early 2018 Sellner and his movement push
racist conspiracy theories including one
that weren't used as the title of his
manifesto as he allegedly murdered 50
million worth 50 worshippers in March
after the financial ties were revealed
Salander tried to distance himself from
turin but austrian german outlets
reported this week that Sellner had
exchanged emails with torrent until at
least July 2018 and that both men
invited each other to their respective
countries so and moving forward seller
confirmed the emails authenticity so and
just a the other little button on sound
there is he was part of this with
Brittany Pettibone and Lauren southern
they wanted to do an anti refugee boat
in like the UK and they were denied
entry for that lauren southern you might
want you might understand why media
fascists like steven crowder and ben
shapiro are so worried about this lauren
southerners are regular it was a guest
on both of their shows why and she
literally was talking about going on
boats and throwing things if I
understand correctly at refugee and a
month before she appeared on ben shapiro
show she has a video reacting to an
attack in london about like well we all
like our nice nice lives but isn't
anybody gonna do anything because a
hundred years from now
demographics might be a bit different
like she this this is who we're dealing
with this is who basically the out light
has been promoting right absolutely and
him ago and you know again when you and
so and sam harris has plenty of lines
that you can look up that people like
mehdi hussain and Murtaza hussain have
documented that say in his laborious you
know thought experiment way convey very
similar sentiment to Sellner and
southern like that
again that's just reality and in fact he
himself said at one point several years
ago that it will be the only the
fascists who speak honestly if we don't
get real about Islam I'm paraphrasing
once again I know out of context out of
context out of context but this is just
extraordinary because what you have here
and look people liberals who are running
around saying that now we need to treat
this like terrorism heart like an export
you know Peabody jag has a horrifying
dystopian oh let's let's in rien import
which by the way it already was being
used on Muslim populations to a
significant extent the tactics of
terrorism and counterinsurgency that
we've used abroad that have killed so
many innocent people that have caused so
many problems no of course that's not
the answer of course again we need to
look at the material conditions in a
broad sense what is the role of social
alienation what is the role of a love
isolation what is the role of
unaddressed histories of racism and
bigotry and white supremacy and and male
supremacy what is the role of Technology
and how that loops back with a lack of
real bonds how does this relate to the
changing economy and even if they're
relatively more better off still
diminished opportunities all of these
things need to be addressed as Bill
Fletcher jr. said right-wing populism is
the herpes of capitalism sam Harris I
guess II I'm sure he's got some spiel
about social media companies but I don't
hear anything structural in that and
this is of course exactly the analysis
he had no time for did his best to
demonize when it was about over a
billion people and the most important
foreign policy questions of our time
then on the other hand they were just
shipped posted yeah maybe it look well
know precisely though because again if
you read the research of an actual
person who does actual work on these
things like Scott at Hren
he actually did document in this case
not the posting but actually things like
social bonds and lack of purpose and why
is it that there's a correlation with
like petty crime and going into
terrorism and this is all like this is
ridiculous because I read a translation
of the hadith and you
can see it documented in Isis's own
documents Sam Harris is actually saying
with a straight face he's not doing his
previous game which is you know oh you
forget that Jeff Sessions is Attorney
General and Donald Trump as president
white supremacy is a weird fringe thing
in society saying precisely exactly
saying exactly what Tucker Carlson says
without any of Tucker Carlson's
interesting content that might add or
any of his understanding of class and
then you know what he's doing in this
one is after a career of saying you
don't need to really do any serious
analysis of anything involving the most
pressing racial foreign policy issues of
our time oh well in this case you can
just ignore the manifesto okay that's
just for it's just stuff written down
people relate to text and all sorts of
complex way I had no idea that Sam
Harris was such a postmodernist
now again I'll say again this is what it
appears to be from this clip and I did
notice in that clip it seemed like he
was actually to finally somewhat to his
credit he did seem to be speaking a lot
more clearly and not sort of giving so
many you know booby traps and outs and
thought experiments and other nonsense
to evade making his point as he always
did with Islam but if that is what he's
putting across Wow
I mean that's just unreal is there
anything else we got a little bit more
then I want to bring Christian Pia
Chiellini into here okay had this form
right still not entirely clear what
happened there so this is a kind of
arrangement that social media has
introduced into our lives or some people
are willing to commit murder and even
mass murder simply to enjoy the
spectacle
it creates online again they're either
crazy or evil or both but in certain
cases the reasons for their behavior or
not as they appear right and we can used
to get very confused about are you
serious there has to be snow you know
what I'm sorry even I have to believe
that this is a truncated quote and
Harris said here is a parody of what I
would say if I was in the most bald way
contradicting everything I've ever said
past the point of human credulity and
comprehension fears no way were we that
has to be taken out of context Sam I
apologize in advance there's no way
there is no way after you reducing
thousands of years of human history and
cultural development to a couple of
passages in a holy book who's Lana Ridge
'''l language you don't even read or
comprehend and no foreign policy
understanding that you say you can
understand all of that and that a bad
beliefs lead to bad actions etc etc and
in this case with a known manifesto that
you can read by the way in the same
language that was written within weeks
that echoes all of the rhetoric of
global nationalist politics right now
they we just can't say what's going on
in front of our own eyes there's no way
you have to be joking it's got to be a
joke and in fact I had no idea Sam
Harris was funny you know what's also
rich about this is he's sort of bolder
izing a Christian peachy lunatic that I
think actually broadly is true and I
think this is where the grain of truth
that maybe Sam Harris defenders might
want to come at us with here's what
Pachulia said have also noticed a
phenomenon I call cult hopping in young
extremists they help from extreme to
another far left to far right or vice
versa also Nazi to Isis it's a broken
search for identity community and
purpose this is less about ideology than
most people think I think 100% true and
this is exactly what sam harris said was
nonsense
when Scott at Rijn who actually does
ethnographic research and has actually
you know I don't know talked to Isis
members spent time in this region he
said it was all of the things that
Christian pelini says who by the way in
Sunland Christian pelini is a ex-nazi
who exits people from these groups maybe
he would who had a falling-out with sam
harris america sam harris needed to
defend the honor of stefan molyneux
apparently camera i don't remember what
it was they had a falling out what is
surprise but pitching it was right which
allah core especially knee was right we
don't need to know what it was no pitch
Eleni was right so that's incredible so
even if so if you come out
us with the grain of truth of what Sam
saying here which by the way I just want
to hasten to add Poochyena was not
saying that about Christchurch
he was absolutely not saying that about
Christchurch but I do want to just say
more broadly if you want to say the the
grain of search that Sam Harris is
identifying contradicts every single
thing but he said he has ever said about
terrorism and Islam so great take that
line of inquiry Reid Scott at Rijn Reid
Steve Cole get a proper understanding of
these things because at this point as we
deal with ascendant white nationalist
terrorism and governments we um well we
really needed to not have the same
failures to begin with when it came to
the Middle East and South Asia but in a
very self-interested way if you live in
the United States you cannot apply the
same horrific national security state
policies and rank stupidity of analysis
that people except ours brought forward
but that really is I mean I again I
really remain I want to keep putting on
the record that I twenty percent of me
for the fact that I have zero respect
for Sam Harris that has to be taken to
protects there's no way that he's saying
that literally they're spelling that out
sounds somewhat invidious and we don't
really have time to clean up the mess C
describing his whole career oh my god
that is unbelievable like that actually
didn't even me again I have zero none no
respect for Sam Harris and people who
compute there's still people whine to me
about it's incredible but like that is
just amazed my entire career is under
threat now because I just thought
occurred to me that what if Muslims are
shitposting to if after there was an
Isis beheading somebody that was just
like you know you have someone like
jihadi John who's directionless and
disturbs and has some bad experiences
with the British national security state
and he's kind of shitposting a little
bit he's looking for direction and
purpose and then you know this is this
political vacuum that gets opened up sam
harris would be the first to call you a
morally relative it every term in the
book it's and it's just with spunk read
that there's nothing wrong with a little
bit of clarity about Isis or the
Christchurch shooting you just have to
say okay how do we actually deal with it
which of course Sam had nothing for but
it is amazing if that clip is correct to
see him just in the most naked terms
contradict like the whole point of
really is very relatively you know is
totally boring an anodyne model like
yeah people believe bad things so they
do bad things it's like there is it's
the reverse fundamentalist
fundamentalism model where you take the
written word of any sort of Scripture as
like exactly how fundamentalists would
retake that is just I'm sorry I'm still
actually blazing from that all right
