when Donald Trump basically forced
himself on the mourners in Pittsburgh
they the the mayor had said please wait
please don't come now the rabbi emeritus
at the at the synagogue said please wait
don't come now the president of the
synagogue basically said well if he's
coming we will welcome him because what
choice did he have at that point and so
and at one point there were there were
literally thousands of mourners who
turned into protesters who basically
steno stopped the presidential travel
cade motorcade from heading to the
temple he he ultimately made it but it
was he had to go a different direction
he was there for about eleven minutes
and the only thing he tweeted was I was
treated really well when I went there I
mean it's just all that aside you made a
really good point in the last hour and I
want to reiterate it because I think
it's a I think it is a very astute we
were talking about this shooter who
considers himself a white nationalist
and the question as to you know what how
conscious is what Donald Trump is doing
and the big tell about his consciousness
and you made this point and I think it's
absolutely a hundred percent correct is
when he was arguing just a night or two
before this shooter shot up these people
in this synagogue that he was a
nationalist and he said before he said
that he says I know I'm not supposed to
say this I know you're not supposed to
say this but I'm a nationalist he is
expressing the awareness that there is a
problem with what he is saying that that
civilized society knows what that means
and he's gonna be one of those guys
anyways
I mean it's it's basically like you know
it's the equivalent of the KKK guy
coming to town with the hood on and
saying you know what I'm taking my hood
off yeah and that's what he did I'm
dieting obviously
exactly the same but that's the dynamic
and it shows a level of consciousness
about what he's saying and he certainly
knows that this caravan that is coming
and we don't even know that it's coming
to the United States frankly in terms of
like in the you know it is a group of
about three or four thousand people who
are in southern Mexico they are a month
to two months away on foot if they were
to come directly to the United States
the idea that you would send 5200 troops
to the border with Blackhawk helicopters
with night-vision goggles and wait for
two months right for this possible
you know caravan of families with
another 7,000 troops at the ready this
is absurd this is beyond absurd well it
do you know what I think it is I mean it
is absurd of course I mean for a and
we've said this you and I have talked
about this before there is no crisis
there is no danger these people aren't
dangerous they're coming to turn
themselves over to the authorities and
apply for refugee status they're you
know that it's ridiculous that this is
being ginned up into a big thing and
when you look at Fox News and this
horrifying stuff they're saying over
there about bringing in smallpox which
has been eradicated since 1980 and
leprosy and they're bringing in disease
and they're going to disease our
children I mean it's grotesque it's Nazi
stuff I'm sorry there's no other way to
put this it just is it's Nazi style you
know demean you know demeaning human I
think of an entire group it's grotesque
and but the thing that's that you know
what trip is doing is he's wagging the
dog I mean what you normally you know
expect think of wagging the dog is that
you start some kind of foreign proxy war
to sort of divert attention and you know
bring rally around the flag and do all
that well trumps are really not in a
position to do that he you know he's got
wars he could start
big one but you know that the Chancellor
that this is much more his style which
is he's sending troops he wants this
vision right he wants these pictures and
I really hope the media understands what
he's doing here he's desperate for these
pictures of the military going down to
the border you know he's expressed
admiration for the DMZ between North and
South Korea boy you know that really
looks good they've got 32,000 troops but
you know on that border and they don't
they don't let anybody in and I'm going
you know of course he's a not
understanding it's that North Korea
won't let anybody out is the problem to
shoot them if they try to leave so he
was completely misunderstanding the
system there or whatever but he loved
the way that looked right I mean he just
has that he has a vision of a military
on the border marching around wearing
their uniforms Blackhawk helicopters
flying overhead and having this you know
we're getting tough here this is it this
is vision and that's what he wants the
media to show over the course of the
next few days before the election that's
why he's sending them now I mean it
makes no sense of course I mean this
Caravan which is probably going to be
way fewer than numbers many of them stop
in Mexico applied they apply for refugee
status there whatever this has happened
before they don't know they're not going
to be coming in large numbers all at
once you know pounding on the doors of
the great United States but that's why
he's doing it now of course is for the
election so it's a wags dog's scenario
and and he has dived it I mean it
occurred and it's gonna cost by the way
billions of dollars you don't send you
know 5,000 troops to the border and he's
gonna build tent cities he says we're
exact cost billions of dollars too and
he is spending money for nothing I mean
this is billions that are going to be
spent on this show it occurred to me we
should have let him have his stupid
military parade it would have been
cheaper because what he really wants is
to have this show of force and to
impress all of his you know I don't know
foreign you know of fellow
authoritarian right-wingers with his
toughness and impress his base for the
election and it's just it's it's
pathetic and I really really hope that
the media wise is up here and
stance they have to cover this as a
stunt they cannot cover it as a real
thing because it isn't a real thing yeah
I absolutely agree with you and and and
it was interesting to see once they had
made the decision to send the military
down there it was as if they like well
this scratches that itch but we still
need that itch and that's when we heard
the narrative at least on Fox like
literally you know on the majority
report I pulled like half a dozen clips
over the course of like a 36 hour period
where every Fox commentator all of a
sudden starts talking about the
potential for diseases coming in and as
if like okay yes we sent the military
down there but but now you know this
stuff could be airborne it could it
could cross the border you know just in
a sneeze or something and it is it is
just stunning to see this play out and
of course it is an attempt to rile the
base and there's another attempt to rile
the base and that is along the same
lines it is a Donald Trump essentially
claiming that he has the authority to
get rid of the constitutional right of
birthright citizenship with an executive
order we'll talk about that and more on
the other side
I'm Sam cedar this is ring of fire radio
I'm talking to the great Digby Heather
Parton and we'll both be back in just a
minute
