[Music]
come from a 9-5 to area code who's this
where he come from
hi I'm ed I'm calling from the Twin
Cities oh man what's on your mind all
right I just wanted to see you guys I
called in a couple of months ago about
the elections gonna happen in Minnesota
and well they're now they're done and I
just wanted I'm feeling so good man
everything went off well here we
basically retain all the executive
offices in the state including the
governorship which was I told you guys
about that guy who was running for the
GOP Jeff Johnson we need a crazy lunatic
guy and we also managed to hold the
Attorney General Keith Elton seat
yep with all the controversy I was
around that one Ilhan the one in the
Minneapolis seat that keith Ellison
vacated and we picked up another we
picked up two seats but we lost two so
it seems like we will swap out state
seats for twin city seats and exurbs and
everything they basically just run off
well the state now seems more firm in
the Democrat hands there's one fly in
the ointment where we managed to take
the Statehouse but we don't have the
state Senate by one seat so I'm just
hoping for like some kind of videotape
or you know a Republican state senator
that finds them well you know with his
or escort or something forward a touch
if you find it yes probably happy to
remote also Tina Smith won that one
franken's re1 Frank and yes he was kind
of people were nervous about it she won
by 11 what's her politics and well the
governor won by 11:25 Wow she pretty
progressive
yeah and so it seems sorry about that
it seemed that like the whole state and
much of the Upper Midwest kind of
reverted back to PS and Wisconsin and
Michigan are now back under our control
and I'm feeling pretty confident I'm
just so happy man because the the way
they were whipping up sentiment out here
I'm I'm Somali and the way they were
using that the whole you know people who
came to Minnesota and trying to use that
especially out state areas to whip up
votes just was kind of getting gross
yeah well it's gonna get a lot worse in
about a year I mean yeah no doubt
because I mean Trump came here and the
1661 was running and lost by one and a
half so yeah he came really close to
dangerous but now it's he I'm really
hoping that you know this thing sorts
itself out we we managed to take back
everything but it was a very you know
costly division this guys causing a lot
of damage so well I appreciate the
update on that and I'm glad it worked
out well in Minnesota thanks for calming
yep also a great football weekend for
Minnesota as the Gophers beat the
Badgers to take the Paul Bunyan acts for
the first time in 15 years and the
Vikings beat the Packers Matt like
sports me I was gonna say we need a
sting for that I'm just trying to yeah
it's a button for if any new Minnesota
listeners so you go to see grime yeah
you get it all don't forget to hit the
subscribe button for more updates on
sports news out of Minnesota that we
update you every six to eight months I'm
excited to tell you what has happened to
the high school hockey championships
that's what I'll be looking I'll tell
you what there is just something it's
this is divergent but just like the idea
of like any historical figure saying
like please like and subscribe it's
hilarious
