[Music]
come from a 3-1 for area code who's this
where you come from
give me one second what take your time
all right
this fix John is saying Willis again
fake snow I was just one yeah
fake John yeah ok I called it before we
talked about whether or not a government
was necessary for a central government
was necessary to issue currency anyway
here goes my shows that you oh thank you
sorry um yes I was just wondering you
guys sort of use the term neoliberal
relatively pejoratively and I'm not sure
that the term is necessarily deserving
of that I mean I think it depends on
well that's consistent with ideology
consistent with our ideology that it is
pejorative well so that's the part that
I'm not necessarily sure about right so
cuz would you get someone like Paul
Krugman who you could certainly describe
the neoliberal but you can be sort of
Pro universal healthcare pro welfare
sake Pro sort of social democracy and
simultaneously think that throwing still
be free trade and well know neoliberal I
mean the way that I you know the way
that I mean I think you know neoliberal
has had a very like big loosening of its
definition but I think ultimately from
my perspective what it means is you see
market the market as the premier and in
many instances the exclusive mechanism
to deal with the distribution of income
with the distribution of services and
and the production production
and that all answers lie with the market
now you have someone and I don't know if
specifically if Krugman subscribes to
that but there is you know broadly
speaking liberals will call for
mitigating the government to mitigate
the the the the cruelty if you will of
of the market and I think you know maybe
III think that mitigation of cruelty is
good I think that also you know sort of
an ideology that is cruel is probably
that's the first hint for me that it's
bad now I'm not saying cruel in a
pejorative way but if you take it that
way you can take it I mean you know like
so yeah I mean I don't perfect but also
I'd like to think that great Jamie a
thing that people don't realize always
about neoliberalism is it's not just
about letting the free market do its
thing neoliberal governments are
extremely active in taking measures to
prop up the market at the expense of
human needs well the other element of
this and if you really go back to like
Mont Pelerin these guys like Hayek and
von Mises and whatnot although Hayek and
von Mises had a split between them about
this and I can't remember who was it was
who on this but Hayek was probably
better that the idea was then not only
should we just have the market but we
should also yes have government function
to support the market in that way and
sometimes certain players and they also
have an international scheme too that
would limit the sovereignty of and and
be anti-democratic specifically so that
markets can function without the
constraints put on it by by you know
governments or liberals or whomever and
this was that's actually a really good
way because your example of free trade
really illustrates that because the
objections
trade agreements whether they're NAFTA
or or or the Pacific trans-pacific
partnership are based not on some like
platonic idea that like oh one region
grows barley or another one grows
flowers and they should be able to like
you know send ships and planes to each
other and trade goods right the
objection is that these rules are
written in such a way in a highly
bureaucratic highly top-down highly
governmental way in fact highly
bureaucratic way to favor the interests
of financial services industry
pharmaceutical companies specifically at
the expense of labor the environment and
consumers so even just the frame of you
know calling those agreements free trade
deals is actually why it's not very it's
highly misleading capital can move labor
can be broken and and standards are
specifically universally set now in my
ideology I support setting universal
standards but I want to do it on behalf
of labor so my objection is not to the
notion of some forms of universality but
they aren't just local and loose and
everything flows they're bureaucratic
and controlling and in that sense
neoliberal but what would that said I
don't know do you perceive that it as
being pejorative yeah I'm you know I
think I agree with all the things you're
saying I just so like earlier for
example when you're giving there like
Margaret Thatcher Tony Blair sort of
guitar analogy and you were essentially
labeling Tony Blair's neoliberal right
or like sort of third way politics as
being a product of neoliberalism and I
think a lot of those right but the
British still have a universal health
care system they still have a lot of
public literally as historically they
are literally a product of neoliberalism
because even the ones third way leaders
not Tony Blair at all but Tony Blair is
a politician of the right but someone
like Gordon Brown
was Blair's partner who I do think did
absolutely want to do what he conceived
of F's his best to save some forms of
social democracy in that economic
climate the whole project of the Third
Way is accepting all of the fundamental
assumptions of the Thatcher Reagan era
and then saying can we preserve a few
slices yeah how do we let air out of the
tire so it literally is a product of
neoliberalism and that's definitely not
pejorative maybe this is what Sam is
right it's overused but that's like a
historical description of where that
politics comes from Anthony Giddens who
is the intellectual guru of these guys
would acknowledge that first and
foremost yeah it's okay what I would say
is I think that when you're using the
term maybe be a little bit more
explanatory because you know you can
clone everyone from like Hayek in the
Chicago economist to Paul Krugman and
those guys like basically can't stand
each other you put me in a room with
well I mean but it's not like but great
all right all right here I would say two
things one I do think the term is
overused it's thrown around to just mean
anybody who somebody disagrees with on
the left that happens quite a bit like
on Twitter and whatnot but it's also
possible that groopman and whomever hate
each other but they do share a similar
you know they're they're operating on
the same plane in terms of the way that
they look at the economy it's just that
they have different ideas about you know
what should be done whether you know one
person you can have one neoliberal
saying yeah the market dictates that
people don't have health care and guess
what they're there they're out of
luck they should do better in the
marketplace
Krugman can say well the market is such
that people aren't going to have health
care so as a society we're obligated to
you know provide some type of safety net
as it were and maybe vided mechanisms to
help it happen which is or even
non-market mechanisms
but the idea is to preserve the market
and the way that we preserve the market
is you know to add this sort of like we
have a little bit of a backstop I mean
that is those people both you know I
think can both share a neoliberal
perspective but have different ideas on
how to maintain it and hate each other
for it and that's still you know we're
just talking about a different thing
where we would abandon the market in
this office at you know various rates
and different velocities and different
distances but we're all very I think
comfortable doing that but that is part
of the tricky of that word because it's
totally overused but it also is like
another fact that we literally we are in
a neoliberal world so we're all do
liberal to a degree that's been the
template upon which the whole world is
operated for decades anybody when Nixon
said we're all Keynesian
right now right that's what it's been
like the underlying economic assumptions
are in there like rational agents and
somewhat efficient markets and that
stuff like I agree but I think that you
can get there are people who would say
like the government should supply food
and clothing and housing it seems like
that John we're going over to Sabo we're
going over the same time Territory
I'm sorry all I want to say was that if
the government if the government
provides all that stuff then if the Free
Trade Agreement dies impact the labor
market and you're talking about yes okay
someone was just their job but you're
not depriving them of access health care
or food or housing things like that so
Ben right you could be able to deal
liberal and that's that's all I'm saying
yeah okay I think I agree with you now
that I better understand what you're
referring to that's what we wanted to
get to appreciate the call I was very
neoliberal at all to my game data to the
Jordan sense no I think I think he came
around no no good cause and if we didn't
clarify them for him we certainly did
for other people
