this story that's not getting much
attention Donald Trump theoretically or
at least in terms of name change the
name of NAFTA we'll see if that passes
at any point but in the meantime Ford
announces that they are laying off
almost twelve percent of their workforce
24,000 people that's according to a
report from Morgan Stanley
they have lost a billion dollars because
of the tariffs that President Trump
imposed on metals and other goods in
addition Kansas City Star reported
yesterday afford his temporarily halted
production of transit vans in Clay Como
Missouri it will leave two thousand
workers idle for about three or four
weeks the best part of this story not
the best part the most disturbing part
this is from fortune mag and fortune com
incidentally despite the news of the
layoffs Ford stock closed down 3.4% they
see the way that works right layoffs are
supposed to raise the value of the
stocks yep that's um that's how exactly
hos root shareholder value shareholder
value more do you want us to do we
destroyed a bunch of people's
livelihoods now the loss of 24,000 jobs
there is an algorithm out there I'm not
exactly sure what it is off the top of
my head but I was more aware of it back
in the day when the auto industry was
threatened before the Obama bailout of
a couple of these enterprises and for
every person who works in a auto plant
there's at least one or two other people
who work in subsidiary jobs that either
service the plant or provide for the
cars that are being built in around
Michigan or Ohio I may be making you
know the upholstery for the seats or
something or a knob for the radio
whatever it is and so these tariffs I
mean it may make people feel good but
it's not helping
