in Chile there have been mass
demonstrations going on for several days
now the immediate precipitating cause I
believe was a fare rise in the subways
the first response from the Sebastian
Pinera government which was elected a
couple years ago he's a right-wing
businessman he represents the right in
Chile was that people of lower incomes
should ride the subways and use public
transport in non peak hours if it was
too much for them so in other words I'd
go to work earlier and earlier and go
home later and later you should suffer
as a person and as a social economic
class because of new austerity now the
demonstrations have been aggressive and
powerful and you have military control
in certain parts of the city which have
not in certain parts of the country
which has not been the case since the
formal end of the Pinochet dictatorship
Augusto Pinochet of course came to power
in 1973 with the backing of the United
States it was Chile September 11th there
was a powerful leader in Salvador
Allende and associated social movements
the CIA in the Nixon administration
helped put an end to it and a ghost of
Pinochet would go on to kill thousands
of innocent people in Chile the Chilean
government would actually commit an act
of terrorism in Washington DC when they
blow up I'll tell a former ambassadors a
car and a car bombing was speaking out
against the regime and they would
coordinate well along with the United
States with other right-wing hunters
across Latin America and something
called the Operation Condor where they
coordinated across borders to murder
liberals and leftists and commit
atrocities so there's a huge amount of
visual and political power and seeing
the military back on the streets
let's play a little bit of footage here
from some protests in Chile and then
come back to me I guess does this have
sound or no
I guess not
[Applause]
[Music]
so P Panera has backed down on the
subway hike but the bigger context that
exists here is that you know unlike in
Brazil where because the labor union
movement led by Lula in the 80s was
instrumental the military dictatorship
was in no small part was brought down in
the main by the labor union movement
it's democratic constitution did some
real things to ensure labor protections
that's under assault today the Chilean
transition did not it got rid of
Pinochet it formalized democracy but it
did not have corresponding reforms in
the structural inequities that have
defined Chile for hundreds of years I
mean Chile is relatively wealthy and it
might be the most unequal if not one of
the most unequal in the region so you've
had some social democratic governments
which have done some decent reforms but
they are certainly not radical they have
not had the same types of achievements
in terms of poverty reductions that
other pink-eyed governments had as an
example and now you have a right-wing
oligarchic government which certainly
has remnants that go back to the
Pinochet era and this follows the World
Bank IMF pattern I mean we're gonna get
celeb anon in rock in a second I've been
following Haiti and Ecuador extensively
on TMDs please look up what's happening
in Haiti very specifically it's
extremely important these are all World
Bank IMF guided austerity policies that
still terrorize most people across the
globe in conjunction with local elites
that's the context of what you see in
Chile and it corresponds with existing
radical social movements that exist in
the student sphere that exists in the
communist sphere that exist in the
indigenous sphere so we'll keep
following this as it plays out obviously
seems like things are popping off all
over the world right now they are
popping off all over the world in
Lebanon and Iraq
I think these protests really parallel
what's happened in Sudan the Sudanese
movement of 2018 which is still ongoing
and still in conflict was fun
about reversing austerity it was
reversing these profound inequities
you're seeing it in Iran Iran has one of
the highest Gini coefficients in the
world in spite of the rhetoric of
equality of the Islamic Republic so
there's and even as there's always us
attempts to destabilize Iran there are
organic labor movements inside Iran
Lebanon and Iraq maybe are particularly
significant because of the non sectarian
nature of the uprisings right so in Iraq
and Lebanon you do have much more
relative openness than say the Gulf
monarchies with out any of the same you
know corresponding wealth that is able
to be spread around the place like the
United Arab Emirates or Saudi Arabia
which are you know particularly Saudi
extremely repressive but all literally
monarchies in Lebanon and so on there's
a much more combative press and
journalistic culture there's much more
argument but it's a system that is based
on representation of the ethnic bloc's
you have a Sunni in one position you
have a Shia in another position you have
a Christian in another right and it
reflected in Iraq its Kurdish along with
Sunni and Shia so that obviously is a
lock on democratic possibility because
it is a narrow sectarian terms in terms
of what can literally happen it
disincentivizes professionalizing
operations because things are in-stream
ly narrow patronage networks and it
blocks what the dream always is right
which is cross boundary cross identity
class organizing in extremely unequal
societies Iraq does have a communist
party Lebanon has Marxist factions and
these protests in both places
particularly in Lebanon which I've seen
more of but I think also in Iraq have
this very powerful anti-austerity cross
sectarian class-based component and
they've already seen in Lebanon some
real reversals the government has agreed
to a set of reforms it's announced a
it's pulling back from the austerity
measures that it had been trying to push
through before and um basically the
Prime Minister Hariri has addressed the
nation and said that they're gonna try
to put the country's finances in order
obviously that's complicated because
they're also talking about deficit you
know shrinking the deficit which you
don't want to have rolled onto most
Lebanese people of course hundreds of
thousands of people taking the streets
some people waving flags saying they
want to bring down the regime which as I
say is pretty significant because this
is the sort of regime placeholder regime
that has basically kept peace in the
country in a way since the civil war
ended I believe in 1990 but has locked
in these really dysfunctional
distribution systems I'll cover most
I'll cover these stories more of the
people have been asking me so I wanted
to do a little bit as best I could to
get people up to date a little bit on
Lebanon and Chile the old world is dying
the new world struggles to be born how
long
