meanwhile there was apparently
conservatives were someone played a mean
joke on them now as you are aware the
walk away thing wait didn't what the big
walk away event happened well wasn't
have I supposed to be so huge yes that
thing was a sort of washout so they
switched to blogs it Oh
so they rolled walk away into blogs it
yeah and blogs it blew up because
apparently they used Kanye's name
without really being associated and
Candace Owens grifted Kanye a bit too
hard okay that he designed the blog's
logo and Kanye is like I didn't do that
and now I see that my my talents are
being used to spread messages I don't
agree with so everyone's upset at
Candace Owens for ruining the
spokesperson had that well that's that's
too bad but fortunately for those
conservatives who were looking for a
blessed hero
they had reformed Republican her name
was chickpeas and she wrote on Twitter I
will not hide any longer the left has
made us feel as if as if black
Republicans should hide but not anymore
hashtag blacks for Trump hashtag walk
away hashtag Mogga in fact she was
wearing a Mogga hat and then she posted
that on last week on October 27th I
guess maybe a week and a half ago and
then four days after that on Halloween
she wrote thank you all so much for your
overwhelming support after seeing this
tweet my parents cut me off and refused
to pay my university tuition so if you
can find it in your hearts to help this
young black Republican pay for school it
would be appreciated and there was a
GoFundMe and there were some reports
that she had made over a hundred and
fifty thousand dollars her original
tweet got twenty
four thousand likes and eighty three
hundred retweets and and then of course
you know Christmas ended and it turns
out she writes Kegel Queen writes
there's a black girl pretending to be a
to be a trump supporter and imago folks
have been sending her donations since
she produced a fraudulent text of her
parents kicking her out and what is just
JSK sks I don't know actually
why do you all expose me let me t
heiping hearted randomly right like bah
and then other people said it turns out
it was a fraud ladies and gentlemen she
she and there was she did ultimately she
did ultimately cop to it she did post
this as a joke anyways just ordered my
iPhone excess max y'all want some from
the Apple store and of course she was
joking it turns out she didn't really
raise much money at all
her name is uh well I'm not gonna give
her name because she's probably now
going to get but she wrote the next day
hot take stealing from Republicans isn't
bad because Republicans aren't people
hey she apparently just wanted to troll
people and she has to say that on the
phone Saturday Bryan Feldman from New
York magazine spoke to her she admitted
that she didn't raise much of anything
and that she'd refunded what she had
received that's between me and I really
yeah asked for a ballpark figure she
said I didn't scam anybody the thing
though I didn't I just felt really weird
about taking their money this could go
south really fast I just decided to
refund to everyone and give their money
back I think it was maybe 200 bucks at
that point
for schedule to get into character money
I just honestly didn't want to take
their money yeah I can't pay for school
but I don't want Republican money to pay
for it just want everyone to think I'm
the finesse Queen which I am you know we
caught a proof of concept and she she
wanted to use the attention to her
advantage that mean she cuz she'd done
it originally just as a joke and a lot
of Republicans have this idea that
everyone thinks Republicans are mostly
racist and they're really desperate to
get that stigma off them and I felt like
capitalizing on that I was at nine
hundred likes and I told my friend I'm
gonna just I feel like this is gonna
blow up let's try and get some money off
these dumb rich Republicans thus the go
fund me was born but like she said she
didn't really do anything and she
somebody should start of GoFundMe for
her now yes really good or more hoaxes
venmo her right now
