[Music]
how would you run against Mitch
McConnell if you were gonna take them on
for the Senate in Kentucky Matt a
cocaine Mitch cocaine Mitch be a
campaign built her own little story done
by Lee found little stood by leave that
your phone or that I don't usually know
but I know that but yeah it's her in the
nation yet reporter for the intercept
now but a little discovery that was
phoned in on a boat in the dock
somewhere there was a boat but yeah
that's what I that's how I would do it I
am pretty confident you would not do
this um this is Amy McGrath she's
challenging Mitch McConnell in for the
Senate now you know I'll just start
really bluntly Mitch McConnell is almost
definitely not going to lose this race
Mitch McConnell is the grave digger of
American democracy he's one of the worst
most immoral people in the history of
the United States of America he wields
power with no regard for anything and is
a bagman of corporate America and any
delusions that people have had about him
opposing Trump or anything I mean look
if you were naive enough to think that
in the first place you're already quite
out of touch of politics in reality but
you know it should be honest shadow of a
doubt that he did profoundly does not
care in fact you know even going back to
the Bush era there's there's some
reporting I recall the time of you know
Mitch McConnell sort of privately
understanding that Iraq was much more
disastrous than his but his willingness
to continue for political reasons to
keep you know feeding that
slaughterhouse as long as he as was
politically necessary he's there purely
as an instrument of his own power gain
he wants to be Senate Majority Leader
and
he's there to do the business of
oligarchy and corporate America in
taking more and more and more wealth and
designing a judicial system that hand
strings the shackles democracy you know
this is a book democracy and changed by
Nancy McLain is brought you know broadly
you need to understand libertarian and
Republican economics in general by
reading that book but I think even just
the sort of personality and what Mitch
McConnell is a conduit of is that book
and then if you actually want to
understand Mitch Alec's Perrine wrote
the kind of definitive work on him from
the New Republic and he's very
politically savvy and he is built I mean
consider again this guy is has always
been chronically unpopular he's been a
punching bag by four Republican stalkers
and pundits he's obviously you know he
has no charisma he has no human appeal
so ask yourself why is this guy been
politically you know unvanquishable for
decades and it's because he is the
conduit for the most powerful forces in
American politics and he knows how to
patronage and he knows how to do machine
politics in Kentucky there was actually
a piece years ago about how and it might
have changed recently but about how
Mitch McConnell's national agenda of
endless assaults on labor in the middle
class always had a couple of rare
reception exceptions when it came
specifically for narrow sets of
constituencies in Kentucky so my point
is if you're gonna run against this guy
might as well just run a clear campaign
of denunciation and opposition to one of
the worst figures in modern American
history or you could do what you think
is a clever triangulation but it's
transparent and embarrassing for
everybody else to see because you're not
a good political communicator and you
could cozy up with another one of the
worst most grotesque human beings in
American history in an attempt
to triangulate against Mitch that's what
Amy McGrath is doing check her out on
Morning Joe this morning there have been
many people over the years who come at
Mitch McConnell who believe they he or
she were the candidate that we're going
to finally take him out politically and
he has persevered he's been a resilient
political candidate and a politician in
Washington through the years why do you
believe this time is different
well and you're absolutely right to say
he's very formidable and he's been
around 34 years I think this is
different it's a different race because
you know Kentucky voted overwhelmingly
for Donald Trump and you can say
Kentucky's a very red state but it's a
very Pro Trump state and if you if you
think about why Kentuckians voted for
Trump they wanted to drain the swamp and
Trump said that he was going to do that
Trump promised to bring back jobs
he promised to lower drug prices in
Kentuckians and that is very important
and you know what who stops them along
the way who stops the president from
doing these things well Mitch McConnell
and I think that that's really important
and that's going to be you know my
message that the things that Kentuckians
voted for Trump for are not being done
he's not able to get it done because of
Senator McConnell this is like I don't
know you know obvious I don't think he
does campaigns anymore but this is like
the most insipid you know just you too
clever by half mark Penn that I
have seen in recent memory and this is
of course still a party that's being led
by you know the endlessly
you know the just totally empty and
vacuous Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi
but I mean you know the avi look the
obviousness of how this is not gonna
work is obvious to every I mean what
else can you say okay the only people
that you're gonna motivate to go to the
polls that are actually Democrats in
Kentucky obviously loathe Donald Trump
they loathed his misogyny they loathe
him because he's a grotesque thing
they're gonna be totally put off
their candidate actively praising Trump
she's not even doing the the real red
state play which is do Jetta play which
is like hey man I believed his scam and
now I don't she's literally saying no no
this guy's really trying but oh but
mitch mcconnell's holding him up because
she thinks that as a woman democrat that
she's gonna bank shot to the audience in
Kentucky that would be interested in
that message which are like you know
Infowars listeners and you know other
you know extremist crackpots who have a
cult relationship with Donald Trump it's
it's stupid it's vacuous it's
embarrassing to watch and you know look
I never sure I hope that she beats Mitch
McConnell but it will be the thumping
that she will get is quite richly
deserved that she's gonna campaign that
way Heidi Heitkamp tried what she's
basically attempting in North Dakota to
keep her seat the seat that she had
already had right and she lost to a
Mogga ideate like it doesn't work yeah I
mean honestly it's just Claire McCaskill
also lost now now of course MSNBC thinks
it's actually not only is that
interesting to listen to but she should
be a paid contributor to save Barack
Hussein Obama I mean normal people both
Democratic and Republican or Republicans
are not gonna fall for this scam and
normal Democrats are gonna be disgusted
this is almost it's almost just about
what kind of propaganda are you going to
give to your base with these candidates
because you're probably not gonna be
McConnell even if you run a great DSA
plus campaign right no but you might as
well run that and draw the distinction
between Mitch McConnell and what your
party stands for instead of this by
confusing that doesn't that is
attempting to play to the local crowd
but that look I mean we'll see how well
that works she's that she'll lose worse
than Grimes who I'm already sure at
Grimes ran a better race and I
yeah I mean that's exactly it and well
I'm basically what you're doing there is
you're saying I am such a careerist that
I'm gonna run this complete nonsense
because some consultant I don't knows
maybe convince me there's like a 2%
chance of pulling this off I mean and
frankly the same 1 or 2 percent chance
of pulling this off which are going to
be predicated on you know totally
unforeseen unpredictable events the what
would need to happen to put that race
and play you might as well run a DSA
plus campaign because neither of those
things are gonna make any difference
just embarrassing
