come from a 2:03 area code who's this we
come from this is Rachel Connecticut ray
from Connecticut what's going on how you
doing saying I'm doing good
devoting hey I just got a quick question
for you man they were talking about your
numbers last week just got to give some
love to the hood saying we all here
watching which you got the old black guy
anger and translate well on over here so
we've been tuning in to subscribe them
there's just one that you know show them
[Music]
hangar tell you the day when he thought
it about the Supreme Court you guys are
talking about some he just bad I
remember that I actually wasn't in that
day because I was I was being really
sick and somebody somebody sent me a
clip of it actually and what was amazing
was if someone is like Kennedy's
retiring and Jamie's like yeah and you
could listen to the anti-shah dad I
thought you were gonna jump for the desk
awkward it was like the most awkward
plug add Sam I thought Sam was either
gonna turn it to the Hulk or die
I will admit that was not my best timed
moment
Kennedy is retiring life is over yeah
and you can listen to the antsy bottom
about why the Supreme Court is
and he goes we're not talking about that
I was attempting to finish
right that was what the middle-aged
black Egger came out quick question
we're getting sidetracked here I've been
trying to get more involved especially
talking to my family because like
they're super super super religious
religious so I was talking about my dad
like why wasn't it more important in our
community to you know being more
involved in politics and you know just a
quick story or whatever my wife is white
and he looks over his shoulder and he
said you know he says to me he's like I
had a white girlfriend before and I'm
like okay and he's like I had to hide in
the trunk because you know he was a
busboy and she was a waitress and he
said if I wanted to see her at night I
had to hide in the trunk because if we
were caught together I literally would
you know I was afraid like I would I
would get murdered right and so when he
was just you know trying to you know
just tell me like if I even though we've
come really far whatever he looked at me
he's like son this is what it's always
been like for where it's always been
like seing you 72 years old and he's
like I've always had this experience
with America like it's never been like
welcoming for me so my job he so it
wasn't important to be involved involved
in like politics but to show me how to
survive to make sure I had a trade I'm
you know electrician right he wanted me
to be able to take care of myself and
everybody was calling yesterday they
made me think it's like you know those
are some questions because there are
some people I have like I didn't have a
comeback forward because there was such
a visceral answer he's like I hid in a
trunk when I wanted to hang out with my
girlfriend because I was afraid to be
there from the south he was in Florida
and we moved up here to Connecticut well
you know when he wanted to start over
and get away from that type of stuff and
I was just wondering do you guys have
any type of like advice for people that
are trying to talk to that generation I
do have a lot of trauma attached to you
know I would say I would say that I mean
you know it's a hard argument it's a
hard argument to make right like I mean
his experience of the United States has
been one where where where politics
don't matter that much but I would say
this to him is that the read
and y-you don't have to you Rea don't
have to hide in a trunk is a function of
I mean largely the activism of of you
know of people in your father's
generation but also to some extent
having politicians who who needed to
respond to it as opposed to needed to
not respond to it you know what I'm
saying
right like if if if Donald Trump is not
going to respond to that the Republican
Party is not going to respond to that
they are a party who's who who are all
all-in invested in the the it'd of 95
percent white people that populate their
party and having it's not the end-all
be-all but having the right people in
office for the for that type of progress
is necessary and I would just say like
you know it's it's it's a difference
it's not it maybe it's not a
world-changing difference but the idea
that you don't have to hide in that
trunk now is in part a function of
politics now we're at the very least
electoral politics it's certainly a
function of politics
don't lose it Sam so that's a great
point I just you thank you love you guys
thanks you know just keep up the good
work because I had no idea about any of
this stuff I started following your
libertarian clips and I was like this is
and for all of the libertarians that
caused another what happening it's
all happening he was right I got a call
more thanks right appreciate it that's
that's a very strong contender caller
right yeah
