[Music]
all right let's let's do one more I want
to do Amy Barrett because what the next
we don't know who the next justice to
leave the Supreme Court's going to be if
it's gonna be someone on the right it'll
probably be Clarence Thomas although you
know I've talked to people who think
he's not going to retire I mean if I if
I if I was him I would but there are
some people who feel like he just he
likes being on the court believe it or
not that's that's what I've heard and
then you got to look to essentially
assuming you know that there is no God
and there's no intervention on the the
the next justice to leave the court will
probably be someone like Ginsburg or
Breyer and Amy Barrett is the type of
pick that you know would sort of make it
look like and we should say there was a
piece just the other day about gosh
where do I have that about a Jimmy
Carter and how he diversified the court
significantly and that diversification
is because it's getting rolled back
relentlessly it seems by Donald Trump
but the idea of like picking there's a
couple of women out there where
presumably like well she's a woman
yet it turns out she's like I think you
write the handmaid yeah so talking about
by the way is marked Restless turn on
slate it's like exactly harder and all
he tried to do is to rear your listeners
to go check it out um
no Amy Benny Amy Coney barrack is what
comes next for the Republicans right
you are not projecting I am NOT
projecting we are not playing identity
politics with this the Republicans have
said explicitly in places like the
National Review um Donald Trump has said
it to his staff that's been reported by
Axios they have said explicitly that
they are saving Amy Coneybear
when Ruth Bader Ginsburg JA dies because
when they overturn roe v wade which is
what Amy Kony Barrett is designed to do
they want a woman to do it I don't know
why I don't know why that side seems to
think that if they smash women's rights
with a woman people will be somehow
confused as to the horrible sexism of
the decision but that's what they think
this is kind of like adding you'd
written reference Clarence Thomas
earlier right this is kind of their
thing where like they think that if they
can bring one of the members of the
oppressed group on to help with the
oppression it kind of makes the
oppression better somehow I don't know
why they think that but that is how they
think and they have explicitly said that
they want Amy Kony Barrett to be the one
writing the majority opinion when they
overturn roe v-- wade she's she's being
primed and pumped for this for this
position and it's not just and by the
way she's not just against Roby Wade
right like she's got issues with birth
control she's got real issues with
women's rights kind of up and down the
ledger here um she is a huge she's a
huge religious conservative she's
written extensively about her views
about Catholicism and the law she's
she's the problem and she is absolutely
what happens if god forbid RBG dies
before Trump is out of office whether
that's in the next year or in the next
six years she is what she is what we get
next and and you write that she's
hostile to reproductive rights and then
the other one is judicial precedent
because that's going to be the way that
they do this right is they're they're
going to have to construct a and they've
already begun to construct this it seems
in their dicta on on a whole host of
different rulings on the Supreme Court
how you can justify overturning
precedent right so the I try not to get
too much into the weeds about precedent
because it is a little bit of a legal
mumbo mumbo jumbo word but basically for
most of people's lives the Republicans
have argued that they do not want
political judges they want restrained
judge
is who respect the president of previous
Supreme Court's right that's what
they've said they've wanted right it's
under the federal society and under
mcconnell and under kind of the current
or current situation that republicans
have thrown that piece of hypocrisy
straight out the window they're no
longer even pretending anymore that
their legal goals or anything other than
a complete kind of supremacy of the
republican agenda and if there is
Supreme Court precedent that stands in
the way of the Republican agenda they
are more than willing to overturn it
they'll have to get will have to do some
real fancy footwork to try to say we're
not really overturning it we're just
updating it they'll do some legal
they'll drown it in legalese so it's not
as raw as it really is but their whole
point is to directly overturn previous
precedent set by the Supreme Court and
any a me holding Barron's entire kind of
scholarship is based around her
arguments for when it's okay to overturn
precedent simply because you disagree
with it I mean I think that's a good
place to sort of leave it and I should
just encourage people there's four more
judges to look at and just the whole
piece is is hugely important I think for
everyone on the left to understand the
relevance of the Supreme Court this was
a big deal in the run-up to the 2016
election and a lot of us around here
felt like that was not a fully
appreciated on the left and the
importance of all the the flaws that
were represented in the Hillary
Clinton's politics for many people on
the Left this issue was a paramount and
I think in many respects that open seat
is what led to Donald Trump as much as
just about any other thing ally missed
all the pieces Donald Trump and the plot
to take over the courts people can find
at the Nation magazine will link to it
on our front page at majority dot F M
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thank you very much
Sam
