the shutdown is getting a little bit
hairier for the Republicans again we
have that list of Republicans who
anticipate having some problems with it
and I would imagine there's a reason why
this is happening in Atlanta because
you've got David Perdue I believe is up
for re-election in 2020 and he is in
Georgia which is a got a partisan index
of r5 he won by he had 53% of the vote
in the last election
now that was six years ago or it will
have been six years and every two or
three years when we see these elections
there's trends Georgia is pushing
towards blue and in a potential wave
election which it could be in 2020 we
don't know yet
a guy like Perdue is going to be awful
nervous and it is the Republican Party
that is standing in the way of the
government being restarted period end of
story and in Georgia
here are TSA workers who are forced to
work for no pay and I think around now
is when they should have been getting
their check for the past two weeks and
they will not get it there are reports
of TSA workers calling in sick there are
reports of TSA workers basically saying
quitting going to get a different job
not like this is the best job in the
world anyways and we have a terminal in
the Miami Airport which is being closed
I guess theoretically temporarily
because they don't have TSA workers
people around the country are gonna
start to feel this more and more even if
they don't think they that it impacts
them they're gonna start to realize it
does
here is a clip of that protest in
Atlanta there you go
so those are TSA workers in Georgia and
this is gonna put pressure on a guy like
David Perdue and it's going to put
pressure on the other Republican
senators because that's where this whole
game is at one point they got to go down
to Mitch McConnell and say Mitch you're
gonna screw me over in my election and I
know that you're afraid that you're
gonna get screwed over in your election
if you have this vote but we can't all
live in states where you know Donald
Trump has above fifty percent approval
rating in fact most of those don't so
that's the problem that the Republicans
are facing there
