you were waxing nostalgic for the days
where you believed there was even maybe
10% of of those in the conservative
movement in the Republican Party who
were law and order types and play it by
the books and you know dragnet guys I
guess and nowhere more so than the
Senate the Republicans in the Senate
from Susan Collins to Orrin Hatch it
doesn't matter
Mike Lee you know Ted Cruz it doesn't
matter who we're talking about they
don't seem to be moving an inch away I
mean there was a time right like a year
and a half ago but like the the Lindsey
Graham types I mean all of them they'll
you know Lindsey Graham and particularly
he'll talk about well I don't think it's
appropriate for Mohammed Ben Solomon the
Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia to to kill
a u.s. resident journalist but there
doesn't seem to be any sort of
accountability like any caring about the
fact that the Trump administration is
basically said we don't care about it
we're moving forward it's one thing to
squawk about on TV but there's no
there's absolutely no move to hold Trump
accountable in that regard
and you know I saw a report earlier this
week where CNN went around to a bunch of
Republican senators and like are you
concerned that Donald Trump was named as
not named but it was clearly Donald
Trump as directing a Michael Cohen to do
something for which he was just
sentenced to three years in prison I
mean and all of them said well I need I
need to see more facts I don't know what
more facts there would be like a
videotape of this like what like what
what more facts do you need the
president directed someone to commit a
crime that landed that person in jail
for three years that is a crime when you
when you instruct someone to do that
well absolutely and you know I mean what
you say is so true particularly about
the Senate you know that the house is
always full of you know everything from
gadfly's to you know high / ambitious
types and there's a lot that goes on in
that house Republican caucus and we've
talked about it many times but the
Senate is the place where you supposedly
have these statesmen they're given
six-year terms so that they're not
constantly under the pressure
electoral pressure and they're supposed
to be standing just a little bit apart
you know kind of over overseeing the
whole thing on the congressional side
and able to kind of take these stands
that may not be so popular because
they're not facing election every you
know every two years and we see nothing
of that I mean I don't care when these
people are up for election they just
they do not care they're out there just
basically you know carrying the party
line on a level that I mean I maybe I'm
nuts but I don't remember it being this
bad now the truth is that in Watergate
you know Republicans mostly stuck with
Nixon it's kind of a myth that they all
kind of you know having a big Great
Awakening and went you know okay well
now we see the light and and we're going
to go and take the bull by the horns
here and make sure that the Nixon you
know understands that he's going to be
convicted in an impeachment that did
happen they did go up on the hill but
but the the factor that made the
difference was that the conservative
Democrats who had been backing Nixon
they were persuaded finally by their
party to come off the line and back off
and that's when the Republicans knew
that they that Nixon no longer had the
support I mean that sounds a little
complicated but it was at a time when
you had conservative Democrats and
liberal Republicans and so it was mixed
up a little bit between you know the
polarization was not it fell on
ideological lines not so much on party
lines
in any case so let's just not you know
let's not pretend that you know the
parties haven't been partisan in the
past because they have but there's
something about this which is just
unbelievable hump is not popular I mean
yes he's popular with the Republican
Party but these people have to
understand that they don't have anywhere
near a majority of the American people
now it may be that their fathers
stomping on Russians and cheating but
you know well I mean but that hasn't
stopped I mean let me let's face it a
lot of these people that we're talking
about are going to face subsets of
people where Donald Trump is still
popular a B there doesn't seem to be the
level of accountability for the
Republicans and I don't I I mean I look
you know Paul Ryan is leaving the
building as it were on his way out he's
going to make sure that we do not cease
our involvement in the helping the
Saudis with their slaughter of the
Yemenis people and the the the massive
humanitarian crisis we're adding to
there but from going back to the 2016
election there did not seem to be an
appetite we mentioned Chuck Schumer
earlier in the show by the Democrats
particularly Chuck Schumer including a
Hillary Clinton to make people
specifically like Paul Ryan and Mitch
McConnell make them their responsibility
for Donald Trump prominent there has
been and I don't know if it's just I
mean certainly at that time I think that
was a concerted effort not to do that I
think Clinton thought she was gonna win
Chuck Schumer thought he was gonna make
a deal with with Paul Ryan and and
Clinton I mean he was on record is
saying so when it came to the tax
repatriation but it's almost like they
got into a muscle habit and no longer
hold the Republican Party responsible
for Donald Trump and I think it's a
massive mistake
because you know we were talking about
Nikki hailey maybe ascending to the vice
presidency just this week
nikki Haley was basically on a tour a
reformation tour and I'm sorry the the
Democratic Party and certainly that's a
failure by the media but the Democratic
Party has to at least put the media in a
position to fail
has to hold all of the Republicans
accountable for Donald Trump and they
don't seem to do it they don't seem to
refer to them as Trump lackeys that
should be you know that I mean that
should be the the watchword certainly
we've seen the Republicans try and do it
with Nancy Pelosi it failed because
people hate Donald Trump so much well
the Democrats don't do it that well not
look let's take a break we'll be right
back we got more to talk about on this
