so Jen we are continuing our series here
on progressives who are challenging
incumbent Democrats some of those
Democrats are actually fairly
progressive but we around these parts
think that these primary challenges are
very healthy from the perspective of
progressives and your instance you are
running against someone who is has been
traditionally fairly popular in her
district but nationally speaking not
terribly popular with progressives
you're running for Congress or I should
say to the Democratic nomination in
Florida's 23rd congressional district
against Debbie wasserman-schultz the
former head of the DNC let's just start
with before we get to Schultz let's just
start with the 23rd congressional
district tell us a little bit something
about that district who comprises it
what's the history of voting is this a
democratic district broadly speaking
what else can you tell us about the
district it's a very strangely
gerrymandered district first of all it's
very cut up in a way that obviously
they've created a safe seat for
Democrats here so it's a very blue
district and unfortunately for us
progressives it does tend to be more of
I say more of a Biden blue than a Bernie
blue and this district did go for
Hillary in 16 but that being said I
think that things are a little bit
different here over the past few years
I've definitely noticed a difference in
trend especially an increase in young
people that are being very active and
participating and I think that is a big
difference down here but in terms of the
demographics it's an older group there
definitely is a dominant amount of older
people there's a good-sized Jewish
population here and it's pretty varied
it's actually a pretty diverse district
with the exception of it's blue right
okay so we have a heavily a democratic
district but with a wide range of
Democrats it sounds like in the
district so with that said tell us a
little bit about yourself you're a
second generation Floridian have you
lived in that district long what tell us
a little bit about your background okay
I am a second generation and I actually
was born in this district back when
before the district was cut into the
shape that it currently is it did
include North Miami Beach which is where
I was born now it only has a sliver of
that in it anymore and I was gone for a
while when I went to college but I've
now been back here solid for 16 years
living in Davie which is in Broward but
part of the same district that we do
connect we have parts of data and
Broward in our district and my
background is growing up in a
working-class Jewish family in North
Miami Beach and going to school with the
same kids from kindergarten through high
school fairly typical you know
upbringing and my background in terms of
what I've done is professionally is
journalism and marketing and then I went
to law school so that's yeah so I have
very deep roots in this district and
actually more so than he does because
he's not from down here but yeah I've
been here forever and alright so you're
a hometown candidate and I'm curious as
to what what made you decide to run well
I've been watching what's been going on
here for this is Debbie's been my
Congress person for 15 years so I've
been I've been watching this like
everybody else has unfold over the years
in terms of the corporatism and the
shift to the right and the people that
are representing us but are actually
representing corporations and I've been
watching this happen for a long time and
in 16 I was very inspired when she was
challenged in the primary and I actually
volunteered on that campaign and so I've
just been very aware of what's going on
in this district for a really long time
and I'm just at a position right now I
recently reactivated my law-license
and my youngest is 13 and my oldest just
left for school and so I'm kind of in an
opportunity I have an opportunity I'm in
a position now where I can do it is
basically what it comes down to all
right Louie will tell us about the way
you perceive Debbie wasserman-schultz
and and and presumably I mean if you're
running you don't think that she is
doing a sufficient job in representing
the interests of the 23rd district I
mean where where do you think that she
is falling down on that job actually it
isn't even just specific to her I
generally am opposed to any sort of
corporate candidates period I personally
won't vote for anybody who's taken
corporate money and that is her problem
and it is with many people it's not just
her but the fact that she takes money
from the corporations and the interests
that she takes money from and then
doesn't do things that are in the best
interest of the district because she's
answering the corporations that's my
problem so it isn't necessarily specific
to her although I could tell you who she
specifically takes money from and the
different things that she does that I
that I find objectionable but in general
I have a problem with anybody who isn't
answering to constituents because
they're on a corporate payroll well
specifically why don't we why don't we
get into that briefly I mean who do you
think that when and obviously I think
you know a lot of people this is not
it's not a terribly controversial
position frankly the idea that if you
take corporate money chances are you are
either beholden to them or already on
the same page is their interest and
that's why they're willing to give you
money I mean it's it's I think we want
to it's either gonna be one of those two
or you have to assume that corporations
just have no idea what they're doing and
they give out money willy-nilly so what
where do you think you're in particular
debbie Wasserman Schultz is compromised
by some of the corporate donations she's
received okay I mean two that stand out
the biggest to me is one big sugar so
that's one of her biggest donors is big
sugar and and as such she has agreed to
giving sugar subsidies repeatedly and
she has done things that are in the best
interest of big sugar
at the expense of our environment so we
have this major toxic blue-green algae
problem down here I'm not sure if you're
familiar with that has infested our
water and it has killed manatees and it
is this toxic smell for people that if
they live near it they have to actually
wear masks over their faces when the
algae is blooming because they can't
breathe
so and this and some of it occurs
naturally but it has been exasperated by
industrial polluters like big sugar so
she takes money from big sugar so to me
I don't know with whether or not she
agreed with their positions before she
took their money or if she just does
their bidding but to be honest I really
don't care it's a conflict of interest
to me like it's just it and then the the
other one that's a big donor of hers or
payday lenders and the the I mean I
support the the new legislation proposed
by Bernie and AOC to cap it at 15% for
interest for people that are doing these
they're predatory loans is what they are
and we have a significant problem with
them down here in Florida our rates are
off the charts and she takes money from
them so that to me is somebody taking
money from an industry that specifically
targets disenfranchised communities and
specifically people of color right so I
mean that's that's a huge problem in
Florida is one of the worst this is
something I was just reminded that her
second largest donor is NextEra Energy
which is Florida Power and Light
so anything down here having to do with
creating solar initiatives or things
that would be putting us in the right
direction as far as renewable energy
she's not I don't see her supporting
that I don't see her proposing that I
don't see her taking any initiative on
that and we live in Florida where's your
water in 12 years like and not only
obviously particularly around Miami are
you going to have a lot of problems
associated with climate change one would
think that there'd be ample opportunity
for solar initiatives in a place like
Florida I've taken a look at your
platform on your on your website gen
2020 calm and I also know that you
perceive your job
a representative to find out what your
constituents think let's let's talk
about your platform but I want you to
reconcile that like you know how you how
you both respond to what your
constituents want and you said that you
are in a very blue district but one that
has a bunch of different types of
Democrats how you respond to what they
want but also promote progressive values
so we talked about campaign finance I
mean what what extent do you think
people are concerned about corporate
financing of campaigns in your district
I think more and more I think that more
and more people are learning about that
and the people that aren't opposed to it
generally don't even understand what's
going on with it and when you educate
people about that and other things it's
amazing what people actually can realize
within their own best interest when
they're told these things properly so a
big portion I think a responsibility of
being a representative is educating your
district so you know when you ask how
you get progressive policies through
even when you have a mixed demographic I
think that one of the things you do is
you go around your district and you
lobby to your constituents and say here
this is what I'm thinking would be in
our best interest what do you think I
think that could occur is town hall
forum I think that should be a running
on line there should be a running on
line conversation on every
representatives page that their
constituents can jump on and say what
they think about different legislation
with the technology we have today I
don't understand why they don't do that
I mean but then again I think that
representatives could be wearing body
cams when they're having meetings during
working days so you know what are they
hiding what why don't they give an
accounting for what they do so my my
thoughts are is our representative you
can't change everything but you can at
least be transparent about what you are
doing let's talk about health care you
support Medicare for all when we say
Medicare all day what what do you mean
by that single payer single payer
absolutely single payer I I do not think
that there should be private insurance
insurance companies in any duplicative
service area that is being covered by
Medicare for all if people want private
insurance for
that are in addition to Medicare for all
I mean I don't know things
cosmetic surgery things that people
might want that are not you know covered
then fine but I don't believe that there
should be private insurance in any way
duplicate of of Medicare for all and
give me a sense of in your district I
mean you said it's you know it's a Miami
district a lot of elderly folk go down
there particularly from you know up
north here and to retire well as you go
around and talk about Medicare for all
well how do folks who are on Medicare
now how do they respond to that that's
not the issue that we generally push
with the older folks because they don't
really care about that that isn't their
concern a lot of it is either an
indifference or there's even this
sometimes well I had to wait or I got
mine and people have to wait and so
generally when we're talking with people
that are older those are that's not the
key issue that I'm necessarily bringing
up with them but that's definitely
something when I talk to other people
that is very supported down here
interesting what what resonates the most
with the elderly folks that you're
talking to and I got to tell you I find
that when you talk about things like
this place flooding and their
grandchildren being underwater and
having toxic water to drink that that is
something that they can see a little bit
more clearly as as an imminent need to
work on versus giving everybody Medicare
for all so there there's that and then
there's the general Anti Corruption
sentiment and I find that across every
age as people yeah that everybody seems
to agree and I actually even go to
Republican Club meetings and hear what
they think and what they have to say and
their common theme with them is also
they don't like the corruption either so
you know it's interesting there's a lot
of things we have in common what are
those things that they mean what
constitutes corruption in that respect
just uh they don't appreciate corporate
influence are they do they perceive like
who's doing the corrupting is there is
alright are there competing narratives
as to the type of corruption and the
source of corruption
I you know yeah I guess so I mean I
guess there's all levels but but
generally to me if somebody is being
beholden to somebody else then they're
not to be trusted in terms of doing what
they're supposed to be doing and then
you bring into account well sometimes
they're taking money from people but
it's called something else it isn't
exactly where it's supposed to be from
well what is that law firm and who do
they represent and what kind of
relationship do you have with the people
that work at this firm and it I mean I
just I think that all of it routes to
the money but then that opens up so many
different doors to so many different
avenues where there's just the
opportunity for such impropriety so Jim
we have about two minutes left here what
what do you think is your biggest
challenge like I mean what is it going
to take for you to win this race against
debbie Wasserman Schultz do you have a
sense of how many votes you need do you
have a sense of what constituencies or
what specific parts of the district you
need to convince what what is the what
is the what is the theory of your win
here yeah I think really it's going to
come down to a ground game and I think
it's going to come down to knocking on
as many doors as we can and reaching as
many people personally as we can as a
team I think that's what it's going to
come down to but you know really social
media now is different than it used to
be for I mean and I just there are
certain advantages to being somebody
that appeals to younger people that I
will have in terms of promotion that she
will never be able to attain you know
she's not going to probably ever have a
following on Instagram so there's going
to be certain groups that she can't
possibly reach so I think there is
certain targeting involved of
demographics and getting certain people
like really enthusiastic about our
campaign but in general yeah I know
exactly how many votes we need and I
know exactly which area is the target I
mean this is very strategic like there's
a very it's a very strategically planned
campaign in this district and it has to
be here and I assume you're only taking
a small donor donations based upon what
you've told me in terms of your stance
of corporate money correct well okay
look some if some if an individual wants
to max out we're happy to take their
money but we
we don't pay we only take from
individuals and we won't take from even
groups of individuals so you couldn't
get like a whole bunch of gas and oil
execs in one party and have them all
just max out to me individually and have
me do that so it's I just want I won't
be beholden to any interest or any group
well if folks want to find out more they
can head to your website Gen 2020 com I
imagine you're looking for folks to
donate but also you're probably looking
for volunteers yes we are looking for
all of the above I mean ultimately we
would really love to get monthly donors
we're asking for $23 a month for
district 23 but obviously we'll take
other amounts of money whatever people
can share with us and yet we definitely
want volunteers and we need volunteers
locally but we also need volunteers that
don't live here as far as even just
helping with social media Jen thanks so
much your time today I really appreciate
it
