I know I've been critical of what's his
first name
scaramouche because it's you know quite
clear that after two and a half years he
realized he was not getting back into
the white house and said well how can I
keep this this celebrity train going I
know I will now become a never Trumper
another wonderful never Trumper and
personally I don't think he deserves the
time of day or at least I didn't though
this is the time of about that dude
because it's gamma Chi if if he knows
nothing else he knows how to butter a
guy up and I know if he's fishing around
for an interview on the show or what I
think we got pitched him a while back
but this goes a long way through it here
is Anthony's community basically calling
out steven crowder again i can't believe
it good morning and happy sunday this is
a message for Goldfein router pause it
for one second let's go back to the
beginning I just want to say you know
for him to also to take time during his
Sunday he's obviously going out for a
Sunday Drive you'll see in the video
with his wife and she's great the both
of them were great but I just want to
say that they really are I just want to
say that's that I appreciate that noted
just noted Sunday he did the research
good morning and happy Sunday this is a
message for cold
Crowder and I got booked by Cinco
Sandra's okay so listen up Steven quit
being a and debate Sam if you got
to ask daddy for permission it is what
it is I know Sam ain't no teenager but
you got to man up and do the right thing
don't be a hack and a coward Crowder
debates am the alpha males the alpha
males are back that is ridiculous
okay you hear my way my wife just said
men are ridiculous okay man up man up
and debate the guy okay it's true it's
true I don't like it I listen you got
actually dad it is what it is right yeah
I listen I of course being a SOI boy
would have appreciated it be a little
bit less gendered you know not just man
up but person up but whatever
Anthony's gonna deliver it in the way
that he's going to deliver it and so
there you have it you got to ask yeah
you gotta ask you bad it is what it is
that is where the ages
do you have did I send you the clip of
that thing gosh darn it I noticed this
and I got to tell you oh it's actually
it's in the slack see if you can pull
that up it is an image and I just want
to say look this is not here I'll put it
right in here too
oh wait that's not it sorry that's a
different one here it is this in regards
to a Crowder I I noticed this now you
know I I don't know if somebody sent me
this or if it came up on some type of
feed or something but pull this up
apparently there is a thing called yeah
I just put it into the chat there's a
thing called I don't know what they call
this it's some type of trend trend thing
here it is yeah and it's a gives tweet
engage
stats and here's the twit the tweet that
steven crowder did join us tonight a
p.m. 7 p.m. FLE lwc livestream with
Pinterest whistleblower Eric Cochran I
don't know what that means and
half-asian lawyer bill Richmond good
stuff very funny this was on October 3rd
and there was a tweet engagement stats
and this I found pretty funny the top
hashtags in this tweet were with 40% was
the plurality was cold feet Crowder and
then the top words 33% debate 20% cedar
let's see if there was any more top
words oh that's it ok sorry
so um can we watch this caribou you
think again let's just watch the scary
Moochie one more time we're having fun
here folks
good morning and happy Sunday this is a
message for cold feed Crowder and I got
booked by Cinco Sandra's ok so listen up
Steven quit being a and debate Sam
if you got to ask daddy for permission
it is what it is I know Sam ain't no
teenager but you got to man up and do
the right thing don't be a hack and a
coward Crowder at the bait Sam
the alpha males the alpha males are back
oh yeah we're back baby
we are back the alpha males are back I
know when he first got on the like Trump
is unstable needs to be removed from
office train we're all like this is such
a cynical play by a cynical person but
now I think he's a genuine genuine play
by a genuine guy yeah it's coming up oh
let's go to the phone
