[Music]
is lying to Congress and this is really
pretty shocking how I mean we have a
couple of clips it's ongoing but one of
the things that she's complaining about
is that the and I don't know exactly how
this is but one of the problems
apparently according to her is that
there's so many migrants coming that
it's unfair to them to be able to look
at their asylum claims as opposed to we
just to have specifically degraded the
apparatus to a look at their ma their
asylum claims B we have narrowed the
ability for them to claim asylum in a
myriad of ways that's not the problem
the problem is you're just too much
demanded it's unfair to the demanders
here she is I don't know what you would
call this just a performance to your
knowledge are you aware of family
members who've been separated from their
children and deported back to a country
without their children yes sir can you
provide this committee with a list of
those individuals I'm happy to do that
with the one caveat that is you know
that's part of ongoing litigation in
missile and as long as there's no
privacy concerns from the court of
course we're happy to provide that a lot
of the information is in the missile
Court with respect to each migrant I
would also just note that consistent
with long-standing practice and the law
before we deport any alien after they
have gone through the process and
receive a final order of removal we do
ask them if they would like to take
their children with them at that same
time their consulate or embassy for
purposes of issuing them travel papers
also asks them would you like to be
removed with your
children as your removed as part of
missile the judge also asked us to go
bass and asked asked the parents again
in conjunction with the ACLU which we
did so there was no parent who has been
deported to my knowledge without
multiple opportunities to take their
children with them there you go yeah to
her knowledge there all those stories
you're hearing about that are all
fraudulent to her knowledge they've all
been asked really disgusting the only
thing that is in any way the only thing
that gives me any solace is the the the
dry mouth that she has makes me indicate
at least that she knows deep inside her
that she is full of it let's just look
at the first of the protests of there
were young people who were there in a
silent protest who ended up getting led
out looking very small children here it
is here that you can see and then
there's a couple of there there's a
small child being held baby
and they are here as part of you know
while she's testifying and they're being
I guess assured out of the room at this
point so some some sense that at least
there there are people who are
protesting this and this is of course
the government accountability or
government oversight committee in the
house and you know what that means
the the Republicans have brought out
there a team here is the here is what's
his name Cal Higgins is that clay Haley
let's start with clay Higgins and then
just sort of like if you can just shove
him out of the way so that we can once
so here put him up there and this is
clay Higgins he's from Tennessee he's
the one who couldn't quite follow the
idea and the Cohen hearings that Cohen
was looking through his boxes of
evidence to pull stuff for the committee
hearing but it was boxes of evidence
that had been collected by the FBI had
been sorted through by the FBI to
determine what they wanted and what they
were gonna record and then given back to
him Higgins kept saying over and over
again shouldn't investigators have this
material and Cohen kept trying to
explain note they've had it and they
gave it back because they've already
done their investigations
apparently Higgins himself was in law
enforcement and was not aware of this
dynamic but here he is I believe that
talking yes I do too I believe there's
nothing that Higgins says that I find
beyond belief
here is Higgins talking about the
desperate migrants coming to the border
families children heard that story the
other day of of police officers in El
Salvador
escaping the country because they were
afraid and here's Higgins explaining
what this dynamic really is let me just
put this in in context for the American
people perhaps the most famous invasion
in the history of the world d-day
seventy-three thousand American troops
let's pop this baby up there we have
seventy six thousand one hundred three
according to my numbers apprehensions
along our southern border last month we
have d-day every month on our southern
border just to put this in context for
America
yes physical barriers work and as
technology works let me just put this in
context for the American people
perhaps the most famous invasion in the
history of the world d-day seventy-three
thousand American troops landed them in
the d-day invasion okay we have we've
seen enough they 6103 according to there
it is Higgins
providing us context what's happening
with these families that are walking up
to the border hoping to get asylum is
just like d-day that's the context that
he wants there it's like an invasion of
tens of thousands of armed troops just
sheer insanity that's going on with
these Republicans and the the border at
this point
armed with dangerous workaholism perhaps
right exactly
