[Music]
so uh you remember Ken Cuccinelli he was
of the I think the vaginal probe regime
in Virginia he is now the Acting USCIS
which is the chief immigration I guess
executive Citizenship and Immigration
Services acting head and he announced
today new trump administration policies
to limit this is to limit legal
immigration right and it is obviously
cruel and inhumane but it's also to
specifically limit immigration and
terrorize families now now when you talk
about immigrants who are on for using
u.s. services they're available to
citizens understand that I don't know
what percentage it is 100 percent ninety
percent eighty percent no less than that
of these people have family close family
that they are more often than not living
with and so there's opportunities
there's no evidence that people stay on
these programs forever
multi-generational and to the extent
that any of them does it's significant
numbers in terms of what we spent I mean
we spend an insignificant number on on
these programs anyways far more for you
know I don't know one one-fifth of the
bases that we have around the world when
sixth one-tenth of the basis maybe but
here's Ken Cuccinelli this is understand
what the politics of this are this is
something that Steve Miller's been
pushing for a long time they certainly
believe if we can prove our muster and
terms of causing pain for immigration
we're gonna benefit with our base but
also we're gonna create a wedge issue
we're gonna make Democrats because we
know we have a very helpful press in
this way start asking questions why
should someone who's not a citizen and
they won't phrase it this nicely who
just has like a child here or a parent
here or a spouse here why should they be
eligible for Medicaid health insurance
or why should they be available why
should why should they be eligible for
you know $75 a month in food stamps 1996
the law has required foreign nationals
to rely on their own capabilities and
the resources of their families sponsors
and private organizations in their
communities to succeed however Congress
has never defined the term public charge
in the law posit I understand what he's
talking about here in 1996 the law was
changed to say that if you're an
immigrant coming in your ability to
become a citizen get a green card
working visa whatever it is is a
function of the likelihood of you
becoming a public charge public charge
is basically a way of saying like oh you
know not quite a ward of the state
but like supported by the state and the
way that that was assessed and what that
means yes is there someone at the door
open the door the way that is assessed
and what that means is up to
interpretation and the Trump
administration has decided to interpret
it in such a way that is highly narrowly
tailored or I should say or broadly
tailored as to what constitutes you
being a public charge so as to limit the
number of people who are allowed to
enter this country legally and stay in
this country legally which are
in the law and that term hadn't been
clearly defined by regulation well that
is what changes today with this rule
through the public charge rule president
Trump's administration is reinforcing
the ideals of self-sufficiency and
personal responsibility ensuring that
immigrants are able to support
themselves and become successful here in
America our rule generally prevents
aliens who are likely to become a public
charge from coming to the United States
or remaining here in getting a green
card public charge is now defined in a
way that ensures the law is meaningfully
enforced and that those who are subject
to it are self-sufficient so there it is
Ken Cuccinelli making it sound mean it
sounds reasonable he wasn't going like
we really don't want too many brown
people in here we don't want people who
are you know so-called low-skilled we
don't want people who speak Spanish we
don't want people who have been driven
from their farms because of violence or
they've been driven from their cities
because of violence we don't want those
people here and you can't say that so
basically what he says is we are
changing the regulations so that they
are more stringent and we're gonna mold
them in such a way like this is an
exaggeration but more or less what
they're saying is like if you come from
a city let's say that has a one of the
top ten museums of modern art in the
world then you're in then you get a
green card I mean that's basically
that's I mean that's the way that
they're going to determine these things
here is here is a reporter asking
Cuccinelli if you want to take the
huddled masses language off the Statue
of Liberty because of course that was
the the whole point and we have another
another headphone over here if you want
but that was the whole point right the
whole point was are you going to take
the the huddled masses
because bringing in people who have
graduate degrees in engineering did not
you know you don't they don't tend to
huddle together in masses this will be
it for two questions and you're gonna go
to one but I said yes you go ahead also
been almost as long the words of the
base of the Statue of Liberty that read
give us your tired your poor you were
implementing a public charge rule for
the first time is that sentiment give us
your tired your for still operative in
the United States or should those words
come down to the plaque come down on the
century well I'm certainly not prepared
to take anything down off the Statue of
Liberty we we have a long history of
being one of the most welcoming nations
in the world on a lot of basis whether
you be in the sily whether you be coming
here to join your family or immigrating
yourself this rule will cover for USCIS
almost four hundred thousand people a
year whose applications to become legal
permanent residents will include a
meaningful analysis of whether they're
likely to become a public charge or not
I do not think by any means we're ready
to take anything off the Statue of
Liberty
yes ma'am in other words we have no
problem pretending that we're still
taking your tired your poor your huddled
masses but the fact of the matter is
we're not going to if you if you are one
of those things that will count against
your application in fact that is
probably where the threshold will be
give us your huddled masses that are
huddled around enough money to get by
without becoming the nuisance but it's
also to be clear there was already you
had to exhibit a likelihood that you
would be able to take care of yourself
or that someone was going to step
forward and take care of you but this is
just raising the bar and of course at
the end of the day it's going to be
subjective and it's basically
you know it's not unlike when the DoD
had prison guards in Iraq and just said
like shackles off that's what we're
looking at ice and now we're looking at
those officials who will determine your
eligibility for a green card well this
is one of the fundamental contradictions
I think between the desire for a kind of
a generous welfare state which obviously
these Republicans don't have but there
are right-wing parties in Europe that
really are sincerely committed to it and
the idea of a hard border that is
militarized and securitized and guarded
right and even Bernie Sanders has kind
of continued some of this language
saying oh we want a generous welfare
state here but we have to have borders
we have to enforce the borders because
there's a lot of poverty in this world
and everyone would come here and take
advantage of it which is one reason why
socialists are calling for a softening
of borders in combination with a welfare
state I'm not sure I follow that like if
you're going to do a welfare state
within the bounds of this nation-state
right if you're going to have a generous
one you bump up against problems because
people in other countries a lot of
countries which have been exploited by
the US or messed with via our foreign
policy are going to come here and
they're going to want to be a part of it
and they're gonna want to take advantage
of it and I think that that's a good
thing right
it should be open to everyone but as
soon as you have the idea of you need to
protect the economic security of the
country or whatever keep people from
coming in don't you see how that could
lead to this kind of state violence I
don't I I what percentage do you think
of people who are coming at the border
are coming because they want food stamps
or because they want Medicaid they want
security in general they want to be able
to live and survive right but that's
different from a from from a welfare
state that's what different from being a
generous welfare state I mean the you
know you're talking about people who are
coming from some of the most violent
places in the world I mean why I'm what
percentage do you think are coming here
I mean if you think it's a contra
to be able to offer this stuff because
it's going to attract more people I mean
what percentage of those people do you
think are coming here for that I don't
know probably some they see that America
to some degree provides for citizens
although less and less so I mean I would
think it's pretty low I would think it's
it's pretty low I think I would like to
see actually I would like to see more
success on it because I don't actually
know yeah I mean I think I think because
I think that's a right-wing frame this
is a logic that people on the Left have
also parroted which which logic there's
a lot of poverty in this world if we
don't have strong borders everyone's
going to come here like that was a bad
answer that Bernie gave on the question
of borders I think yeah I didn't I
didn't hear that but I do think that's
that's a bad answer but I just don't
think that the number of people who are
coming to this country for that is
particularly high I mean I think it's I
think the I think people come here for
economic opportunity I don't think
anybody's coming here going like we're
gonna get what a hundred yeah I don't
think the bucks I don't think the
caravan would have been twice as big if
we had Medicare for all well whether or
not they're coming here for that it is
certainly a part of the rhetoric that's
being spread by both the left and the
right right now and I'm pointing out
some problems with that
but what part of that rhetoric you said
it's a contradiction to offer a extended
welfare state and also to have
decriminalized borders no I think those
two things actually go together like
it's if you know what we could talk
about this later okay I just wasn't sure
what I just don't think that the number
of people who are coming here for these
benefits is particularly high I think
people who end up on these programs when
they come here it's because their plans
have not worked out because of the exact
same reason why or very similar reasons
why other people end up on these plans
they've had some type of misfortune they
go they got unlucky they didn't find a
job there someone had a health care
problem
yeah the contradiction comes way down
the line I agree with that
