meanwhile the Fox News is really
concerned that the Democratic Party is
going to make itself not a an active
participant in our government you know
in our in our body politic by becoming
to left and here is what's your name
again
Ashley Ainsley Ainsley Ainsley every
airhead
anslee airhead she's talking who is this
guy that she's talking to we can't
figure out who he is
just just old tall socks short and he
Pricewaterhouse he looks good he looks
like a guy looks like price actually
what was the health secretary they had
to resign
no it's not but he does resemble all
right well here she is she's concerned
about this whole thing about how she
doesn't understand marginal tax rates
sometime we're caught saying they're
even open to illegals getting a chance
to vote sure so much support though
because when you hear they're gonna tack
70% of your paycheck if Alexandria Casey
what Cortes gets her way how do they
have so much support that's a lot of
money for people to give back to the
government I think a lot of it is
ignorance I thought I frankly think
American young people today are not
being educated properly in schools they
don't know the history of our country
they don't know the history of other
countries they don't understand
economics well if our students got the
proper history a lesson they would know
that 70% is a middling top tax rate in
terms of the past hundred years in this
country and if they got the proper
economics training they know that
marginal tax rate means that it only
kicks in after a certain level of money
has already been pocketed and she knows
that by the way I know super I don't
know about that I actually would bet
very much that she does not know that
well it's a bunch of Fox News they're
like Ainsley we can't give you this
raise because you're going
to the next tax I really firmly believe
that there was a a conversation that
went something like this
Ainsley you know right that it's
marginal tax rate means that it's you
make up a to a certain point and then
they start taxing at seventy percent
rate she's like yeah whatever it doesn't
matter it's still bad and I think so she
knows but she just doesn't it's
irrelevant that's the way I think that
conversation I want to give her a little
more credit for being evil rather than
dumb but who knows usually when you ask
that question the answer is generally
both oh that was Michael Goodwin of
course okay good guy good really really
it's all the problem with the winner o
New York Post op-ed well there you go
you know
