and so Alex in the last segment you you
walked us through the Elizabeth Warren
and representative jan Schakowsky bill
to make basically a public option for
some generic drugs when the market has
failed to provide a generic drug and we
got to remind people you know we're
talking about when we talk about generic
drugs the cost of the research and
development is already way been made up
by the original patent holder we're just
talking about somebody who came in and
had the money to license a drug
essentially is what it comes down to and
so when the market fails there there's a
real problem and the government would
step in they'd even either produce that
drug or a higher a private entity to
produce that drug and the American
public would have access to a drug that
has been you know certainly paid for the
research and development multiple times
over all right so we mentioned that Bill
tell us about what sherrod Brown has
proposed so shirt brown is the Senate
companion to avoid targets Medicare
negotiation bill and real mean having a
too wonky but under the hood the
important thing is that this bill and
the Sanders carnival are related and the
weight of related is a Medicare
negotiation bill ninety percent of the
American public say yes allowed Medicare
to negotiate because it's just common
sense and there was one of the most
lucrative corruption ever with Billy
Towson back in the day at this allowed
Medicare Part D from negotiating there's
just a full ripoff right Pharma the
punchline of that is after this
representative did that he was hired by
Pharma for a million dollars a year no
work job and so obviously everyone wants
Medicare to be able to negotiate except
Pharma but the key is how how do you
negotiate and what the Doggett the
senator Brownsville and representative
Doggett bill does is says we want
Medicare to be able to negotiate
but if the pharmaceutical company does
not lower the prices we don't want to
put access to the drug at risk we don't
want to give the pharmaceutical
corporation the ability to withhold the
drug from someone right so if the
government says we'll pay you five
dollars and the company says I'm not
going to take it and they walk away and
then a person wouldn't have access to
the drug we never want that to happen so
in you know the advocacy world what we
say is we need to put the patent at risk
not the patient and that is the skip
that is the Doggett Brown bill the stick
that's used the drug company won't lower
the prices then generic competition is
allowed then competitive license is
given and another company can come in
and sell that drug at a lower price
again this is like as common sense as
you can get which is why Pharma is
terrified of this of this bill in this
concept that would take their patents
away if they are abusing it and allow
generic competition okay so give us a
sense of just like what do we have do we
have a sense of how much support these
bills have and and I guess do you want
to just do you need to add more on the
Sanders role Kahana part of this or do
they work anyways so expand that out so
then if the target is phenomenal way
like we love this bill and it actually
has a good chance of advancing in the
house but at the end of the day I don't
believe that only people on Medicare
should have lower drug prices right and
I think all payers all systems should be
involved in this and that is what the
Sanders carnival says it just says all
drugs in this country need to be
reasonably priced and we do define it as
the meaning of five other countries that
look just you know our pure nation and
if the price is above that then it's
reasonably priced and they have to lower
it and there's some other indicators and
if they don't lower it again what
happens is the patent has put at risk in
a competitive license issue generic
competition can come in and lower the
price so that the Sanders carnival is a
system-wide drug price reasonable
pricing bill okay so will give us a
sense of what what's the status how far
away are we from these bills because I
want to just want to wrap this up and
get a sense of just sort of what we're
setting up going into this presidential
election and the potential for Democrats
take you know all the levers of
legislation before we talk about the
next big sort of I guess you know
similar victory on some level one that
has yet to be executed or implemented
but one that that that looks good but
give us a sense of where we are with
this how many of the Democrats where is
the the center of the Democratic Party
in terms of supporting these bills
they're there they're on the dollar bill
it's the most popular drug pricing bill
that's been introduced most popular of
the Medicare and negotiation bill on the
Sanders Conover we have a huge support
and importantly if Chris and Gillibrand
on it you have Kamala Harris on it and
Cory Booker on it right you have
Elizabeth Warren on it so you have the
2020s are on this bill which is a
fundamentally transformative bill right
that says that everyone in this country
actually has a right to affordable drugs
and the government has a responsibility
to ensure that and that's that that's a
really fundamentally powerful statement
where is it
this is setting up the chessboard for 20
21 I mean there's no way that this dude
in the White House who literally put
Pharma in charge of HHS right I mean the
Alex Azar's used to run July Lilly Eli
Lilly is a company that raises the price
of influence year after year after year
so that kills just enough people by
restricting access to price that every
one else will bankrupt themselves to pay
for it that's Alec things are so
something that guys gonna actually let
something you'll happen right they're
not but what we're doing is we're
setting up the board for what is
possible in 2021
what could we get if the Democrats
flipped the Senate and take the White
House and it's still going to be a
battle
right I'm liking where we are in this
setup all right listen we have a minute
left
we're similarly situated for a what the
Democrats in the House have done tell us
what they did we got just about 50
seconds 204 original co-sponsors on the
bill to expand Social Security well I'm
John Larson is the subcommittee chair
and waive liens which emails the way we
means clear that meet they're both on
the bill that means that this bill is
getting a hearing this bill has almost
enough co-sponsors to pass on the floor
and John Larson has dedicated and driven
to pass this bill out of the house by
Mother's Day Wow and that'll be huge in
that bill all right so that bill will be
hanging around just waiting for I guess
maybe not this session but in future
sessions for a democratically controlled
Senate to to pass it Alex we will check
back in with you before we see that
democratically controlled Senate but in
the meantime thanks so much for your
time today I really appreciate
