[Music]
let's do one more Jamie Dimon thing here
this is there's nothing better than
listening to a banker who was in part
responsible for the massive financial
crisis that left millions unemployed
that cost millions of people their homes
that cost people untold amounts and
their pensions just the sheer amount of
human suffering that can be tied back to
some of these guys decisions is is
pretty impressive
not we're gonna start an invasion in an
occupation level but pretty significant
here is a one on one with JPMorgan Chase
CEO Jamie Dimon a lot of these folks
have to describe what they mean more
okay you're not gonna get away with just
saying
socha you have to say what that means so
here is Jamie Dimon claiming to say that
the real trouble that someone who's just
saying socialism is going to have is
that they're not enumerate apalla sees
when the reality is the people saying
socialism are the people who are
responding to the enumeration of the
policies right yeah I mean like Bernie
Sanders is describing himself as a
Democratic Socialist a OC describes
herself as a democratic socialist that
comes only when people demand to know
what their identity is after them laying
out rather detailed proposals Elizabeth
Warren as well for that matter rather
detailed proposals that other people
characterize as socialism as opposed to
say like Social Security or Medicare
which could also be characterized as
socialism at least in the same manner so
here's a Jamie Dimon pretending that
people are just coming out saying we're
present we're providing you with a
basket with with goodies but they're not
telling us what the goodies actually are
when in fact what's going on is people
are coming out specifically addressing
what the goodies are and then they're
being maligned
just being well some type of like
unicorn word but here's Jamie Dimon who
is pretending that he knows what he's
talking about
okay you're not gonna get away with just
saying social you have to say what that
means
how you gonna fetch you ate it how is it
good for the average American the green
new deal larry cudlow the president
chief economic advisor a few weeks ago
said it will literally destroy the
economy is he right I don't spend much
time worried about things that I can't
effectuate a closetful I got news for
you folks
guess what Jamie Dimon can effectuate
destroying the economy I think if past
performance is any type of example are
of future performance not worried about
destroying the economy because he knows
he's gonna be fine he's bet the other
way good is he right
I don't spend much time worried about
things that I can't effectuate he can
you focus on climate change in an
intelligent way that doesn't damage the
economy
yes you can it's called co2 emission
taxes or training there too a couple
ways to do it
nothing there's nothing called co2
trading emissions taxes a couple ways to
do it I mean here he is making the case
that you can do something as if he is
some type of expert and can't even name
cap-and-trade I mean I don't have the
name of my for ecology idea that this
businessman who was a pillar of the
failure of the US economy that caused
all of this widespread suffering is now
his opinion is important on something
that he doesn't he can't even name there
are junior high students who know what
that word it with cap-and-trade is and
he's just like it's all just a jumbled
mess I don't know you know the the the
the environment stuff he's too busy
remembering the word effectuate yeah
recycle folks recycle all right
