with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any Elise
they are unanimous in their hate for me
and I patron we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex so much our
day report with sam cedar it is Monday
October 1st 2018 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today the editor of current
affairs
Nathan J Robinson on how we know
Kavanaugh is lying meanwhile surprised
the FBI a Cavanaugh inquiry is a sham
White House has decided it will be
extremely limited in its scope and depth
the question now is for how long can
Jeff Flake at all pretend not to realize
that meanwhile new NAFTA deal signed as
far as we can tell basically the same as
the old NAFTA deal but what is new is
California's new net neutrality law and
the Department of Justice lawsuit filed
to stop it meanwhile Rebecca Mitchell's
final offense
if the Maricopa prosecutor tries to
redeem herself in Republican circles did
you call her a Rebecca because I like
that Rebecca Mitchell
yeah like Rebecca Mac yeah no but yeah
the Supreme Court case which could save
Donald Trump and just a reminder we're
now holding 13,000 children moving them
around in the dead of the night because
makes for a lot less compelling video
and crystal Mason heads to prison for
casting a vote that was never counted
all this and more on today's majority
report yes ladies and gentlemen the Ted
Leo version of pressure drop we have
some other songs that are coming in and
we will try and you know cycle through
some of them some of them you know the
pacing of the songs even even the
pressure drop version from Ted it's hard
for me to get used to because like a
Pavlovian dog for now I mean the
pressure drop used on the Sam cedar show
9:00 to noon so we're talking about nine
or ten years of of essentially of
training to to jump and to react at
certain notes in that song but I got it
today today I timed it sounded good over
that first lick that's when it just it's
a little bit tougher right because it's
interesting I have to go back to find
out like what fired that synapse in my
brain that said okay now is the time to
talk but so if the if the the point
being if the pace of what you sent in is
a little bit slower then I don't know if
we can use it because it will I will
I'll have some type of
breakdown ladies and gentlemen just a
reminder this week I will be headed to
Las Vegas Nevada for the tort conference
that I go to talk to lawyers they're
involved in lawsuits it will not be a
dramatic difference in terms of our
programming week however but just make
sure you tune in to that people like
those shows from from Vegas and I always
find it interesting to talk to these
lawyers and to a large extent you know
like one of the things I'm hopefully
going to track down one I'm not
convinced that there aren't civil
courses that can be followed if if so
desired on on what would otherwise be
criminal charges that we've seen
involving Brett Kavanaugh wrongful death
you know you see those in the context of
let's say the OJ Simpson case I don't
know what the equivalent would be but
I'm gonna be around a lot of lawyers so
I will ask them
just a reminder folks this show relies
on its members for its support you can
become a member today at joined the
majority report and I might as well let
me do this one first if you watched
Chris Hayes Thursday night you saw the
first appearance that I ever did on on
MSNBC well it's not I guess I only been
using Harry's for a couple years but on
the first unshaven appearance that I've
ever had on MSNBC and it was after the
eight hours of broadcasting the hearings
and then I had to record something for
Ring of Fire and then I went into the
bathroom I'm like I've got I've got to
shave I have literally 30 seconds to do
it and I started I had the Harry's razor
and I started and I did part of the
cheek and then I'm like this is a
mistake
I can't shave this quickly I'm not gonna
be able to do this and so I just che
you know I have no idea how to sculpt a
beard so I just shaved right here and
here and then ran out the door and I
took a lot of grief from it in fact I
heard from my uncle Eddie and aunt Carol
that the orys who lived down the street
sent them a an email saying Sam should
shave when he goes on television that's
the depth of how people are invested in
my Harry's razor do they know Harry like
what's going on here I don't know but
Harry's founders know that a great shave
comes down to two great blades made with
sharp durable steel that lasts that's
why they make some of the highest
quality blades in the world price much
lower than the leading brand and they
will even give you a full refund if you
don't love your shave as long as you let
them know within 30 days Harry stands
behind the quality of their blades so
they created a $13 value trial set that
comes with everything you need for a
close comfortable shave weighted organ
ama handle five blade razor with
lubricating strip and trimmer blade rich
lathering shave gel travel blade cover
claim yours by going to harrys.com slash
majority report you know what I love
about Harry's reasonably priced sort of
like a little bit fancy the handle is
well sculpted I happen to have the
chrome one I like that and then they
give you shaving cream the whole thing
and you know the narrow blade is
important because of my the asymmetry
between my nostrils and now our
listeners can redeem their trial set at
harrys.com slash majority report make
sure you go to harrys.com slash majority
report to redeem your offer ladies and
gentlemen it's a good deal check it out
let them know I sent you to help support
the show okay so the premise of why we
wanted to have Nathan Robinson on to
talk about the many ways in which we
know Brett Kavanaugh is lying basically
goes to that concept that Blumenthal
introduced the Latin phrase that means
false and one thing the false in all
things
and if you have a federal judge I mean
put aside for a moment like he doesn't
quite have the temperament that you
might want from a federal judge that
quit you also might want a federal judge
on there who is literally blaming the
Clintons no you are for her you are I
don't know blame the Clintons yeah I
mean to blame the Clintons for Blasi
Ford is depend territory got to get
applause we forward on that just the
same guys I mention around the Vince
Foster it's really nothing Blasi forward
it's really nuts and that seems to me to
be contrary to the temperament you might
want for a justice on the highest court
in the land
but because the Senate is such an
incredibly undemocratic place let's tune
into the to people I guess to get to
decide everything that is Jeff Flake and
Chris Coons Chris Coons incidentally the
guy who says like if we take back the
Senate we should really reinstate
institute the filibuster just to give
you a sense of just sort of how rarefied
the air that these two must breathe that
they think let's just play this there on
60 minutes at forward if judge Kavanagh
is shown to have lied to the committee
nominations over oh yes I would think so
yes I would think so
well then I've got good news everybody
you should send today's podcast to Jeff
Flake and Chris Coons because maybe they
haven't figured this out themselves Jeff
Flake responded to the words shown so
not listen if you hear that he was
testifying negative or falsely then
that's still that's the doesn't count he
has to be shown it visually what someone
can send I'm just saying how flakes
gonna get out of it like it depends on
what he has known is he isn't you
actually said that well that's what he
took out of the 60 minutes guys yeah I
like the way you're saying wait a second
wait a second
if it's shown that he was lying like
Jeff Lakes just gonna say I it didn't
meet my criteria
what's shown to be lying right well yeah
of course but maybe we'll see if that's
a little bit different after today's
show Oh folks blue apron has a mission
it's to make incredible home cooking
accessible to everyone you can make
dinner now in as little as 20 minutes
they've got quick and easy recipe
options that are perfectly proportioned
with ingredients delivered right to your
door no meal planning or shopping
required whether you're looking for a
quick and easy meal or a full culinary
experience blue apron lets you choose
from a range of recipe options this is
nice I like this newer version I don't
and I had to say I just don't have the
time to cook so if I can get it down 20
minutes bingo
get out of your cooking rut and
experience the joy of new recipes talk
about I can tell you one of the things
that we need to talk about like
convenience and satiating that guilt you
have as a parent where you're like oh
god I don't want to just get takeout
food or frozen dinner for them again but
I also frankly I'm not gonna spend an
hour and a half cooking a meal forgive
me what are you gonna do things to read
on the Internet well I got do work stir
fried sweet chili chicken seared steaks
homemade steak sauce homemade steaks us
and these were amazing seared beef
dumplings and jasmine rice Wow yep check
out this week's menu and get your first
three meals free why wouldn't you get
why wouldn't you why wouldn't anybody do
this you have three meals free they send
it to your house you get you can choose
each week how many you're gonna get blue
apron dot-com slash majority that's blue
apron dot-com slash majority get your
first three meals free blue apron a
better way to cook I'm gonna take a
quick break when we come back we'll be
talking to Nathan Robinson
you
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program
Nathan J Robinson he is the editor of
current affairs magazine at karna fares
dot org Nathan welcome to the show thank
you okay so your piece has gotten a lot
of people have cited it as being the
sort of the most comprehensive piece on
the the many myriad of of lies and ways
judge Cavanaugh lied during his hearing
and we just played a clip from Jeff
Flake and Chris Coons from 60 minutes
when they were asked if it was shown
that Cavanaugh lied during the hearing
would that be enough to disqualify him
and they said yes they didn't say
specifically shown about lying what or
about what or or what shown means right
but I suggest that maybe people start
sending your piece to them or they can
just yeah listen to the show if they
don't want to have to if they can't read
but definition have shown you adopt I
think I made it somewhere in the eleven
thousand words of that article let's let
let's go through some of these and we
you you basically just walk through
without making an assessment of what
Ford says just judging or I guess
assessing what a Cavanaugh says so you
start with a Cavanaugh's denial and this
is the first one that you cite I never
attended a gathering like the one dr.
Ford describes in her allegation now
please address that for us and to some
extent it's sort of a shame it feels
like the Democrats either didn't have
the information
long enough beforehand which is very
possible or they just didn't do enough
in researching this stuff to push back
but we have the the the the the value of
hindsight but go ahead what walk us
through that well I mean I do think no I
think they had a lot of information and
didn't use it well there was plenty of
stuff that was just just in plain sight
yeah so the gathering lie he says I
never attended a gathering like someone
was for destroyed and there's been sort
of efforts to hint that it was like this
is this she's describing this kind of
big bacchanalian party like a toga party
or something like this crazy party but
everyone would have remembered but
actually it hurt her Testament she says
that she's been misrepresented in the
press because it wasn't a large party
was a small gathering with friends in
Bethesda with a over few drinks now
cannot of course attended small
gatherings in Bethesda of a few drinks
when he said he didn't attend a
gathering like this I mean I'm sure it's
a lot of gathering like this but then he
also goes on to specify and say I didn't
attend a gathering I also didn't attend
the gathering with any of the people
with with the group of people that
christine blazes forth says were at this
gathering and that is just directly
contradicted by calendar that he
provided to exonerate himself yeah I
mean he he mentioned specifically that
July 1st entry involves six people four
of whom were ones that she said was at a
party very similar to that yes she named
she said that she remembered four boys
Brett PJ mark judge and one whose name
she couldn't remember and on the July
1st entry July 1st 7 1982 Brett
Cavanaugh says he's going for drinks
over to Timmy's we with mark judge PJ
and a couple of other boys um so the
group when he tries to say you know
these weren't my people like East
started naming other people that he did
hang out with other somehow and he
didn't mention the fact that when she
said Mark and PJ those were his friends
he did go to gatherings with them so the
interesting thing here is not is that he
also buried that information right he
tried he tried deliberately to direct
the Senate's attention away from this
event by pointing to weekends he does
this fascinating thing where he goes
well presumably the event she's
describing happened on a weekend and I
was usually out of town on the weekend
but this July first gathering is on a
Thursday so you can see why he wants to
push you towards the weekend now I wish
I'd also say that on the first there's
another guy there squee who is Chris
Garrett and Chris Garrett was had the
great misfortune of being the evil
doppelganger in ed Wieland's fevered
conspiracy but he also in real life if
I'm not mistaken was the one that Ford
said we introduced me to Cavanaugh yes
yes she says that Chris Garrett Chris
squee Garrett
they went out a couple of times and that
yeah he was her connection to Cavanaugh
we know that Cavanaugh pukers because
he's on the calendar I hope so we know
he knew Chris Garrett now Chris Jerram I
don't think there's any public
statements about whether he knew
Christine Ford I don't know whether he's
backed up or denied what she says but
that would be a connection Brent
Cavanaugh said they didn't move in the
same social circle I mean Cavanaugh
testimony essentially tries to suggest
that she's told like she's totally
off-base she was like in a different
school on the other side of town and we
didn't move in the same circles I never
saw this woman she and and actually it's
that the circles that they know didn't
have to be much much closer than what he
described in his head tonight
it would be an unbelievable coincidence
that this woman had created this
fiction about these people who all just
happened to be good buddies of kavitha's
and he just like out of whole cloth like
she would have come up with this right
like how could she possibly know that
judge and caveat were such good friends
if she didn't know them it's right if he
did it and she said that she said that
she was at this thing with the judge and
PJ before he released the calendars
confirming it and the other thing is
that her account is corroborated by Mark
judge's memoir because she said in her
testimony at six weeks six to eight
weeks later she ran into mark judge and
he looks very embarrassed and he didn't
want to talk to her she ran into him at
his job at the supermarket and in mark
judges memoir he says that late late in
that summer he was working at the
supermarket so there are details that do
add up people said had no corroboration
I mean you know it depends what you
consider corroboration but there are
reasons to believe that I mean she's
definitely not as Cavanaugh portrayed
her he wanted to suggest that all of
this was just totally totally crazy I
mean to me the Kris interviewing Chris
Garrett has always struck me to be the
most important person they could
interview I mean obviously judge but
Judge is going to get up there and live
it's true it strikes me is Chris Garrett
would have a very tough time lying about
the fact that he knew that they knew
each other right that that like I mean
all it would take is him to say no I did
I introduced them to Cavanaugh SH course
she knew Cavanaugh of course Cavanaugh
knew him yeah and that's the end of the
game right there I mean that's the night
the it seems to me that crucial what are
you gonna say I mean if he says nobly
informed me and Christy Ford never went
out well that really hurts you know what
she's saying
but if he says yeah she's completely
correct about that then that really does
make out a case for a Cavanaugh I mean
we've already made out the case that
happen all right under Rose a bunch of
times you don't need to do it more times
on I stress in this article that the
investigation is almost a necessary at
this point just because from the
testimony itself you have so many
damning
well I want to talk about what we'll get
to the investigation in a moment to the
extent that there is one because you
know it's pretty arguable that there is
not one even not even an inquiry and and
we will get there but let's go through a
couple of these key moments so he lied
about never being at a party like the
one she talks about in fact he also
later admitted he was at a party almost
exactly like the one that she talked
about as defined by the people in the
location and the sort of offhand Annette
do we have a sense though his argument
is like we would we would go to Tobin's
house and work out what is your sense I
know you don't really touch on in the
piece I'm just curious like there's
something weird about the Tobin's house
workouts because he also during the
testimony well he got super emotional
about about those workouts well he got
emotional about a lot of things in that
testimony when he started talking about
it calendars he started weeping which
was very very odd well no I thought it
was okay because it reminded him of his
dad and he was doing it cuz he wanted to
be like his dad and then he you know I
don't have that kind of relationship I
brought that what I thought I thought
initially when I saw that that his
father was deceased and he was
reminiscing that his father was in the
room well maybe he was upset that he had
to have his dad to hear about how he
here is that you know have his dad watch
him lie about this I I don't know yeah I
know I don't know what to make of the
workouts I'm trying to be I'm trying to
be really really cautious about not
speculating you know people have emailed
me a ton of stuff where they like and
what about this additional thing I'm
like yeah it is fishy and strange I mean
the whole calendar thing is strange to
begin with like keeping these meticulous
calendars but you know I'm trying to
have actually even though I come to a
very strong conclusion I'm trying to
produce a really conservative cake
alright so enough I'm not arguing yeah
all right I'll respect that won't make
you go to places where I where I'm going
so it says here at one point Cavanaugh
said all the witnesses who were there
that day say it didn't happen
is Kaiser this is Leland Kaiser
this is Ford's friend just really I mean
amazing how many friends well okay well
Cavan I didn't say miss Kaiser her
longtime friend said she never saw me at
a party with or without dr. Ford the
only problem is that miss Kaiser never
said that in fact none of the people
gave the denial that that Cavanaugh
claimed they did just tease that out for
us yes mark judge kind of did his first
statement didn't then a second statement
said well I've never seen Brett
Kavanaugh do anything like this which
does suggest that it didn't happen but
Oh PJ statement just says I have no
knowledge of this and I have no no it's
very important the Kavanagh conflated
them to be thought people wouldn't
notice but I have no knowledge of the
thing is not the same as I have
knowledge that the thing is false and
and that's really important because I
might not know about something and it
might still be true um and so Leland
Leland Kaiser is interesting because
this is egregious right Brett Kavanaugh
goes in front of the Senate and he says
and he emphasizes over and over I
collected the clips and it's about five
times he said all of the people say it
didn't happen and then he cites a couple
of times he said miss Kaiser she said it
didn't happen she's the best friend if
she said it then there's nothing and you
know four must be crazy essentially is
the implication but for thinks it did
happen for said she thought she told her
Washington posters she believes
Christine for which means that she
actually thinks the opposite of what
Cavanaugh said she thinks so I mean I I
just think that's a blatant he knew that
he knows what exciting what she said
he's just fighting in the opposite
because do you think she can fool the
people um so it's just all he just told
a falsehood that um that's another one
will chalk up for his line no I mean I
don't know I guess how important do you
think not lying to the Senate is to be a
justice of the Supreme Court just I mean
I say pretty important I mean the whole
the whole thing a whole mythology of the
court is the sanctity of the rule of law
and oaths of office and the dignity of
the United States government I mean if
if you just go before the Senate and you
just treat me oh so your your oath with
total contempt that it should disqualify
you not just from being on the Supreme
Court but probably from holding any
matrix government office ever again
let's talk about the country-club
there was a real sense according to
Cavanaugh that like and I think even the
prosecutor was trying to make it like
the country-club the you know the was
sort of everybody was untethered from
the country club in some fashion but
that's not exactly the case either is it
I'll try to suggest again that
everything was so far apart we never
moved in the same circle but when you
look at anything you know whether the
Country Club is not near where I lived
so and and Christine Ford says she was
at the Country Club that day so that's
not where that looks well the fence is
actually pretty small it's about five
miles or I don't know that's a rough
estimate um it's more ahead and there
was a map presented in the Senate that
shows where they all lived and they all
live within a few miles of each other
and four and I think Cavanaugh actually
lived closer to the country club than
Ford did so I mean he's again he's just
trying to create an impression that if
you actually look into if you look at a
map you can instantly see is completely
full also by the way where my favorite
fact is that his father and Christine
Ford's father were members of the same
Golf Club so forgiveness it's the same
circle they came they both were it like
DC elite schools so they're very very
close ties yeah and they're all making
it out like these are huge distances but
I mean these are all like you can ride
your bike in 20 minutes to any of these
places yeah
all right so
the idea that Kevin was not a big
drinker in high school I mean I know he
likes beer ah the alcohol yeah he likes
beer but I want to mention is why it's
important because there was a lot of
some Republicans like to say well you
know you're examining a high school
yearbook for evidence that he drank this
is ridiculous
look at you you know oh he drank and
that matters
it actually mattered quite a lot because
all three sexual misconduct allegations
against him say that he was heavily
drinking that involved alcohol and Brett
Kavanaugh defense when he got up there
and he was uh yeah I got up there and he
gave the reasons why you should believe
him he said I wasn't this person I was
not the person that described in me as a
horrible you know belligerent drunken
frat bro I was studious I went to church
I volunteered at the soup kitchen he was
that I was a good kid and so that's and
that makes it important and if it's if
it's false if it turns out that all of
that is completely false which it is
then that both number one is again Padre
but also affects his credibility on the
eye on the accusation itself right this
goes to the Blumenthal's Latin saying
false and one thing false in all things
which is evidence that judges give to
juries to in in regards to witnesses who
have testified let's just go through
some of the evidence that he's more than
just an ordinary social drink
oh yeah you know I keep finding more
evidence I just I like literally five
minutes before we got on this this
interview I just found a Yale Daily News
article that said he ran weekly tailgate
parties during his time at Yale he
hosted them every week so you just keep
finding more cell phone and a new and a
new person came out yesterday who was
that Yale with him and said and actually
recounted a violent incident in which he
threw a beer the guys faces
the fight but you just have so so many
quotes I mean from really distinguished
alumnae yeah people you're the head of
gynecological oncology at the University
of Washington came out and said I used
to booze with Brett all the time in
college and he's full of it when your
roommate yeah you need a time structure
with dozen people the yearbook is full
of references that he literally has a
hundred tags or bust on his yearbook
page right this is just such a
ridiculous picture for him to try to
paint because it's so contradicted by so
many people who knew him so I mean just
because he was the treasurer of the keg
City Club do you think that means that
he likes to drink a lot or is he is he
like to maybe just he likes to handle
money well we don't know because what
this is one thing that they never asked
him the work keg does not appear in the
transcript of the hearing which is kind
of shocking because to me like the mock
judge said I think it is memoir that
they had a contest to try and get to a
hundred kegs in one school year go
through a hundred tanks and Brett
Kavanaugh has it on it has it on his
yearbook page so you think if you were
examining the the alcohol-related facts
that would be something to mention but
they didn't ask about it so we don't
know much about the cake duty club White
House asked him about his his and I
didn't catch until I read your piece
that it wasn't just it what it didn't
just say mentioned that he ralphed a lot
but it was specifically tied into the
beach week Ralph's Club yeah as if his
stomach was only upset at beach week
because presumably this food is spicy on
beach week oh yeah they go to South
beaches in Thailand yeah I don't know oh
yeah I mean it was just ridiculous right
because he's asked about the beach week
roughly I mean if you watch watch the
exchanges cuz they're hilarious
because he's asked I think by Sheldon
Whitehouse
he says what could you explain what
ralphing means in the beach week Ralph's
Club and he said no it is vomiting but I
have a very sensitive stomach everyone
knows that and sheldon whitehouse says
okay
but was it also alcohol-related and
Keller says ah do you like beer
I like beer the question he says in fact
he says quote that probably refers to
throwing up probably I'm known to have a
weak stomach and I always have in fact
the last time I was there you asked me
about having ketchup on spaghetti I
always had a weak stomach this is well
known anyone who knows me a lot of these
people behind me they know me whole my
whole life you know you know I got a
weak stomach whether it's with beer or
spicy food or anything no no what do you
stand in response to the next follow up
and she says like Canada I went to Yale
yeah here goes so the vomiting referee
at the Ralph Club reference related to
the consumption of alcohol senator I was
at the top of my class academically
busted my button school captain of
varsity basketball team got into Yale
College when I got into Yale College got
into Yale Law School worked my tail off
so I wasn't alcohol related and I went
to Yale and you go what does that mean
thank you people not drink a lot of
alcohol yeah well no alcohol I said Yale
George W Bush put the Yale for God thing
I mean it's such an odd question White
House goes didn't relate to alcohol you
haven't answered that Cavanaugh says I
like beer I like beer I don't know if we
did White House says okay do you like
beer senator or not you know when you
read this stuff like you know we watched
it in the context of like our
three-and-a-half you're just like uh
but when you see it isolated like this
yeah it's not it's like a conversation
if if we turn this into like you know
gummy worms and there were some missing
from the cabinet and
ask my five-year-old son like did you
have gummy worms and he goes Billy was
mean to me today at school I'm not
asking you that
yaniv gummy worm yeah believe that they
said it failed to pin him down on some
of this stuff so you can see it's just I
mean he wasn't answering anything he was
doing this and it's just it was just the
whole way through he was doing this it
seems like it's a way of trying to avoid
having to tell a lie but he also told a
bunch of outright lies so I don't even
see what he was doing the thing is that
you can think about the fact that he
could have constructed a far more
plausible explanation he could have just
said when I was young I was a jock and I
drank a lot I used to drink I used to
party I used to love it
I recovered and now I'm a judge and
people should appreciate that but
instead he just constructed two totally
fictitious story and and I won't ask you
to speculate why someone might do that
if they felt but I think a lot of people
can say like well I guess if I knew I
was a blackout drunk in high school and
in college conceding that might concede
that I might not be the best witness as
to what I did or did not do in certain
situations well yeah the arwing the the
Renata there the renata one let's talk
about this because example of something
that really he could have just said
sorry for double down repeatedly well I
mean just out just lay it out for folks
because this is the yeah when I've
talked about it over the weekend this is
the moment that I find in some ways the
most stunning in some ways but go ahead
yeah I agree with you and it seems like
a small one but I think it's a really
big one which is so they knew all this
all the guys on the football team knew
this girl named
Renate or innate and she in their
yearbook and and won a couple of the
georgetown crab students have given
quotes to the New York Times saying that
they had the football player said really
disgusting things about her and they all
used to like pretend they'd gotten with
her and have real innuendos about her
and indeed in the yearbook they all list
themselves like members of the Renata
Alumni Club they have a caption and
Brett Kavanaugh has it on his page too
and he and so when she found out about
this she actually initially find the
letter in support of him but when she
found out that she didn't had never
known that this was in the yearbook and
when I was presented to her she said she
was horrified she couldn't believe that
they would have done that to her she was
really hot um and yet Cavanaugh
admitting that they were really harmful
to this girl in high school said oh no
no it had nothing to do with sexual
bragging and it couldn't have because I
never actually had any interaction with
her that was his argument he said it was
just a tribute to a dear friend and this
media circus is turning this six and
then he poses her defender and he said
and you're bringing up this what
dragging this woman's name through shame
on you right and the thing is he was
really despicable to this girl in high
school
and now it's like lying about it and
pretending it's just such an awful thing
to do and there's also confirmation that
it was about that effects because both
were in the yearbook there's a little
poem that's impossible to mistake for
anything else and it names
well what's there were two things that
were interesting about this one his
lawyer had put out a different statement
about this than he did right that uh
which I was surprised that did not come
up but also this is one of those moments
where you know all the other stuff you
know you need to sort of like like think
about it for a half a second
this is what the one instance where
occurs to me like every single person in
that room his wife his mom his dad all
of his supporters all of his detractors
every single one of those senators the
prosecutor people holding microphones
every single person in that room knew
that he was lying about this and no one
said a word
no it's darling well you know and it's
very telling to me
when he gave a speech a couple of years
ago where he said what happens at
Georgetown Prep stays at Georgetown Prep
and that's a good thing and I think what
you're seeing here is the kind of wagon
circling protecting their own thing that
elites do that the Yale Club usually
does I mean it's not really working for
Brett Kavanaugh because we have like a
list of Yale alumni who are all saying
he's lying
but yeah you can see that the Georgetown
Prep people like you know maybe they
know inside that he's lying but nobody
nobody says anything because you don't
say things about a fellow whatever but
it also it also struck me just even the
people who were not supporters of him
like you know everybody they knew he was
lying
and it was just amazing to me that that
nobody said come on judge you're lying
we know you're lying you're lying about
that and I don't know I thought that was
pretty crazy I mean there was the
devil's triangle thing you know about it
being a drinking game and you know I
have to say like III cop to not knowing
what devil's triangle was I mean so I
know I did but the interesting thing is
if you watch the moment where he said it
it's really funny because there's a long
pause and so yeah I I had friends in you
about this and you know there who
informed me that there has I mean it has
number of definitions it's like the
title of a King Crimson album but it's
not a drinking game there's no drinking
game he just made that one up and it's
pretty clear that among fratty people
this is kind of what that they would be
referring to the sexual definitions of
what of the time and so yeah when if you
watch the moment it's really funny
because sheldon whitehouse goes Timo's
triangle and Brett Kavanaugh goes
silence silence drinking game and then
White House instantly he he jumps on it
and he goes well how they played a
Cavanaugh house three cups in a triangle
do you think he do you think in mid this
is my sense that that was practiced like
that was not off the top of his head
they went through this and they said how
are you going to explain this yeah yeah
they did practices what the devil try
watching what are you gonna say when
they say are you gonna say with that
yeah which is interesting because you
think if he practiced about she wouldn't
have perjure themselves so much well yes
and and I mean I at the moment I feel
like I saw that practicing like the the
narrowness of the practicing was when
Durban changed it up and said personally
do you feel that there should be an FBI
investigation personally and that's
where he got stumped because he had
practiced like do you think there should
be one I'm willing to do whatever the
committee says but personally yeah and
then he just sort of stuck there and
looked to Grassley like dude aren't you
supposed to jump in here I mean it was
really poor theater obviously to the
extent that they ended up having to ask
for this FBI inquiry but give me your
sense all right step back for a moment
and you have made this very I think
conservative very literal explicit no
speculation case about his lying
I mean you lay it out there this is it's
basically a math equation step back now
and be a prognosticator for a moment do
you
the nature of this FBI investigation now
that it's been revealed that only four
people are being interviewed PJ Ramirez
this is the woman who made the other
claim about him at Yale which of course
can't be substantiated right because
you're not talking to anybody else at
Yale
mark judge and Leland Kaiser judge said
he wants it only confidential I don't
know what that's supposed to mean
but Leland Kaiser is there who
apparently is has some type of illness
that that Ford cited yeah and may not
want to get involved in this and Ford
basically gave her a pass at the hearing
so do you think though with the
knowledge about that investigation a-and
this almost goes without saying do you
think the investigation is going to be
sufficient be will it be sufficient for
its real purpose which is to provide
some type of cover for at least some of
those senators yeah well this is what I
almost think it was a mistake for
Democrats have spent so much of their
time and energy in the hearings calling
for an FBI investigation because I think
it will allow for winner it'll work I
don't know but it certainly is a way of
filling well the FBI ran investigation
they talked to all the principal people
nothing else came up and so no more
corroboration that's put them on the
court yeah I'm worried and I wish I kind
of wish the Democrats had said well
that's not calling them for the effort
let's nail him in the hearings we have
one chance to get him and we can't trust
the FBI because you can't so I don't
know what's gonna come out of it though
I have no idea I I have to say I think
the Democrats had to do that with the
FBI because there was no guarantee they
would nail him in the committee and do
in the FBI I think was the one
procedural thing where they could bring
onboard people like mansion and hide
camp who who couldn't afford to make a
decision on politics had to make one on
process
yeah it's unfortunate though because if
he does come out it's a whitewash it's
gonna it's going to be a problem but the
only nice thing is that we have such
compelling evidence that it does sort of
totally discredit him on the Supreme
Court I mean it's as a political
rallying point I think it will decrease
the popularity of the Conservatives on
the Supreme Court and will make it
harder politically to say overturn Roe
vs. Wade if you have like this guy
writing the opinion right indeed well
Nathan J Robinson editor of current
affairs folks can we will link to this
piece this is the thing that you pass
around to I think probably the vast
majority of people you know who don't
follow this stuff well and too so that
they can have a very explicit like you
say conservative no speculation just
laying out the facts and just even
reading again the the transcripts in
those key moments is it's just a bizarre
experience but Nathan say thank you so
much for your time yes bye-bye
all right folks I'm going to take a
quick break ahead into the fun half
where we will take your phone calls and
your IMS go over a couple other pieces
of sound let's hear is let's do this
before we go briefly so it it came out
over the weekend that the FBI and I
don't know how we know this we kept
hearing stories of the FBI not
responding to people from Yale who are
trying to get in touch with them to give
them a statement from the woman who was
Mark judges girlfriend mark judge had
told her about his feeling guilty about
getting a woman drunk in
school and then basically being part of
a train where various men would have sex
with her but according to him it was
consensual but he was feeling guilty the
FBI is not interviewing her the FBI is
not interviewing Garrett squee who could
tell us about the relationship between
Kavanagh and Ford
if Kavanaugh was lying when he said he
didn't know Ford because squee was the
one who interview who introduced them
according to Ford I mean then we could
we could wrap this whole thing up all
you need to do is ask ask Aaron did you
introduce Ford to Cavanaugh would you
have you're friends with both and if he
says I did not well then all of a sudden
do you know that Blasi Ford is just
incredible fabulist but if he says yeah
of course I did I was friends with
Cavanaugh I hang out with him with you
know the cheesy and barbells or whatever
those guys are and we had squeeze and
keys I went out with Ford course they
would have known each other then you
know Brett Kavanaugh just made a
bald-faced lie and you wonder why so it
comes out over the weekend that the FBI
is not doing a thorough even inquiry
because they are being limited by the
White House then Donald Trump gets wind
that this has been reported in leaked
and so he tweets out know the FBI gate
can do whatever they want then the FBI
when asked by The Washington Post no we
have not heard we have not gotten a
formal rescission from the first
instructions from the White House and
therefore we are going to limit our
invest investigation in fact we may be
done tomorrow as in today for Tuesday so
Jake Tapper
interviews Amy Klobuchar about it and I
I mean
seriously Jake Tapper are you confident
you just heard Kelly and Conway say the
FBI can investigate whatever they want
to investigate do you are you confident
that the FBI will be able to explore
everything they want to including if
they are interested the Julie sweat Nick
allegations including whether or not he
was honest to the Senate Judiciary
Committee about his drinking well based
on some of the reports that we've seen
this weekend I'm very concerned about
this because the White House should not
be allowed to micromanage an FBI
investigation she says they're not
Italian Italian said they're not I know
and there was one thing she did say and
that is that the hard-working men and
women of the FBI should be able to do
their jobs and on that I agree but is
Jake Tapper really citing Kellyanne
Conway's public Proclamation that the
FBI is doing this as some type of
refutation first off in terms of just
the sheer authority Kelly on Conway has
no more authority to tell the FBI had do
anything that I do and Kelly on Conway's
job has been from day one to lie on
behalf of the President so if only Jake
Tapper was in a position where he could
marshal resources to go and ask the FBI
this question to find out exactly what
they're doing instead of saying
Kellyanne Conway not once but twice as
if he's serious I mean and I know in his
mind he's thinking it's my job it's my
job to push back on Klobuchar she's a
senator she has power it's my job to
push back upon that in terms of what the
White House is saying but the manner in
which you do
reflects some notion of your sense of
her credibility right because we know
Jake Tapper wouldn't say well Sam cedar
said on his Twitter feed that the FBI is
doing this and that's because everybody
would look around going well right I
don't know Sam cedar but to the extent
that I do he that doesn't matter
and even though everybody knows who
Kellyanne Conway is and even though she
works for the president it doesn't
matter
thoughtful people know this Jake Tapper
smart enough to know it doesn't matter
what she says so why is he pretending it
does well because I think journalists
like to abdicate certain kinds of
responsibilities that's why he likes to
point to Mercatus but my point is he's
not abdicating responsibility he would
make the assessment if it was me and I'm
sorry
the to then decide like I it's too close
of a call if she's being honest in this
instance he is making an assessment he
is not abdicating that's my point
he's not abdicating he's pretending he's
abdicating but he's not he's actually
saying this is a legitimate claim
against what you've said and he knows
it's not a legitimate claim so he's not
abdicating he's actually deciding to
weigh in it's just that he's deciding
that by pretending to abdicate he's
advocating and he's not advocating he's
making an assessment as to whether or
not the claim is worthy and he does that
every time he puts it on like there it
is completely controversial the question
as to whether or not Kellyanne Conway is
telling the truth here well gently since
the FBI is come out with reporting that
they're not gonna do it that's the
problem with the kind of journalism
where you hold each side of a thing to
be equally valid right because in some
cases they're not and it's your job as a
journalist to go out and figure that out
plus there's not just two sides here the
FBI is another player and the FBI has
already pushed back on this notion I
think the reason why the FBI has
announced that they may be done today is
a way to create pressure on the White
House or on the Senators to have a more
extensive investigation because I can
tell you my daughter took a she took in
uh you know a high school assessment
public high school in New York is a
nightmare to get into and she had an out
ninety minutes and she came out after an
hour and my immediate reaction is what
did you do you're not done you didn't do
a very good job you got to get back in
there it was easy I then take the extra
30 minutes double-check your work
she announces I'm coming out you know
after ten minutes
my hair's on fire and I think that's
what I think why the F I think that's
why the FBI came out with that I think
they basically say like to just indicate
everybody yeah the same for reals all
right we got to take a quick break ahead
into the fun half just a reminder this
show relies on you its daily listeners
or twice daily listeners weekly twice
weekly listeners or thrice weekly
listeners for its support you can become
a member at join the majority report com
keeps this lovely studio the lights on
behind us and above us and the
electricity that's involved in this
microphone and this even this this
little marker that I use to point at
that that's all that and more join the
majority report comm also just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
we just ordered a five-pound bag of the
majority report blend that's the way we
roll around here tomorrow it's Tuesday
Michael what will happen Tuesday evening
Daniel Besner will join us to talk about
his recent New York Times op-ed on a
left-wing foreign policy and what that
means and we'll do a little
bit of a sort of condensed history of
foreign policy defense intellectuals and
we're also talking about why the new
environmental refugees are rich that and
much more patreon.com slash TPMS Jamie
all right so this weekend we recorded a
new episode with guest Molly crabapple
we talked a lot about Puerto Rico
disaster relief prefigurative politics
mutual aid all the cool things people
have been doing there to help each other
survive and rebuild after the hurricane
and we also talked a little bit about
sex work sex workers rights assess the
FASTA stuff like that so that should be
out Wednesday and we still have our
conspiracy theories episode up as well
we may touch on this in the fun half
we're gonna find out more about what's
going on with NAFTA but apparently this
may in some ways be a back end around
parts of cesta FASTA because of section
203 apparently nafta because of this
deal between Canada and the US they the
Facebook's and the the and whatnots put
in a provision that would make them less
responsible for what is posted by users
in which case that could undercut cesta
and FASTA good outcome bad dynamic where
we lose the ability to maintain a bill
you know a control over our own laws and
corporations can do and runs around
these things but we'll talk more about
that and the fun half because that's so
fun Matt yeah literary hangover I'm
still doing my reading of hope Leslie
for patron members if you're not a
member you can check out the YouTube
page I'm at 970 subscribers so I want to
get to a thousand what's up with the hat
I am just wearing hats now yeah but why
that one oh it's a Boston thing he's
upset about that
I'm anti I'm so anti JD but Martinez
that I'm a Yankee fan
we can take a quick break
head into the fun half six four six two
five seven six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty six four six two five
seven thirty nine twenty we'll put on
the I am see you in the fun half
[Music]
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cause you're rich I
have an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube frees up their buggy whipping
like he's the boss I am NOT your
employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you
you nervous a little bit upset you riled
up yeah maybe you should rethink your
defensive idiot we're just going
to get rid of you all right you want to
smoke this joint yes I'm happy now five
times five
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first host cueto see
I'm hoping to add more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
underdogs
 you you alright take quick
break I want to take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there take
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber
lassic I'm feeling more chill already
hood Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey you guys ready
[Music]
[Music]
a little bit I mean look it's a free
speech issue if you don't like me thank
you for calling into the majority report
damn we'll be with you shortly
folks I just want to make sure that you
get this warning about the oncoming race
war I'm just going to assume that
everybody around here is white so that
know that this warning is for white
people only
let's outsource some of this warning
from Tucker Carlson he he's the one who
tipped me off about it I'm speaking
quietly because we should have the
element of surprise
well the press has taken only two
lessons from the persecution of Brett
Kavanaugh not a sophisticated group the
first lesson is he is guilty no matter
how little evidence exists against him
and second and this is a lesson they
learned a long time ago would have been
telling us a lot about four years
certain people are inherently bad
because of their race and gender and if
you don't believe us listen to the
selection a panel of eleven white male
Republicans opted to have a female
shield protect them sarong was the
patriarchy and white male privilege on
display white men need to stop passing
judgment on sexual assault victims if
you have a group of eleven white men
sitting there on the Republican side you
have to ask do they get it does Dave
gergan get it open question Joy Behar
gets it she went on the view and went
further if you don't support further
investigation of Cavanagh which seems
like kind of a non-racial question then
somehow you want to institute a party
the people on the Republican side it
looks like to me do not want to
investigate this any further they just
want to hold on to their power they know
that this country is getting darker so
it's almost like they they're worried
that all white people are going to lose
all their power pretty soon we'll be
like South Africa apartheid we're ten
percent of white people we're running
the country I'm not advocating for
anyone's firing but I know a lot of
people in television who've been fired
for saying way less than that I hope
that joy Behar's not canned by ABC but
it's just kind of amazing that if you're
Joy Behar you can save literally
anything on your network and nobody does
anything
no advertiser boycott looming in her
future it's unbelievable Senator Lindsey
Graham the new and improved version I
positive one second I should just say
that I didn't even think that she was
well I mean what she was saying was sort
of just a demographic trends in this
country now for the first time ever the
number of of that under the age of 10
white people are now a I shouldn't say
they're a minority but the the majority
of children under 10 are kids of color
so so you know what happens is you
should give next year it'll be the
majority of children under the age of
eleven unless some trend changes then
it'll be 12
then it'll be 13 14 15 16 see the way
this goes through history all right and
if you still have this dynamic that the
Republican Party at least seems to be
completely untouched by then we could
very well have a dynamic in this country
where we have small percentage of white
people who are running the country
despite the fact that they are not
reflective of the rest of the country
Senator Lindsey Graham the new and
improved version introduced yesterday
responded to this madness today watch
Senator Graham thank you I know I'm a
single white male from South Carolina
and I've told I should shut up but I
will not shut up if that's okay voices
there you go exactly yeah the point
being there obviously I mean I think
this goes without saying but the point
that people try to make when they say 11
white guys is that none of those guys
belong to a class in which they would
have experienced systemic degradation of
their value in society and now Lindsey
might there may be aspects of Lindsey's
life that he doesn't share publicly I
wonder why that might be
I mean so Lindsay might at least be more
aware of that dynamic and how it works
in society you would think there would
be value in that for him to use that now
maybe he's just a bachelor he hasn't
just found the right woman to settle
down with or maybe the fact that he goes
around with and it's an open secret in
Washington maybe he would understand
that like what why why can't you be
public about that and the fact of the
matter is is that 11 white guys are
gonna have a lot less ability to be
aware of the dynamic that's going on
here which is Brett Kavanaugh getting
completely indignant that his trajectory
to great manhood would be in any way
altered by okay whatever I did as a 17
year old to that girl but that's like I
mean you know this is this is an extreme
this is sort of an extreme version of
this but you know walk down the street
you don't alter your your path because
there's an ant on the ground either walk
on it or you don't but you don't change
the direction you're going but if
there's another person there you do if
there's something that's even bigger you
might a little bit but not significantly
and I think in Brett Cavanaugh's world
that's the dynamic that's at play here
now it's different if it's my aunt if
it's my pet and I might act a little
differently but if it's not mine I'll
just walk and that's it let's go to
Tucker Carlson again Chuck Carlson
really wanting to make some hay over the
fact that there are people in fact
Tucker Carlson is almost as indignant
as Brett Kavanaugh is and for the same
reasons which is you can't tell me that
in some way my being a white guy the
other one the other one my being a white
guy somehow is a liability in any
situation that is offensive and frankly
to me that's equivalent of a race war
but tell me is a logical matter what the
hell does race have to do with this case
oposite we should say he's talking to a
woman who is an attorney her name is
Harmeet Dillon she is a civil rights
attorney one of her more well-known
clients was James d'amour he was the one
who got fired from Google because he was
talking about how women there are just
inferior broadly speaking here she is
you know letting us know about the
oncoming race more race have to do with
this case it has nothing to do with it
Tucker but I mean I think a couple of
things going on here number one what
we're seeing is a phenomenon that's been
happening in America over the last few
years and it has become fashionable now
to be beat up on white men and whites
more generally because we have this
culture of spoils where we are being
told that you are entitled to certain
things in society and certain jobs in
certain places in California we have a
law now that you're entitled a board
membership on corporate corporate policy
or apposite I mean the idea that we
don't have a culture that it tells
people they're entitled to something is
absurd of course we have that culture
now she's saying she's actually going so
far as to say like we have a culture now
where women and black people and Latino
people are you know told that they have
a right to something now
this has been the case in this country
for its entirety that white men are born
with that that privilege
it's almost absurd to suggest otherwise
but the assault on that privilege
feels like oppression to them and their
attorneys California we have a law now
that you're entitled a board membership
on corporate corporate boards if you're
a woman and so that's part of our
cultural shift and you know I just want
to clarify something about that
California law you need more
qualifications than just being woman so
every woman born in California or moved
California I want to make this clear if
you're thinking about moving to
California cos you want to sit on a
corporate board and you're a woman you
will not get a job on a corporate board
just because you're you're a woman
they're just simply saying we want some
diversity now there goes my plan to fund
the Rev there you go see that's why I
said that as a public service and you
should know in California I don't know
how many millions of people in
California what is it I mean how many
how many tens of millions of people one
that gets like 60 yeah okay well see
we're talking maybe approximately thirty
million women only thirteen Wow just shy
of 40 million okay so we're talking
closer to only about twenty million
women and that's a lot of board seats
I'll just make the board's is there any
age cap no but here's the problem and
here's the issue that she has very hard
to find
how do those 20 million women women who
are qualified to sit on boards that's
why this is a problem ultralift and you
know like you I was taught certainly
from my faith as well as my parents of
my upbringing that we don't judge people
according to what they look like or how
they were born we only look at people
according to their merit and we treat
everybody equally and that's an
unfashionable concept now so
unfortunately you know if you believe in
hate speech what you heard yesterday
would be the most vicious type of hate
speech and not just from the senators on
the Dyess but from every Democrat group
and all the talking points it was all
hateful towards people like judge
Kavanaugh which is kind of silly as you
pointed out because both he and his
accuser from the same class in the same
race I'm saying I mean it's literally
that it would be weirder are you worried
that if dumb people like David gergan or
all the rest had seen and keep up with
the race hatred that that will actually
encourage some kind of conflict you seen
this in a lot of different countries we
really don't want it here but could we
get there if they don't occur oh my gosh
so I'm you know Berkeley campus across
the street where I'm going second so one
Tucker is afraid of the oncoming race
war and he's corrected by this attorney
it already exists you ready for this
folks listen I hate to be the bearer of
bad news but apparently we have white
no-go places in this country Tucker oh
my gosh so I'm you know Berkeley campus
across the street where I'm you know
helping with litigation over there
there are you know places where whites
are not supposed to go I mean that is
apartheid it's apartheid on our college
campuses it's outrageous but you know at
a higher level stepping back from the
cultural disintegration hold on for one
second is Tucker Carlson aware that
Tucker Carlson just moments earlier on a
show said that the idea of of someone
saying that there's apartheid in this
country in years to come
is so offensive that they should get
kicked off is he aware that his guests
just said that there's apartheid now
against white people on the Berkeley
campus is there different Berkeley that
I'm aware of is that we talking about a
different Berkeley the no-go places for
white people the apartheid good from the
cultural disintegration of this
phenomenon the Democrats are seizing on
any kind of Club that they have handy so
and you got a white man in front of you
let's beat up on him for being a white
man if it's yeah I mean maybe you're
right I mean maybe it works short term
but it seems like the long term cost is
potentially just way more than we'd ever
want very corrosive I'm so glad that the
Tucker is very measuredly concerned
about the oncoming race we're just want
to give you folks a heads up so
prepare for that now and/or to ground
zero Berkeley there you go it's gonna
start west like a lot of things
skateboarding happen that way too if I
remember correctly
everybody was skateboarding out in
California and then all of a sudden is
here so just be aware of it and tune in
tomorrow when we're selling ready-made
meals
well what side are the Jews gonna be on
hmm
cuz I know according to folks like
Richard Spencer we might not be white
it's gonna be tricky it's gonna be it's
gonna be tricky now accepting offers
exactly who wants us Fox really went
all-in on on on this didn't they let's
let's just cleanse the palate for a
moment then I'll go to the phones here
is Elizabeth Warren she I don't know
where she spoke about this it was in
Boston but I'm not exactly sure what the
I don't speak Latin enough then
Springfield and she was I don't talking
to I'm not exactly sure what the context
was but it was in the net the last
couple days and she was being quite
explicit about what she saw in the Ford
Cavanaugh hearings
[Music]
we question them I want power men
helping a powerful man make it to it
even more powerful decision
[Applause]
women to go to Washington and fix our
own government that includes a woman at
the top
[Applause]
oh I didn't realize okay so that is
Elizabeth Warren making a potential
announcement of her presidency there was
also another clip that she made that I
sent right here it's in the pull that
one where she went on to talk about the
dynamic that was taking place I mean I
think you see these things you start to
read realize that she is she is gonna
run but here is here is what she had to
say specifically about the Cavanaugh
thought he was entitled to this and
angry that someone would want to ask
heart questions but when he's angry what
did the commentators say he shows how
tough he is he's back into battle but I
noticed that dr. Ford she's working her
way through having to relive probably
what was the worst day of her life and
then finally chuck grassley turns to her
and says do you need a break and she
says
will that work for you here it is one of
the worst days of her life she's not
allowed to be angry she is there once
again to say what works for you with
deference with courtesy and you know I
feel like this is what's going on all
around this country it's not just women
who are not entitled to be angry girls
aren't supposed to be angry because it
makes us unattractive to powerful men
who want us to be quiet and it's not
just women everyone else who has less
power should be quiet because ultimately
what this is about is this is about
power this is about who's got it and who
doesn't plan to let go of it so I'll
tell you this today I am angry and I own
it
to take back the house to take back the
Senate to put Democrats
so that came out of the same talk that
she gave in Holyoke mass right outside
of Springfield and she alluded in the
first clip to running in 2020 but I
suspect what she you know theoretically
that the the the second clip is about
the midterms but I suspect it's really
more about 2020 at this point yeah
that's a it's she's definitely running
now I know what Jamie's gonna say he
loved her her acknowledging power wish
it wasn't so much with the Democrats at
the end there but the power is good
right I mean it was uh it really it I
want I must admit
like it hit me somewhere deep inside of
my feminism that I just liked it a lot
I'm so cynical about the Democratic
Party I'm so cynical about electoral ism
but like just I just saw her up on that
stage talking about female anger and I
was like Yas Queen yeah I mean I think I
mean she's it would be hard to get a
greater indication that she's she's
running I think I think there's a
problem with Democrats when they act
like they're not angry it seems
disingenuous to the people that paid the
most attention to it yeah I think that's
true I hope that uh I hope she and
Bernie are coordinating yes I I would be
surprised if they're actively
coordinating but I also would be
surprised if Bernie if she has not
already indicated what she's doing and
that he's already said okay I mean I I
don't think I don't think that he has
any interest in running if she's running
and I think that he gonna end up seeing
him function in many respects is one of
her biggest surrogates I mean I think
you can already get the sense that
people are starting to coalesce around
her and it's gonna be interesting it's
gonna end up being like Warren versus
Biden are gonna be the two big parties I
think within you know
and it's going to be interesting to see
how that plays out but I I mean I think
right there she captured what you know
anecdotally I I I think almost every
woman I have spoken to has said some
version of like this has been the most
disturbing couple of days that they've
had at least since the election because
in many respects like that what we saw
there were like this guy comes in yells
at the committee blatantly lies and gets
away with it she couldn't have been any
more credible it's just not possible for
her to have been any more credible she
was a memory psychologist and yet and
yet it was ultimately irrelevant not
because his testimony put holes in hers
just because he dropped down my I'm a
white guy who's who was the deal when I
was born was like I have the ability to
achieve this and doing something like
that is was never ever contemplated
something that could get in the way of
that of my destiny and that indignation
was enough for almost everybody in the
room I mean not obviously not the
Democrats but you know in terms of way
they're gonna vote but that that
indignation was almost enough and it I
think just basically reminded women who
have experienced this in some one
fashion or another their whole lives
like oh this is this is where we're at
still the anger is key yeah it seems
real
called from a four to three area code
who's this Samwell yes it's that from
Tennessee how are you guys Zack from
Tennessee I'm doing well buddy
what's on your mind well after a weekend
of all ketamine I showed up to work
today in a k-hole and my boss was a
little angry and I was like have you
ever Kitty flipped and he fires wait a
sec oh wait I'm not sure I follow any of
this you got are you gonna help me out
here it's if the ketamine joke never
lies it's a Cavanaugh joke hey John
yes it's Cavanaugh joke is that ketamine
anyway good job last night as he goes it
was great
oh I was you go on the premiere uh yeah
yeah
what what was it I don't remember that
one you came in and found that Bob had a
rat in his underwear the dead baby rat
and you are nothing that a little baby
rats they were trying to keep alive okay
boiler alert I barely remember it yeah
well I didn't do anything okay Trump is
visiting my hump is visiting my hometown
here in Johnson City tonight and how big
Avengers you got how big a venue is he
playing at he is playing at a place
called Freedom Hall I have tickets every
all of my facebook here in a Democrat
Democratic that's the other thing I want
to bring up later in the Democrat Party
we all got tickets there is just an
abundance of these digital tickets so
I'm going to protest but we're thinking
that they gave out so many tickets that
it's going to be full it's about a four
thousand feet Arena
maybe three maybe three thousand three
to four thousand Freedom Hall Johnson
City Tennessee that's
what's interesting to me is that they're
going to that small venue now they
probably gave out 10,000 tickets 7,000
tickets because they want it to be like
the venues too small but they chose a
small venue they're choosing small
venues didn't kill them just have a
rally where there's like 50,000 people
in Florida 7 yeah yeah 3 or 4,000
theater is like Marc Maron can fill that
oh I mean they had a Beatles tribute or
yeah Beatles tribute act that had it
completely packed three years ago called
rained and it was completely packed well
they're a good one
but yeah I just had two quick questions
for you you know I called a couple weeks
ago and I brought up the yearbook saying
and you're like well that's just 17 year
old but actually I mean I'm not trying
to get you to say that I own you but I
mean it has come up to be quite uh
well the issue is less about what he did
in his yearbook and more about but the
issue about his yearbook is a function
of of it being corroborating evidence
for what he was doing at that time
period not in and of itself if he had
had that stuff in his yearbook and none
of this about Blasi Ford came up then I
still think like not relevant that's my
feeling
yeah it's just that he - tack old it
just becomes something that he's he's he
is it's become relevant because it is it
corroborates what he was doing at that
time there's a reason why he's denying
it and three weeks ago we had no reason
to believe that he would deny it even
the smallest even the smallest detail
you know down to the rafters ridiculous
they're just one quick question can you
can you briefly describe because Matt
Stoller has blocked me from Twitter I
don't
we follow them I know he advocated
voting for Romney in 2012 I'm not sure
I'm not sure you advocated for it but I
think he had an argument that he was
making about Obama which I thought was
not a I I mean I understood the argument
and we had we had a little debate about
it here and yeah but go ahead well found
you know it sounds kind of vaguely
familiar to another guy named Jimmy Dore
but anyway
not as much more thoughtful about these
yes but yeah continue yes he was
what what what was he trying to get at
about the whole prep school and
privilege thing I was just too young to
Oh on his tweet thread I mean I think he
was just talking about the the notion of
privilege and how the that that
environment is one where you are
basically hermetically sealed and
everything tells you that you are you
have certain rights that basically just
other people don't have
yeah okay well I appreciated Amy Matt
Mike everybody squeeze BJ everyone there
guys keep it up keep lifting I love you
guys we're gonna go protest tonight take
that video send it to us I will take the
video of the venue I'll take a video of
the protest south and it's the majority
reporters all right we'll keep our eyes
open for that all right
Jake you later bye-bye keep acting keep
lifting man let us know how much you
bench that's one of the things we should
do for now on you come from a to 100
area code who is this where you're from
how much do you bench
good afternoon Sam Sam San Antonio John
from San Antonio how much can you bench
I have no idea okay
yeah so I'm gonna start with a different
opening because you know you kind of
irked me a little bit so why should
Bernie defer to Warren his numbers are
better than hers and head-to-head
against Trump there his polls are better
in the Democratic nomination polls that
have been out so far he's more popular
than Warren nationwide he has a larger
following he's already won 22 states
last year there's no reason why Bernie
should refer to Warren I like Warren I
think when Bernie went to the nomination
she would make a great vice president
but you know there's really no reason
why she should defer to her and I'm
wondering why you think that he should
alright well first off I don't know that
I said I think that she should he should
defer I think he will defer to her I
think he wants to defer to her I don't
think he ever wanted to run for
president in the first place in fact the
reason why he jumped in so late was
because he was waiting to see what she
was going to do so but with that said
the only thing that I the only the only
and I I'm more or less agnostic on this
I mean I think people if they want to
run they should run I have no problem
with that I think there is a strong
argument and I guess we'll have a better
sense of this right in the midterm that
a women and their energy is driving is
driving the a lot of what we're seeing
in terms of enthusiasm and voters
getting out and voting that would be the
only you know that would be my biggest
argument but but ultimately I think he's
gonna you know gonna defer because I
think he doesn't want to run well what
makes you think that uh he's got a book
coming out before the midterms I'm not
saying that you wouldn't run if she
doesn't run and I'm not saying that he
doesn't want to be a
an important figure in American politics
and I'm not convinced that he wouldn't
want a maybe a cabinet position or maybe
if the Democrats take back the Senate to
be in charge of the begging you know me
you got to contemplate from Bernie's
perspective like being president it's
probably not you know the best job that
there could be for everybody and I mean
certainly Warren didn't want it last
time around she was perfectly willing
being a very strong presence in the
Senate and having you know and she was I
think wanted vice president see just
because she wanted the resources I mean
why do I think he doesn't want it
because he didn't want it last time and
he ran only when Warren wasn't running
and he ran as an issue candidate wasn't
until late in the campaign where he
thought like oh I have a chance at
winning this I should take it but I
think his natural inclination I just
don't think he's a guy who's grown up I
don't think she is either frankly who
has been like it's my lifelong ambition
to be president most people who run for
president it's been like pretty close
their lifelong ambition to be president
you know but that's why we like Bernie
sorry to interject but like he's not
doing it for his own ambition he's doing
it for us and a lot of people are gonna
be very disappointed if he doesn't run I
agree with everything you just said no
right tell it to Bernie I mean it's just
like yeah I'm not saying that he
shouldn't run I'm saying my sense is he
won't I don't know maybe maybe it's just
wishful thinking but I just excited like
he's been doing taking steps to like
beef up his foreign policy chili dog
he's making all kinds of appearances
without a duck he's got his head in the
game without a doubt and and I think
that if Elizabeth Warren doesn't run
that he will run but I think that from
his this is complete speculation on my
part maybe I'm wrong but I think his
that's certainly what his calculation
was in 2016 is and it's in the only
thing that would be different now is
that he has even more reason to want to
stay in the Senate because he's actually
like a guy who gets who is like a leader
in the Senate Emme he's and so he has a
tremendous amount of power without the
hassle of being president and if you are
interested in pushing your agenda I
think he looks at little is with Warren
and says she is not going to be an
obstacle to pushing most of the policies
that I want and well I mean but that's
just my I still speculation my part but
that's just my unformed policy I mean
they are very much idiots with each
other and also you know Bernie has led
the way I mean you know I love Warren
I've read her books I was you know on
the before Bernie said he was gonna run
you know I was on the press but I mean
I'm just giving you my analysis of what
what Bernie's thinking is I am totally
open and you know I think in terms of of
like the issue sets like I would be much
more enthusiastic about Warren if she
had some of Bernie's foreign policy
positions but I am not convinced that
that she would be as closed off to them
as someone else would be and I would
also say like I'm also not convinced
that you know for Bernie like those are
still secondary there was a reason why
he didn't have anybody on a staff for
the entire campaign practically who
didn't have any foreign policy
experience he didn't he is taking steps
to fix that though like he had a great I
know it in The Guardian about farmer I
know cosign by Yanis Farah Farkas I know
but I lose back I actually his original
interest going back to the
I know it's more oriental I know the
face all I'm doing you're arguing with
you're not arguing with me all I'm doing
is stating fact are we going with you
and yours you're trying to say they know
the foreign policy would be enough for
him to stay in and run maybe you may be
right I mean I would be fine with either
of them but I would vote I would
definitely vote for Bernie over her
because from I mean from a leftist
perspective his relationship to the
Democratic Party is much more
antagonistic he would heighten the
contradictions within the party and
maybe even create a real rupture from
the kinds of politics that they have
been practicing for decades uh it would
it would be amazing but she she would be
fine too
I'm sure yeah I just don't think that
we're gonna have that debate to be
honest with you well I guess we'll see I
think either way it goes they don't both
run that I agree with progressive I
think it's great have Biden and all of
those people run but create some Lane
preferably on Bernie but for Warren as a
backup of actual bitly Center left to
Social Democratic candidacy John I'm
sorry I didn't mean to upset you
no it's all right didn't upset me I mean
it's just you know I didn't think Bernie
is he's gonna run he's gonna run I agree
on John got our revolution he's got this
he's got a book coming out he's got
everybody behind him all of his
supporters from 2016 and more and and I
just think he's gonna run he's gonna be
more it okay his numbers are better
right now October for Martha wondering
only 17 I'm wondering 18 note it down I
know you'll remember this day
don't bring us yours back man damn
possible wonder what if you're gonna be
broadcasting live on the night of the
midterms yeah sure had thought about it
but boom good John we will talk about a
lot John we will talk about that because
if we do do that I would love your you
know to have some form
involvement John if you're interested
but all right thank you all right but if
that's gonna be the case we we better
probably better start lifting a little
bit I want to know what your what you
benching if we're gonna do that
everyone Trump one we were in the studio
yeah I remember best oh no I forgot it
all right all right obviously it was
just a weird way to put guys remember
that time Rolly in here we were talking
and then we were just like wait what
he's won he won the presidency and every
business what's going on and I forgot I
had forgotten it and so we had
contemplated doing the midterm Raven
head 1997 so do you all think of what
Jenkins predicting could be true
Warren Bernie Harris and I think
Gillibrand what's he saying that all of
them are gonna run like I say I don't
think we're warning Bernie run bring it
on
I hope they don't run at the same time
but I don't mind all those people
running Sam Sam pen tenth Sam I read a
very obvious but I think unmentioned
point about Brett that is was Ford asked
to sign the 65 woman letter if not why
not
see it home boss but he denies even
knowing her write a nice little angel
Liz Warren hitting the deep back walls
of Jamie's feminism hell yeah she's
robbed call I live in Berkeley
Gloucestershire England no apartheid
here rob milking cows and they're both
black and white shot in Cavanaugh's
defense from the words of the great Tom
T Hall whiskeys too rough champagne cost
too much and vodka makes Bret sob like a
baby in front of the Senate California
Lube rollies what do you think is the
likelihood of Santa's runnin with Warren
as VP unlikely
who do you think it would be his VP if
he was not his VP mm-hmm you think a
caramel Oh would be him his bps that
were you thinking ah conceivably I don't
know no that would make the most sense
they like to balance it out yeah
I mean I don't know if you would
discount the possibility if Elizabeth
Warren being his VP being his VP yeah
why not I I mean it's possible I think
it's more like you get like a Chris
Murphy type of situation why I think
Chris Murphy will be Hertz
well Chris Murphy although you know to
Northeast makes sense though I think for
any like I think because he why because
of his sort of foreign policy and
foreign policy and stuff is very good
yeah good on Yemen Fram from
Philadelphia have you discussed the
statute of limitations wrinkles for
Maryland rape charge for Cavanaugh
though attempted rape between minors
wouldn't be prosecutable now because it
was only a misdemeanor in 82 wopo op-ed
by ex deputy AG of Maryland in X Breyer
Clerk 3 rue Vigna Raja points the three
types of crimes with no statute of
limitations in Maryland attempting a
sexual assault with the aid of another
person counts as attempted first-degree
all right without going through all that
I think what is a very real possibility
would be congressional hearings that
cover all of this and could very well be
a year or two out a mechanism in which
we start to see the idea of court
packing and or term limits introduced I
mean I if I have if I'm if I'm a
congressman and I take the chair like
and and they should all have this
mentality but if they don't all have the
mentality of like how am I gonna get on
the news today I know what it is I'm
going to form a committee about this or
I'm gonna form an investigation about
this or that and it seems to me there's
probably like two or three different
committees that would have jurisdiction
over something like this and they're all
gonna run investigations and and they
should they definitely should
okay here we have Tucker Carlson still I
did it did you get the wrong one up
there Tucker Carlson is highly invested
in the idea that we are on the verge of
a race war now I know that seems weird
to you because Tucker Carlson can't
possibly on his daily life be in any way
exposed to anything that would make him
believe a race war is imminent right I
mean what what's going on in Tucker's
life now with that said there have been
a lot of white supremacist who have had
concern about this for a long time right
I mean it's one of the staples of these
sort of like white racist groups that
they're convinced a race war is
happening that could just be a
coincidence I don't know I don't know I
don't know it's weird isn't it it's
weird it's a hundred percent projection
right cuz he's like oh well we did all
these fucked-up things to people of
color it seems the only rationale that
they'd want to do them back to us its
riches and we're and we're doing them
still like we want to do them I just
think it's weird let's watch professor
Jason Nichols teaches african-american
studies the University of Maryland's a
frequent guest on the show and he joins
us tonight professor thanks for coming
on Thank You Tucker so as an almost 50
year old American I was brought up to
believe that you should not this was a
core principle judge people on the basis
of the race because it's not a relevant
criterion for judgment and it's not
something you can control is that still
true I think it's absolutely true that
people should not be judged on the basis
of their race but there are advantages
that certain people have on the basis of
their race class and gender and I think
we need to acknowledge that but but
right I mean that could be true in
individual case it could be but when an
individual is actually no not an
individual cases actually if you look at
it with broad strokes if if you tell me
about 20 people who get born in a
certain area code versus another area
code
zip code in particular I should say
within 10 minutes I can tell you a lot
about those 10 people I may not get it
right for all 10 but I can tell you what
schools they went to what I could tell
you probably what the median is of those
10 people an income is and get it right
and get it right within like five or ten
thousand dollars is that is that just
because I'm clairvoyant I don't think so
it's an gender and I think we need to
acknowledge that but but right I mean
that could be true in individual case it
could be but when in individual cases
but when you say it's true in every case
what you're doing is judging people on
the basis of the project let me just
show a rhetorical trick that that Tucker
just used individual cases every case
there's something in between
that's called most cases most cases but
when in individual cases but when you
say it's true in every case what you're
doing is judging people on the basis of
the race which we just agreed well again
well number one I said race class and
gender and what just don't just stick
with rape because because class as a
fluid is a fluid thing I mean your class
can change it can sure it's rare but
nobody can it's not in your DNA I can't
study your bones and find out what class
you I would say race is not a ponzi
actually you probably could in fact they
could do that even with mummies they
look at the bones and they say this prop
because of the because of the presence
of this mineral that it suggests that
they were wealthy because they had
access to these type of foods but let's
not get nitpicky continue oh but it can
it's not in your DNA I can't study your
bones and find out what class you I
would say race is not in your DNA either
but we can win go on I'm not a scientist
but but most people can't change the
race and I don't I don't think it's
acknowledged that you can if it's wrong
to judge people on the basis of their
race and I think both of us agree we
don't want to live in a country where
people are making generalizations
negative ones especially about whole
groups of people we do live in a country
but we don't want to add to that because
it's wrong so then why are all the dumb
people on television in unison attacking
people on the basis of their race and
nobody's saying anything about it well I
think again people are acknowledging the
fact that certain groups of people have
more advantages than others I mean
there's Tucker Carlson just like getting
schooled and deliberately ignoring the
reality of everything he said is true
that it's not all people all members of
a certain gender or of a certain race or
of a certain class that have these
things but the reality is is the median
gives you a very good approximation of
where they are now okay I said all I
need is your zip code and that they do
this as if we don't have metrics about
like income based on these sorts of you
know it's race or gender right we have
all this information so by ignoring that
information that these are unequally
distributed they're basically suggesting
that it's natural yes and there's
there's also the other trick is that
they're saying like it's you're saying
this about everyone and and really you
just have to look at like look at the
mediocre student the mediocre white male
student achieves a lot more maybe his
name is Brett maybe his name is Brett
just my boy Chad work my butt off oh
yeah yelling about about Brett Kavanaugh
turns out remember how he said like I
got to I got to deal with no connections
turned out he had one connection he was
a legacy like so he has his day it's
great worked my butt off for that takes
work to be a legacy yeah and I'm curious
I would love to be able to go back and
see how much money
Brett's parents gave to you I don't mean
in terms of tuition I just I can't help
but think that somewhere
may have been like a cabinet dining hall
type of situation err yeah it tends to
help polish the turn of a mediocre
legacy to have a little donation
involved there you go
Ivy League schools man so good great
system perfect Ryan from California you
definitely can study bones to tell class
I learned that in anthropology 102 in
college bones can tell how hard you
worked your diet nutrition age at time
of death disease suffered yes of course
Tucker said he wasn't a scientist I'm
not a scientist then take I didn't do
anything past 101 I thought he was gonna
get all Marxist for a second and say
class is not my identity it's a social
relation calling from an eight one eight
area code who's this where he calling
from hey Sam this is Jeff from Los
Angeles Jesse from Los Angeles what's on
your mind hey I just want to say thanks
for you guys do you guys are great
I just wanted to make an observation you
think that I could question the
observation about the cabinet hearing
the other day was that not the biggest
example of bros before hos you've ever
seen yeah with her with the Republicans
in a way that they were treating the
situation it's but that's just what came
off to me just they reminded me of like
a high school and a girl would just how
guys would certainly around a girl who
liked the Renate Alumnus situations yeah
I remember with girls like that who had
experiences of a lot of guys in a group
and that was very common to sort of
treat them that way and I went to an
all-boys Catholic High School just like
that and I remember guys like this it
wasn't very common for the football
players and the guys who got good grades
that they were all you know popular and
they would sort of you know gang up and
you know throw parties with the
intention of getting girls drunk and
things like that so this is totally not
an isolated incident in my opinion yeah
but I was talking to my buddy from
college about this the other night like
yeah we know we know exactly we have
perfect examples of this perfect
examples of this that and you know and
in our College there was no football
team it was just a hockey team but we
you would see it and yeah it's the old
boys club right like they were literally
in clubs together yes literally the boys
club they just called it something
different 100 keg Club the you know
we're now tell em night what's what's
the what's the question so my question
is well first I just wanted to say you
know one there's the day of reckoning
coming one day there will be a day it's
my wife kind of opened up some Mead in
reference to the Chris Wallace thing
about his daughter's my wife opened up
to me about a situation that happened to
her in college that I did not react well
to about something I happened when she
was passed out drunk and I you know I
had to have a good conversation with her
about it and I think like the day of
reckoning is coming and I think that's
what Republicans realize is and why
they're getting so angry is that you
know this sort of thing is going to have
consequences in the future and that's
why they're trying to rush them through
because I think they know that with me
too and with Ford's testimony which was
just like one of the most amazing things
I've ever seen in my life
I couldn't I couldn't believe what I was
watching it felt like a turning-point
moment in our in our culture and our
dialogue and just how we take these
things seriously but I still worried
that he's going to get confirmed and if
he does you know Sheldon Whitehouse
mentioned that he's going to keep
looking into it you know that he's never
going to let it go so what do you think
happens if he gets confirmed well this
is and I mean you think it goes away no
I don't I don't I appreciate the call
Jesse let me answer I mean I mean I
guess it's sort of addressed this a
little bit but part of what I was saying
last week was like in the heel in the
Anita Hill hearings we found out like a
decade later it became sort of like and
I don't think it's widely known now but
I mean you know know
in in sort of like people who follow
this stuff circles like there was three
other women who all had stories about
Clarence Thomas but it took like a
decade for that to come out right like
somebody wrote a book we're reflecting
on it it comes out dribs and drabs and
nobody's paying attention to it anymore
the this the FBI can interview just four
people
but right now there's somebody from the
Washington Post and New York Times
trying to get to Chris Garrett and
eventually Chris Garrett is going to
speak eventually and right now there's
somebody Washington Post New York Times
going around finding all these people
and this story's gonna come out and
story could come out between the time
that they vote to confirm him and his
inauguration and the interesting thing
about this this is why this is this is
why like I went when the story about
about the FBI thing came out and I was
on Twitter you know trying to do to to
to work on Twitter about it I can't
remember him what where I was but I was
explaining to somebody like this is why
I'm on Twitter right here is it because
there are other reporters and opinion
writers out there and between now and
sometime midweek there has to be enough
sense that the FBI investigation in is
inadequate not just inadequate in trying
to find the truth of what's going on
because that's not why they called for
this FBI investigation
they called for this FBI investigation
because they need to abdicate their
assessment to a third party so it's just
like we all got duped by the
intelligence in Iraq no they didn't but
the intelligence was there so they had
cover Jeff Flake and maybe he's just
doing this to be a good guy for Collins
and maybe he sees this as Ike I'm doing
this for the Republican party I'm gonna
allow Collins and Murkowski to vote for
Kavanagh by column for this FBI
investigation the FBI investigation is
gonna come back and we're just going to
interpret it regardless what it says as
being we have the okay to vote they're
gonna go vote and if it comes out three
or four years later that hey wait a
second this wasn't right like well the
FBI investigation at the time nobody
could have known but if it comes out a
week later then yeah you could have
known
and if you knew that the FBI
investigation and everybody knew that
you knew the FBI investigation was
blatantly insufficient then they feel
the pressure right and that's what's
going on here so making a big stink
about the legitimacy of the FBI
investigation is important not just to
find the truth because we can find the
truth people can get a higher and
personal investigating this is not a
hard story to figure out but the FBI is
there to give it an imprimatur an
imprimatur i should say that centers get
a green light vote FBI is found nothing
yeah I just I have a feeling that there
are more women out there and like the
reason why we've only heard from Ford is
because most of them aren't as perfect a
victim as she is you know like she's an
incredibly she's led a very respectable
life you know she can't be slut-shamed
she's a literally got a degree in
psychology I think it could also be like
look the Renata thing the reason why I
get so upset about the Renata thing was
because he's saying like you're telling
everybody including her family that she
had sex with these six guys or whatever
it is hi right and in your you're
bringing her name up here which is
basically what Jamie say
well is that lateral indirect normal
shaming does he's doing it's
slut-shaming but I don't think that it's
that people aren't as good a victims I
think it's that they're don't want to
bring up their past that's it threats
they are they are houses in high society
and don't want their names to be brought
up as having you know like had a past in
Indy college or high school oh yeah that
too but as as much as it's happening to
Blasi for it it would happen to someone
who's not a quote/unquote perfect victim
even more right except for I think like
a perfect victim would be even less
willing to come forward because why am i
dredging up something I've spent 25
years you know trying to deal with and
get over and I can totally understand
like I don't want to get involved in
this I think that's a lot of what's
operating here and I don't want to lose
my status or my friends or this and that
that's why they all sign that document
they all know he's lying they all know
what that dude did they all know also I
think they definitely circle the wagons
because they know that I mean Trump
himself has these same kinds of
allegations against him and they know if
one man can go down for this they could
all go down why they announce what
happens at that school stays at that
school one thing we got to watch out
though for Jaime is socialism and
fortunately they have given Ben Shapiro
a television program on TV impression
you have to tell us to it the socialism
watch this is the bench bureau election
special socialism watch here is
socialism on the ballot humans going out
of fashion turns out that when people
are floating 1950's Chevy's into the
Atlantic Ocean that's kind of a bad sign
these days Norway is the Marxist
paradise they're just a few problems
with this perspective first off Norway
isn't socialist as a capitalist country
burdened with massively expensive so
Shoeless redistribution programs but
they're burdened with it you know who
burdened them with it the country itself
burden themselves with it in other words
it's not a burden it's something they've
chosen to adopt those Cuba well he was
talking Cuba first now of course what he
wasn't saying about Cuba's that the
reason why they have a Chevy in the
water is because of the blockade
economic blockade right that was happy
white white guys again right exactly the
embargo uh we didn't we wouldn't allow
them we wouldn't allow for anybody to
sell them vehicles so we're gonna mock
them for having old vehicles expensive
socialist redistribution programs Norway
ranks 23rd in the world in business
climate compared with the United States
at eighteen posit so whoa when Shapiro
stop the presses Ben Shapiro has just
made a very strong argument that you can
have extreme wealth redistribution in
this country and we could virtually
maintain our world business climate
ranking even from the Heritage
Foundation I mean because surely the
only thing that we don't have that we
have going for us is not just that we
don't have massive wealth redistribution
there's got to be other things right
it's America we're number one maybe
eighteen and so so great though it's
like if we did all of these incredible
social interventions would only knock us
five points down the list well no I mean
it probably wouldn't it would probably
just knock us to nineteenth and what's
in reading eighteenth and nineteenth but
I don't know that that's his point is it
Norway ranks 23rd in the world in
business climate compared with the
United States at eighteen as for
Norway's social programs its spending
habits have been subsidized by an
enormous oil slush fund and supremely
height accent father is so there we
should do it the only way to do this is
to get enormous ly high taxes that's
fine
and he's saying that we should X
approaching that's going on in this
country now I don't know if I would go
that far I probably do the refineries I
would nationalize but it is an
interesting I
it works in Alaska that money at least
in some part comes from the oil that is
dug up there maybe we should do a part
of that also just like though just like
it's public so it's a slush fund like is
X on a giant slush fund
yes it's Purdue okay well the first
thing it's all the economy is a slush
fund
I meant to it I tax it here is the
reality
norway's successes lower levels of
income inequality high levels of
prosperity those predate the rise of
Norway's socialist infrastructure
they're actually a result of Nordic
social capital high levels of social
trust and cultural homogeneity
presumably President Obama would tell
Americans that Scandinavia is a sort of
heaven posit so in other words socialism
hasn't made things any worse yet it
clearly has made for a lot more benefits
to people at a time where inequality is
rising that more capitalist and more
capitalist economies socialist one is
stick to the reason why it's because
there's something special about the
Nords they're saying
Norway's little slice of heaven check
their amygdalas total heaven on earth in
Scandinavia he'd say there's no poverty
well as Milton Friedman responded to a
similar statement in America among
Scandinavians there's no poverty either
social capital matters culture matters
that social capital is being actively
undermined by Norway's generous welfare
state which actually pays people not to
work as the economists wrote in 2015
quote Norwegians have coined a verb to
NAV meaning to get money from nav the
state's benefits agency that welfare
state policy also in dangers immigrant
social and economic mobility as of 2017
the Norwegian Labour and Welfare
administration found that about half the
total number of people in Norway
receiving social welfare payments were
immigrants that report also stated that
many of those immigrants what is what is
social welfare payments in Norway look
like right like they get health care
they're getting all sorts of different
subsidies in terms of work like what is
social welfare look like curious but
everything sounds fine so far receiving
social welfare payments were immigrants
that report also stated that many of
those immigrants were living in poverty
like conditions well that's probably why
they were eligible for the welfare but
what he fails to argue is what's the
problem the only problem it seems to me
is they need to make the social welfare
payments higher the only thing it sounds
like he's trying to argue is that
there's something fundamentally better
about the Nords yeah I wonder what that
is well in his mind it seems like he's
arguing that it's their homogenous so
they can afford to spread resources no
it's the classic they're all white so
they have high social trust which is
where they have a great economy and they
can have it they they the right wing
says they have high social capital which
is why their capitalism works and then
the what's that yellow liberals say
there they have homogeneity which is why
they're able to have a social safety net
and they're both just lanes for arguing
that's why we can't have universal
health care and so on here it sounds
like he is making an argument that you
can genetically have a higher class than
other people right he's tying it to race
and racial homogeneity yeah I mean they
shift a culture now but yeah it was the
same pretty amazing that the top three
largest amounts of Scandinavians in the
country are in blue states also I know I
mean from North Dakota a lot of those
people were given land by the United
States government when they came over
here and told if they farmed it for a
period of years they could just have
that hay right shut up and I imagine
unlike the the black folk who were given
land at that time or bought land didn't
have it taken away by people in the
Midwest literally have it taken away
is there more that's it I want to see
him contradict himself again where he's
like Norway is not even socialist its
capitalist but also it's a Marxist
hellscape yeah he said that up front
what did bench bros looking like that I
like that though Ben Shapiro starts
talking like a valley girl I dig it
Spock oh I was just in Norway two weeks
ago no mass shootings people had health
care the streets and fjords were filled
with tourists not homeless people
socialism bring it on that's just
because they were all Nords contagious
chameleons Biden can't run in this
atmosphere the way he treated and need a
hill contrasted with how he treated
Thomas's and no go political ad waiting
to me I will say the Cavanaugh thing
really really hurts him yep
Vick Mulvaney wish they got some clarity
on the boof rules is it's melted or
deltad or denied it supplied it Colin
from Nebraska plot twist Cavanaugh
nailed Trump with that with the full
beer and Trump nominated him knowing he
he would be exposed
senator pug growing up with alcoholic
parents it's no surprise the breadth and
scope of how much Brett Cavanaugh lies
out colleagues in my experience never
own up to their failings I always want
to blame everyone else before they'll
take a look at themselves oh and he's a
Republican I really felt for Klobuchar
bullfrog Polanski's back in the news
with a new movie about soldier being
wrongly accused of spying wink wink
can't wait for right-wingers to latch on
to the subtle subtext to start defending
this child molester to doctor chaos MD
if somehow Tucker is right and some sort
of race war kicks off I'm going to have
to be the first person to sell out my
race so they don't have to be on the
same side as like Tucker
Carlson I'm down for war in 2020 I would
prefer Bernie get a term in office he is
only so much time but with a looming
financial collapse once again I feel
Warren at the Helms the bankers wouldn't
get away unscathed again Warren is not
much younger than Bernie now women tend
to live longer in our society but I
don't their age is not terribly
different from each other if I don't not
mistaken angry boofer who do you think
the odds are Cavanaugh is confirmed
I would say 5050 right now but it
changes everyday in my mind I would say
right now it's probably 6040 that he
does get confirmed but I think he's
getting on this is he'll world seems
pretty contingent on what happens in the
next few days yeah I mean it is
I think bronze plan I think the
component that stumped Cavanaugh was
asking personally what do you think of
the committee should do because it
eliminates his default answer of
appealing to the committee indeed yes
Kentucky
comrade hey Sam couldn't a Senate damn
like Booker continue to leak documents
on Cavanaugh without any significant
threat publicans don't have the votes to
expel a senator so why not leverage that
to continue leaking damaging documents
on Cavanaugh well one you don't want to
to do that but I don't know what
documents he has that would be really
that damaging necessarily be interested
to know was said behind closed doors
about the debt since and such
I get the feeling his dad that was the
sense I got you might have a chance I
mean look we now know that Kennedy
negotiated this I'll resign if Brett
Kavanaugh is the nominee wasn't that
reported today I mean it's been out
there a little bit I think it was more
explicit today so Cavanaugh was added to
the list like a year ago he wasn't on
the original list that Trump had he was
added to the list
probably an overture from Kennedy
Kennedy negotiates this while that's
happening word gets to Cavanaugh you're
on the list you're for reals now go get
somebody to pay off your debts he does
although like I don't know what the
theory is behind that like why does that
make you look better that you had
someone pay off your debts but I think
like to a certain extent like
it didn't even seem embarrassing to
he'll take care of it doesn't matter
nobody's gonna dig into that that's
what it is nobody will dig in and like I
don't know why you can't go on to the
Supreme Court with that debt and have to
get on there you say to whoever is
paying you off like hey will you do me a
favor maybe maybe maybe he gets paid
maybe it's a friend who just gives him
the money because they don't want it
like if it was his dad that wouldn't be
such an issue if it was after he was on
the Supreme Court but it seems like a
bigger issue if it's like oh it's Jim
Stevenson he's a major industrialist who
may have cases that come a brother
Supreme Court I wouldn't buy them what
off to get that loan from my dad or I
don't know Michael Cohen maybe who knows
but it obviously wasn't scandalous
enough and that may just mean like not
scandalous enough may mean like he just
got it from the same people that
everybody in the room get their money
from right I mean yeah it was a banker
maybe that's where he picked up that
technique of where you get your money
from I love Sarah Palin Lindsay was real
fiery last week I thought he was going
to start taking off his earrings for a
minute come on Sam I know you've had a
tough time attracting libertarian
callers to debate may I propose an open
challenge to Jimmy Dore listeners no DX
fool hi folks happy spa SPOC Tober
interesting Wikipedia entry for
Cavanaugh if he joins supreme court he
would be the second straight Georgetown
Prep grad third member of the Brooks
Brothers rioters that protested the
Florida recount along with John Roberts
and Neil Korsak of course and that's
CODIS will again be two-thirds Catholic
one-third Jewish also he was one of the
lawyers who argued that Cuban boy Elia
and Gonzales should stay in the US and
has an asylum seeker and not be sent
back to Cuba Wow nuts come from a 509
area code who's this where he come from
it's them it's Ronald Reagan well Reagan
what's on your mind well
of all 6 3 2 24 10 highway bench
yeah I know I know I'm totally making up
that last number but I was gonna say
that's a little bit uh I had a really
good call planned where I was going to
rope in john from san antonio and mike
from PA i had it all worked out yeah and
i reached out to john from san antonio
on twitter and he said no before I could
even propose the call so I knew he was
not going to give you his bench number
from the second he called he's not here
for your games well yeah he's not here
for your job
exactly so two quick things I've really
kind of wondered about why they wouldn't
just move on to some other like heritage
douche bag and just jettison this guy
but it seems clear to me the more I
think about it that the implications of
this are really huge not just for other
future nominees but for the President
himself I mean what it what is this
standard that is being established that
if there's a credible accusation it
should be investigated by the by the FBI
and that it's potentially disqualifying
for high office and that's got to be
troubling for somebody like Trump and in
fact they've come right out and said it
that you know oh this is going to have a
chilling effect on on people who were
douche bags in high school applying for
judgeships I guess that's been one of
the reasons why they explicit reasons I
mean we don't have to read into it why
they haven't wanted to go forward with
this but you know it is interesting to
think of you know what this would mean
moving forward not just for for judges
but you know the president has like 12
people that he's paid off I think and I
don't think any of that was ever really
investigated so I think that's the main
reason they see themselves in this and
that's why they're digging in their
heels I mean I think some people
but I think it's I think it really is
like you know the their whole project is
a function of this culture war right
this is no different than you know this
is the zero-sum this is the this is the
zero-sum situation right I mean if if
women can assert that an infringement on
their bodily sovereignty is enough like
a legitimate offense like an offense
that could keep you off of the Supreme
Court that takes away from the the
privilege that these guys have which is
like look I need to you know I need to
be able to try a bunch of different
things you know in my youth and then go
on to be a great man and you're
inhibiting that I mean I think that's
the point right
can I just say something real quick
about Ben Shapiro
yeah I heard that clip that you played
that's some of the most racist
I've ever heard and I mean he's ignoring
of course what it means to be an
immigrant that means that you've come
from someplace else usually for really
negative reasons like war or famine and
and so there's there's actually like
real-world reasons why people in those
situations have less money and it's not
because of their status as something
called you know the word immigrant is
not the thing to blame and it reminds me
I called in after that a Dave Rubin show
and some of the people that were at the
show tried to like DOX me on Twitter
because you guys clipped it and put it
online and and one of these guys that we
can help with that how was that yeah
thanks was the guy he Dave Rubin like
brought onto the stage because he has a
hair disease worried enough hair and the
whole thing was that he had been called
a skinhead at some rally and he he was
so offended and he's not a skinhead he's
not a racist he just like wants to talk
about ideas and so I found he has
a YouTube channel where he and his
friend sit around and talk about how
like there should be a white ethnos day
in Europe and you know these people are
all the same you know they deny that
they have any type of racial animus
there they're really super offended and
aggrieved that anyone would ever levy
that charge against them but then they
say stuff like this which makes it clear
you know I mean imagine how Ben Shapiro
talks in private that's what he's saying
in public makes it clear that you know
they think that there's cultural you
know in big heavy air quotes reasons for
economic divide and yeah poverty and
things like that
and it's you know this is like the
modern-day n-word it it's it's really
really disturbing and so anyways yeah
thanks for playing that and really
hammer those guys on that stuff because
it's it's really troubling to see so
many people talk that way appreciate the
call thanks for taking my call just
reiterate the point I mean I mean this
is about him about them about about
Shapiro saying it's the Scandinavian
quality of them we all know that but
it's also like but but and then Matt
explains well maybe Milton Friedman
should have looked into the historic
advantages that Scandinavians received
as opposed to let's say compare them to
black farmers in the same area at the
same time and what happened how much the
state and society ripped away what black
people had versus those Scandinavians
maybe those Scandinavians actually got
some of that land because it had been
ripped away from black black farmers at
that time and this is pre reconstruction
- right we're talking like early 1800s
mid 1800s and then the flipside of that
being those immigrants who show up half
of all people are on welfare in what
what country was it again that he was
talking about Norway are immigrants well
why might that be it might be because
the people in Norway get enough benefits
that it keeps them out of poverty and
they live their lives in such a way
where they are less apt to be subject to
the things that make you poor give a
better educational experience get a
better prenatal quit care better health
care etc etc whereas these immigrants
come in why are they immigrants why are
they immigrants they're immigrating to
this country because of disadvantages
they had where they were before they
were in Norway
maybe I've come from a country that's
war-torn maybe I've come from a country
that has very extreme poverty maybe I am
part of a class of people in that
country who are not allowed to be
educated no access to schools no running
water whatever it is so of course when
they come to Norway they are going to
have attributes that were a function of
their culture or natural disasters or
war that essentially put them in the
least advantage position in a society
that doesn't have those things yeah it
only makes sense but if you just say
immigrant and you just say Scandinavian
then you get none of those nuance and if
any of this is reminiscent about what
our critique is for folks like Sam
Harris where it's just like Muslim rest
of the world IQ IQ they they're anti
history they're antique context by
definition and you can't have that
politics by definition if you have any
type of understanding about how the
world
works and their predicating everything
on you know violently undermining that
even down to the famous milton freedman
example where somebody in his class set
but what about you know somebody who
can't buy a BMW and he said something
like no no there's never can't it's only
choose as i'm the homeless person could
choose to not eat for three years and
you know be a skeleton driving of a BMW
and that actually i was reading
rereading cory robbins reactionary mind
that goes back to burke who said that if
someone points a gun at you and says
give me that money you were making a
voluntary choice to give over your money
that is that's necessary you have to
have that that dynamic because you
cannot have any type of economic
exchange involve coercion or their whole
model goes out the window and then the
libertarians tried to up update that
with well but that's force but that's
force yeah and then they define force is
something very very specific that does
not involve i don't know the prospect of
starving to death if you don't have a
job right and also does not involve the
when it comes to american libertarians
the genocide of native people and taking
their land because because of the way
that the french designated how they
would give out land you read out that
our guy was a mulligan that was of a
french accounting trick we have to start
somewhere we have to start somewhere
folks and we're just going to start
after we get the property that's how
you're not just i don't think i'm
getting across the logic of it's it's
it's the opposite of historical
materialism it's like a historical
idealism and that's why all these people
are so obsessed with myth as well all
right we have time for one more call I
am sorry folks I am just going down the
list and this number calling from a 704
area code who's this where you come from
hey are you what yes you are alive what
is your name my right now okay my name
is Michael from North Carolina
I just had a question about this
California law and I guess I'm having
like someone reconciling like I guess
the whole true everybody equally but
then also like mandate the board
composition for corporations so I'm a
right
yeah I'm not I'm not totally familiar
with the law but let's just assume it is
what you say it is what it were you
having trouble with I don't know you
shouldn't be treating people differently
based on the agenda or like any answer
because it's quite a while the
government mandating stuff well you know
that the that corporations are the ones
corporations are completely a function
of a government license right you know
that right corporations get all sorts of
benefits in our society that are a
function of being essentially accredited
by state governments and federal
government you're aware of that right
yeah yeah okay so you're driving a car
right now right yes
do you have an issue with the government
mandating that your car maintain certain
safety safety levels yeah and I think in
many respects it's the same theory that
corporations have clearly had a problem
in terms of integrating as far as gender
and again I don't know if this law
exists I'm not I don't have a problem
with it but but and I think the argument
could be like look we have too many
instances within the context of
corporations where we see incidents of
women being discriminated against
because of their gender and suffering
suffering from you know hurts
disadvantages in terms of their career
trajectory and their ability to get to
senior positions because
of the legacy of the way this country
has been and one way we're going to
correct that is to say there are
undoubtedly enough women who are
qualified to fill these positions and so
you're these boards the corporate boards
right which are just overseers must have
a certain percentage of women basically
to function you know as you know that
there's not such a hermetically sealed
homogeneous ideology in that corporation
that women are consistently
disadvantaged that would be why I would
be in favor of something like that
yeah I agree on principle where it's
like it's really better if you have more
diverse viewpoints now in a corporate
board just this feels weird
I pop down them and saying hey this is
what you have to do I couldn't couldn't
you go even further than that and I
don't know just like make a bunch of
these little tiny requirements based on
like gender based on race well I mean I
think I think I mean look I think that
there I would take each case as it comes
but I don't have a problem with that
broadly speaking
except for maybe from an efficiency
standpoint but this is quite easy this
this isn't like you know the government
the government doesn't have to do too
much it's just like they have corporate
filings I used to be incorporated in
California I used to have a filing that
I would fill out every I think year or
quarterly I can't remember very basic
and if I had you know board of directors
a number of women five number men five
or whatever it is that's not too hard
would you be kind of like a figure
something in the opposite direction like
okay you can have you know one of each
gender on a board maybe something
weren't into like well one of each
gender on a board what do you mean oh
you have a only female board I'll tell
you why I wouldn't have
Rob moving on I wouldn't have a problem
I wouldn't have a problem with an
all-female board right now because it's
not a real problem that exists in
society like I'm not even concerned
about if you were to tell me like look
of the three all-female corporate boards
in California let's say there was three
of them I have evidence that men do not
get promoted as much in those three
boards I would still say that's not
enough of a societal problem to address
come back to me in 75 years where when
root women rule everything if men are
not getting a fair shake then I would be
open to to dealing with that problem
that has exist but what what what why I
am in favor of that law is because there
is an existing problem in the real world
right that I think needs to be addressed
and it was a function of of really of
centuries of not just culture not just
nature but of law made by man that
inhibited women in these positions and
so we need to make we need to redress
that we need to provide redress we need
to fix those problems look my mom could
not have a credit card in her name when
I was born
do you understand that
yeah yes because of her gender like do
you realize how far out we are from this
stuff not that far out so in that in
that that law the fact that that was the
legal that Bank was licensed by the
United States of America right I mean it
was licensed by a state the fact that
she couldn't have a credit card in her
name I mean come on yeah
hey if there's discrimination and you're
actively excluding people based on your
feedback we have a societal problem so
instead you know we have a societal
problem and so the answer is not one to
go in and do investigations in each
separate company which then people would
complain is incredibly invasive and we
can't do our business it is simply to
make a law that allows for the companies
to fix it by themselves over time with
the theory that the leadership
constructs the culture in that company
and part of the problem with the culture
and that in that company is a function
of the fact that there's been one
segment of the population that has
controlled that culture right appreciate
the tell mom what appreciate you sharing
your point thank you Thanks all right
folks
a couple more IMS and then we will get
out of here
balled stab isn't the largest majority
still white when it breaks down
minorities does it put us all in one pot
I'm not sure I follow that question
really cool what's the age difference
between Warren and Bernie which Gen Xers
would be supportive VP if any of the 70
plus that being said shoot can we not
discuss 2020 for another five to six
weeks please yes I'm happy to do that
just so happens that she announced it so
mailman Sam I joined late did you guys
talk about Matt Damon's SNL Cavanaugh we
did not attorney Andrew new character
idea Brett from San Antonio begins
crying and controllably when he hears
that Sam sort of said on a previous
majority report jayjay cool do you think
the new NAFTA will pass through the
Mexican Congress where their new
government coming in also what do you
think would be stronger facing Trump on
stage Bernie or Warren I think they'll
both be pretty strong in their own ways
I don't think that's the only thing that
works but matters but more on NAFTA as
we go dr. Josh I went to st. Claire
Catholic school won the Christian spirit
award I attended Marshall McLuhan
Catholic Secondary and graduates average
student that I went on to Humber College
which I graduated straight A's then I
went the rice in the university computer
science I work full time as a software
engineer I returned to school now in the
final weeks of my Master's references
available on request political jargon on
Bernie Warren I think you're right that
Bernie doesn't want to run but he should
run with tulsi gabbard is VP and Warren
is AG thank you Timmy reefer cake it
could be I think he probably doesn't
want to associate too closely with
someone who was like actively involved
in promoting a hate group
shadow band politically commissioned
officer the problem with Bernie running
is the hill bots irrationally hate him
for more than they hate Trump they will
never forgive him for proving her to be
a neocon neoliberal who's the worst
campaigner of lifetime and I'm old they
do not have that hatred for Warren
unless HRC tells them to
they will stay home eight and eight look
hey as unfair as it is to Bernie that
there are white knuckled
never Bernier's out there one of my
problems with Hillary was the baggage
that she came into now I don't think
that baggage
I think the baggage that Hillary came
into was much greater than than Bernie's
but it's not an illegitimate point let's
put it that way but they are a vocal
minority like I've seen the polls I
think it's something like 8 percent of
Democratic voters have a negative view
of Bernie Sanders right I agree they are
all online though if you look at exactly
if you look at gillum's thanking Bernie
for coming to help him campaign there's
like like 10,000 replies of just the
most upset people in the world like you
should take credit I do think they're
all online max in Phoenix I'm 42 it's
taking me 10 years to only start to
understand what happened to the night my
husband threatened to kill me with a
knife and had the charges dropped
against them it is my belief that women
still that still support the patriarchy
even though they seem to have some
position power are still scared of
something something like the belief of
don't bite the hand that feeds you
without asking the question what are you
feeding me for this process has just
started for me and it's extremely
painful but necessary good luck with
that I'm sorry about what you've been
through uh Winky
I love the intercept but god damn it I
still can't get over Glenn Greenwald
platforming Tucker on their podcast and
framing him as a maverick truth ser
african-american women with college
degrees have higher infant mortality
rates than white high school dropout
women red flag II well I think the point
is I get the point that's obvious red
flag II Sam we begged Elizabeth to run
last time she stayed silent Bernie was
compelled to run because Elizabeth
refused to challenge the Clinton machine
soon become obvious why Warren stood
down she knew how bought and paid for
the DNC and super-delegates were for
Clinton and didn't want to get involved
I still like Elizabeth but she did fail
the people by not endorsing Bernie from
Massachusetts swayed artha make a case
for Bernie's efficacy as a politician I
like him but I don't see a list of
accomplishments that make me think he'd
be a great president how would you have
a left politician where are these things
that are getting passed and
Clinton George Bush and Obama eras with
no even center-left coalition around
Congress I will wait with without having
to even make that most obvious excuse as
to why you can't look at his record
since I would say named for me the
single most announced policy taken by
virtually everybody running across the
country has their premiere policy
position it is called Medicare for all
tell me that would have been the case if
it wasn't for Bernie I mean that's just
I mean that's like overwhelming right
overwhelming nay I will tell you the
second one and that is some form of
debt-free college almost every single
person has some form of debt-free
college his goes a little further than
some people's but that issue would not
be live was it not for Bernie there's
probably others but those are the two
big ones bad lobster remember Sam cedar
green party 2020 I want to watch doors
 head explode that's what I'm
gonna do I'm gonna come out the green
party all right three more when a prank
Craig Sam why don't you want the net
left needs guts hello I'm tired of
effing around with these people it's
time for the left to stop playing PD
patch and put some foot in the ass I
know Jamie's down how about the rest of
the EMR crew and the final I am of the
day
[Music]
how come no one has funded 24/7 365
paparazzi style coverage at lindsey
graham's daily life I think it would
sell pretty good that's a good question
I myself would be against it I don't
believe in doing anything like that
unless they are actively trying to hurt
those people and then in my estimation
it's a fair game but the Republicans
have never done anything to hurt gay
people that's right well yeah
all right folks see you tomorrow in that
I'm going
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid for
the rubber bands
brakes you love sweet ride
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
