[Music]
this is look Donald Trump cannot do this
under any legal mechanism that we have
today
now obviously the courts have been
totally compromised in the courts or
another area where you're gonna need
some serious strategy planning on but
this is both you cannot be emphasized
how important this is in and of itself
because who knows where we'll be if God
forbid Donald Trump is re-elected and
also because this is the same
administration that is killing children
through kidnapping and neglecting them
and now wants to hold them indefinitely
here he is talking about birthright
citizenship this is the re-election this
is the re-election it's racism
xenophobia and conspiracy theories
there's very little room left for fake
economic populism that was a major part
of the equation 2016 which I hope
liberals can understand but I hope
lefties can understand that in 2020
that's not gonna be really on the list
here this is what he's got left
[Music]
we're looking at that very sir is the
birthright citizenship where you have a
baby on our land you walk over the
border have a baby congratulations the
baby is now a US citizen we're looking
at it very very seriously I don't know
how you found that out but that's very
good we are looking at birthright
citizenship very seriously it's it's
frankly ridiculous there it is I mean
again look just be clear what Donald
Trump what the Republican Party need to
do and also be really clear this is
another reason I always keep saying
accepting the science of climate change
does not matter that much as a political
analysis as to why it is occurring and
how to actually address it because when
the right starts accepting the reality
of global climate refugees and changes
in atmosphere and whether they're going
to come up with enhanced apartheid
systems to deal with that if you read a
chill on bimbe who wrote a depressing
and brilliant piece in 2016 before Trump
was elected it's called the age of
humanism was ending he looked at Gaza as
a prototype for north and south rich
import watch children of men I mean
children of men is really does hold up
is the most brilliant to stop be a movie
I think certainly of this century so far
that's what's gonna be put on the table
and that's why you need a truly radical
response yeah yep that's why something
like whether you call it open borders or
the free movement of people is going to
be so important going forward as a way
to counter this rising tide of right
wing eco fascism or whatever you want to
call it right like well I just want to
add to that which is that you need to
Center it in my view as a fight against
colonialism and against the reasons that
are rooted in these horrific
Mal distribution of resources and abuses
which is what will like we don't want
climate
refugees right so when we have like
nobody wants that period when you have
refugees when you have a crisis you
respect and and what's interesting to me
is things like protocols on refugees
that are already in the books are
actually pretty good and are actually
pretty you mean and so you need to
synchronize following those
international obligations but actually
also seriously dealing with the
fundamental drivers of the crisis as
well oh yeah it makes no sense to do it
in a vacuum right because climate change
imperialism and capital itself is still
going to be moving people around and
that's not truly free movement if that's
what's moving them it needs to go with a
ramping down of imperialism a ramping
down of colonial violence and a closing
of borders and a placing of restrictions
on capital which also means
International labor regulations and
absolutely and it's it's compelled
movement it's not free movement so you
have these situations where you have
absorption of massive population changes
that are generated by our foreign policy
our abuse global inequities and then
when they do arrive in different
environments in different contexts it's
political moneymaker for the demagogues
and the bigots and also you know again
it's like the classic model to of like
the elites or the capital class does not
deal with an interface with the changes
that actually occur when cities and
towns transform themselves so you need
to have a clear moral argument against
racism xenophobia and that's why you
need to destroy ice and you need to
bring in like even frankly Warren's
proposal I mean ten times as many
refugees is not that many I think we
were down to only like we were well
below a million a half-million I think
we're even down to 30,000 in 2019 which
is abominable
atrocious
and then of course there's the whole
other element that needs to be
disaggregated which is that there's like
1520 million people who live here today
who just need to be immediately granted
citizenship I won't even say amnesty
because that implies some like great
wrongdoing but we need to disaggregate
those things and we need to make the
core of it on the climate military and
trade policies that lead to these
patterns in my view and that's another
reason to I'll say I find I think his
proposals domestically are cool but
Julian Castro with his record in his
politics talking about a Marshall Plan
for Central America is horrifying to me
it sounds to me like ensuring that the
you know the the Honduran military base
that we have there is is is well
lubricated and there's more sweatshops
at least as I see it you're calling from
