with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Thursday August 1st that's
right 2019 our Michael Brooks out of
Michael Thursday this is the five-time
award-winning the Geoffrey report we're
broadcasting live step to the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal and
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program
professor gene Balan professor of
history at Missouri State University
what's happening in Turkey air21 really
the original of the modern Oleg art of
the modern autocrat trend signs of
resistance signs of breakthrough Bernie
Sanders pushing the dial and foreign
policy we'll get a perspective on how
the Democrats are talking about the
world as well debate night last night
whoo yeesh boy that was depressing shaky
performances from the two frontrunners
Joe Biden and Camilla Harris points
scored by others we'll get to that
CIA claims it has killed Osama bin
Laden's son a landmark and crucial arms
treaty is set to implode as the Pentagon
moves aggressively towards testing new
weapon systems that has been works for a
while President rouhani
slams the United States over its
childish sanctions that they've placed
on Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif
HUD proposes more hurdles to provide to
prove housing discrimination Senator
Josh Hawley we're gonna have to figure
this guy out he's on a crusade against
big tech it's not really about breaking
up monopolies or making them probable
Goods it's about actually controlling
your behavior measurement fash
incredibly incredible the type of
violation of your personal discretion
that makes even a good thorough growing
Democratic Socialist blush of course we
are in fact Pro Liberty in reality fed
draws a rebuke from Trump after the rate
cut Arizona sues the Sackler family
protests across Brazil and solidarity
with Glenn Greenwald as clown fascist
leader has threatened to throw Greenwald
and members of the intercept brazil in
prison for revealing this is extensive
corruption of the car wash investigation
that made Lula the Silva political
prisoner and helped lead to the rise of
fascism in Brazil at the same time that
aggressive assaults on the Amazon and
indigenous communities are taking place
in Brazil and Colombia there are
movements there for indigenous rights
taking place as well and the democratic
second debate sees a significant ratings
decrease and if you thought Jeffrey
Epstein couldn't get any more disturbing
well of course you didn't think that and
he does get more and more disturbing all
that and more on today's machardie
report I'll just say for those who were
wondering why I was like unable to stop
laughing in the beginning it's because
Nats opening interest
with sound drop is one of the most
unbelievable juxtapositions I've heard
in my life and it's absolutely hilarious
and I basically wish that we could just
end the show early and listen to that
nominee I live in California a safe
state so I pulled the lever for Jill
Stein not just for myself but for them
and for this country so I want you to
say to me that I was wrong but I'm
saying in the audio version you were
believed akuti with that it was the Don
Isaac Ezekiel combination it's a good
Nigerian highlight you were playing some
Nigerian high life music I thought it
was fill out oh my god majority report
keeping you from crying in your car
Jesus Christ pulling the lever for this
country Oh more on that later yeah
speaking of pulling the lever for this
country
Joe Biden he talked about TPP last night
and I just want to say here it's very
important to remember that Bill Clinton
Barack Obama every single concert
corporate Democrat who is promoted trade
deals which are really simple they're
not free trade deals they are corporate
bureaucracy deals particularly TPP was
condemned as one but one of multiple
examples but I'll just focus on this one
for the moment International medical
activists because it would have been a
direct threat to generic drugs and
readily accessible drugs for
underdeveloped countries that was one
area it would have cost a lot of lives
the investor dispute mechanism is an
anti-democratic mechanism that would
basically override nation states ability
to legislate environmental labor
protections in favor of whatever a
corporation demanded whether it was a
bank pharmaceutical company tobacco
company tech industry
every single time a Democrat says that
they're proposing a new time of trade
agreement or backing a new kind of trade
agreement Bill Clinton said NAFTA would
have unparallel environmental and labor
standards it did not it led to a
proliferation of sweatshops
environmental pollution it was actually
great for cartel trafficking was a huge
breakthrough in how drugs are moved into
this country and it lost a fair amount
of blue-collar jobs TPP also and Barack
Obama used the exact same rhetoric so
Joe Biden here is pretending even though
he fought his heart out along while he
was vice president for TPP even though
it was an t public health anti-worker
anti environment he's pretending now
that he would support something
different by resorting to the same
rhetoric that Democrats that try to sell
these awful deals have always resorted
to let's take a look from last night
Vice President Biden just to be clear
would you or would you not rejoin the
TPP yes or no I would not rejoin the TTP
as it was initially put forward I would
insist that we renegotiate pieces of
that with the Pacific nations that we
had in South America and North America
so that we could bring them together to
hold China accountable for the rules of
us setting the rules of the road as to
how trade should be conducted otherwise
they're gonna do exactly they're doing
fill the vacuum and run the room and run
the table so again this means extremely
little as far as it being a
counterweight to China that's the prime
way TPP is still a Seoul from a
geostrategic standpoint and there's two
ways of answering this one of course
from a worker normal person perspective
you are not in competition with China in
fact there are some very significant
overlapping interests between working
people in both countries and working
people internationally obviously
everybody regardless of conditions wants
to get paid better have more power over
their own work lives the other dynamic
here is that
you know China and the United States
obviously have had for quite some time
now a reciprocal relationship where you
basically exchange to a cheap sweatshop
labor for incredibly cheap products that
dynamic is changing I mean China is now
but certainly a power in its own right
and only going to get more so that's
just reality I'm a big critic of many
aspects of the Chinese model and foreign
policy obviously and they've also lifted
a lot of people out of poverty and they
are going to reassert their role in the
world it's a historic anomaly an oddity
that China has not played a more
significant role in the last couple of
years that bodes very badly in some
areas it bodes well and others
potentially so that kind of rhetoric
though of containing China and getting
serious about IP and all of these types
of things first of all the United States
has a reciprocal relationship obviously
between Silicon Valley and the defense
establishment and so on so that's one
thing so if you want to really deal with
China and these more sort of
geostrategic questions there needs to be
things like a Geneva Convention on how
we deal with technology how we deal with
hacking and drones and all of these
other types of issues but you know the
geostrategic concerns of a very narrow
set of interest is antithetical in the
TPP to the lived concerns of people who
work across Asia people who need
medicine and everybody who breathes on
the planet this is Joe Biden 2013 loving
TPP the trans-pacific partnership wraps
the most ambition he said the TTP in the
last clip and he can't
I think the TTP is it was the European
version
TTIP for some I thought yeah I thought I
could be wrong but I think he's making a
and it's some type of mistake like that
the trans-pacific partnership wraps the
most ambitious trade negotiation
underway in the world it will break new
ground on important issues from the
challenges of state-owned enterprise
to ensuring the free flow of data across
borders to enhancing regional supply
chains to ensuring transparency and
cutting red tape we're also working to
strengthen protections for labor in the
environment we Americans we welcome
competition it's stamped into our DNA it
is not a problem what we're talking
about is shaping a new standard they
became become the metric by which all
future trade agreements are measured
you know the genuine competition pushes
our companies and our people stunning
that he would say the free flow of
information when one of the prime
aspects of this is an incredibly
restrictive intellectual property regime
which would you know if you want it yes
it would that's what Hollywood wants in
terms of bootlegging movies that's free
trade that's right that's free trade is
making sure that there aren't bootlegs
in a market in Shanghai sure whatever
and then far more seriously you're
talking about IP laws that will protect
pharmaceutical companies at the expense
of global public health you go back to
the late 1990s and the Clinton
administration had to reverse themselves
on this because Al Gore was getting
protested at every single event by
activists when he was running for
president the South African government
starting to recognize in the late 90s
the scale and scope of the emerging AIDS
crisis wanted to deal with generic drugs
as part of their solution the Clinton
administration at the behest of the
pharmaceutical industry threatened
extreme sanctions on South Africa and
that's another great example I mean I
don't have time obviously to get into
the controversies around Thabo and Becky
in South Africa and AIDS but just even
consider that element of the story that
has been Saudi emphasized while there's
been these kind of single focus on a
particular leaders views of the science
which are wrong views but that's the
bigger context so you're talking about
that type of enforcement for a whole
range of drugs across the globe under
TPP
it's a fundamentally anti-worker bill a
fundamentally aunty public health bill
and he obviously is not talking about
doing anything different I mean this is
a very Trump move almost this is just
cuz it's something different it's gonna
be great it's gonna be great you're
gonna love it so uh Joe Biden continues
his non-ai well I guess not even
devolution just his stasis mendacity his
mendacity the 1985 Democratic Leadership
Council Energy and it's not good for you
folks
not good and also and I say this is
somebody who again it's like I disagreed
with Sam I don't think him saying don't
be too hard on me kid I think frankly a
lot of people find that kind of charming
I don't like you can't go after him on
every single thing when you talk to a
broader base of people but I am becoming
increasingly concerned watching him
debate that like this guy is just
absolutely not up for this like on the
substance and also on like he's not up
for this like he's looking very bad up
there and I'm starting to get quite
concerned about the idea of the guy
being on a stage with Donald Trump do
you know what the problem keeping so
many businesses from knowing their
numbers Brendan hmm I don't know it's so
funny because earlier this morning you
said it's their hodgepodge of business
systems and I said you're exactly right
they have one system for accounting
another system for for sales another for
inventory and so on it's just a big
inefficient mess that takes up too much
time and too many resources and that
hurts the bottom line introducing
NetSuite by Oracle the business
management software that handles every
aspect of your business and easy to use
cloud platform and gives you visibility
it gives you the visibility and control
you need to grow NetSuite
you save time money and unneeded
headaches for managing sales finance
accounting order an HR instantly
right from your desktop or phone that's
why NetSuite is the world's number one
cloud business system and right now
NetSuite is offering you valuable
insights with a free guide seven key
strategies to grow your profits at
NetSuite dot-com slash majority that's
NetSuite comm slash majority to download
your free guide seven key strategies to
grow your profits NetSuite dot-com slash
majority link on the home page and I'm
excited to hear back from folks at credo
majority reports had a long relationship
do you stand for the rights let me start
it sorry
do you stand for woman's rights and for
the environment there's a company that
stands with you
that's credo CR a credo credo is the
only phone company in America that
supports the same causes you do causes
fighting to stop climate change and
protect reproductive freedom and
immigrants rights credo donated one
hundred and fifty thousand donates a
hundred and fifty thousand every month
to groups like the Rainforest Action
Network Planned Parenthood the ACLU and
many more while other phone companies
spend millions to push through
mega-mergers and fund right-wing
politicians it is so infuriating to read
what these other telecoms contribute to
and the causes they push you make a
choice you make choices every day about
where you spend your money so make your
mobile phone one of those choices
switch to credo mobile now as a reward
you'll get twelve pints of Ben and
Jerry's ice cream
that's a pint a month for 12 months
you'll get coverage on the nation's
largest most reliable Network along with
low rates and a complete selection of
smart phones including the latest models
from the top brands make the switch
today go to credo dot-com slash majority
or enter offer code majority at checkout
that's credo comm slash majority
link on the website now that's a sweet
deal it is a sweet deal
I like that
alright folks we're gonna take a brief
break and we will come back with Jean
badge lon
you
welcome back to the majority report
Michael Brooks here joining us now is
gene Balan he's in a professor of
history of Missouri State University and
a contributor on T mb/s he's written in
many different outlets that you can find
and he will be joining us on August 24th
at the Tina bas live show at Lincoln
Hall in Chicago Illinois get your
tickets gene how you doing I'm doing
great how are you doing looking forward
to Chicago very much me too I'm doing
well brother glad to be talking with you
getting a little bit of an echo gene oh
let me just fix this sorry about that
that happened no worries yes so what
let's so first we're gonna get to what's
happening in Turkey and I and I think in
some ways it's actually very
illustrative to understand our Diwan and
need to just really horrible situation
that turkeys in under his leadership in
some ways is really the kind of first
iteration of this Trump balsan ro Modi
world Netanyahu Putin world but first I
want to talk a little bit about the
Democrats foreign policy they don't talk
about it much obviously people don't
typically talk about foreign policy and
then there's you know the cliches and
repetitions that the press pushes and
you know is obviously funded by all the
arms manufacturers and all of the you
know conventional think tanks in DC and
and and mostly people kind of repeat the
Catechism as you look at this field
what are your sort of takeaways in terms
of what's being put forward in terms of
foreign policy and are there any
particular bright lights or particularly
Oh lights well I mean I think if we look
at sort of I think it was what 20/20
want people running at the moment it
seems the majority of the the majority
of the Democratic candidates don't seem
to be sort of stepping out the
traditional comfort zone of US foreign
policy you know there's a lot of
criticizing Donald Trump for conducting
foreign policy bite
but you know that's not you know that's
a style rather than substance critique
however we are things we are seeing a
kind of break with the traditional sort
of view of foreign policy in in black
Sanders's approach to foreign policy
issues at the moment you know breaking
the silence on a sort of a lot of issues
breaking the consensus in Washington on
a lot of issues I mean most recently for
example we saw on pod se of America
Bernie Sanders you know saying yeah he
will hold Israel accountable especially
using the four billion dollars that the
United States provides it to Israel as a
kind of leverage so this is a really
interesting sort of approach we're
seeing to foreign policy and we're also
seeing Sanders sort of take a you know
move away from sort of the national
security focus to taking a more holistic
approach to foreign policy so and
linking back to domestic issues so we
see the refugee crisis at the US border
at the moment and Sanders is linking
that to u.s. foreign policy in Central
America the need for a Marshall Plan and
so on and so forth and he seems to be
really sort of taking the lead in
providing an outline of kind of
progressive foreign policy that we might
see you know on the you know we if we
look at sort of left-wing politics in
the United States we also sort of have
this problem that you know people on the
Left are very critical of American
foreign policy but don't necessarily
come up with an alternative it's
important to critique foreign policy but
you know standards is a really a it's a
possibility that you become president of
the United States and it is essential
that is we begin to develop a kind of
progressive approach to of time policy
beyond just criticizing sort of the
evils of European American imperialism
and so I you know as someone from the
United Kingdom I can actually see it I
see a parallel between Sanders approach
to foreign policy and jeremy corbyn's
approach to foreign policy particularly
with regard to sort of critiquing
critiquing Saudi Arabia calling into
question the relationship with Saudi
Saudi Arabia and sort of moving beyond
you know the silence that we often see
on the relationship with Saudi Arabia
after all you know if you go back to
9/11 it wasn't a scams that attacked
America it was Saudi citizens so you
know moving you know moving critiquing
Saudi Arabia is extremely important and
hasn't been done enough in mainstream
politics so he's really taking a lead on
this and I think that is sort of
dragging along other people who are
trying you know trying to fill that
progressive Lane in the primary process
so you're beginning to see a little bit
Warren who has you know traditionally
she hasn't protect him particularly
outstanding on foreign policy beginning
to adopt some of that language that
Bernie Sanders has been adopting with
regards to foreign policy you know you
see Tulsi Gabbard trying to present as a
as a kind of leading anti-war person
someone who's going to sort of take a
new approach to foreign policy although
one might question how you know how
sincere gaved approaches well well I
think certainly one might question warns
as well I want to I mean do you think
though that when we sort of break out
and I think you know you could touch on
maybe this you know the Biden Lane as
well or in the Buddha jej Lane of no
change and and really why it's it's a
problem that you know this oh I won't do
it by tweet kind of bare minimum of you
know not being Trump is is you know
particularly in pronounced in what Joe
Biden and Buddha Cheju put forward but
staying in the Sanders Warren hare
Gabbard Lane
just to emphasize a couple things now
obviously you can identify I you know
people look Bernie's cast votes on
foreign policy I disagree with I think
several years ago he was way less brave
and less willing than he is now to speak
forthrightly on the occupation and the
just rank you know bigotry and
authoritarianism of the Netanyahu
government but that being said and I
want to
you know take this in three Bernie
Sanders can point back to the 80s and
obviously people like you know New York
Times reporters who don't care about you
know anybody in Nicaragua and don't have
a basic grasp of US history they can try
to turn this into a bad thing but the
reality is is that going back to the 80s
as a mayor he was practicing citizen
diplomacy he was strongly criticizing
the Reagan administration's support for
death squads and hunters and genocide
even in Latin America he was also
talking quite eloquently about how the
World Bank and IMF works for Western
financial institutions right so on in
the warrant and so there is this through
line and obviously of course I would
mention the fact that he's the only
president to call for freeing Lula da
Silva as an example so that you know
even though Julian Castro has also
echoed some of the same rhetoric about
Central America there's infinitely more
credibility in history in the Sanders
case in Warren's case and many his son
made this point recently we know that
her foreign policy up until very
recently has just been to you know very
conventional even to the right right
she's voted for extreme military
increases she's defended even Israel's
you know truly brutal killing of
civilians in Gaza in 2014 so brutal that
even Joe Scarborough called it out and
now yes there's been some slight
following Sanders there's been some
slight change in rhetoric but Hassan
kind of pointed out but what about on a
staffing level right I mean Elizabeth
have at any indication that this is
something that a candidate really cares
about and thinks about and that actually
foreign policy is something that a
presidential that a president has been
most autonomy and power over which is a
problem in and of itself but that's the
way things are that having somebody who
basically will probably go back to
convention is a big problem just even on
a kind of staffing and intellectual
assumption level and then
you know in gabbard's case look I think
on one level it's fair to say okay you
know you know people in Venezuela don't
care about the philosophical intricacies
of somebody they just want to know that
you oppose a coup and fair enough and
credit to her for doing that but when
you say sincerity I'm assuming you're
talking about things like drones you're
talking about things like look the Assad
meaning there's no doubt that it's being
used by people like Kamala Harris than a
profoundly insincere and smearing way
but that being said there is a
difference between opposing military
action in Syria and being willing to
meet with Assad which I don't have an
objection to versus maybe the trip was
questionable on how it was conducted
maybe you want to do diplomacy with
Assad but you still acknowledge that
obviously Assad has slaughtered hundreds
of thousands of people and part of
diplomacy as you work with people have
blood on their hands so that's maybe why
there's some questions so I guess in
three parts
Sanders is history going in terms of
citizen diplomacy and more credibility
Warren's problem in terms of kind of
staffing and ideological assumptions and
then what really the gabbard
contradiction is here yeah I mean to
begin with on sort of credibility
employers a plausibility Sanders has
this long record and again to make the
comparison with the United Kingdom one
of the reasons people track Jeremy
Corbyn or at least some you know many on
the left jerk trust Jeremy Corbyn is
because he has a long record of opposing
authoritarian regimes around the world
which sort of gives him and as well as
someone like Sanders these people they
have this kind of consistent record I
mean no one is ever going to have a
hundred percent foreign policy agreement
with anyone else and nobody is going to
be a no politician is going to be able
to cover every single issue in the world
for example a lot of the criticism that
Corbyn gets regarding Israel and I
believe that Sanders would get regarding
Israel if he was a Jewish is that oh you
look at it with it yeah I mean at some
point possible
but it's more difficult to attack
Sanders on that issue but one of the
reasons calling you know I don't find
the argument that Coburn is obsessed
with Israel plausible justice Coburn was
dealing with issues are around the world
including the Kurdish issue including
issues in Latin America including South
Africa for a long time and Sanders has
that same pedigree of sort of like you
say citizen diplomacy and being involved
in you know in fighting against
authoritarian regimes in different parts
of the world so that is very different
from Elizabeth Warren who I mean if we
draw a parallel let's say with sort of
did your domestic agenda Sanders has
taken the lead on Medicare for all and
now people are following him and and I
think when it comes to foreign policy
this is you know we can you know Warren
has moved towards Medicare for all after
being sort of skeptical of it and now
she's moving towards this more
progressive kind of foreign policy now
of course there are aspects of war on
foreign policy which I think are you
know connected to her you know broader
political outlook on the world such as
you know attitudes towards trade bills
things like things like that but when it
comes to is you know issues of American
intervention around the world she has
not she doesn't have this long pedigree
and I'm not an expert on staffing issues
with the with the Warren campaign but I
would I would conceive that the kind of
people she would select for an
administration would it be to fast out
they would perhaps be the left wing of
the foreign policy establishment in
Washington which of course is better I
suppose than having these far-right
ideologues
in office but then again it's not going
to be a radical break with Sanders we
have interesting people like Matt dust
working for his foreign power
it is a campaign so I think we you know
there is a possibility that you can have
a real break from the traditional
foreign policy as you say the presidency
is you know in many ways primarily a
foreign policy a position and I think I
mean on
personal level and this is my personal
preference I think Sanders pitch that
he's going to change foreign policy is
more plausible than other sort of
individuals attempting to sort of
present an alternative to foreign policy
now when it comes to Tulsi Gabbard I
think on one hand you know I work in the
Middle East Studies field and she is not
a popular person amongst people who
study the Middle East right she she is
uh she's you know a lot of people don't
forgive her for sort of perhaps not work
working with it a little bit too too
strong but you know kind of giving time
to sort of anti anti-muslim figures you
know being close with certain fascistic
elements amongst the arab nationalist
movement learning you know refugees yeah
voting against refugees that's that's
another sort of black mark against today
there's the kind of weird tulsi gabbard
cults where people are kind of trying to
presenter as a peacemaker as far as I
know she has you know she's she receives
contributions from the arms industry as
well not anymore
which he had his honest yeah she hasn't
you have so but at the same time you
know when people go after her like that
will you know Kamala Harris has been
very uncritical of Israel I'm not you
know comparing Israel Israel's too sadly
I'm obviously but you know we can
criticize a lot of people for that very
you know problematic formal oh that's
actually really I want to underline that
I mean cuz again at frankly look of
course you can't at this point you know
all of the atrocities committed by every
single you know from us to Russian to
Assad to you know Saudi faction of
course because it's a civil war but I
mean look let's really underline I mean
Israel is an apartheid state
we can't soft-pedal that and Kamala
Harris and Cory Booker and Joe Biden
absolutely uncritically support one of
the greatest travesties and abuses in
the world and it look I'm this and I
always get you know the Tulsi cult
definitely hates me that extent it
exists but that is a major double
standard I will add by the way Tulsi is
also
I don't trust her underwear on Israel or
Iran either frankly she went to the
Netanyahu speech that even tim kaine
boycotted but that's a great point
I mean if Kamala Harris and so on is
gonna uncritically support a never
ending occupation and siege there's no
grounds upon which for her to to just
use this Assad meeting as an ever ready
demonization of Gabbard particularly by
the way when Gabbard makes very
important points about as an example
Harris's atrocious
you know prosecutorial record well yeah
I mean I think the issue comes like
where does the criticism come from
because you know there are very
legitimate criticisms of Tulsi Gabbard
but some of the people loving those
criticisms don't really have the
strongest position to criticize bomb I
think that's a you know that's a really
important sort of point that we always
have have to make and I think you know
Gabbard does have these right-wing
impulses on certain issues I mean again
I'm not an expert on Hawaiian politics
with one of my colleagues here in
Missouri State who is from Hawaii made
the point that you know Hawaii is
basically a one-party democratic state
so you know people you know people in
Hawaii regard her as being kind of quasi
Republican in some way I mean I don't
know that been tireless bad but she's
certainly I mean she's certainly not as
progressive you know as people you know
people often make out I mean I remember
looking up her voting record to check
this and again you know this you people
should probably fact check this but it
was not significantly different from
Safa Moulton's
voting record but you know there aren't
people going around you know you know
going crazy
I'm sorry I don't know who Seth Moulton
is and I refuse to learn and then just
briefly cuz we will get the turkey in a
minute but just a Joe Biden Peabody
judge then we of course we have I mean
in Cory Booker I think utterly
disqualified himself by not committing
to rejoining the Iran deal when you look
at that
you know right-wing conventional Lane is
it is that I mean again
have to just set aside the idea that
it'll be minimally better than Trump how
disturbing is it that there's still such
a broad consensus to not have any kind
of really radical shift on military
presence on ecological policy on you
know things like TPP I mean what what do
you make of just how conventional that
lane is spanning you know Biden to
Harris I mean it's pretty depressing and
it's pretty unexpected
I mean the foreign policy establishment
in DC is well funded there were a lot of
entrenched interests whether we're
talking about you know international
lobbying groups arms industry and so on
and so forth so you know that the fact
that you still have that conventional
Lane is unsurprising but what I think is
kind of significant is that compared to
you know 15 20 years ago it seems so
much more out of touch with the mood in
the United States I mean 20 years ago of
course you had you know opposition to
the Iraq war well you know he had
opposition to the Iraq war he had a huge
mobilization but the right-wing in the
United States was also was very gung-ho
about foreign intervention I don't think
that's the case anymore and I think one
of the reasons Trump was successful or
you know maybe one of the exhilarations
was that you know he was rightly or
wrongly he was perceived by many people
as being you know far less of a war hawk
than Hillary Clinton who was associated
with all these failed foreign policy
adventures in the past of course you
know people people often kind of ignore
the fact that you know the war on
terrorism was backed up by many members
of the Democratic Party absolute I think
one of the one of the reason Obama did
so well in the primary it was that he
was one of the few people had voted
against the Iraq war well he was he
wasn't even in the Senate but he opposed
it no he was a person I was opposed to
the Iraq war my mistake but he was you
know he was against it and they were you
know and you know that's something our
founders was against but they were very
much
out on the margins of politics you had
people like Joe Biden who were
supporting the Iraq war in fact one of
the reasons I knew about Joe Biden
before I came to the United States and
before he came vice president was
because he made a lot of comments on the
Iraq boys one of the his one of his
foreign policy advisors was a Kurdish
lady and so you know there was a big
deal amongst the Kurdish community and
he was he was proposing breaking up Iraq
into three different sort of regions to
kind of deal with the problem so I think
I think we live in a different time
people are tired of the Lord and that's
not just you know people on the on the
Left but it's also people who are
perhaps in the political center or all
lean right and I think that's and so
we're sort of kind of well you have
people talking about continuing the
presence in Afghanistan and you know
continuing these wars I don't think it
resonates with anyone I don't think you
know I don't mean because it's that
thing what do you make of the fact and
last question I know he still have to
get to Turkey for a little bit but what
do you make of the fact that they still
will talk about you know the amount of
troops lost and so on which was
incredibly important obviously and then
at the same time if you I mean if you
totalize the war on terror we've killed
millions of civilians spanning activity
across the globe if you just look at
what we've done under the authorization
of the AUMF which is of course another
thing that still hasn't been reformed
since 2001 why is it so difficult for
these candidates especially with news
coming out of Afghanistan and another
sort of incredible increase in civilian
casualties for them to just even
acknowledge all of the innocent people
abroad that our military action has has
taken from Afghanistan to Yemen to to
Pakistan to Syria to Iraq obviously but
even also in the Horn of Africa it's
really disturbing I mean I think it's a
political calculation I I mean rightly
or wrongly I think they don't think
talking about sort of the cost to
the people who live in those countries
in which American intervention has taken
place I don't think that's going to play
I think they think that that's not going
to play well amongst the American public
and that's going to open them up to
criticisms of being sort of unpatriotic
and and sort of anti-american I mean
whether that's correct or not I don't
know I mean I on an anecdotal level I'll
give you an anecdote one of the people I
know here in Springfield
he's like a hardcore conservative
supporter of John Ashcroft you know
funds the Republican Party but you know
one of the issues he brings up about the
Iraq war is like we killed so many
people and in that what he'd been
someone who'd been very gung-ho about US
intervention and now someone who is a
lot more reticent about it so I don't
know how I mean I don't know I think
this is a political calculation but I
don't know how wise a political
calculation it is I agree and I think
that even you know we need to start
adjusting our discourse to not using you
know synonyms for you know killing
civilians waging war and so on um in in
Turkey there have been a couple of
different elections in the cat and not
the capital but the main city Istanbul
capitals Ankara of course could old Agra
what happened in these local elections
gene yeah sure so turkey the news in
Turkey has I think being overshadowed by
a lot of things in domestic politics and
of course in foreign relations we've had
this crisis with Iran in in recent
months and so sort of turkeys flown a
little bit under the radar but a lot of
things have happened so in March we had
the local elections across Turkey which
was seen by many people as a referendum
on our demands continued rule in the
country and what we had was significant
gains for the opposition nowhere near
sort of a major sort of overturn of the
Archaea but some really important
symbolic victory we had an opposition
candidate winning in Ankara and we had
an opposition candidate winning in
Istanbul and
some was extremely important because it
accounts for about 30% of turkeys GDP
and from the architects perspective it
is a huge sort of engine of political
patronage you know you get contracts in
Istanbul and you are set up for life you
know the vast that he you've seen the
fiddle you've lived you you've been to
Istanbul so you kind of know how mad how
massive that did video so this is a
really important base for iTap you've
controlled it for a long long time
because air to one's political party yes
the Justice and Development Party Party
which is you know govern turkey since
2002 so these were really important sort
of victories for the opposition now
these elections took place in March and
what we saw was the challenges to the
legitimacy of off these elections now a
lot of the news focus on the Istanbul
election of course which the result
which was very close between the
government candidate and the opposition
candidate XM Imam although this sort of
we're talking about 48 percent points
something to 48 percent and the
occupation be offers opportunity to kind
of challenge the result accused sort of
the opposition of some kind of vote
rigging which was the kind of bizarre
accusation and eventually force a real
one
now this was not the only place in
Turkey where where the results of
elections were overturned
I would note across Turkish Kurdistan
you also had the IFA overturning
electoral results and basically imposing
government candidates on those on those
council on those local government but
what's interesting here we also had a
similar protest process taking place in
the wait west of Turkey in the you know
predominantly Turkish populated region
that's a which is sort of stone is a
kind of new phenomena so basically in
Istanbul the government forced
a sort of re-run of that election a
couple of months later in June and it
was a it's been a pretty heavy and
vicious campaign so for example the
opposition candidate who is originally
from the Black Sea region of Turkey in
the northeast of the country was accused
of being a crypto Greek which is a kind
of blood libel accusation in Turkish
politics during the first round of the
election era Dhawan was campaigning for
the his narrow barrel Canada yielder him
who was the former prime minister and
using footage from the Christ Church
massacre to sort of mobilize Muslim
support behind behind the opposition so
it's been a really divisive campaign you
know very much like least like the kind
of Trump campaign you know you're you
have such problems there right is that a
good way of understanding I mean
air diwan's gone through so many
different phases and when I studied in
in Turkey there was actually a and it at
the times you know it was it was pretty
conventional notion that he was like I
mean if you were on the left obviously
you wouldn't like him because he was a
right-wing pro-capital you know very
capitalist religious conservative and
then at the same time there was the
notion that like you know this is just
like Islamic george w bush and actually
he's democratizing some institutions and
so on he clearly is an arch
authoritarian and he's an authoritarian
in some ways that obviously just echoes
turkish authoritarianism and in some
ways there's nothing new Under the Sun
right in terms of previous leaders
although he's escalated and enhanced
things and I want to know do you do you
see air Dewan as in some ways a
precursor to this global rise of all
right neo-fascist ik governance of
course there's all these distinctions
but we can look at a world obviously you
know to tear teh netanyahu trump balsan
ro modi or bun is heir to one actually
like the trendsetter and the only reason
that maybe he's not as tight with the
rest
them as he could be is because you know
they hate Muslims and he you know you
know Islam is the vehicle for his
alright politics I mean I think what
makes a drone a particularly interesting
characters that he's the character who
was evolved and his party is evolved you
know when the Archaea pays you know
first came into office it was a general
a genuine political party with factions
and breath and groups within and so on
and so forth but over the years as
either one is kind of sort of evolved
has enhanced his grip on the parties you
know the first wave of architects
empties were members of parliament were
sort of eventually removed and replaced
with loyalists so we've had this kind of
bureaucratic takeover of the Archaea pay
overtime and and Irwin has kind of moved
with the times and especially as sort of
the Turkish economy has become sort of
less shiny let's say there's been
growing economic problems in the country
he has very much moved toward this
extremely potent sort of form of
identity politics attempting to kind of
like when rather than trying to expand
his base of support but basically trying
to you know strengthen and consolidate
his base you know there was a point of
the 2000 in naughties well you know
Antoine was attracting the support of
you know Turkish liberals yeah right you
know people who you know people who you
know may not like you said may not have
liked everything everyone who did but
appreciated the push towards
democratization and what we've seen is
Alderaan has transformed himself into a
more authoritarian dictator toriel for
the person so in some ways we can make
comparison with Trump we can make a
comparison with de turkey we can make
that comparison with Netanyahu words on
his elbow but he's also you know has his
own specific dynamic in that he kind of
moved away from being a democratizer to
being a strong man over the course of
his nearly two decades in power which is
the kind of
an interesting evolution that we've seen
so he is I would say definitely very
much a prototype of this politician but
he is also sort of his own beef as well
absolutely I mean a lot more formidable
in some ways I would say is he weaker
though as a result of these elections
what is a very good question I mean you
you know one one reads things and and
you know that people are always sort of
predicting the demise of AD one but he
still seems pretty pretty much instanced
in power I mean we had this rerun of the
election the the local government
election in Istanbul and the government
candidate was was beaten you know from
you know by significant margins if the
opposition went out from board 48% of
the vote to about 54% of the vote so you
know there was that sort of symbolic
victory but sort of in the second round
of the election and the one kind of sort
of step back now there was some
criticism from sort of influential
members of his party of about forcing
this rerun but Abdullah Gould the former
president Amidala at all who was the
former prime minister sort of were
express their discomfort with the with
the you know the force and of this rerun
in Istanbul but you know at the end of
the day despite this victory for the
Opposition in a peridot roster it seems
pretty powerful in his position you know
in installation as president doesn't
look like there's anyone able to
challenge him if you look at the total
percentages of the vote in Turkey you
know Istanbul is a big loss but the rtfs
still maintains about you know 40 to 43
percent of national growth much more
than any of the opposition parties and
if you sort of add on to that the
electoral allies the National Action
Party the NHP you know either one and
his allies still have a commanding
position on Turkish politics so and and
since since the electoral base victory
of the Opposition in Istanbul there have
been
some sort of positive developments for
example there was this position a
petition signed by academics where you
know thousands of academics called on
the government to resume the peace
process with the Kurds and you know
these academics have been purged from
their jobs and they have been sort of
ostracized from society many have fled
the country if you go to an academic
conference on Middle Eastern Studies
these days in the United States you'll
meet a lot of Turkish academics who were
kind of made homeless by this right
the Turkish Supreme Court has ruled that
you know perhaps some of the rights of
these academics were you know sort of
were trampled on but you know on the
flip side when the opposition wanted
victory in local elections we had the
classic maneuver whereby the mayoral
position was stripped of some of its
powers so AKP yes so these are they're
definitely Turkey's Republican Party
just like the moves you see in North
Carolina or Wisconsin so as a final
question I actually do want to touch on
that this the Kurdish dimension a little
bit more we've talked a lot about the
HDP which was an incredible breakthrough
an innovation in Turkish politics it was
a party that was centered on rights for
the Kurds but then actually evolved into
a broad social democratic civil rights
party it was connected with the social
movement the ecological movement of the
gezi Park protests in 2014 HTTP leaders
have been made political prisoners by
the air21 government and I'm just
wondering if you could touch on the
situation briefly of the political
prisoners before we go yes so recently
there was a ruling from the European
Court of Court of Human Rights which is
sort of condemned Demi Tasha's
imprisonment and you know the the HTTP
continues to be a political force and in
Turkey but of course it's extremely
difficult as I mentioned you know at the
outset you know you've had a lot of
focus on the Istanbul election but not
so much focus on the project Kurdish a
local government
in the in the southeast of Turkey and
predominantly Kurdish area and you know
at the same time era Diwan has been
ramping up sort of anti Kurdish rhetoric
you know from a former position you know
you know five ten years ago where you
know everyone was trying to reach out
politically to the Kurds
entering and negotiations with the
Kurdistan Workers Party the main Sergent
group inside Turkey's border it's could
have kind of conducted a ball pass on
that and that we sort of have Padawan
constantly sort of warning against the
threat of the PKK we and we have sort of
a ramping up of violence we have
operation claw taking place at the
moment
attacking PKK bases in Camp Hill which
is sort of which is located in northern
Iraq and the civilian cost of this is
quite heavy a number of villages and
civilians are being killed we have the
ramping out of tensions with the Kurds
in Syria
you know constant threats to launch I
mean as you may be aware Turkey occupied
the Syrian Kurdish controlled pan of
Afrin and now they're threatening to
attack Kurdish held territories east of
the Euphrates River which are
territories where the United States has
a military presence so there's basically
a ramping up of tensions with the
Kurdish community both internally and
externally this is playing to the
nationalist base as I mentioned everyone
has made a political alliance with the
National Action Party which is a far at
for cystic organization in Turkey so you
know trying to win that nationalist vote
in in Turkey means of ramping up
tensions with the Kurds although we did
have a very weird spectacle during the
election during the Istanbul election
Istanbul is a very large you know has a
very large Kurdish community people
often call it the largest creditor city
and so the credit voters were extremely
important in that book you know HTTP
members have it and pro-kurdish MPs have
been elected for Istanbul before and so
in order to win
over the Kurdish vote they actually the
occupé and the pro-government press
published a letter from Abdullah Ocalan
the jailed leader of the Kurdistan
Workers Party calling on the Kurds to
remain neutral in the upcoming election
which is completely crazy because you
know so many attp members have been
accused of sort of spreading terrorist
propaganda and then you have the
government publishing a letter within
the context of an election from what
they regard us regard as the leader of
the largest terrorist organization in
Turkey and you know the interesting
result is that this letter didn't work
and Kurdish voters sort of continued to
support the opposition candidate much in
line with the policy that the HDP was
fine so it kind of reveals some
interesting fissures within inside the
Kurdish moment movement sort of the
decline of urge Alliance at least his
direct political influence if not has
although perhaps not as symbolic
importance because movement and the
continued importance of Demio - who
basically embraced the position of align
with the opposition tics of give a
defeat to be to the Turkish government
Jean bars one I appreciate your time as
always thank you so much for doing this
thank you so much for having me you take
care of yourself Michael
all right thanks brother talk to you
soon come see us in Chicago folks all
right everybody um become a member of
the majority report today or I should
say for that did you know that your
phone can be a powerful full of powerful
force for change with credo mobile it
can because credo donates 150 thousand
every month to groups like Friends of
the Earth the ACLU and Planned
Parenthood switch to credo mobile to
stay at the carrier that stands for
women's rights the environment social
justice and so much more
learn more at credo comm slash majority
that's credo comm slash majority folks
become a member of the majority reported
a majority
if M / become a member that's how all
this happens that's how we stay
independent and give you that real depth
and content how we are able to hack
twitch and be able to stay up the entire
night despite everybody else going down
to man that was a high sorry it was
a victory total man standing last man
standing and it was great uh on Tuesdays
Michael Brooke show head on Brooke
Thomas and Celso Ameren former Brazilian
foreign minister this Sunday Alain ku on
an illicit history of Hong Kong the old
testament excuse me I don't know why I
keep this dyslexic of me which I do have
by the way Elaine you of the AFP French
press agency talking about the history
of the Hong Kong movement and where we
are today that's where patrons patreon
accomplished EMBs and go to the Michael
Brooke show YouTube channel it is a
fully humming fully functioning machine
now at well over 60,000 subscribers over
61 thousand subscribers help us get
200,000 soon and of course become a
patron Matt yeah literary hangover folks
you want to check out the pioneers
episode of James Fenimore Cooper it's
really interesting also I'm building my
gaming rig connected the power cables
late last night so go over to YouTube's
the YouTube channel literary hangover
because that's probably where I'm gonna
start
before I go on twitch so check that out
folks check out the anti Fattah we will
be right Brett
right back after a brief break all right
folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
does this alpha males and the alpha
males are back just wanna degree the
white man alpha males
[Music]
almost as what you
and the alpha males are back back
I am a total gut can we bring back DJ
Tanner yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ dance well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough we will
break that's Hawkinson I'm the alpha
male psyche
Oh
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
locked
alpha males are
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100 birthday to
meet you boy
I have a clotting Spanish tinfoil and
the alpha males of alpha males
around here welcome to the fun half
everybody let's go to some sound so last
night it was a very I found I don't know
what you guys well I think I do know
what you guys thought but say anyways
obviously for everybody else pretty
depressing dispiriting debate am I wrong
or is that basically the consensus I
mean no I thought it was fairly par for
the course I mean what a girl just
depressed yeah
what really angered me about the first
night is how much it was basically like
I said this on Twitter but Delaney was
basically cnn's
guido and they really tried to force him
and make him a thing and he just got
completely embarrassed and I'm happy
that that happened and I'm happy that
but Burnie with I think Warren taking
some of a lot of the flak - yes was able
to like recenter the party away from
those people but it was so frustrating
to see that attempt and it's so naked
Lea making an attempt and then they did
the same sort of you know Republican
talking point questions which that's
already becoming a meme know people who
already sort of post that already but
well when Bernie said that I mean that
was a real and then Warren echoed it I
mean that was a big that was it that was
a departure point it feels like because
they were doing that last night - yeah
mission - Harris I was doing this should
do a lot more of that I'm sorry this
idea you know we have to disaggregate
like obviously you know these almost
like fish just these fish istic energy
of people at Trump rallies threatening
reporters has to be categorically
condemned and rejected but then on the
other hand this other idea that there's
this like generic amorphous resistance
that just encapsulate severy buddy that
isn't Trump is wrong destructive self
evidently not true and gives this weird
thing where even as you know Jake Tapper
and CNN are asking these Republican
questions trying to harm progress
and human beings in this country that
you know you don't clearly say like no
you guys are doing propaganda for the
other side in that war in clip with the
Chris Matthews was a good summation that
was great and she held her ground on
that I mean that was just and again I
mean always bears repeating that MSNBC
still somehow branded is the progressive
option and you know they have more a
bizarre fixation and hatred an obsession
or a complete silencing of Sanders than
anybody and that yeah I mean that clip
that we played yesterday I mean Warren
did a great job and I mean my god it's
just a refusal to absorb basic
information and you know actually I'm
kind of working myself up too in retro
actively enjoying last night because
there's certain things that are funny to
me to watch just the way that the
candidates themselves have to frame
their attacks and their Oppo dumps like
Joe Biden for the second debate in a row
reminded Kamala Harris that she was a
prosecutor and he was a defense defense
and you know I mean we have a few other
ones where it's like de Blasio going
after by it and Booker also I love the
way that they all it's they all go into
sort of their DSA Booker or D si Jo mode
right like how they deploy opposition
research it's right right it's exactly
right the whole terrain has been shifted
to the left I mean and none of this I
mean there's a broader social condition
set but I mean if if Bernie Sanders did
not run in 2016 this would not be
happening no period full stop so if you
support that agenda you have to at the
bare minimum give him a massive amount
of props even though obviously in my
opinion obviously he should be
supporting them but I think that uh yeah
just watching Chris Matthews like I know
taxes and apparently he convinced
himself and I think Brian Williams I
already convinced themselves that that
Delaney had a good night
a lot of people convinced themselves
about that as recline I'm pretty sure
Nate silver you know you know that well
of course I mean all of the people that
have no understanding or commitments to
the stakes of anything that really do
think that this is a television show
nate silver's found out that noise is
much more Luke
than signal indeed indeed date silvers
gonna join us he's got a is there any
numbers date oh you're just totally
making it up in your head just like me
oh dear - c-plus what's the difference
between those two what's the difference
can we quantify it
oh you - she's off on a cocktail napkin
in about 20 minutes so yeah tell me
about this I got confused your frigging
egghead you look like you're stuck in a
lab and somehow you're doing exactly the
same process I do
guess I'm a quant now I guess I'm a
quant now it's all pure bias gut
instinct and corporate Democratic
talking points
mr. math nerd stealing my shtick I'll
tell you what I mean it is great to see
exact like Nate silver is just a
depressing and mediocre bagman for
corporate Democrats purely playing out
his own biases with a veneer of numbers
and because yeah I mean he needs to
that's that's you know we talked about
the acquisition that his web site went
under but like if that's all you got
please God at least give me entertaining
ridiculous Chris Matthews because I
don't know yet the fake I want the like
I'll tell you why gentlelady did great
because the first time I saw Tip O'Neill
pass out the cloakroom you just knew you
just felt something that was what John
Delaney had tonight yeah this Chris
Matthews might say something like sort
of irresponsibly funny but Nate Silver
is only going to say something
irritating yeah Nate Silver's never
gonna be like we good will you look at
the lobby oh yeah and if you would you
just recoil yeah right you just uh yeah
Chris Matthews is a human being and full
contradiction it's not just some
horrifying twerp all right let's play
some of this debate and let's start with
uh uh there were three different very
solid punches landed on Joe Biden by
Bill DeBlasio tulsi gabbard and Cory
Booker or excuse me pardon me
two solid punches on Joe Biden by Cory
Booker and Bill DeBlasio and one very
solid punch on Camilla Harris by Tulsi
Gabbard I don't worry Tulsi fans we're
gonna play that too ya don't know towles
change Tulsi should suit you alright
this is uh by the way I have no problem
without a lawsuit anything that
pressures Google I am totally down with
so total props on that Google should be
sued and sued off them this is Bill
DeBlasio and I want to just say I mean
not only is Bill DeBlasio absolutely
right about this but this is important
because look people as I've always said
I think if you don't like Barack Obama
on a kind of on a personal level I
suspect you have racial issues but as a
politician the man was president United
States for two terms and if you talk
about Wall Street Joe drones if you talk
about Wall Street you talk about foreign
policy you talk about immigration you
talk about inequality you talk about
ecology this is not a record I'll be as
diplomatic as possible you don't want to
replicate this record and so Bill
DeBlasio is absolutely right to attack
Joe Biden on deportations and be honest
about what the obama-biden record on
deportations was this is the time to do
it Democratic primary Biden I didn't
hear your response when the issue came
up of all those deportations you were
Vice President itíd States I didn't hear
whether you tried to stop them or not
using your power your influence in the
White House did you think it was a good
idea or do you think it was something
that needed to be stopped
mr. president came along and he's the
guy that came up with the idea first
time ever dealing with the dreamers he
put that in the law
he talked about a comprehensive plan
which he put on a lady for the Congress
saying that we should find a pathway to
citizenship for people we say he said we
should up the number of people that were
able to bring it in this country lastly
he also pointed out
we should go to the source of the
problem and fix it where people were
leaving in the first place so he did to
compare him to Donald Trump I think is
absolutely bizarre but I don't hear an
answer from the vice-president I'm
confused I asked the vice president
point-blank did he use his power to stop
those deportations he went right around
the question mr. vice president you
won't be president United States you
need to be able to answer the tough
questions I guarantee you if you're
debating Donald Trump he's not gonna let
you off the hook so did you say those
deportations were a good idea or did you
go the president say this is a mistake
we shouldn't do it which one I was vice
president I am NOT the president I keep
my recommendation in private unlike you
I expect you would go ahead and say
whatever was said privately with him
that's not what I do what I do say to
you is he moved to fundamentally changed
the system that's what he did that's
some did but it much more has to be done
much more house I don't hear an answer
de Blasio is 100% right and the
deportations were absolutely wrong
inhumane and this move that any
criticism means Yorick waiting or
drawing equivalency between Obama and
Trump is dishonest juvenile and
offensive to the lives of those people
and also I just want to say I mean that
you know pathetic weak T to say oh ago
so you would have said what was said in
private
later Biden mentioned that he opposed
the surge in Afghanistan which good for
him surge in Afghanistan was absolutely
wrong and a profoundly cynical decision
similar to the one words very similar to
the dissertations precisely by currency
with a certain group of people for a
broader aim in this case the
military-industrial complex and the
immigration case Republicans but you
know both cynical both wrong in both
instances but Biden by saying he opposed
the surge is in some sense having a
private conversation publicly I just
want to note that because it was so
pathetic and Cory Booker is gonna hit
him on this just literally right after
the previous and this was very well done
you can
run a whole race that is predicated on
don't ask me any tough questions I was
President Obama's vice president and oh
whoa you're identifying a troop surge in
Afghanistan or record deportations well
you know I'm my own guy
mr. vice president you can't have it
both ways you invoke President Obama
more than anybody in this campaign you
can't do it when it's convenient and
then dodge it when it's not and the
second thing and this really irks me
because I heard the vice president say
that if you've got a PhD you can come
right into this country
well that's playing into what the
Republicans want to pit some immigrants
against other immigrants that's
somewhere that's okay well that's
excellent that was a Cory Booker had a
lot of really strong moments last night
I'm not sure how much it will move the
dial but he was definitely on the strong
without that that debate can do nothing
but good for him and I think that that
it was great to see Cory Booker of all
people debunk a tired Neil liberal
immigration talking point that endless
Democrats and Republicans have echoed
that if you're and you know desirable
you can stay if you're not you can't
this is a great way of actually looking
at three different positions on
immigration
there is the overtly racist Trump
Republican approach which you know why
not people from Norway or not people
from Hill countries right
now it is absolutely not the same thing
and a ridiculous false equivalency right
and it the person with a PhD could be
from Ghana the person with a PhD could
be from Bangladesh Nigeria Norway
Jamaica whatever right so that is what
he's saying but he is saying it's
someone with a PhD that's the that's
that's multicultural neoliberal
capitalism which is better than white
supremacist capitalism the real answer
is don't pivot people who mainly be
refugees or maybes trying to resettle
life in the United States we have a
decriminalized UMaine process that
respects rights for all period
and of course that doesn't mean open
borders that that really I the open
borders rhetoric is really unhelpful
right now because one it is used by the
right basically to mean cheap labor to
exploit yes well it also activates
notions about migrants that have been
really deeply propagandized into the
American public and so I think you need
to take a more incremental approach to
getting there it's it's just not
happening tomorrow I mean it no nobody
and again if you want to make a concrete
again a ideas like Daniel best neurs
advocacy which I am totally on board
with in a long term of some type of
broader America's Union that's right
move towards open borders that that's
actually how you do something like this
I I do support that as a long-term goal
with raise standards redistribution and
all of the other issues that you need to
address but in the short term the answer
is you decriminalized you human eyes and
demilitarize the process you observe
what is already on the books in terms of
refugee conventions and and so on you
immediately make illegal the family
separation policies you as I've already
said you demilitarize and then yes you
have a hemispheric approach so that you
end u.s. foreign policy of pushing a
drug war supporting dictators Honduras
has a massive military base there you
know that is what's driving the
desperate human need to of people to get
here which nobody wants to be in a
situation in so you know it's just very
important to have this clear you main
progressive position and not get tripped
up in all of these various different
types of open or not open borders
rhetoric it's very confusing and
unhelpful and you need to draw a clear
third lane between the ethnic cleansing
and racism of Trump and Republicans and
this well by golly if you're here to
start a tech company will take you we
need to take anybody that needs to be
here I want to
one other mode this is near a Tannen
yeah near attend and said the GOP didn't
attack Reagan they built him up for
decades dem candidates who attacked by
Obama are wrong and terrible Obama
wasn't perfect but come on people next
to trump be kind of is this is my
outreach outrage of the day and my
outrage of the day is near at hand and
calling someone else in politics
terrible well it's also just so
profoundly and strategic and ridiculous
right we can't we can't inflate Obama's
legacy like a Reagan's was one like the
parties are different it's different
mindsets but it's also a completely
different media environment Mike right I
mean it's it's Harry Potter it's it's
pure Harry Potter and also by the way I
mean Ronald Reagan partially became who
he was because he and his political
movement vigorously attacked the
relative domestic moderation of Ford and
Nixon so it's absurd I mean if you're
doing political analogies brocco
President Obama was a moderate so he's
more analogous not in terms of
historical importance or charisma or
anything like that but he's more
analogous to you know a a moderate
Republican right he's more like George
HW Bush than Ronald Reagan he's more
like Gerald Ford and Richard Nixon in
terms of his relative position to the
other parties so the idea that you can
just sort of pretend through wish
fulfillment that somebody served a
equivalent ideological anchor is just a
fantasy and in addition to fact as Matt
points out in today's media environment
Ronald Reagan who of course was a
massive racist and arch far-right leader
but at the same time he gave amnesty to
immigrants as he should have done great
move should be done today do you think
that that would have lasted for a second
in a Fox News Alex Jones media
environment they would have turned on
Ronald Reagan a second and in fact by
the way they did turn on Ronald Reagan
when he did the best things that he did
in his presidency which is pursuing
disarmament agreements with the Soviet
Union there was a math
of Republican freaked out about that
yeah so this is yeah I mean this is just
fantasy world to try to suffocate a
necessary debate today look I I agree
that it's gonna be hairy when Obama's
legacy intersects with actual real
ongoing problems but the thing that the
the trade-off he made with the
deportations trying to build up goodwill
with fascists is like this is a bit of a
ridiculous metaphor but I think it might
underscore how ridiculous that calculus
was when I was like a fourth grade or
something like that one of my best
friends got a Shiba Inu puppy I don't
know if you've seen those like you and I
really wanted one and I asked my parents
for one but they weren't really super
hot on the idea so what I did is I
cleaned my room as clean as it ever was
in my entire life and I'm not a terribly
you know cleanly and true when it comes
in my immediate environment but I
cleaned it look how Brendan's lebreton
is such a like list you're acknowledging
it the the entire I mean I focus on more
important things but I find it being
everything off the floor just because I
also notice my friend did that when they
got the dogs on the right these two
things correlate right um and guess what
I didn't get the dog exactly oh that's
good you're calling from a61 Oh area
code who are you where he calling from
Michael hey who oh hey buddy its Mike
from Mike from PS thought it was your in
yeah how are you how are you buddy happy
to hear from you what's on your mind
brother yeah I just wanted to talk a
little bit about that debate last night
and the public option and the whole
strategy behind it and how its totally
baffling to me that no one's even
commenting on the fact that like Bernie
Sanders called that the insurance
companies were gonna attack him with ads
they paid for but if you actually
watched that ad they also attacked the
public option you know it's the same
exact talking points as they were
attacking burning so I went and I
totaled all of the support
of the moderate centrist that were
attacking Elizabeth Warren and getting
almost as much time as them and Bernie
Sanders during the debate and they have
2% of the support Delaney's RCP averages
0.1 percent and that and it literally
feel like his extended family like
nobody's voting for that well the thing
that's funny about him is he was the
first guy to enter the race he announced
his run for president in 2017 and he
spent fifteen million dollars of his own
money and yet he was being thrown to as
if he was an actual candidate right
meanwhile micro Vettel that I mean he's
a joke candidate I know I I don't I want
to say I don't consider Mike Ravel to be
a joke Kennedy has more grassroot
support than Blaney because let me just
say this I think no I just want to say I
know you didn't mean anything bad by it
but I just want to say like I mean look
my bottom line is look I think the left
movement anybody considers himself
progressive should just completely
support Bernie Sanders this is an
unparalleled opportunity there's there's
points for other candidates Bernie's the
best and a different kind of thing and I
I frankly don't appreciate all of the
mess in general that's just the bottom
line but if we're gonna broaden it out
and if we're gonna have to say like oh
that was great that the Blasio did that
and so on and so forth it's insane and
demented that Mike Ravel who was a very
good senator and has grassroots support
brings something different to the table
isn't up on that stage it's actually
really ridiculous I mean I the value he
has for the public relative to these
jokers is as just offensive he isn't up
there frankly well this is like he
qualified for the debate according to
the rules right but they just kept them
off yep that's it yep they just said to
him you're not trying to win so you
don't get to go on yes it had John
Delaney go on and sit there attacking
the number two and number three in the
polls Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren respectively you're telling them
that they're unrealistic that they're
lying
basically saying they're untrustworthy
cynical politics
Shen's how is that unity how does that
make any sense why is he up there and
that is the question so why can the
people who chose the candidates go up
there is the Democratic Party like
they're the ones who said that this
person qualified and this person didn't
and Mike Ravel qualified according to
the rules yet he wasn't allowed to go up
there and say his piece that's the thing
that I found most it's got well it's
disgusting and ridiculous and I think
also I mean isn't clear I mean look we
know literally it was reporting the New
York Times there were meetings that
included everybody from Nancy Pelosi to
Neera tandem to Peabody Judge to stop
Bernie Sanders I mean people like John
Delaney are there to to poison a
progressive agenda I mean that is his
purpose whether it's by the way for many
people and Emma Craddock establishment
or CNN for that matter and it doesn't
need to be a conscious conspiracy I mean
I really would recommend people read
Noam Chomsky and Edward S Herman's work
on manufacturing consent again because
it's its ideological bubbles can be
enforced and formed without a conspiracy
or even in some ways conscious intent
and that's the whole purpose of
constantly throwing the delaney and even
pretending I mean the fact that he's
considered anything other than a joke is
just purely the fact that this
incredibly narrow slice of politics he
represents is held by the elite of the
country basically yeah
totally and I would recommend if you
want another piece of content go examine
the New York Times like review of each
debate they're like columnist and
reporters and it is truly baffling to
see how people reacted one of the
reporters said that she acted with
reacted with a visceral anger when
Elizabeth Warren called them Republican
talking point like that that's the paper
of record right there right well there's
no oh yeah I got and by the way like
last night we in the community did a
little bit of stream so Matt when you
get on Twitch you'll be great it was
on our channel Central Committee we had
a few hundred people stick together way
into the late night so it's pretty great
awesome uh so yeah I can't wait to get
on there if you need a moderator hit me
up man
all right sounds good a lot of calls
from moderator you know Matt thank you
good thanks man that sort of reminds me
of this talk about ideology and
basically like how it can operate even
unconsciously this part from this
philosophy Tube video on Jordan Peterson
where he discusses very it gets to the
ideology part of very clearly a thing
okay and somebody who's merely deluded
well you can't so even though he highly
values the facts it seems like some are
more valuable than others and it's not
clear on what basis he's weighing them
up interestingly this criticism is
similar to one put forward by another
thinker Jordan Peterson he and Harris
agree on an awful lot but one thing
Peterson has pointed out is that there
are so many facts in the realm of
objective science that you need some
story to help you pick and choose which
facts will be relevant absolutely
philosophers would call that story and
ideology but that's not a word Peterson
likes and he has his own ideas which
we'll get to
that's that section that's very well put
every single step um but Lexie let's do
this because this was Cornel West the
man ice definitely considered to be
America's most important public
intellectual right now was on Democracy
Now this morning and he got to that
bigger picture of even like the freaked
out from the New York Times reporters
the anxiety the embarrassing ideological
push from CNN against Medicare for all
and what this really is his neoliberal
order is in a panic Cornel West
articulated that on to Democracy Now
this morning I think that what we
actually a witness in the last two days
is the ways in which the Democratic
establishment that's kind of last gasp
of the old neoliberal project within the
corporate wing of the Democratic Party
is moving toward a state of panic
the real vitality and vibrancy was
actually seen the first night with my
dear brother Bernie Sanders and sister
Elizabeth Warren and as much as I salute
sister Dolores in my beloved home down
to Sacramento that that sister Harris
senator Harris is trying to play it both
ways she the neoliberal certain parts
she wants to be progressive and in other
ways but it's it's going to be the
consistency the vibrancy and those who
actually have the vision and so the old
Democratic establishment is beginning
now to recognize the crisis that it's
been in for a long time and it was it
was a both sad as well as fascinating it
was sad because when you really look at
the condition of the country the Empire
and deep decline indicate levels of
poverty militarism running amok
neo-fascism escalating with Trump
middle-class working-class devastated
and last thing you need is incremental
small talk that you're getting more and
more out of the establishment and so I
hope that the Democratic Party can meet
the challenge but in the past has had a
tremendous difficulty meeting the
challenge when it comes to poor and
working people that's exactly I mean I
as usual with Cornel West I have pretty
much nothing to add to that all of that
is a hundred percent right and but I
think that that language that
understanding specifically of the panic
of people who's obviously I mean you
know John Delaney is hilarious because
you know literally he is a health
insurance you know oligarch he would be
implicated personally by a wealth tax so
you know and and the fact that all of
these people on television are you know
they're asking questions they are multi
millionaires they are I mean you know
look they are not Jeff Bezos they are
not the structure of capitalism itself
that needs interrogation so I don't want
to personalize it but they are certainly
on the side of people who are absolutely
fine in this environment Jake Tapper's
health care is not endangered ache
tappers well-being is not in danger so
just this
relentless devastation of middle working
class and the war on the poor in this
country has no implication for the
democratic party elite for CNN anchors
and any of the people trying to force
this agenda and what's incredible is
that you know they look at Bernie
Sanders with so much side eye again the
the the profoundly important thing about
this is that that is looking at tens of
millions that's looking at most of the
country with that same contempt and
confusion and there's an emotional
breakdown as a result of it I want to
also play this clip this was important
you know Kamala Harris has an incredibly
disturbing prosecutorial record that's
just the bottom line uh anybody who
cares about redemption restoration
racism criminal justice over
incarceration in general policing
prosecutorial conduct the use and
rhetoric of crime and policies that
jeopardize so many lives as a political
tool have to be horrified by Camille
Harris's record if we're being real and
I've always acknowledged the caramel
heiress has a lot of political talent
it's great watching her interrogate
members of the Republican administration
it's great watching her interrogate Joe
Biden but if you combine the doublespeak
lack of clarity on Medicare for all the
Inc oh here another plan waiting ten
years to phase it in which will cost
lives
the totally standard-issue approach to
any number of foreign policy and
corporate issues and there's something
just so profoundly disturbing
specifically about the criminal justice
issues and Tulsi Gabbard who as we
always talk about certainly as plenty of
her own problems was the one to do it
she's clearly choosing to attack Harris
and go easy on Biden there's a
calculation there she's making I do want
to say though the fact that calmly
Harris that all she's got is Tulsi is
the one who met with Assad trash I will
critique how Tulsi met
desaad I will critique not acknowledging
that Assad is a butcher and a war
criminal and all the rest of it but this
tactic of you have completely laid me
the rights and all I've got is that
talking point and incidentally I'm an
uncritical supporter of all sorts of
abuses in the Middle East get out of
here
nonsense tulsi gabbard did a great job
with this senator Harris says she's
proud of her record as a prosecutor and
that she'll be a prosecutor president
but I'm deeply concerned about this
record there are too many examples to
cite but she put over 1,500 people in
jail for marijuana violations and then
laughed about it when she was asked if
she ever smoked marijuana she freed an
innocent man from death row until the
courts forced her to do so she kept
people in prison beyond their sentences
to use them as cheap labor for the state
of California and she fought to keep the
bail system in place that impacts poor
people in the worst kind of way Thank
You congresswoman senator Harris your
response as the elected Attorney General
California I did the work of
significantly reforming the criminal
justice system of a state of 40 million
people which became a national model for
the work that needs to be done and I am
proud of that work and I am proud of
making a decision to not just give fancy
speeches or being a legislative body and
give speeches on the floor but actually
doing the work of being in the position
to jail people to jail people that's the
record that is the actual record there
was some minimal reforms that she
supported well late in the game she even
was to the right of some of the national
moves the Obama administration on drug
policy this is one of the reasons what
you know why I roll my eyes at the
rhetoric of get things done do the work
and have a plan is because that's how
it's used I mean she just had all of the
travesties of her criminal justice
record clearly laid out for her and then
she came back with I do the work and of
course the first answer
yeah I mean okay first day of course I
mean look it's ludicrous you're a
politician every politician gives
speeches so that's just silly we can
dismiss that but then I think tulsi
gabbard just explaining the work you do
and it was harmful in a profound that
systemic way to tens of thousands of
lives and I was the Attorney General's
not an answer to that so you know this
is very very disturbing and you know we
have two candidates in particular all of
them have bad records in various aspects
even Bernie Sanders voted for the 94
crime bill but again in terms of reality
he at the time did talk about
incarceration rates and imprisonment
Joe Biden bragged about it Joe Biden was
propagandizing and fear-mongering to put
people in jail for decades and Kamala
Harris did it as an AG so you have two
candidates who are not only behind the
curve one was a national creator of the
problem and the other was a prime
enforcer of the problem in all of her
elected positions I just that just
simply can't be ignored marianne
williamson broke my heart on the first
night i couldn't believe it she was
right up there as my number two choice
and then she had this word after I mean
masterful job with dummy Dave Rubin and
then she just botched it with this very
non visionary and very non spiritually
freeing answer on Medicare for all and
but what I love is that she's adoptable
and a good and smart way and so here are
her supporters in her talking about
Medicare for all after the first debate
this is actually pretty cool
[Applause]
so she listens to people she listens to
her people again if we're not just like
getting down to the business of electing
Bernie which I absolutely think we
should 100% across the board that
includes every single candidate then
Marion Williams since putting in some
really good work she actually articular
her articulation on race and reparations
was excellent it's good although what do
you think about her dismissal of HR 40
like I think it's one thing to dismiss
it but like to dismiss it and also say I
have the solution and it's this dollar
amount which we all know is if we're
being real insufficient like I just
think like why does she it's her anti
plan stuff again I am less triggered by
anti plan stuff than you but I do think
that I mean okay if I'm defending her I
could see that saying I'm looking into
HR 40 is a bit of a dodge from
concretely saying what you're gonna do
right on the other hand you know to me
it's like yes she doesn't really know
what HR 40 it's right like and so
clearly there's a lack of you know
preparation and so on but honestly it's
like you know there are limits like even
Andrew yang like Andrew Yang actually
and regain had a really good night last
night credit where credit's do except
yet a his answer of promoting his Pro
gentrifying nonprofit as a way of
fighting racism I think should give
everybody a huge amount of pause if you
take those issues seriously but it's
like Andrew yang said something
ridiculous on Israel a couple weeks ago
I don't even remember what it was and it
was wrong and it and it frankly reflects
being a moderate New York City Democrat
right like it's not that shocking that
he would have a bad position on it and I
had a problem with it but it's like even
that it's like do I do we do we need to
do a full segment on Andrew yang who
will never be President no you know
being wrong at Israel
so it's like I don't know yeah marianne
williamson yes she shouldn't be
dismissive of that bill and so what yeah
you know that's kind of my view on it I
mean I will just say one final thing is
that and this is not a shot at
reparations but I feel like if the woman
who is foremost like I feel like
reparations are the thing that sort of
sets her definitely if she's I'm glad
she's done this medicare-for-all little
pivot because if she was the pro
reparations candidate is saying Medicare
for all is unrealistic I think that
looks that's easy
propaganda for that's a doff read yeah I
mean look everybody should definitely
read Adolf reads critique of reparations
it's important regardless of where you
land on it let's play uh I want to just
do this though cuz this is a final
indictment of just how unbelievably
awful CNN was you were calling the first
night and I and we didn't get to this I
might play this on T MBS next week
nature this is a clip number eleven that
I'm setting up last week or a couple in
the first debate
they got Elizabeth Warren into it in
exchange with the governor of Montana on
a first-strike demented Elizabeth Warren
said what any sane non sociopath would
say which is that no I'm not going to do
that and that is the correct position
that's and that is by the way that is a
super moderate we're not talking about
deterrence we're not talking about multi
a unilateral disarmament that is saying
I will not be the first person as
president the United States to launch a
nuke on another country they dragged the
governor of Montana into it he tried to
do a hawkish thing about it it was
embarrassing it was disgusting tapper
her and Warren even though she was right
grotesque and all part of the rituals of
toughness and promotion of literally
world-ending farm will see ideas of the
conventional media
and and think-tanks apparatus and arms
industry and so on Bernie Sanders wanted
to jump in on an exchange they didn't
let him jump in because they wanted to
set Pete Budaj edge up to attack Bernie
for being old they literally had uh-oh
we're done with talking about what could
cancel human life to set up a cheap shot
from Buddha judge which Buddha judge did
not take which was interesting then this
happened on last night's debate and this
by the way was the only time that Iran
was discussed very much I appreciate
that
I appreciate you trying to stop the most
one of the top five most catastrophic
things that can happen in the world
which the Trump administration is trying
to orchestrate along with the Saudis and
the Israelis every day but anyways we've
got a format to stick to I mean that
just embarrass the television format of
President primary or presidential
debates is an attack on the American
people's you know it's it's info war
literally it is literally info war I
mean that is shocking and embarrassing I
mean that that exchange of de Blasio
trying to talk about war with Iran and
being shushed to stay on format is I
mean that's 15 seconds which can indict
and end the whole system if we were in a
any type of functioning Democratic civic
space we'd all sit down and go okay we
need to get back to the drawing board
here how are you gonna redesign these
things we obviously meet new people
moderating them that can't be done on
private corporate networks I mean my god
even if it was I mean not that PBS is
much better but I mean it could be as
simple as this needs to be three hours
no commercial breaks they can interrupt
each other they can actually have an
exchange we're not doing you know trying
to set up silly attacks on each other
we're not beginning with an opening
statement we might have some subject
area experts whether it's in
climate healthcare race or international
relations and we're gonna actually have
a discussion here this is live studio
audience
well I like the live studio ones last
night because of the interruptions about
the de Blasio firing Pantaleo and the
immigration stuff that was actually good
but they're only people they don't yeah
they're only good if they're breaking
the rules of being an audience just like
the candidates are only good breaking
the rules of the moderators you're
calling from a 509 area code who are you
where you're calling from this is Ethan
I'm calling from Seattle hey Ethan
what's on your minds I just got a couple
things I thought I'd call into my my
favorite minecraft twitch streamers
bring us thank you
anyone else oh great anyone elses in
Seattle today at 6 o'clock downtown on
deck n there's a protest against ice at
their headquarters right downtown if you
get off work it'll be six o'clock show
up so these ghouls you know like they
say Seattle supposed to be like really
progressive or like let's show them what
that means so get out there and protest
ice today downtown on second awesome
yeah and then the other thing the my boy
jay inslee was doing pretty good last
night did be happy with him as my
governor props the genius night he was
right in contrast with someone like
tulsi gabbard he D as governor he did
come out ahead of the pack and he said
you know yeah Syrian refugees bringing
the Washington we want so he's been good
on that he's been good on some other
stuff it's not gonna make like a debate
sizzle reel but I also thought he had
one of the best hits on Joe Biden which
was this climate plan you know nothing
illustrates Joe Biden's complete and
adequacy better than that moment to me
because in lieu said hey you know what
guess what like your climate change plan
it actually won't do it we need to do it
won't eliminate carpet it won't you know
pivot to alternative energy and Biden's
response was like oh yeah well how do
you feel about electric car charging
station $500 your car I got 500 places
you could plug your Tesla
do we after the corner we have that so
we can because I would like to make a
clip of that because I agree that let
get to that after the call cuz Inslee
definitely deserves a clip and props for
that I agree so my only question for you
is and look you know these are it's
tricky cuz everybody's got their own I
think in the big picture I know and I'm
you know in the big picture you have to
deal with capitalism you have to
transition to a post-capitalist thing
and I'm not talking about some type of
super idealized you know world I think
it will still share a lot of traits of
the world today but if you don't
fundamentally go at the market mechanism
there's gonna be elements of the climate
an ecological crisis that are just
simply incompatible with limitless
growth and that incentive right and I
say this to say that one of the reasons
that I've sort of not been as generous
to Inslee is I had somebody now
ridiculous because I don't remember who
but if somebody from Washington State
who I it was a credible opinion and they
basically said look the guy's state
record does not match his national
ambitions yeah and I always and you know
look that's the case Jerry Brown right
as long as you know well certainly
DeBlasio him that's a hundred percent to
Blasio I know for a fact the Blasio's I
mean housing gentrification policing
bill de blasio as mayor is not built
applause he's a presidential candidate
but even the guy like Jerry Brown Jerry
Brown has done some real work on
incentivizing clean energy that's
significant he has a terrible record on
drilling and fracking and he has no
vision of environmental justice in fact
in some ways he's been quite reactionary
and regressive even as he's centered
climate like no other frontline
politician so what is Jane's Lee's
record really like as governor on on
ecology I agree with you on refugees and
immigrants he's definitely stood out he
deserves more props generally in the
race but what about in vitally yeah I
have heard some criticisms of Inslee
from the left about like I don't recall
it's a carbon tax or there was something
at the state level he wasn't great on I
I myself hesitate to articulate those
criticisms because I'm not particularly
first and Inslee state record to be
totally honest yeah
followed as closely as I really should
like I haven't paying attention I do
know those criticisms exist and in glee
he's definitely like of the Machine like
he was the head of the Democratic
Governors Association like he's like a
Democrat and good standing with the
parties for sure and like I'm definitely
a Bernie guy yep but um you know maybe
I'm not sure if I'd you know quite up on
his ecological record at the state level
where I could you know accurately talk
to that like I said he's been good on
other things like I noticed when he does
good stuff like you know he put a hold
on the death penalty
like I think we still have the
definitely definitely is one just like
it wrong and better people running for
president I mean really obvious just him
crowbar and climate into every debate is
absolutely worth like a fifteen dollar
donation in my mind I would like to see
him on the stage and said yeah II
Klobuchar are telling me that I can't
get you know college without a savings
account tax advantaged savings account I
mean the other reason which these
metrics are so dumb like you know I
obviously I wouldn't trust the
democratic committee can't make these
decisions and we saw the total
ridiculousness of how they treated Ravel
but it's like if we had a somewhat
mature civic culture and an independent
non corporate media you might just even
have the capacity to say you know like
okay yeah Biden has no ideas but he's
the front-runner so he's up on stage and
then people like Inslee like yeah you're
just in the debate because you're you
hold an important office and you're
actually talking about really important
stuff and every other metric is
irrelevant yeah right like he he is the
only I mean I guess de Blasio to a
degree but it's very funny to me like
you know you have you know Delaney and
close char and quick and looper mean
nothing are nothing and are simply
irrelevant bag people for a totally
discredited system and you know Inslee
yeah yeah I mean Inslee's Inslee
definitely yes he deserves he deserves
props I just want to know more about
what his actual record is yeah let's I
definitely welcome that sort of inquiry
into his background but you know as far
as Washington Democrats go he's
certainly better than like our Seattle
mayor so you know III hope this at least
is a springboard for him for the
ecological
that's great paint I agree thanks Ethan
for the call let's play this this was
also really important jay inslee who
again I agree with Brendon I think you
know look the broader systems how you
deal with the ecological crisis and is
incompatible the quest for unlimited
growth there's bigger things that need
to be dealt with and at the same time
you needed a candidate who centered
climate and by the way a candidate who
also sent her climate there's on a
single time that jay Inslee doesn't talk
about taking on the climate crisis that
he doesn't talk about Union jobs that he
doesn't talk about broader systems to
take on this crisis and he is the only
candidate that is an elected democratic
office holder who's polling at zero
present and not generating any
excitement who's actually talking about
serious ideas and real problems and I
have to also just by the way say in a
you know a very good-natured way I mean
to the extent these things matter you
have this innate repulsion from a
Hickenlooper Delaney or Club asurim
Inslee definitely comes off as very
decent decent and very good yet a lot of
decency and I agree with you and I think
you know maybe in some ways the lack of
flash is holding him back
but this is true he scored a big point
on Biden last night on climate and again
you know Biden's lack of anything is a
huge problem on human lives when it
comes to criminal justice when it comes
to a reproductive rights when it comes
to health care when it comes to climate
I mean how does this pretend middle-way
work it doesn't jay Inslee laid it out
would there be any place for fossil
fuels including coal and fracking in a
Biden administration no we would we
would work it out we would make sure
it's eliminated and no more subsidies
for either one of those either any
fossil fuel we can't we cannot even work
it out we cannot work this out the time
is up our house is on fire we have to
stop using coal in ten years and when
you're not president to do it or it
won't get done that get off coal save
this country and the planet that's
what's wrong for would there be any
place no he's good and and jay Inslee
really
I spent even at this point frankly
because he's not a top contender even
regardless of the full extent of his
record and if local journalists and
activists want to document it and help
their own cause in Washington that's
great for purposes of this campaign he
is absolutely he's doing a world of good
censoring this yeah like you can say
it's just rhetoric on the other hand
this is very useful rhetoric if you want
climate change to get addressed because
what happens is this allows someone like
Bernie or Warren to go farther with
climate than they would otherwise that
and he's positioning himself well for a
cabinet position where if you get a
Democrat in and he's not head of the EPA
or the interior something it's gonna be
people going what are you doing
right also just a fun fact part of a
Biden's climate plan that he touted last
night was a doubling the amount of
offshore wind turbines we currently have
five so he would make it 10 is the most
perfect that is the most perfect
distillation of Joe Biden
contagious chameleon criticizing the
media for using right wing talking
points as the same type of work that
liberal media does when the right uses
that frame yes and good yeah water boat
from Kashmir currently taking an
American history class it's amazing the
adversity we face and Senate and Supreme
Court has occurred again and again 1830
1864 runs many parallels today except
the situation was more stark politically
but we know what the lessons are one
don't try to bring voters from the
center-right you will fail instead give
poor whites good quality of life like
Bernie and Warren to take a few election
cycles to bunker down and because 2020
is the only the beginning all politics
is local think grassroots we can do this
have hope and build some endurance
because it will take a while that's
excellent man I was actually really good
insight thank you I've got a friend of
mine who's revisiting Robert reading for
the first time Robert Caro's series on
LBJ right and I think that's important
to go to I mean the whole series is
amazing but not because you need to
learn what LBJ did to fix this in it but
just to realize the type of like
structural reform that people were
throwing
out there to try to fix the problems
that were the Senate and how a parent
that was to everybody that like hey the
Senate like probably shouldn't survive
another ten years and like LBJ got in
there and you know um gum the works a
little bit and got some stuff passed but
we need to get back to that point where
the Senate the Supreme Court and that's
actually frankly was a booty gig who
brought that up or somebody brought up
the Supreme Court no it was somebody
else else I honestly don't know yeah
it's embarrassing but anyway good good
job you was it Julian Castro no Bukit
judge was open to reforming the courts
and then he came out with like kind of a
bunk plan uh his pattern like Buddha
judge is very adept at the rhetoric of
change like his foreign policy plan I
mean Pete Buddha judge did a foreign
policy plan which was you know an AUMF
which yes it's really important but at
this point like we're 18 years into this
thing right rejoin the Paris climate
rejoin the Iran deal like these are all
good things but they're ours nothing
structural there's no departure point
and I think you know from health care
and everything else that's Buddha judges
mo is give the feeling of a show was
Inslee was their boyens Lee I remember
this yeah James and even if the
Democrats win the Senate the filibuster
stands in the way of their big plans
very that was another good thing in as
they did excellent work excellent work
excellent work from jay Inslee really
appreciating jay Inslee unknown kool-aid
what do you think of the argument that
Warren is the best potential candidate
because she can unite progressive in
central wings of the Democratic
coalition especially in a brokered
convention scenario do you want to jump
in first I mean I think that's why the
money is more open to her because I
think they're I think they're I think it
is sort of the last bit of
DNC you wrote I guess you know like in
ship a shipwreck right like they're
gonna try to go to warm because they're
not gonna go to Bernie's a lifeboat but
exactly but I mean I think she might be
a sturdy one I think that
first of all again I'll just reset this
which is that if you have a left
position of any sort and I don't care
how your Catterick you know categorizing
yourself but it's certainly obviously if
you identify as any type of democratic
socialist or social democrat it would be
utterly insane to not vote for the first
viable social democrat that could get
elected to office and i to me though it
goes a lot bigger because i mean look it
is gonna be a fight like hell for
Sanders to get the convention and we'll
cross that bridge when we come to it and
I'm actually much more concerned about
Warren throwing her weight behind
Sanders in the case that he's leading
and she has his back that's a genuine
concern and I look I don't hold I don't
hold Warren not endorsing Bernie in 2016
the way some people do like at the end
of the earth and it proves that she's
really this and really that like look
let's have a little maturity if Hillary
Clinton picked her as vice president
that would have been a very good thing
and of course Elizabeth Warren should
have allowed herself to be vetted by
Hillary Clinton it's ridiculous that
said it's a big indication of a
calculation yeah that any Massachusetts
primary which was very close and was a
lifeline that Sanders could have stayed
on that Warren chose to not go with a
serious agenda and endorsed Bernie
Sanders and trim her sales for the
establishment does not speak well of her
overall broad structural commitments
right so there's a dialectic to it one
she's you know look I'm just gonna be
real I mean can people some people are
trying to compare it to
to Hillary Clinton and all the say
ridiculous nonsense not her record not
what she's running on conversely people
are trying to say that she is to the
left or a structural as Sanders
ridiculous no-nonsense not her record
so sorry so you have a person who wants
to do a smaller more limited scale of
what Sanders is doing the huge advantage
that Bernie has and this is the biggest
advantage he has over everybody else in
a general election and the biggest
advantage that he would have as
president he said this morning I won't
be commander-in-chief I'll be organizer
in chief is that he has a movement like
no other to go in and fight like hell to
actually do this now yes jay Inslee is
right about the institutional blocks in
the Senate no doubt about it but the
bigger institutional block is that a
handful of corporations and corporate
sector own this process we are in a
oligarchy look at the Princeton research
I mean we are not in a functioning
democracy and it is not because plans
aren't smart enough it's not because
people haven't been persuaded it's
because they pure lock on power and it's
very revealing that people around Warren
have even as they've branded the plan
thing they've had to pivot to the
movement thing but she doesn't have a
movement now you could say oh well the
movement still exists even without
Sanders and that's transferable I don't
think it's as fungible I think the way
that Sanders is running this campaign
the fact that there is an independent
infrastructure around that independent
media around to the fact that they're
using their email lists to warn about
ice rates to support other movements and
groups
it's totally unparalleled a movement is
in the DNA of the campaign so that when
he runs in a general election or gets
elected president there is a completely
different infrastructure to achieve
things that is completely in parallel
and then the other aspect and people
just need to grow up foreign policy
seriously matters and it seriously
impacts your life and there is no
comparison
in terms of dealing with those issues
which I've talked about extensively but
the third issue is what do we mean by
unite centrist and progressive wings
because again if we look at
demographics of how this breaks down
bernie is amassing a broad multiracial
working-class coalition a broad
multiracial working-class coalition is
how a Democrat wins and most importantly
it is across the board what needs to be
delivered on I have no doubt that there
are some people and people that are
over-represented in social media and so
on who really are you know Warren or
Sanders in which case great tells
happily support of Bernie Sanders
because they're somewhere on the
progressive to center-left spectrum
other people who are pivoting to Warren
because of a a hatred of Bernie Sanders
or because they have um you know again
it's not an ideological commitment it's
a different sort of demo and profile you
know then that isn't really implicated
much one way or another by who's the
nominee frankly that isn't implicated I
mean if Sanders is the nominee the hope
is is that you know people like Minnie
Roca or whatever who have this you know
bizarre irrational hatred of him that
they will elevate defeating Trump just
like by the way people like me who
actually disliked Hillary Clinton
because we didn't like welfare reform or
prison industrial complex or the
Honduras coup we still recognized that
we needed to stop Trump so hopefully
concurrently bowlers yeah we do even
though we create our cars so hopefully
people who have that weird fixation on
Bernie will have the same sanity and
decency that some of us had in 2016
uh and then you know if it's if it's
Warren uh again most normal progressives
would certainly you know of course look
I on one hand I'm not I keep saying I'm
not gonna say that she is equivalent to
or the same thing or in any way remotely
being as good of or better than the
Sanders sorry it's not reality and then
on the flip side of course she's not Joe
Biden of course she's not Hillary
Clinton of course she's significantly
better that's also ludicrous so if she
was the nominee there are those of us
who would feel
of course a hell I mean disappointed as
health workouts worried as hell that it
wasn't Bernie work elsewhere but
certainly feel a great deal better and a
lot more comfort that it isn't Joe Biden
or commonly Harris so I you know stop
hyping ourselves into these scenarios if
you have a certain politics if your
politics are on the left at any sort you
have Bernie Sanders it's an unparalleled
opportunity just support them and if
you're not then support somebody else
but don't be under any illusion I think
you know that is really important if you
have a left stance that certainly
includes any concern for the rest of the
world and I I find it shocking how blase
people can be about that your vote as an
American citizen literally affects every
single person on planet Earth and voting
for every single military budget
increase including beyond what Trump has
asked for in one instance and being a
loyal advocate of Raytheon in the Senate
is a big goddamn problem that's
something for both Tulsi and Warren fans
to chew over absolutely absolutely and
what I hear from Tulsi fans is a
delusion and fantasy that doesn't match
her record and what I hear from Warren
fans is not a goddamn thing and that's a
big problem you can't run around talking
about how progressive and everybody has
a plan and this and that if you don't
have any serious plan on the military
industrial complex or foreign policy but
more broadly if you care about
everything from gentrification and
military-industrial complex you can't
just elect people you need to have a
serious movement nobody understands that
like Bernie Sanders so if you are on any
sort of actual left there is a candidate
that's unparallel that's the bottom line
who can win so I you know I just don't
have a lot of time for all this other
stuff yeah I think it's as simple as
that I also think that with Warren I'm
really sort of content to take a
wait-and-see approach with her because I
did not think she'd perform terribly
well at all right she's probably better
than I thought she would
but also I don't think she will be in
the position to take the nomination
unless she's proven that she's a
different politician than the one
made the decision not to support Bernie
in 2016 precisely and that's a and you
know and by the way that is the type of
thing because again let's be really
honest about this arc right Warren
announced and it was ludicrous was
ludicrous that people were talking about
beta or orc and P Budaj edge while you
had a United States Senator who had a
really important record on Wall Street
and consumer issues putting out some
incredibly solid plans ridiculous her
campaign capitalized on that they
flipped the dynamic and in the past
couple of months she's been in a pure
media honeymoon now though it is
important to say well if you're on one
side of the equation why when you had an
opportunity to shift the scales in 2016
didn't you clear as day on Wall Street
on trade on banking on credit cards
Hillary Clinton is just as bad if not
worse on some areas than Joe Biden the
same same candidate on these issues
Bernie Sanders had a chance why didn't
you intervene the now it's changed but
there was a lot of equivocating on
Medicare for all
I don't want equivocating on Medicare
for all why was there not that clarity
and then hold a military foreign policy
movement stuff and how we actually do
things that these things now as the
dynamics of change need to be really
talked about and seriously examined it
can't just be uncritical anymore because
to her credit she is a top-line
candidate now which is in many ways a
good thing all right uh remember how I
would do impressions of Ronald Reagan
being a bigot because it'd be pretty
easy to deduce that a guy who denied the
AIDS crisis and vetoed a sanctions
package against apartheid South Africa
and ran against quote unquote
all fair queens and young bucks getting
welfare checks yeah that guy was
probably a bigot and now we have some
archival evidence of the absolute
frigging obvious this is a phone call
from 1971 with Ronald Reagan to Richard
Nixon and guess what it's Reagan saying
all the racist stuff not Richard Nixon
saying his usual racist stuff I will say
this is someone who is read and I've
read more on Nixon to heaven Reagan I
think Reagan was more of a racist than
even Nixon was totally I totally accept
that because Nixon could still probably
recognize like you know like someone
like god I had to get rid of Nkrumah
darn fine strategist
[Music]
[Music]
uncomfortable wearing it yeah
Ronald Reagan was a great American who
really restored our optimism we should
all respect him this is kind of a funny
little yeah I'm here the LOB at the
underscore underscore boy
well boy that's right if you think
you're bad at your job there's a Ronald
Reagan biographer who didn't realize he
was a racist and a week ago Bob Spitz
author of Reagan an American journey in
all of my very careful research into his
private papers and never found an
instance where I felt Ronald Reagan was
raised what about his public veto of a
sanctions package against apartheid
South Africa that's some good reporting
to like to go to Republican writer of
Reagan to say hey you never thought of
this there's a lot of nervous biographer
that guy really learned from Reagan
though you can tell like in my
examination of his public of his private
papers in my heart and my heart I
thought it wasn't racist the facts say
are there are vexing oh I always thought
that Curious George was a delightful
character and I meant nothing by it to
the great African people I'm not a
Donald Trump is them nothing new Under
the Sun folks and a lot of people today
like to say they go up without shoes
because it's good for their arches it's
good for their arches that's why those
earth gripping shoes are so pop an
important point to make on this abut of
national security or privacy so I I've
listened to a lot of Nixon tapes I've
listened to probably that call but that
was not available earlier because it was
beeped out if you listen to a lot of the
Nixon tapes the first thing I always do
is load them up and then look and you
can see visually how much is just beeped
out with this tone right and it's huge
parts of all these conversations we
don't know half of this stuff and this
was beeped out for privacy of Richard
irva of Ronald Reagan which drive is
breathed and out for privacy
yeah privacy you know privacy public
talking about a private medical
condition or
revealing that the Governor of
California is a ranked bigot yeah while
the president chuckles along you know
privacy privacy becomes a euphemism for
public image
indeed speaking of public image racism
let's talk about ben shapiro and of
course i mean that apropos of nothing
ben shapiro is definitely a little fella
that loves Ronald Reagan I wonder what
he'll think of these new tapes Flint
Michigan is still in the midst of this
crisis with its water and this is
nothing new
there's poisoning a lack of water
quality across the country of course
disproportionately affect people of
color low income people structural issue
in this society and it is absolutely an
issue of institutional racism one of the
really funny things about Flint though
is I understand how in certain instances
it takes like I don't know ten minutes
of abstract thought process to say Oh
while there might be as an example local
problems in Baltimore right I'm not
gonna go to bat here to defend local
Baltimore institutions like the mayor
Police Department or the real estate
developers or anything else but you can
also take a couple steps back and go oh
part of the reason a city like Baltimore
might be happening and having problems
is because of structural racism
deindustrialization under investments in
cities brutal racist policing policies
and so on right you you think a few
steps out and then you can have a
structural understanding of how the
economy works how race works and things
like that now I would never want to
burden ben shapiro or any of his fans to
have to think out a couple of steps
through that process i understand that
that's not very logical doesn't give you
enough time with his fast speaking isn't
giving enough time with his fast
speaking and it's much more comfortable
to just tell simple bedtime stories so
that you don't have to actually deal
with any problems or deal with our
current history our current reality or
history
but when you talk about flint and you do
this angle you run up against some very
basic problems this is ben shapiro
okay so it's environmental racism
Iskender racism that can right okay then
marianne williamson steps in and
marianne williamson actually makes a
pitch and again is spiritual in nature
and thus when it comes to issues of race
is actually more attractive here's
marianne williamson putting the slavery
reparations question in a way that
actually sounds more reasonable than the
way democrats are talking about it I
assure you I lived in Grosse Pointe what
happened in Flint would not have
happened in Grosse Pointe this is part
of the dark underbelly of American
society
and the entire conversation that we're
having here tonight if you think any of
this wonkiness is going to deal with
this dark psychic force of the
collectivized hatred that this president
is bringing up in this country then I'm
afraid that the Democrats are going to
see some very dark days we need to say
it like it is it's okay so again she's
wrong a flint is governed by minorities
I mean the folks who are the mayor of
Flint is was black at the time the folks
who were involved in the Flint water
crisis were of minority descent it
wasn't white people cramming down a
situation on Flint by the way they're
all Democrats but what she's actually
saying there is more speaking to the
heart and soul of the Democratic Party
than anything that Elizabeth Warren just
said oh look okay so that's interesting
that he would frame it that way I don't
know I mean I actually do think there's
a huge value in some of the ways that
Maria and Williamson is actually talking
about those issues and I do think things
like Truth and Reconciliation Commission
and the reality whether it's spiritual
psychological or otherwise but the
effort to simply force and get people to
understand American history is very
significant so and it's interesting that
it's that even someone like Shapiro is
actually sort of forced to to understand
that on some limited level but that
being said we just got to get this out
of way
Flint Michigan run by African Americans
huh in 2000 and just let's be clear here
Flint's population is being decimated
for decades you can go back to the Roger
and me Michael Moore documentary about
the industrialization in 2011 Richard's
Rick Snyder nerd that cares are tough
one tough nerd was his slogan forced
flitter Flint into state control he set
up a board of oversight and overseers
which had some diverse representation
and they implemented a brutal austerity
plan on Flint including
the changes to their water system that
led to the poisoning of the residents of
Flint it's shocking that rich that Rick
Snyder and others haven't been
criminally charged so just to be clear
in this specific instance forget even
the broader structural questions of why
certain communities are poisoned and not
others which bench bureau has no grasp
of and no interest in in this one
instance of Flint even that cheap
misleading disingenuous essentialist
dumb talking point isn't even true local
officials did not have control over
their water policies period full stop
I'm gonna have to shout out I said that
too slow my literary hangover episode on
Georgia was looking back on the Spanish
War because I think it gives an insight
into why Ben Shapiro might like marianne
williamson 'he's approached here i as
this toward the end says behind all the
bala who that is talked about godless
Russia and the materialism of the
working class and reminder George Orwell
for people who don't know wasn't a huge
fan of Stalin's Russia behind all the
ballyhoo that has talked about godless
Russia and materialism of the working
class lies a simple intention of those
with money or privileges to cling to
them did oh the thought it contains
ditto though it contains a partial truth
like we said with Mary Ann with all the
talk about worthlessness of social
reconstruction not accompanied by a
change of heart the pious ones from the
Pope to the Yogi's of California are
great on the changes of heart much more
reassuring from their point of view than
a change to the economic system that's
great he's missing Liberation Theology
which certainly hasn't changed the
economic system so this isn't I mean
this can be a false choice
what Liberation Theology what's the like
lineage of that basically Marxist
priests in Latin America right but like
so they were I mean like Romeo well fair
enough
like that's later on this is in the
thirties that's fair enough later on
I mean but he was but he's okay people
like Doris Day who were you know and I
mean he's there were there was always
Catholic and Jewish socialists
I mean Gandhi's much more complicated
figure so and I mean it contains a
partial truth there you know
all right fair enough you know what in
the 1930s is a brilliant argument and
you're right about why it would appeal
the shapiro rj j cool thanks for the mr
debate coverage I've heard some YouTube
commentators talking about unionization
for craters what do you guys think about
it I think that that is very interesting
tell me more Wharton I want to hear more
[Music]
Jerry from zip recruiter I didn't get
that wasn't it was some difficult labret
like advertise muffin I never advertised
are not suitable for comedy yeah not do
don't not joke about not ever joke about
advertise on the show they do a great
job book recommendation pedagogy of the
oppressed by follow-up Paulo Freire a
it's essential for reading for any
leftist organ is pajama boy Tim Poole
and other Tulsi supporters are cryin
over Twitter saying they're manipulating
her from trending and replacing with
Assad their hands down the worst
supporters excuse me Dorothea day my bed
I I don't know I mean I don't even know
about that one did you guys see that Tim
Poole raised over a million dollars for
his alternative YouTube all right
garbage ya know when people are really
are hours people are I mean look that's
a lot of money but I mean what's Tim's
tick gonna be probably like 250 K of
that like how many how much I'll big of
an operation can that really fund it's
not gonna do anything he's just gonna
lie in his pocket right there
year and a half yeah that is dumb dumb
money folks certainly for the first time
made my money stupid my money Tim Poole
stupid yeah I was gonna say I've have to
reevaluate my respect level for Tim pool
because I find that pretty goddamn
impressive that's amazing that's awesome
actually well the man with the beanie
with a million dollars Jesus I was just
getting proud of how well TM BS was
doing do more Jesse Smollett videos
right exactly
dr. chaos MD in a debate when Biden
refused to save he counseled Obama do
less the
rotations he refused to reveal what was
said in public because he wants to
remain vague to people so he can put
their own beliefs and what he may or may
not have done if it is a P or is it
because he says that he counseled
against deportations but would Obama
refute that I don't know I don't think
Obama you're not gonna hear from Obama
stayed out of it gonna be Richard
Branson we're gonna yeah gonna do some
cameras well the way also Donald Trump's
total jerk and no firing squads okay
yeah keep it simple no bumps in the road
all right final call today I'm sorry
cannot get to any other callers but
we'll take one caller you're calling
from a seven one six area code who are
you calling from
hey yes it's you hey I'm calling from
outside of Toronto hey Jasper what's on
your mind uh uh so I was just in Detroit
I'm a truck driver and I saw some giant
billboards probably funded by the
pharmaceutical industry it was like hey
presidential candidates we stopped with
the public option actually I was going
at 65 miles an hour so I couldn't really
read the whole of it so it was basically
some astroturf group advertising are now
but giving it some you know grass root
name hmm all get up yes to see the kind
of that's going on at the site now
though the techs are you know bound to
get more vicious in future doesn't yeah
yeah yeah that's pretty much it I didn't
really have anything else on my mind you
know I'm a big fan yeah listening for a
few months first time caller actually
tried calling before but I couldn't you
know busy everything yeah of course and
yeah and I also wanted to talk about
what Jimmy Carter Administration
actually wrote the opinion industry yes
like he who recently started yeah so I I
have to do some more research and I'll
call some other day about it so things
much appreciated thanks so much for
calling
all right folks sorry can't get any more
calls I gotta try to end somewhat on
time let me read a few more iambs MRF an
excellent interview Mike thank you as
someone living in her district I'd like
to apologize for Amy Klobuchar seem well
every everybody from Minnesota should I
used to live there too in that big old
district that big old district a minute
I've seen her office and Moorhead should
be by a pizza place I liked let's see
all right the final I am of the day
trying to look for a good one
[Music]
cosmic yawn hey Mike how do you think
the Bernie Dems should handle the
general perception out there that
government can't get anything done
institutional mistrust is a much bigger
hurdle for selling government action
than I think folks appreciate I don't
think that's true I think Trump even
went against that in the Republican
Party last time I think people need like
realize the need for government to step
it with with all these healthcare
climate all this stuff I think that
keeping it I think that this is one area
where there is actually a very big
advantage as many areas but don't
means-test just cancel student debt
don't muck around just give everybody
healthcare unless you're talking to
people who are either
I mean look maybe you're talking to a
handful of super over-represented
affluent Third Way Democrat Howard
Schultz types and their quote unquote
skeptical of government because they
only want government to work for the 1%
right they have a disproportionate voice
in media but they reflect a tiny
part of the population a very privileged
part but a tiny part I mean I think tank
bulls it's a I think I mean if you
listen to John Delaney when he talks
about talking to reaching the population
I mean I'm honestly like you're
literally talking about like a couple of
districts in Connecticut and Westchester
I mean this is such a tiny part of where
people are really at and we have so much
evidence in this I mean can even just
look at sherrod Brown holding his seat
in Ohio I think sherrod Brown gets
reelected in Ohio going walking around
the state talking about why TPP is good
for containing China I mean it's just
delusional and so and then and then
guess then there's some hard right
Republicans that have you know totally
been brainwashed by you know Koch
brother propaganda on government but for
people who are receptive to a democratic
message and I think where people are
rightfully frustrated with government is
if you associate government with
burdensome complex public-private
hybrids right if my health care was
government delivered no here's
your health care thank you I love
government when government when I have
to sit on the exchanges for six hours
I'm not really loving government I'm
appreciating it to the alternative but
it's stressful it's unpleasant
unnecessarily complicated but that's
just to keep unnecessary private
insurers in business you get rid of the
private insurers you give everybody
health care less bureaucracy more time
better results so I private sector well
definitely when it comes to health care
100% Bernie's underrated line was been
Bernie said it's not a business even
though you made a lot of money doing it
beautiful alright folks see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know some
I was just got
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
