[Music]
we're back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is always a
pleasure to welcome back to this program
a reporter for well he reports for the
intercept he writes for every major
magazine that you've ever written I mean
read I would say also author of chain of
title perhaps the I don't want say the
seminal but one of the seminal books on
the 2008 financial crisis that started
with housing and my understanding is
he's writing another book I can't
remember off the top of my head what
it's about but David day and welcome
back to the program hey thank you I hope
your Thanksgiving was good it's just
fine okay all right I'm glad to hear
that oh exactly that was yours Sam oh
you don't want me to go into it okay no
it was good it was good mine was fine
but so I'm glad we got that over with
that was that could have been
uncomfortable David let's get into this
I read I read it I read this piece last
week I wanted you on last week and I was
like I don't want it to get buried and
Thanksgiving hooha
you wrote this piece in the intercept I
find it fascinating because so much of
politics is reduced to who we're going
to elect to office and there are two
other major elements one from the
perspective of citizens we should be
doing activism to to to get our elected
representatives to do what we want them
to do in addition to building
communities etc etc the other is what
are these electives doing on the inside
because so much of what happens in our
government and it makes sense right that
it's going to be complicated and
somewhat opaque from your average viewer
reader listener because we have a huge
country
and it is you know it's like riding a
ball in some respects so you wrote about
one of one of the one of the power plays
by the Congressional Progressive Caucus
in the run-up to the leadership
challenge run Nancy Pelosi which is
still ongoing but all right tell us just
set the table for us how big is the
Congressional Progressive Caucus before
the election after the election before
the election I believe there are 77
members of the Progressive Caucus and
actually picked up two shortly after the
election colored members who decided to
join after the election I mean this this
was kind of an interesting question
because I think the membership is going
to be more based uh it's going to mean
something a little more in this incoming
Congress and it may have in past
congresses I mean you literally have a
handful of members who are members of
the Progressive Caucus and the New
Democrats which are the centrist sort of
liable to the Progressive Caucus so the
Progressive Caucus
in the last decade has been sort of more
a badge you can win it's hey I'm
progressive I'm a member of the
progressive caucus don't don't bother me
now it's going to mean something a
little more directly I feel and in my
discussions with you know people in the
know about this uh it's it's it's going
to mean that that your votes are going
to have to be a certain way it's going
to mean that you're you're you're going
to have to you know provide a little
more support for certain positions so
they think when that all shakes out even
though there are about twenty incoming
members that are likely to join they're
probably going to be some drop offs from
members who want to sort of say they're
progressive but don't really be voting
in a manner consistent with the
progressive caucus so all right what's
the mechanism soso what's that mecca so
mark Pocan a privilege a paw jeyapaul
others in the leadership of the
mechanism for enforcing that I mean I
think it's the same as the mechanism for
enforcing sort of the freedom caucus you
know I mean you you vote our way or we
don't support you in your election uh
you know and and considering that a
progressive caucus member Mike Capuano
lost his election to an up-and-coming
member Ana Presley and and others
seemingly would be on the radar uh in in
this next Congress III think that's a
somewhat credible threat so you know
there's there's going to be a bit of a
shake-up but bottom line is about 40% of
the caucus is progressive caucus 40% of
House Democrats are going to be in the
progressive caucus in the new
congressional term okay so 40% that's a
pretty big if they are voting number
it's a big number and it's in it's an
important number if they're voting as a
bloc right I mean if they're if they are
it in presumably right they're coming up
with at least maybe they don't write it
down or maybe they do but with basically
a scoring mechanism these votes that you
need we need you to take these votes if
you don't take these votes we give you a
c-minus or a D or an F and if we give
you a debt and F we're gonna be out
there or even a D we're gonna be out
there and we're going to be supporting a
progressive challenge to challenger to
you in your district and so that that
makes a big difference if you're voting
like a block right it doesn't matter I
mean your size is less relevant that
freedom caucus - thirty people yeah
we're talking green caucuses we're
talking about a third of what the
progressive caucus is likely to look
like and now it's not going to be quite
as cohesive as the freedom caucus I
think that's pretty clear but even if
it's minimally cohesive given the
margins you
in the democratic in in the house next
year you don't need that many to swing
votes right
okay so progressive caucus is is Anu and
so what did they what was their first
sort of like I don't know if it was
their first but it feels like it was
their first real exercise of this I
don't want to say Authority but this
power yeah this was a definite power
place so you know we have this
leadership sort of battle with Nancy
Pelosi Nancy Pelosi needs not only a
majority of Democrats in the house to
vote for her this week to be their
nominee for Speaker but on the floor
because of the way it's structured she
needs a majority of all members in order
to get the speaker nod which means she
needs virtually every Democrat to vote
for her on the floor in order to to
become speaker and that gives members uh
some power to dictate terms in the
progressive caucus nudists thought this
had a meeting with Pelosi where they
said hey look we're forty percent of
this caucus however we don't get forty
percent of the seats particularly on key
committees and and four of them are
domestic and then one of them is
separate and we'll talk about them
separately but the four domestic policy
committees through which virtually all
domestic legislation runs we're talking
about the Appropriations Committee which
sets the funding and appropriates money
we're talking about the Ways and Means
Committee which is mainly tax policy and
trade we're talking about the Energy and
Commerce Committee where health care
legislation and climate legislation
would go through and we're talking about
the financial services committee which
is financial regulation and housing
policy and all sorts of other things so
those four committees and then
separately the Intelligence Committee
which only has one Progressive Caucus
member out of its nine
the other four are all under that 40%
marker and and and the Progressive
Caucus said we want 40% representation
we want proportional representation on
all of these committees and Pelosi said
yes you can get that we will restructure
so that you get that committee a
proportional representation that's a
very big deal because the these are the
places where this legislation will
initiate when you're thinking about
almost everything that progressives are
moving to one whether it's legislation
on prescription drugs legislation on
single-payer health care or Medicare
buy-in legislation on a green new deal I
mean you you name it it's all gonna go
through these committees so would you
don't have the people you're not gonna
get your stuff through all right explain
it just explain that that that dynamic
is I'm not sure that folks understand I
mean more or less people know you know
you have a bill and then it becomes a
law and then it gets to do a little
schoolhouse rock here um you don't have
to so but the committee structure is
very important in that there are
Committees of jurisdiction I mean look
but much of Congress's turf wars right
if if you have legislation on health
care but the committee in the house
maleeh to the Energy and Commerce and
the Ways and Means Committee they're
gonna say well we're taking that bill we
get that bill and we decide whether to
mark it up we decide what what to do
with this bill
anybody can can introduce a bill but it
goes into one of those committees and if
it has to do with taxes there's any kind
of financing for it ways and means it's
going to look at it if it has to do with
with all sorts of issues whether it's
health care or climate or whatever
energy and commerce is going to look at
it and
and and they that's where the baseline
bill begins I mean you know things can
be done on the floor of the house
although we don't see that very much
anymore but the committee's really
control the legislation and and where
they begin is critical to where they end
and where they begin is in those
communities and and this is where the
bills get formed I mean we have a you
know you can act right you can you can
introduce a bill but but it goes through
essentially you know a sausage factory
as it were where the factory is and
there aren't enough progressives in
those factories and so this was the
power play to get a they were quiet you
know the proportional amount of
Progressive Caucus members in those
committees doing the work to shape that
legislation we this is we've learned
from history here in after 2008 when we
had the dodd-frank legislation turned
out that a lot of these freshmen and
sophomore congressmen who won in 2006
and 2008 who were Blue Dogs and and New
Democrats they flocked to the financial
services committee and they got to shape
that legislation which was actually far
worse in that house then it ended up
being in the Senate which is the
opposite of what you would think because
the Senate is you know people who
senators come from states supposed to be
more moderate actually they were better
on that bill because the committee was
stacked with new Dems and Blue Dogs who
go there because it's a source of funds
the lobbyists control or interested
let's say in in all of these money
committees and they will spend money to
influence them and and it was
commonplace for Democrats to put these
new Dems that they call the front line
members members who need to raise a lot
of
to retain their seats on these
committees for access to those lobbyist
donations so that we know that that
affected dodd-frank we know that made
dodd-frank worse and progresses didn't
want to see that happen again
so this is not just for now right
because you get seniority you move up
through the committee's the the more
longer that you've been on one the more
opportunity you have to influence
legislation this is not just for now
this is for far into the future
when we have a Democratic president and
a Democratic Congress to have
progressive in these positions will
change the face of the legislation that
ultimately comes out and people should
understand this dynamic it works I mean
that that the idea that these new demmed
types right would flock to these
committees that control the money and
then moneyed interests will bankroll
their their re-election campaigns and
presumably in some instances spend
against any opponents and whatnot
there's also a flip side to this in that
like these committees are not that sexy
from a progressive standpoint in a track
buying the same money because you know
the the the the whole point is that
Wells Fargo is not going to see let's
just use her as an example
AOC on the Financial Services Committee
and go like oh this is gonna be some
we're gonna throw her with cash right
this is not not gonna happen
meanwhile you know I guess the I don't
know the Greenpeace I don't know how big
their Lobby is there's something but the
Greenpeace you know to the extent that
they can get their members to vote for
somebody is not gonna vote for somebody
who's on the financial services they're
gonna do it for somebody who's
presumably on a climate change committee
right like the new one that the ALC is
trying to set up the the money quote on
this is something that
Alex Lawson who's been working on this
project he's a guy with social security
works but he's been working sort of in a
sort of freelance capacity on this
committee assignment situation here's
what he said to me he said dig
progressives coming to Congress wanting
to change the world and new Democrats
coming to Congress wanting to be on the
Ways and Means Committee like they're
very targeted in what they they they
know they can do to really influence
what gets done in Washington and
progresses come in a lot of them were
civil rights lawyers or worked and law
firms they flocked to the judiciary
Canute's you dishy airy committee has
75% of its Democratic membership are
members of the Progressive Caucus it's
almost like everybody hangs with their
people it's easier to get things done on
the Judiciary Committee if all of the
members are practically all of them are
progressives it's easier to get things
done on the other committees if a
majority of the members are new debts
and so they almost it's almost like the
Jets and the Sharks they've got to keep
to themselves and progressives have not
really told that story of the importance
of these committees maybe until now and
that the problem that they're running
into is twofold
so the first problem is what you just
described it's just not sexy to talk
about derivatives regulation or
overnight repo agreements it's not what
progressive members of Congress sort of
feel that they came into Congress to do
necessarily and so it's hard to get new
members excited about being on these
committees and so the only other reserve
there are existing members and getting
into shift committees so that you can
get to this 40% level and that becomes
hard because of the seniority factor so
if you spent ten years on the
Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee and you're you're seeing this
coming Congress in the sort of remote
but possibility of an infrastructure
bill coming in why would you want to
switch off that committee to start over
essentially on the Ways and Means
Committee where you don't have seniority
and you don't have as much ability to
affect the the the the ultimate outcome
as you would as a somewhat senior member
on a different committee so you you get
into that and then there are other sort
of you know political factors regional
diversity plays a role in this
they don't want multiple members from
the same state or the same region on one
committee you need sort of a sponsor
within the committee if you want to
switch or join it to sort of be your
guide to make sure you can get onto it
and get past the chairman or chairwoman
let's just talk about that for one
second the the sponsor what is it I mean
just tease that out for us because it
seems to me that you've got a problem if
if there is a well I mean gets
presumably right there's a member of the
Progressive Caucus on all of these
committee who theoretically be the
sponsor what correct okay so so what in
what but the question is what influence
they have like you know what is their
relationship with the chair of that
committee and how does this all end up
working out it's like it's like a Tetris
situation to slot all these people in
the right place like a giant seating
chart for your wedding
tons of people can't sit next to each
other so what how do you do it and and
and how aggressive are those existing
members going to be in helping get new
members on now we know that the new
Democrats do this as a matter of routine
we we learned in the course of our
reporting that that Josh got himer is a
second term Democrat centrist member of
the problem-solvers caucus it was going
to ask you ask them these are you a
chair of it actually
that God himer is being that sponsor
he's actually going out and recruiting
people to be on the Financial Services
Committee financial services sector did
yeoman work in spending money to get him
elected in 2016 he did Scott Garrett
album new jersey who was a pretty
right-wing guy but and got homeowners
voted pretty reliably with the financial
services sector throughout his first
term and and going into a second term
he's trying to get more people who think
like him onto the committee so you have
in addition to what the Progressive
Caucus is trying to do the New Democrats
are doing what they always do just try
to maximize their power on these money
committees to really influence the
inside of legislation and so how is it
going
I mean they first of all who cut the
deal with Pelosi I mean do that's
cocaine and Jaya Paul had had the
meeting where they agreed to increase
the membership of the Progressive Caucus
on these committees but it's almost like
you know once they say that they have a
handshake deal you got to bring the
horses now you got it you got to close
that deal you have to find the members
willing to switch or find the new
members willing to go on these
committees and submit them to leadership
there's a whole process by which
committee assignments get sold out it's
the steering and Policy Committee which
it really is just the speaker I mean I
mean Pelosi is the chair of the steering
and Policy Committee and when you're
talking about the Intelligence Committee
Pelosi actually doesn't even go through
that she appoints members herself so
it's really about bringing that package
over to the leadership and saying this
is this is who we have willing to do it
and it's it's kind of mixed right now
there there's a lot of hemming and
hawing
it's very fluid I've heard stories of
keep saying that they would switch and
then changing their minds within a
24-hour period it's it's extremely fluid
and it's difficult because it's just not
historically what the progressive caucus
has been focused on certainly not what
progressives on the outside have been
focused on committee assignments is not
something that is has historically been
a rallying cry from from from
progressives nationwide and it's a
difficult thing as an inside kind of
deal it's hard to influence but you know
I was hoping to at least shed some more
light on the process and show that you
know it's not enough just to get elected
there has to be a willingness to govern
on the part of liberals and progressives
in Congress and this is right at the
heart of that
