[Music]
and speaking of being open to things you
know and I'm hearing a lot of like good
sort of things from about Peter Buddha
gay and I'm definitely of the mind that
a mayor of a decent-sized city from
which he comes deep red state blue state
doesn't doesn't that that is secondary
in my mind in terms of like the mayor
there skill set is as an executive is in
many respects far more suited for the
presidency than say let's say a
congressperson or senator the problem is
they don't have nearly the name
recognition and but here he is talking
about court packing now there's new
paper coming out that suggests that our
understanding of the history of core
packing those different then it is and
is expressed today and I'm waiting for
the hands on that paper but in the
meantime here is Peter Buddha gig at an
event in Philadelphia asked about the
Supreme Court Merapi thank you for being
here tonight and really appreciate being
able to hear from you I have a question
about judicial reform you know many
progressives myself included feel like
the Supreme Court has been stolen from
the Gorsuch seat that should have been
ours to the controversial Cavanaugh
confirmation and my question is if
you're elected to the presidency and you
get into office and you see your agenda
being thwarted by a court that has been
skewed drastically to the right for many
different reasons would you support a
packing of the courts to expand the
Supreme Court by four members and
restorative work
[Applause]
son I'm not reached to considered
position on the question at court
packing all the way I don't think I
don't think we should be laughing at it
because in some ways it's no more a
shattering of norms and what's already
been done to get the judiciary to where
it is today there you go
and I should say it the you know the I'm
going to look a little bit more into
that core packing a thing but part of
this was FDR apparently his gambit was
to reform the court and there was I
think there was a bigger consensus about
Reformation and that one of the things
about Reformation of the court at that
time had to do with pensions and there
have been different times where there
have been very generous pensions for
judges and that was one way that and I
think this is I think this is one way
that Democrats got Supreme Court
justices to leave the office and then
the Republicans understood this and so
they took the pensions away and that's
what what FDR was looking at and but I
I'll read that paper before I speak more
about it but that's an interesting
dynamic it's nice to know that even back
then you could be lured into hugely
consequential decisions that will impact
millions of people based upon how much
money you're gonna get
