[Music]
I want to start with with this one I
mean it will get more into the the
specifics of the issues but this this
clip with Joe Biden to me is basically
the there's two clips that that define
what I think is the problem with Joe
Biden in my mind and i'm even divorcing
this from policy on some level just from
a strictly from a political standpoint
one of them is the the the who lien
castro one will play that in a bit and
the reaction to it that we saw from sort
of the establishment Democrats right or
at least you know some of the some of
the the the sort of conventional wisdom
voices that it was too tough and blah
blah blah but the other one this clip
here is the one that scares me the most
about Joe Biden because if you believe
and I don't know where you are on this
but but if you believe like I do that
this election is going to be one about
mobilization versus persuasion that the
that that the efforts in persuading
people and the cost associated with what
it does to your the the the the
potential voters you could get is is not
is not worth it that you need to go
after voters who stayed home in 2016 and
there's gonna be obviously that you know
Donald Trump's strategy is gonna be to
depress the Democratic vote turnout and
it won't be just coming from him nobody
nobody's gonna buy Donald Trump's you
know a notion of racial justice or
whatnot but but you know the reality is
I there's no doubt in my mind that
Hillary Clinton super-predator remarks
regardless of whether you know and I you
know without having to litigate you know
whether it was fair unfair to bring it
up or this and that that that hurt her
and it was a weakness
that was exploited when you listen to
Joe Biden answer this question multiple
things come up his perspective on race
his perspective on poor people and just
like his ability to answer a question
coherently are all I think in play in
this question here it is this is a
question that's asked what what is what
is the name of the ABC he's asked I
don't know what her name is
but one of the ABC people asked him this
question quoted him and the quote in and
of itself is bad enough the answer was
even worse talk to you about inequality
in schools and race in a conversation
about how to deal with segregation in
schools back in 1975 you told a reporter
I don't feel responsible for the sins of
my father and grandfather I feel
responsible for what the situation is
today for the sins of my own generation
and I'll be damned if I feel responsible
to pay for what happened 300 years ago
you said that some 40 years ago but as
you stand here tonight what
responsibility do you think that
Americans need to take to repair the
legacy of slavery in our country hether
yummy you tell me I mean I think that's
a fair that's a fair question she really
set it up in such a way of like that was
40 years ago
I accept that your your attitude towards
this may have changed but frankly you
know if somebody said that today it
would be a right-winger would be saying
that yeah right I mean that is the you
know the idea that like I don't have to
pay well no you don't have to pay
society has to pay your part of society
we do that all the time right like if
you are if in a municipality the police
arrest somebody illegally and they're
sued we all pay for the compensation
that you know because our apparatus did
something that was wrong and then people
deserve to be recompensate I mean this
is a very easy concept to to grasp so
he's given the opportunity to
basically say I've evolved or you know
the that was taken out of contact
whatever it is but this is the
jibber-jabber he comes up with and I
don't know he smiled when she asked
started this question I don't know if it
was why he did that if it was just a
nervous smile or like I knew this was
coming or I don't know what was behind
that but here it is because need to take
to repair the legacy of slavery in our
country well they have to deal with in
the look there is institutional
segregation in this country and for the
time I got involved I started dealing
with that redlining banks making sure
that we are in a position where look
talk about education I propose that what
we take is those very poor schools so
title one schools triple the amount of
money we spend from fifteen to forty
five billion a year give every single
teacher a race of equal race of getting
out the $60,000 level number to make
sure that we bring into the help to us
to the the teachers deal with the
problems that come from home the
problems that come from home we need we
have one school psychologist of every
1,500 kids in America I pause it for one
second
so here but Hyden goes I mean right I
could like it like like it the this is
not some guy who it's the first debate
he's ever been in this is stunning that
he doesn't have the ability to answer
this question with any type of coherence
but aside from the fact that he's not
addressing slavery aside from him just
like trying to go down this idea of like
I fought segregation and realizing like
oh wait I shouldn't bring that up
because I was praising segregationist
you know six weeks ago then he tries to
pivot to education and he gets educated
one immediately pivots from what are we
gonna do about slavery that affected
African Americans to just the question
of poverty so he is now in his mind
immediately goes to poor people living
in urban areas which is a you know we're
starting to getting like Daniel Moynihan
territory here which is very
uncomfortable territory to because a not
only does he
get he gets the idea that our education
problems are a function of poverty but
he then just basically says but we've
got to put it on the schools to deal
with it because we need psychiatrists at
the schools he and then he pivots to
full-on Moynahan territory where he
basically starts blaming these poor
people for their inability to do the
right thing for their kids to go to
school and remember now when he says
poor people he's saying black people in
his mind because the question was about
slavery good come from home we need we
have one school psychologist every 1500
kids in America today it's crazy
the teachers are a kind I'm married to a
teacher my deceased wife is a teacher
they have every problem coming to them
we make sure that every single child
does in fact have three four and
five-year-olds go to school school not
take care school we bring social workers
into homes and parents to help them deal
with how to raise their children it's
not that they'll want to help they don't
want they don't know quite what to do
play the radio make sure the television
the excuse me make sure you have the
record player on at night the phone make
sure the kids hear words a kid coming
from a very poor school or have a very
poor background will hear four million
words fewer spoken by the time they get
their iPod so so my god now they look
the the the the question of a vocabulary
deficit is a little bit controversial I
happen to believe I don't think it's
four million words but the listening
vocabulary of kids living in poverty is
definitely lower but the reason is not
because their parents are home and not
playing the records for them it's
because the parents are constantly
dealing with poverty and either in the
form of like I've got multiple jobs or I
can't afford to send my kid to the
universal pre-k that I think he was
trying to suggest and I don't know that
he has a upk program frankly and he is
just going full-on saying that these
people don't know how to raise their
children now remember that he's talking
about black people that was the question
it was it I found that to just be just
stunning I mean first of all you know
that's going back in time back to the
mid 70s when we go back to the original
quote that the that the you know
interrogator asked him there the
interviewer asked him you know he that
was the way that the Liberals spoke in
those days and you mentioned Moynihan
and it comes from that there was this
whole school of thought you know about
the you know the tragedy of the black
family and how it was just a bunch of
women were in charge and they were you
know they didn't know how to raise their
kids and people had to go in and help
them I mean what that answer showed was
that Biden is still in that mindset to a
certain extent he has not evolved not
really I mean I'm not you know it's like
there's this condescension in that in
which he's just giving no credit to the
to the people who are you know in these
situations trying desperately to raise
their kids my best friend is a
schoolteacher in Baltimore and basically
you know she teaches a lot of kids that
are in poverty and I'm telling you those
parents are involved this is absolute
nonsense what they're saying these are
people who were struggling because
they're working two jobs or three jobs
not because they don't care about their
kids and they're doing everything they
can
this is absolutely ridiculous it's kind
of it's offensive and even more so when
you consider what he was responding to
this question about you know it's
basically about reparations right I mean
that was the introduction to that topic
and his answer to it was we need to
teach these people how to you know raise
their kids and he didn't do the one
thing that Joe Biden should be able to
do I mean you know I don't I'm not I
don't think he's a racist you know in
the in the sense that you know he has
some hostility toward black people he's
a racist in that old-fashioned sense of
sort of this noblesse oblige right we
need to help these poor people they
really don't know what they're doing
kind of thing and that's just as bad
it's another form of racism and he is
unable to sort of extricate himself from
that that moment was there for him to
say look my values are this I
of all people I care about you know
everyone I've been fighting for everyone
to have a better way of life since I
entered politics that's why I did it
and my attitudes about you know
african-americans and poverty and all of
that back in the mid 70s was you know
what was wrong and I have changed and I
am you know through the help of you know
I work he could evoke his good friend
Barack Obama if he wanted to say you
know I've learned a lot but he just
can't seem to do it and it's just it's
intensely frustrating and and yeah I
this I could come up with literally a
million answers to that all of which say
we would start with like look I don't
know about reparations but we as a
society have a responsibility Baba I
mean there's a lot of different ways you
could have answered that question and
not only has he not evolved like he's
not even aware that the rest of the
world has evolved
he doesn't obviously is not listening to
any advisors and even if he has so
little answer for that that he goes yeah
I mean he's not only being racist he's
also has like no real genuine
understanding of the struggles of people
who are living in poverty like I am just
sort of he has no sense of that
structural issues right like aside from
conflating black people with poor people
he also has no sense of poverty and he
also doesn't seem to have a sense of
education I mean these are all there are
multiple concepts here like sort of
policy silos that he's getting
completely off base with incredibly
antiquated perspectives on and he
delivered all that in a nearly
incomprehensible ramble and it's funny
wait the the incomprehensible ramble
doesn't stop here this is the let let's
continue to play out this clip because
he is so shook by his in up I think his
inability to answer this question that
he he goes off into lala land
make sure the television the excuse me
make sure you have the record player on
at night
the phone make sure the kids hear words
a kid coming from a very poor school I
have a very poor background
we'll hear four million words fewer
spoken by the time they get there no I'm
gonna go like the rest of them do twice
over okay the deal is that we've got
this little backwards and by the way in
Venezuela we should be allowing people
to come here from Venezuela
I know Medora I've confronted Medora
number two you talked about the need to
do something to Latin America I'm the
guy that came up with seven hundred and
forty million dollars to see to it those
three countries in fact changed their
system so people don't have a chance to
leave y'all actin like we just
discovered this yesterday Thank You mr.
vice president secretary Castro now what
he says he says well I'm gonna get to
double the time that everybody else did
okay you got this all backwards he says
at that point like I don't know like
what he's talking about I mean I mean
that I feel like that extent like moment
where he goes like no you got it all
backwards
I wonder what he was talking about there
because there's he's he's mad and it's
like I there was something super weird
going on in his head at that point you
got this all backwards
and and then apparently he felt like I I
completely aced that whole question
about slavery and what we should be
doing for black slash poor people that I
have invented in my head but that is Wow
right and I'm also amazed that like
that's not the headline of every single
paper in the country it is very strange
to me I have to admit when I woke up
this morning and saw everybody saying
yeah Biden had a pretty good night I'm
kind of are you kidding I mean I I
thought he had a particularly bad night
I mean even worse than than he was
before I mean I didn't think this was
particularly good for him at all and in
that particular exchange was probably
the worst moment I think of the night
for him but
you know two things that struck me about
the about this what number one is
I you know if he gets the nomination I
think we're all gonna go right whatever
it looks like we're going to have quite
it's going to be like the worst campaign
in history of watching these two guys
Trump and Biden just do what they do for
six months it's going to be awful and
and I am NOT looking forward to the idea
of having to make excuses day after day
after day for Joe Biden's gaffe I don't
want to do it I'm not looking you know
I'd rather have him be presidents and
Trump of of court whether had virtually
anybody Richard Nixon's corpse anybody
then then then Trump but this is really
really disturbing the idea that this guy
could end up being the nominee and we're
going to have to you know deal with all
of this stuff because if there's no need
for it there are other candidates who
are great there's plenty of you know
talent in the Democratic line up there
that we saw there last night and there's
no reason for it so that's that's one
thing I mean the other thing is is that
I think I do believe that he was
confused I think he got lost I don't
know what was in his head in that moment
but you know if one were to be cynical
if one were to look at this from a
purely political strategic standpoint it
kind of makes some sense for Biden to be
saying these sort of quasi racist things
and to be kind of being this old guy you
know from the past in if there was
somebody out there who was thinking you
know if you want to bring back some of
those white working-class voters who
voted for Trump but maybe they voted for
Obama in the past this kind of stuff
maybe the thing that appealed to them
after all they voted for Trump and he's
incoherent as it gets and you know Biden
in some ways it's kind of one of them
right I mean I'm talking about the older
you know white working-class people in
Pennsylvania out in the middle of
nowhere you know upset about
manufacturing and all the rest of this
stuff I don't think that's the case with
Biden I think he truly is just like that
he's always been like that a bit he's
worse than he used to be but he's always
been like that a bit but you know from a
strategic standpoint you can kind of see
some logic in it and
is very very disturbing well going there
this point in the Democratic Party is a
very very very bad idea
well I mean but that that is I can see a
strategy but I think that's a bad
strategy and I think it's a bad strategy
because I think it misinterprets that
what what the terrain is because that
strategy you're basically saying we're
gonna get more of those people who voted
for Trump the first time then we would
depress the vote that we had in terms of
last time that I'm gonna go out there
and make this case that I am at least
somewhat friendly you know whatever you
however you want to define you know
whatever you want to define that concept
I'm not as offensive to the racists as
you know somebody who might be you know
a non-normal president right like a
non-white old white guy president but
the problem is is that and this is not a
gaffe and I you know I went back and
forth a little bit with bill scher on
you know on this this is is that this is
not a gaffe and despite the fact that
Joe Biden is is leading with
african-americans it's quite possible
that those african-americans that he's
leading with are reliable voters and the
the cohort of unreliable voters white
black Latino they hear stuff like that
and they don't come out to vote and and
and that is that is the the major
dilemma
with a guy like Joe Biden you can't tell
right now how much he's going to depress
the vote and like you say this is gonna
be an election where it's gonna be in in
many respects like the Clinton Trump
thing boat but but more more are like
two candidates who are basically just
racing to the finish line with the least
amount of unfavorable and that's
basically what happened with Clinton and
with uh with Trump and it just so
happened that she was slightly more
unfavorable in the
wrong areas and just people didn't come
out now maybe they'll come out
regardless of who the nominee is but it
is Joe Biden has a risk I think
associated with him that no other
candidate does in this in this
Democratic field and I mean literally no
other candidate I agree with you and you
know the thing is yeah I mean I look as
I said earlier I will you know I'll back
him if that's what it takes but it's not
I'm not like you and I would vote for
you and I would go to vote literally for
a can of soup if it was there's plenty
of where there aren't enough but there's
not gonna tell like young people for
instance who are you know you know for
them they haven't been through this war
as we have and there's you know they
they're idealistic and they look at this
think oh hey you know I want something
better and I don't blame them I felt the
same way when I was young you know this
is wasn't something that I was just
gonna you know wasn't some party line
kind of person I mean I'm different now
I'm older I've been through a lot you
know and I'm not gonna even try to
convince anybody of that because it's
not you know it's just it's impossible
this is just the way it is and the
Democrat there's no excuse for it it's
not as if he's the only person out there
look at these other people who we
haven't even talked about yet I mean you
know there's a whole there was a whole
lineup of people there who have an
argument for being the nominee of the
Democratic Party in a way that is not
only unifying for the party but is
inspiring for a whole bunch of people
who may not normally vote and you know I
could see them getting out there I have
no problem making an argument for them
for a whole bunch of them you know that
that I could say you know let's you know
this is this is the Democratic Party of
the future this is what we believe in
we're not we don't want to you know go
back you know both Biden and Trump are
throw backs and and the world that they
are you know talking about and Biden
less so than then Trump I think he wants
to go back to the 50s
I think Biden just wants to go back a
few years to the Obama era but either
way that time has passed and you know
yeah in order to it
make young people enthusiastic about
politics and make them feel that they
have a stake in the whole thing you got
to look to the future that's their life
you know that's what they're trying to
put together and I just don't think to a
by even speak to that and you know and
and he doesn't and to the extent that he
speaks to anything he's doing it very
very badly and I'd really is this the
best we can do I mean come on
