Owens calling from a six for seven area
code who's this where he come from
hey Sabbath is Cameron calling from
Toronto how are you good hi Cameron
thanks for Jordan Peterson yeah we're
gonna maybe get the better than a little
bit because the reason I'm calling Sam
you know it's a new year now and I think
it's important to be reminded of the
humor and humanity kind of in the world
today and when I'm feeling a little bit
down I go to a special place online and
would you like to know what that is
sure okay well it's www.rediff.com slash
are slash dave rubin now hear me out the
reason why is because this is the
official dave rubin subreddit right but
it has become dedicated entirely to
dunking on him there is not a post-op
there is a higher and maybe the youth
convention over there
i've seen this before but there hasn't
been a post in months and months which
is not filled in the comments which why
won't you debate sam cedar you're a
grifter it's to the point now where
people are making code having discovered
that the page exists as our just
thrilled about the fact that there's a
subreddit the official subreddit
dedicated to dunking on him and you know
I used to feel a little bit bad about
this but then I remember that this is a
guy who had stefan molyneux on the
program run gave him an hour to talk
about race at IQ a year ago and to this
day you know despite him having gone I
just fight this are you we're at the
page and I'm I'm very proud it's a
really pre ride title which is why I
like it but our new Michael Brooks show
video dummy Dave Rubin and the dodgy
Imam is up there nice really good and
two of you and David pac-man are
basically the heroes of that like the
bad guys warms the cockles of my heart
that you know there's an entire
community knows about it do it like I
wanna tree shows some of the ask them
why his subreddit like hate them and the
look of depression on his face which
with all the
well that's really when you're when
you're gonna have these guys who are
racist on your show you know the only
response that we have is satire
ridiculous so I think you guys he is
willing to have to have these racists
and these types on a show but but I am
not allowed because Michael once put up
a video saying that he was dumb and I
apologized and I docked Michael about
two and a half years of pay and wow
you're even talking about that I was I
was frankly of course I I cared nothing
for material things I was just so upset
that my free speech was violated by that
I was taken off of the battlefield of
idea
I took my red carded him on the on the
battlefield of ideas and and yet he
refuses to to engage with me but all
right well let me ask you this you know
there was a time back when Canada would
send us things like John Candy or the
second city or you know Eugene Levy and
you know the kids in the hall and now
you're sending us stuff like Gavin
McGinnis and Jordan Peterson what's
going on up there yeah you're not
sending us your best well I'm not really
sure because you know first of all you
have to remember that we also sent you
David Fromm right like yeah like you
know I am you are but like it's always
been a mixed bag actually and come and
speak about Jordan Peterson and Dave
Rubin recorded an episode across from
the building I live in like a year and a
half ago it's not something in the water
like we're not all crazy but I don't
know what it is I think it's just we
have in some sense is the same sort of
well part of it is the fact that it's
like a ton of a preventional country
right like even if you grow up in
Toronto or something you are attracted
to moving to the US right because that's
where the action is we're covered in
Media and part of part of the nature is
that if you're a grifter in this country
it's a little bit more of a British sort
of conservative style of culture so if
you want to just go steal a bunch of
money from people and talkative your ass
on TV you've got to go to the States but
that's just the way it is you're not
going to get on the CBC with that
they're not gonna hit the big time
unless you get to the States appreciate
that thank you thanks very much people
encounter - grunts - just eat steak
strips
