[Music]
let's get into this briefly I mean at
this point to the extent that this is a
political story it has to do with a
billionaire and we know that
billionaires are a policy failure
definitionally and while it doesn't have
necessarily the sort of the broad
implications there certainly a a
microcosm I mean this is a guy who has
been above the law and in 2008 Jeffrey
Epstein was convicted or yeah I guess
convicted of of prostitution right there
was a plea bargain you could please he
pled guilty to two state prostitution
charges and he served 13 months in
prison he was supposedly facing federal
charges and this is because of him
paying women who were underage girls he
had to register as a sex offender he
paid restitution to the victims but he
escaped federal prosecution because he
had made a deal with the US attorney
down there a guy named Alexander Acosta
sounds familiar
he sounds familiar because he's now the
Secretary of Labor is that right in the
Trump administration and in some time I
guess at the beginning of the year maybe
the end of last year the Miami Herald
did an investigation of how that case
was being handled by Acosta
and essentially it found out that the
victims were not made aware of this plea
deal which is the obligation of the
prosecutor - do you need the victims to
sign off on a plea deal the herald
investigation basically characterized
Epstein is getting the deal of a
lifetime from Acosta
there were 36 underage victims according
to this federal investigation the
agreement short-circuited the FBI probe
it also granted immunity to any
co-conspirators in the case so that
nobody could come back and testify
against him in February of this year a
federal judge in Florida ruled that
Acosta by not informing these victims of
this plea deal broke the law I don't
know what the implications of that well
I guess based upon that report US
attorney in the Southern District of New
York started looking into this because
at one point I imagine Epstein in his
offenses touched New York and as of
today they indicted him on and it were
still getting sort of the the details
but he was indicted for sex trafficking
essentially he would engage in a
predatory pattern in which he would
bring underage girls into a room to
so-called perform massages in Epstein's
New York mansion the girls were
instructed by him or apparently yes like
surrogates like old girlfriends and
friends or something like that who would
tell the girls to perform you know do
this in the knit you know naked and to
engage in sex acts the indictment also
implicates some of Epstein's employees
apparently some of these employees would
make sure that if he's going from
Florida to New York that he would have
you know a bevy of of minors available
to him I mean this is pretty sick stuff
and he's been able to get away with this
for maybe decades because of people like
Acosta and for people like apparently
there was a GQ piece in which these
rumors were going to be talked about and
Graydon Carter struck them from the
peace I think in the late 90s you know
an editor can make that determination
based upon you know how much evidence
you have it's a difficult charge if you
don't have enough evidence I don't have
a sense of how much evidence was there
but it certainly the writer thought she
had enough she does not blame Graydon
Carter but someone like this is
untouchable because who they surround
themselves with in terms of friends Alan
Dershowitz is one of the people who's
being accused by some of these victims
there's some reason to believe that
Donald Trump maybe has been accused by
these victims you'll recall that there
was a lawsuit against him brought in
California that was thrown out because
it was filed improperly but there was
some rumor before the election that this
then 13-year old girl was going to bring
it we'll see Epstein had a relationship
with the Clintons as well you loan them
use of his plane I suspect if Acosta was
aware of any implications regarding the
Clintons we might already have found
that out at one point but who knows but
it but it just goes to show you the I
mean what he's able to get away with
here and has been able to get away with
for so long but for a reporter at the
Miami Herald essentially really digging
into this in an era right where there's
a increased sensitivity to the idea of
powerful men getting away with stuff but
for that this guy would have gotten away
with some of the most heinous things
that you can do in our society because
he's a billionaire you don't brush up
against the US attorney with these kind
of charges and get away with it for any
other casual reasons is because the
power that comes with a billionaire so
you could imagine what billionaires can
get away with in this country that don't
involve what society considers literally
to be the worst thing that you can do
child rape multiple child rape like an
operation to commit child rape so it
just gives you a sense of the the
problems
with this type of with the problem with
this type of of consolidated power and
money so we'll see what happens with
this guy there's a lot of people I think
are pretty upset you know my
understanding is that Dershowitz wrote a
letter to the Pulitzer committee saying
listing all these reasons why VAT New
York that excuse me that Miami Herald
piece should not get the Pulitzer
because it had been nominated
there was a 2002 quote from Trump that
Epstein likes beautiful women as much as
I do and many of them are on the younger
side direct quote I never met him don't
know you know right and I mean I I think
it's also worth you know the flight logs
of Epstein's plane and this is you know
making distinctions that is you pointed
out with Dershowitz and Trump it's it's
it's there's a higher level of scrutiny
but there's no implication that Larry
Summers or Steven Pinker anybody like
that or involved in this sort of thing
but these are all people also like Naomi
Campbell who have been on this guy's
plane and it's just also this new daily
beast piece about all of the money that
he's given to various organizations at
Harvard various nonprofits it's just
really important to dig into how
somebody can just insulate themselves
even as you say I mean this is not like
oh he's a billionaire he gets away with
I don't know
drunk driving right like this is as you
say nothing worse and he's insulated
deeply into a lot of parts of society
yeah I mean and it's indicative of a bit
of a larger problem right but this is
this is basically how if you were doing
the metaphor in the theater production
this is what you would do this is the
way
you would express this much larger
societal problem without having to
tackle all those things I would read
this Gawker piece from 2015 flight logs
put Clinton Dershowitz on pedophile
billionaires sex jet which is there you
know that's a Gawker headline but it
gets into the detail of these flight
logs and I think it's worth knowing
about so we will be following that
obviously to the extent that it has
implications on on society like I you
know broadly speaking I don't like to
follow criminal trials I just you know I
mean maybe personally but not not not in
terms of news I mean that stuff I just
have never I don't know why I'm allergic
to that but I don't find it that because
you shouldn't I mean at least in my
opinion you shouldn't necessarily have
in the dog and the fight of a conviction
frankly as a journalist or a commentator
yeah I and I think and it's sort of
what's going to happen with the court is
going to happen and there's not a lot of
politics involved in that the politics
that are going to be involved in it are
really on how he got to this point and
who gets implicated beyond it and that's
basically it
