[Music]
here is a OC and I don't know I you know
I don't know what there is to say about
the attack on on her that I didn't and
you know the so called squad that we
didn't talk about during the interviews
in on Thursday and Friday I mean I think
to a large extent people seem largely
really confused as to why Pelosi would
go this hard
I mean it's understandable on some level
if you are jaded towards politicians and
skeptical of them broadly and you know
even some skepticism of Pelosi but at
one point it becomes hard to understand
the logic even from her perspective and
that's the part that I find before I
mean I know why people do bad things and
stupid things but there is also I want
to say that it was on Crooked Timber but
I'm not sure a writer maybe it was
Jonathan Schwartz who a tiny revolution
maybe I'm not sure who had some type of
iron law of institutions which is that
people would rather maintain their power
within an institution even more than
maintaining the power of the institution
in and of itself and that is not unique
to Congress that is not unique to
anything it's just institutions groups
and it's quite conceivable that Nancy
Pelosi despite the fact that you know
the Ceph Moulton's of the caucus came at
her and tried to run against there they
were quite easily dispatched I think and
rightly so Nancy Pelosi and many of her
ilk see this generation this younger
generation of
congresspeople represented if not
directly but illustrated by AOC and clib
and Elan Omar and Jana Presley and and
others who are you know sort of like
adjacent but particularly those younger
women of color are the future of the
Democratic Party in many respects
electoral either' they're the present of
the Democratic Party and maybe that's
why in terms of leadership these folks
are the future and I think it threatens
Pelosi and her ilk and at least in the
context of this era it definitely feels
like Pelosi is not up to the differences
of this era they're just not aware of
what's going on with their their voters
ID it's not it's just simply can't
understand what the what they hope to
gain to this I understand the idea of
like they're hoping to run out the clock
they're afraid of impeachment because it
puts them off but this is going just a
little bit further than that and III
don't see how this is effective I really
don't I mean I know that there was an
internal poll that supposedly showed
that people did not people in the
industrial Midwest were not responding
well to AOC and socialism supposedly but
it is and that may be the case it may
not be the case but either way even if I
stipulate that that poll is accurate and
it was delivered to us accurately which
I tend to be a little skeptical of but
even even if I stipulate that it still
doesn't make any sense
Nancy Pelosi pulls like crap in every
single district in the entire
country and she has for a decade
certainly did going into the 2016 race
and that was exclusively about the house
in the Senate exclusively about the
house and the set I mean presumably
right and Nancy Pelosi pulled like
garbage and that did not implicate
people voting and she was the leader of
the party now it's true
Fox has done a great job in defining AOC
more Republicans are aware of her than
Democrats but the fact of the matter is
is that in 2020 the vote is gonna be
about Donald Trump and the question is
are you going to give your base any
reason not to vote against Donald Trump
like that not just to vote for somebody
up but I mean like literally are you
going to give your base any reason to
stay at home or are you gonna make it a
clear sort of choice that they're making
and that is to go out and vote against
Donald Trump and not have any misgivings
are you going to have an activated base
and activated people who stayed at home
during 2016 I mean that's really the
question we know that Trump's people
came out as much as they were ever gonna
come out they did not come out in 2018
some Republicans had I think one of
their best turnouts in a midterm as well
it's his Democrats went even even
further and they did not like the this
is what it's gonna come down to how many
people get to the polls particularly in
these states and so it doesn't matter
what somebody in Michigan thinks of aoc
it
doesn't matter in terms of them not
liking her because the the jump from
there to I'm gonna vote for Trump where
I otherwise wouldn't is just very hard
to understand but it does if you want in
Milwaukee more african-american turnout
if you want more african-american people
of color turnout in Michigan you best
not crap on the people who are
representing the interests of those
people who are speaking out on behalf of
those people because then you start to
wonder if you're one of those people it
would be irrational otherwise so like is
this a is this a party that's really in
my interests or even has the potential
to be in my interest because anytime we
get some voice in there that we
appreciate they get sidelined and
attacked more so than the people even
went after Nancy Pelosi remember ALC
voted for so I don't know and the it's
mystifying and of course Donald Trump
stepped in it and we will we will talk
about that in a moment well I think it's
exactly what you said she's more
invested in preserving her power within
the institution and you know
representing the interests that
currently dominate the institution than
the success of the institution itself
but I do wonder like if you compare
what's happening in the Democratic Party
right now with the progressive wing the
squad or whatever to when the Tea Party
took over the Republicans AOC is playing
it very differently by demanding to be
included in this institution right
whereas I think the tea party was more
openly oppositional to the Republican
establishment and I wonder if that's a
good move I mean I don't know ALC may
have been doing that what she's doing is
sitting a congresswoman I mean just as
Democrats are I don't know if they're
going after all the blue dogs but they
are going out and they are primary
they are primary Democrats and that's
you know theoretically what the tea
party did I mean you know the strategies
aren't gonna align because the dynamics
are very different and the voters are
different the institutional support in
terms of money I mean the the Tea Party
thousands of buses showed up to bring
them to rallies and it was all paid for
by the Koch brothers there's just no
equivalent and so it's it's a it's a
different calculation I mean the fact
that matter is that you know Mitch
McConnell Lindsey Graham look at Lindsey
Graham like you know these are our
politicians who have a different
relationship with their base and I don't
know that the Democrats are ever going
to have that because they're a much more
diverse party frankly they just simply
are I mean sheer numbers and so there's
too many I think different sort of like
planes that intersect to make the
democratic party planes and groups of
people as opposed to Republicans which
starts off with I guess you know the
advantage that there are a hundred
percent white yeah but don't you think
one strength of the kinds of politics
that these people represent is that it
is more of a mass working-class politics
they can bring together diverse segments
of the population that who represents
IOC Rashidah to leave that they can
bring diverse groups of people yes
no I do think that's that's one of their
strengths but I'm just saying that the
the strategies are not going to align
the strategies of insurgents in the
Democratic Party are not going to
necessarily align with the strategies of
insurgents in the Republican Party
because in many respects the Tea Party
or whatever you want to call it didn't
have to take over the apparatus of the
Republican Party because the Koch
brothers came in and they created one
that was better like they literally
remember those stories of the of the
voter files people weren't going to the
party
anymore for the voter files because the
Koch brothers had developed a better
voter file now I don't know who's gonna
step in Tom Styer is not gonna say like
hey guys
I'm going to give a hundred million
dollars to the Justice Democrats and
they're gonna create a voter file it's
gonna be better and so it doesn't matter
where you go go to these guys
I mean it's that's not gonna happen
yeah I guess it just seems kind of weird
to me that you would come in throw a
bunch of bombs primary Democrats and
represent policies that the centrist
wing of the party hates and finds
extremely threatening and then act
surprised that they are responding to
you with hostility who's who's acting
surprised I mean the way that a OSI has
been talking about this stuff the way
that the squad has been talking about it
it seems like they expect their there
their policies and their actions to be
more welcome than they actually are I
mean I think this is just the fight yeah
I mean I think I'm not sure that is it a
rhetorical stance that they're taking I
would imagine some of that is I mean
some of it is I would imagine is a
rhetorical stance I mean it helps you're
trying to sort of like marshal your own
forces and so you you make it look like
you got cold caught but you know we
don't know what the relationship has
been between them and Pelosi we don't
know that from looking in the outside
you know it could have been better or
worse at different points but I mean if
I'm Nancy Pelosi and I don't and it's
hard for me to put myself into her
position I don't have this power I don't
have the same relationship to wanting
power I think that probably she does
which is why I'm not the speaker of the
house but one could also imagine a
scenario where we're gonna co-op the
energy of these people and we're gonna
bring them into the tent and have them
piss out instead of piss in oh yeah and
it seems like there was an active that's
that's the thing that I'm very surprised
about is that I'm not surprised that
there's not animosity I'm not surprised
that people feel threatened by them I'm
just surprised by the way they're going
about it because it's not terribly
effective
you can feel threatened by people and
react in a way that's more constructive
to your own agenda in the long run I
mean it's not like Nancy Pelosi's gonna
live forever right like I mean I don't
know how many more years she plans to be
Speaker of the House but I think it's a
I don't know if it's that strategic like
the way like drew Hamill at Nancy Pelosi
is chief of staff and the other guy for
Hakeem Jeffries tweeted this stuff out
on Friday night like it seems so petty
so and not very strategic to me like
these are just small minded like
apparatchik likes like grasping on power
oh yeah they're they're absolutely
letting their hubris get in the way like
the smart thing to do would be to deny
them the attention and deny them the
news stories because that's what they're
running on and that's how they're
building a base right you could just say
oh it's not a big deal I'm not gonna
comment we're working it out instead of
you know being this much of a
see-you-next-tuesday
and dead oh geez
