[Music]
mentioned earlier Elizabeth Warren big
rally in New York this came this rally
coincided with and probably by design
the working family Party of New York
endorsed or not excuse me
nationwide endorsed Elizabeth Warren I
don't know how many actual members they
have nationwide it's you know it in
certain states it's actually like a
party that actually feels a ticket in
New York it's a fusion party and which
is in jeopardy because Andrew Cuomo may
be signing legislation to eliminate
fusion parties in this miss state and I
think that that is probably part of the
reason why Elizabeth Warren got this
endorsement now here's the thing that's
a little bit a little bit sticky in
terms of in 2015 the Working Families
Party based its presidential endorsement
entirely on a membership vote and
released the vote results that was 87
percent for burning this time what it
did is it did something different which
was we're gonna allow the membership to
vote and then we're going to allow the
leadership to vote I don't know how many
people constitute the leadership I think
it's somewhere a couple dozen may up to
50 people the membership could be up to
close to forty thousand people and they
waited those two groups equally and now
in 2015 obviously we saw the full data
in in 2018 or nineteen we're not going
to they're not going to release it so so
we don't know certainly it's within the
purview obviously of a group to endorse
whoever they want it's just it's just a
question how much they're going to be
listening to their leadership there was
some conscious
see about this during particularly some
of the unions back in 2015 to a certain
extent there's a a greater value for
groups like this to endorse early my
understanding too is that the Working
Families Party is gonna want to get
involved in outside expenditures
independent expenditures from the
campaign which involves fundraising and
gives them an opportunity in the event
that in New York they're shut out to
sort of redesign what kind of entity
they are Bernie Sanders does not take
independent expenditures and it does not
want those so there wasn't the same
opportunity for Sanders so there's a lot
of administrative reasons why one might
do this it is the TSA is doing an
independent expenditure campaign for
birdie though III don't that may be the
case but I don't know to what extent
that that they're gonna be happy with
that but ya know they didn't ask for it
but we're having it and but what's a
little bit problematic with this
endorsement is it's not clear if they I
don't know the the the head of the
Maurice Mitchell was on with Chris Cuomo
Maurice Mitchell is the I think the
executive director of the Working
Families Party and he was on with Chris
Cuomo
and it did not go great and I think if
you listen it might be clear why we have
Maurice Mitchell he's the National
Director for the Working Families Party
joining me now pleasure to see you
pleasure Chris thanks for having me so
why Warren and not Sanders so let me
just first say that it's 2019 and we
have to structural change big bold
progressive candidates that have built
huge grassroots followings in the
democratic process but you picked one
why right and so our grassroots members
and our volunteers and our state
committee we engaged in a very long
sesame came out and I'm so proud of the
process and so proud that we chose
Elizabeth Warren and let me tell you why
so I mean if you look at her you know
they joke about she has a plan for it
right but if you look at it and you take
a step back
so the green New Deal so we could save
the planet allows it for one second
right go on well wait a second Elizabeth
Warren does have a client plan but
Bernie Sanders has specifically signed
on to something called the green New
Deal badges say in this case the
distinction matters rewrote the green
new deal in its most ambitious and
comprehensive iteration yet you know
just sign on the run I mean you know
they're they're they're they're distinct
plans and one it's called the green new
deal and when it's not but good a
historically big picture housing policy
you know the Medicare for all to take
the insurance companies between you and
your doctor right so health care could
be a right and not a commodity that's
best traded all right he does the same
thing I said he wrote the damn bill
that's that's absolutely right and and
we have so much respect for Bernie and
his followers and in 2016 we endorse
Bernie in 2020 you have a field of
dozens of candidates and so we wanted to
engage in a process that was deeply
democratic where we could decide early
what to do even as the field was still
shaking out and the reason we did it is
because that time is one resource that
when you lose it you never could Rico
fine so what was the difference between
the two with so much sameness so what I
could talk about positively is why we
endorsed Warren and again like I have
nothing but positive things to say about
Bernie his followers and his movement
and I think it's a plus for working
people the people that we represent that
we have two candidates that are
advancing this and I think you know you
saw the debate stage where they flanked
each other right and so we want to
encourage that with you know with fellow
travelers who agree with the policy
change in both camps to to flank these
ideas and to and to organize and we
encourage other organization with you
but here's why I'm for oh man
please let's go of course here's why
yeah because you could argue they're
split in a vote okay and I'm asking you
why her and not him when it was him the
last time and when you say why you
picked her I'm not arguing with you
reasons yeah you're allowed to your
process but they checked the same boxes
well listen we did a ranked Choice vote
so we didn't Joe this was a board of
members this was a vote of members and
our National Committee which are
grassroots grassroots activists that are
part of people's organism or voted for
her than engines absolutely so that's
what it was and and and now we're moving
forward with our candidate and we're not
gonna be more proud so I mean it's like
made it impossible well I mean look I
think there there was a way in the event
that it is the case that literally more
people in their organization voted for
warned that you start out with that you
started I mean like you know Cuomo was
like I had to what basically walk in all
the way there
you start out look people voted that way
why did they vote that way I'm not a
hundred percent sure cuz I can't talk to
each one of them but I can tell you that
we're talking about two candidates with
the blah blah blah I mean I I'm just it
is now there is I've also seen this
reporting people familiar with the WFP
endorsement process say they expected a
closer vote but that Warren and her team
had impressed members with organizing
muscle that put a premium on engaging
members asking for feedback and building
relationships I mean I have heard
reporting to the fact that they did a
very good job of of courting WFP members
that that Warren had come out in support
of a candidate I can't remember where it
was maybe it was in Pennsylvania and
it's quite possible but they should just
release the numbers exactly because they
had done it in the past and that makes
it I mean at that point it's like how do
you argue with it people was if that's
who they want to endorse that's what
they endorsed but it reeks of
it being not the democratic process that
they're selling in in and I think that's
the only thing that's problematic about
it if this is true I mean even warrants
I'd say release the vote that showed
that I impressed members with my
organizing muscles it's very simple I
would just like to add though to I mean
regardless of how this shakes out with
the vote and obviously there would be a
lot there would be less to say in terms
of their endure I mean I think you can
have a substantive a debate on anything
and the substantive debate I would have
is I mean Warren just released her
health care plan which Ben Burgess
pointed out in addition to some real
remaining ambiguity about the Medicare
for all aspect the language on mental
health is distinct from general health
and what she put in her own sight which
is worth considering Sanders plan is
comprehensive and you know WFP have said
from the beginning as far as I
understand that single-payer is one of
their core missions they also taught you
mentioned housing there's only one
candidate with a homes guarantee so you
know even if it is a coherent vote and
that remains to be seen there's gonna be
a lot of challenge on the merits because
he'd I mean precisely because of what he
just did I don't mean no literally I
just listed the reasons to support one
candidate we were the policies of the
other cons it's bizarre well he could
get away with that if the vote simply
said members voted that way
substantive debate would still - well no
that's I mean I'm still a substantive
debate actually matters of course but
then the debate is like at WFP if the
members warrant then that makes our
conversation about the WFP different
which is that like they're right like
right but if the members are still
difference between a substantive debate
and a scandal I mean it's a scale in the
first I think that's a scandal if they
actually overrode their voters and it is
odd they're being so non transparent
about it then that's a much deeper
problem right either way it is a problem
as my point I mean look I think it's uh
you know you could argue on the basis of
merits that maybe their argument is like
well she if they all voted that way
there was a reason why they voted and I
imagined they would articulate it maybe
it is like she did a better good job of
like wooing different constituencies
within the WFP and you know he can go
out Maurice it can go out and try and
assess why 50,000 people voted a certain
way but that's all he's doing is he's
just he's just making some type of broad
assessment but it's hard to get away
with that you know like this is not a
clip I would have played if it was you
know they released it in 55 percent of
the people in the WFP total voted for a
warrant I sure would have done I would
have played it and then I would have
done an intro to a concept called false
consciousness which you like in other
contexts so maybe you should apply it to
this would've been well I mean III think
you're all about blaming the electorate
you're not i but we don't know how much
to blame oh well that's the lawyer
enough but but we also don't know that
this one guy can fully articulate why
50,000 people voted they can only one
person can articulate false
consciousness that's a hard thing but I
think we all know why they're being
blamed all illiterate
we don't would have released the numbers
if the numbers said that everyone voted
overwhelmingly for Warren one-ball even
if it even if it was 51% and if it was
close I mean why couldn't you come out
and say I'm the leader of this
organization and they voted 51% for for
Warren I feel great about Bernie I feel
great about Warren this is our
membership is spoken we're gonna work
our butts off if Bernie Sanders wins
we're also gonna work our butts off I
mean I mean what it comes down to is the
Working Families Party is much more
comfortable in the world of liberal NGOs
and in the progressive wing of the
Democratic Party which is you know a
part of the establishment then they are
being the sort of rightward flank of
something more or less than that like
their board is like if Bernie wins we
won't get cocked by Cuomo as easily do
you say works in coalition with them on
a lot of things but this is
one area where we're not frankly I would
I would probably imagine it's less about
that type of ideological assessment and
probably in the event that it was the
board that overrode their membership I
would argue it's probably more
consistent with what we're seeing in
North Carolina with those with those
state senators who are willing to vote
for a gerrymandered district right
that's that one maintain the power of
Republicans to save their own seat
securely ideological it also goes back
to who's giving them money well no no I
think like I said the reporting I have
seen is that in supporting Warren they
can change their operations in a way
that give their organization long-term
viability and that opportunity wasn't
there with Sanders and so that is
different from an ideological debate and
it's also different in terms of like who
is funding him it's just simply a you
know an operational sustainability
argument and that is well it's both
right because it produces an ideological
outcome even if that's not the root
cause behind it right yeah might but
like I say like that may not be your
seek warrant over Sanders is an
ideological outcome yes it is an
ideological outcome but but that doesn't
necessarily they may not see that we can
endorse the candidate that's concerned
about the ideological outcome them and
more about the Democratic outcome in
this case right now I'm concerned about
all of it yeah we should be concerned
about all of it but like I didn't have
that much faith in the Working Families
Party to begin with because I know
they're more comfortable in the world of
Liberal NGOs and Democratic Party
establishment I guess that's why I'm
saying I'm more concerned I just think
that that framing of they're more
comfortable is naive and silly and does
not look at power
it's not a question of comfortability
it's a question and I'm not I'm not
being an apologist for them I'm just
saying that that analysis I think is
silly
it's that question of like I like these
people no I'm not no but you're
misunderstanding what she's saying she's
saying that if I understand you
correctly they have carved a market
niche for them
selves which it goes precisely to what
you're just right that's the case yeah
it's you know they've can each one hold
on
I know let me complete a thought before
you react so then you can know you're
reacting to the point I'm reacting to
carved a niche I'm suggesting to you
they're not coming and you literally
just said it's analogous to the North
Carolina example right it's not a
question of them carving a knee that's
not a rear knee no not a place in the
market question of survivability which
is not necessarily giving you an ability
to carve that the they are at the mercy
of the the unions the unions basically
undercut them in their fight with Cuomo
and because Cuomo had the ability to
offer that the unions money and
transactional benefit this does not go
anything that we've said that you
thought you were contradicting so what's
the disagreement it's not a question of
carving a niche it's a it's a question
of them a niche that is like their
branding it is simply literally only
literally where how they exist well
right carving in each foot that's what
I'm telling how they continue to how do
they exist how do they get funded where
do they exist in a marketplace maybe the
niche that they have created in terms of
funding and let's not get tricky and you
know penta let's not be pederasts about
specific words maybe where they have it
created an in existence for themselves
in a political ecosystem might in fact
as an example get uprooted by exactly
what you're saying a Sanders campaign
that says we're less interested in your
third-party expenditure we're less
interested in the role as brokers that
you might be playing I mean come on man
you're a couple but you're looking at it
in the opposite and you're looking at it
backwards that the point is they are
just looking for it's like they're
looking for daylight and they only see
daylight in one area and they're not in
control of that like they don't have the
Opera don't have the ability to create
the opportunity for you they're only a
seeing what is I know okay I don't see
how you think you're contradicting what
I'm or Jaime are saying though I mean
not a question of their comfortability
they could be very uncomfortable in this
on comedy only play alright let go of
that word we're baking exists okay we
were talking about where's like a
semantics yeah I mean super semantics
this is where they exist in the
marketplace is affecting how they're
endorsing is not that complicated you're
literally saying the same thing play it
come on this will all be clear if they
release the votos and we could
understand how membership voted distinct
from the board right but you know what
Bernie doesn't need the Working Families
Party all right I mean it would it
wouldn't I mean obviously it would help
not after I'm done with their brand it
doesn't I mean I don't think it's gonna
hurt him that much in the end I think
it's going to reflect poorly on them and
probably hurt them more yeah I think it
definitely the same way endorsing
crowley over AOC did prejudice the next
step absolutely their trash brands i
don't know I appreciate the the work
they did with Cynthia Nixon because I
think New York is very different place
because of it I think the IDC I mean I
think there's value in an organization
like that I think we can see the limits
of it though you know
I mean I think it just you know it's
like it it is I think a it does not it
is not a analysis of power and an
assessment of like what their value is
in the limits on it like just sort of
you know I
that's that's that's all I'm talking
about is some fascist if 'ti as to where
their their limits on their value is but
there's still value I mean that's a
separate question know is wait wait I'm
sorry I can I don't want to be like you
here you don't think that there is I
don't want to be a pet arrest either you
don't think there's a distinction
between saying where they have value the
limits of that run how that runs up
against broader structural forces versus
acknowledging that they might have a
limited utility those are the same thing
they are not the same thing they are
absolutely not the same thing just
limits of their utility are not the same
as the limits of their utility is
everything I said two separate things
you said the definition of they're the
limits of their power versus the limits
of their utility no I said that in one
environment as an example bill de blasio
in 2012/2013 is a net positive in
national politics in today's context
national politics has completely moved
ahead of him so his value has diminished
the context in which he operates and is
significantly diminished and he can move
with that and change or not those are
definitely different things
this is what I like to keep it to just
make the votes public right exactly
