I don't watch this show to be honest
with you very often I think that maybe
I've caught at once not by not for any
particular reason
son Manoj show on what's called Patriot
Act on Netflix on Netflix I just I just
don't watch that much TV but this was a
great exchange that he had with Justin
Trudeau I would imagine probably the
last exchange he'll ever have with
Justin Trudeau and I think you know at
any given point when you do these type
of shows you sort of make an assessment
like oK we've reached this is about as
high as I'm gonna get in terms of like
interviewing somebody so this is where I
will I'll make my stand
and of course right now the UN has said
that the US has been complicit perhaps
in war crimes in Yemen Saudi Arabia what
just killed a hundred people the other
day in a bombing run according to the
Red Cross what's happening in Yemen is a
disgrace and the Senate tried to stop it
Donald Trump overrode the veto I mean
excuse me vetoed it they could not
override the veto so maybe things would
be better in a place like Canada where
you have a reasonable Prime Minister
he's really will finish the sentence Tim
Hortons is a Canadian institution nice
finish the sentence Kawhi Leonard should
should be very proud of what he
accomplished in this time in Canada I
completely disagree Kawhi Leonard should
never return to Canada because he is a
traitor that's the correct answer
you know people bring American
sentiments on to Canadian politeness
every now
finish the sentence Canada will not sell
any more weapons to Saudi Arabia period
[Applause]
[Music]
you said nine months ago you guys would
be examining in yeah it takes about
three months to study for the LSAT so
that's a pretty good examination time
you could you could announce it right
here right now we're cancelling the deal
we take our right here why don't you
take our legal responsibilities and the
breaking of contracts very seriously in
this country I'm telling you they watch
the show but they really watched I don't
know they do I'm sure they're keeping an
eye on you okay what does that mean and
what makes us so sure it is it weird
that he tried to schedule our next
interview in Istanbul yeah that's pretty
good and you know any opportunity that
someone has to put someone in power on
the spot for for policies horrible
policies or policies that they haven't
fulfilled
good for them respect yep all right
lastly we have this as you know
hurricane
