[Music]
Donald Trump clearly enjoys nothing more
than being in campaign mode you have
this dysfunctional White House populated
by disturbed twisted really sick you
know grotesque people Mike Pompeo John
Bolton Stephen Miller Sarah Huckabee
Sanders and then you have this you know
this very unstable needy baby bouncing
off the walls he does have an instinct
of how to campaign and I think it's
really and his perception of at and the
adulation of the crowd I think is really
the only part that he actually really
enjoys about this and his instincts
obviously take him to - to xenophobia
and every other kind of bigotry as well
as false populism and he's taking aim at
the green New Deal he's taking aim at
ecological policies of course as with
every single Republican Donald Trump has
raged an unrelenting war on species on
air on water on basic Public Safety and
of course his EPA head
I believe recently just said he's not
losing sleep over carbon dioxide
concentration but Donald Trump is losing
sleep about one thing that has to do
with the environment
check this out he's at a campaign rally
in Louisiana talking to about the
wonders of natural gas and his apparent
huge affection for birds under the green
New Deal they don't like clean beautiful
natural gas they don't like anything
they don't know what they like they sort
of like wind even though it kills all
the birds you want to see a bird
cemetery go under a windmill sometime he
is such an idiot so it's true that birds
aren't in fact yes the birds are
sometimes killed by windmills
yeah it looks very bold numbers
estimates I mean from a few years ago is
about a quarter of a million that's a
lot sure I just lost something hold on
let me find this again to you okay so
basically Donald Trump is going of
course you know as I say this is an
administration that is doing its all to
strip away protections in every single
environmental category it's making it
easier for coal companies to pollute
it's removing even the most modest
restrictions on oil and gas and of
course natural gas I mean I guess
everybody is subjectively free to think
of it as beautiful but it is in fact
also profoundly dangerous and
environmentally harmful to water huh for
starters yes this was from five years
ago wind turbines killed between two
hundred and fourteen thousand and three
hundred sixty-eight thousand birds
annually a small fraction compared with
the estimated 6.8 million fatalities
from collisions with cell and radio
towers and guess how many deaths from
bird or from cats how many deaths from
Cathy's a billion that's just nailed it
it's between 1.4 billion and 3.7 billion
so also cats are good cats are on a
 rampage excuse my language I'm
sorry but that's that's a lot solidarity
with the birds
forget cats no I'm on Team cat you're on
team cat and bird I'm a bird watcher
folks so so once back in mode one cat is
like a Z wind turbine that's like 80
wind turbines and meanwhile the the side
benefit of the turbines is that we're
not cooking our planet and we might have
some ability to survive as a species and
actually that same ability to survive as
a species also affects the beautiful
birds because they don't do well with
them choking on polluted air either and
having the global planetary weather
systems the global weather patterns
completely uprooted and destroyed by
endless oil drilling and balsa narrows
plans for the Amazon supported by fossil
fuel companies in wall street and of
course
and the Republicans I don't think mass
extinctions of different kinds of bird
species is included of in this calculate
in Trump's calculus got a state very
specific very specific all right
