[Music]
ERD report Michael Brooks here joining
us now is Cal Winslow he is a labor
historian he's author of the recent
peace and Jackman magazine no neutrals
in Harlan County AL thanks for being
here
no problem my pleasure what's happening
in Harlan County tell us about this
strike well I think this strike protest
might just be winding up for now at
least what I what I read in the paper
this morning is true but never mind
typically of the Eastern Kentucky coal
fields and the southern coal fields in
particular the employers have been have
been viciously a harsh on their workers
whenever they felt called upon to do
something at this time what they did was
they just closed a couple of minds and
fired the workers and didn't give them
their paychecks and left them really a
nice in an isolated part of the world
like Eastern Kentucky left the the
miners with with very little option
except to try to take some action and
they did by first shutting down the
railroad tracks and closing off the the
mines from making it impossible for the
mind to sell the coal that had already
had out of the ground and then and then
constructing a camp with supporters
there that lasted Oh for more than a
month now I think and got some attention
and bright and for us I guess it also
brought back to the memory the the
bloody story of Harlan County which goes
right back to the 1930s and before then
and that's kind of
what interested me being a historian I
guess that in in times when there's
trouble and when workers are moving it
all he seems that we hear about Harlan
County hmm we tell us that history that
story of the 30s and before in Harlan
County well the American coal fields
were organized relatively early on and
the northern fields Pennsylvania Ohio
across that belt we're pretty strongly
organized in the 1890s when the United
Mine Workers of America was founded in
Columbus Ohio and Union were pretty
powerful Union organized on an
industrial basis that is everybody who
worked in or around the mine was would
be a member of the Union it was pretty
strong Union except there was the
feeling that the southern fields that
they were called southern West Virginia
Eastern Kentucky and Virginia were
always a threat to the strength of the
of the of the competitive fields because
they were being non-union they could
always be relied on to keep the supply
of coal moving and so numerous times
under numerous leadership's
there was an attempt to bring what we're
called the southern fields into the
Union and this happened in the nineteen
ten and it happened for our subject is
more today it happened in the 1930s who
had particularly difficult times for
miners for all workers in the country so
in 1931 when one third of the coal
miners in in Harlan County were
unemployed and many of those people had
been evicted from their homes and there
was no other work in an isolated area
like that the miners
Rock and it led to bloodletting on on
both sides the intervention of the the
federal government and a fight for a
union that lasted for almost a decade
tell us about the song which side are
you on and how it fits yeah I wish I
could sing it for you because very
moving but the sheriff of Harlan County
at the time in 1931 was JH Blair
he was particularly nasty fellow I guess
but there were plenty like him but he
was involved in a raid on the home of a
coal miners organizer they came in the
middle of the night as they would and
broke up the house searching for the
miner who wasn't there and terrifying
the family so in response Florence
wreath who was the leaders wife wrote
the song which side are you on and it
became kind of an anthem first of the
Mineworkers and then I think for the
American labor movement in general and
it says hey they say in Harlan County
there are no neutrals there you'll
either be a union man or a thug for JH
blare which side are you on and Ben song
have been sung at many strikes and
rallies ever since what about the United
Mine Workers is a union where do they
sort of fit in terms of their militancy
and kind of in the ideological spectrum
historically well I think they shifted
they haven't always been in in one
particular
Stan's butt and an interesting thing
about them was to go back to what I said
they were always an industrial union and
and and in that sense implicitly a
challenge to the American Federation of
Labor which was based on craft unions
now can you explain the difference to
people well an industrial union would be
say in an auto automobile plant in an
industrial union everyone would be in
the same union one union
if craft unionism prevailed the election
the electricians would be in one union
the machinists and another the janitors
in another the secretaries is another
does that help yep so a big plant might
have 20 maybe more unions involved in
representation and negotiation so the
there's always been a movement for
industrial unions in the US it came
mainly from the left from the Socialists
on the Left going right back to the
founding of the labor movement but it
came to a head in the 1930s when the
United Mine Workers led by its president
and John L Lewis felt that it was time
with Roosevelt administration now in
office it was time to organize the
workers in American industry and Lewis
and the UMW broke from the AF of L and
set out to do just that and an
incredible few years they were able to
organize workers in the automobile
industry the steel industry the rubber
industry chemicals farm equipment you
name it and brought millions of
workers who were deemed to be
unorganized mold by some because they
often were immigrants or they were
unskilled brought these people into the
union movement in a particularly
powerful way into the Congress of
Industrial Organizations or CIO and so
John L Lewis and it certainly wasn't all
up to him but at least as a symbol John
L Lewis will forever be remembered as
the person who led to the to the
unionization of the workforce really in
the nineteen thirties and just looping
it back now because we're gonna expand
the conversation in the next in the next
several minutes but the basically the
federal government has agreed to spend
three point seven two million to retrain
Kentucky's black jewel coal miners I
have an enormous amount of skepticism
about what exactly these retraining will
entail and for what economy exactly the
back paychecks for the miners have been
cut for those in West Virginia but
they're actually still waiting on their
back pay in Kentucky in Virginia and my
understanding is that I mean this this
strike was literally about not only were
they not getting you know back pay I
believe that they had actually taken
money back out of their accounts that
had already been as deposited and of
course this incredible strike happened
and you know it earned national
attention and Bernie Sanders came and
showed solidarity and support but it's
still it's incredibly important but it's
striking that you know manin for such a
bare minimum in the sense of really
reflecting on just the relentless war
against workers and organized labor for
the last several decades well you know
you said it as well as anyone can I
think there that's absolutely absolutely
right that
even though led by sort of West Virginia
teachers things seem to be maybe opening
up in the labor movement a bit were you
were still mostly on the defensive and
and people are afraid to ask for too
much and so even with all the discussion
of wages not having him improved really
in almost decades we hear of a good
settlement being one or two percent you
know hardly keeping up with inflation
and I think that's what's going on with
these workers and what's traditionally
one of the very poorest parts of the
country what do you make of that of this
emergence though I mean the West
Virginia teachers teachers also in
Oklahoma and California the Chicago
strikes in 2012 rate union leadership
there and once again fighting you know
in that case fighting this you know
Democratic mayor was one of the most you
know active anti-union mayor's in the
country the ever odious Rahm Emanuel we
have the GM strikes happening looks like
a little bit of a similar dynamic of GM
at this point I believe is a thirty
billion dollar profitability and the
strikers are asking for really quite
little the company responded by cutting
off people's health insurance I guess
again and that sort of similar dialectic
of the real incredible relentless war on
workers but at the same time and you as
a historian you have an article coming
out which I'm incredibly excited to read
about the Seattle general strike you
know what what's the positive end of
this equation as well that I mean if I
guess my question if people are willing
to take the risk to do something as
Extreme as a strike when does the shift
start to become of well you know yeah
we're taking this huge risk so how about
you know equity in the company
how about of 30 percent raise you know
or so on once again you know you've said
it but I would only I would only
add that you know the appetite increases
with the eating that you might say and
for those of us on this side of things
we have to hope that seeing workers back
in struggle seeing people make gains
even if they're small is going to be a
lesson for other people and it will lead
them to possibly ask for more but I
think that we probably are going to
[Music]
probably going to need more activity
before we see really important increases
on the other hand I'm active I'm an
active supporter of California
Healthcare Workers Union the National
Union of healthcare workers and over
their their past ten years of existence
you wouldn't know that there was a
problem because they've been winning
good contracts and they've been
increasing benefits and they're a
democratic union and they're militant
and they go on strike all the time so
you know one never knows you can't you
can't tell what can be won until you try
indeed and I and that may be my final
question you know what is the difference
between you know you talk about a
successful example like the California
Nurses now you know and obviously
there's some structural factors in place
you know we we haven't even gotten into
I mean one of Bernie Sanders most
important genuinely revolutionary
proposals would be getting rid of
so-called right-to-work laws but when
you think strategically and you kind of
balance somewhere between the California
Nurses Union and then maybe the heads of
other major unions even sort of you know
helping run interference for candidates
running against single-payer health care
which would seem to be one of the most
kind of basic things that any union
person anybody with an interest in the
middle class and working people would
obviously support as a policy and
equivocally
it is this also may be like a time of
reevaluation even on the left of you
know going like the the ground is more
willing to take risks and do radical
things than the leadership typically and
starting to think more around working on
that revitalization instead of maybe and
you know forgive me but you know maybe
maybe folks who've you know put in some
really important work but are also kind
of you know used to being the Washington
Generals to some extent for the last
couple of decades well I think a very
strong argument can be made that the
most important changes have come about
not just in society but also in the
labor movement itself that they've come
about as a result of movements from the
bottom up where we might say so to go
back to Harlan County really that era
symbolically began in a sense with these
obscure coal miners in Eastern Kentucky
who had just had enough and then we're
not going back to what I said about
Johnny Lewis and the movement that began
at the time of Roosevelt's election what
happened was coal miners apparently
heard of the new administration in
Washington and got the idea that
President Roosevelt wanted them to join
a union and started flocking into their
union headquarters literally by the
thousands so that there were reports
from union officers and organizers
saying they couldn't keep up with the
number of people who wanted to be in a
union and it was that it seems to me
that said to Johnny Lewis and the others
hey we can do something but also you
know looking back at that period of time
we better do something because
along with everything else and and I
don't know that Bernie Sanders fits
right into this picture but people are
starting to think of different ways of
going about things doing things and that
includes workers today if you see what
I'm trying to say though III think that
you're absolutely right and we need to
really keep an eye on what's going on
with the rank-and-file workers you know
especially at a time I shouldn't end up
with this but at a time when the
ordinary General Motors workers are
trying to run a strike when their
leaders are trying to stay out of jail
yeah there you go I think you distilled
it
I guess the I have to say I'm more
charmed by those ones than the than the
centrist wonk ones at least there's
there's some fun to it but kal Winslow I
really appreciate your time people read
this great piece no neutrals in Harlan
County and look forward to a forthcoming
piece in the monthly review press about
Seattle's general strike and I'll just
say I mean in addition to it being a
fascinating piece of history it was a
major point in sort of I would basically
radicalizing america's oleg art class
because they were so terrified of what
was possible cal Winslow I really
appreciate your time I appreciate things
and involved in the discussion and so
thanks very much and keep up the good
work
well thank you thanks
