[Music]
quo pro quo
oh yeah just precious let's put this up
ladies and gentlemen you know back in
the day we used to ask the question
about the Bush administration stupid or
evil stupid or evil and more often than
not the answer is yes yes stupid and
evil and I bring you Donald Trump's
Trump administration White House talking
points on how to deal with President
Trump's call with President Solinsky of
Ukraine it starts with what you need to
know Oh
what you need to know press reports have
given currency to flat-out falsehoods
about the call myth the president made a
mysterious promise to Zielinski in
return for Ukraine reviving an
investigation relating to Joe Biden in
his son fact there was no such promise
the president wanted allegations of
corruption potentially involving an
American official to be investigated
myth whose the American official oh I
guess it was Joe Biden okay the
president offered a quid pro quo related
to military aid for Ukraine fact there
was no quid pro quo in fact there was no
mention of the aid package to Ukraine at
all I should say D mythologized
the money was not showing up at the
Ukraine like it was supposed to be there
weeks before and it wasn't showing up it
had not been released them it needed to
be washed through a clean government
process question you're expecting four
hundred million dollars it's not there
you're talking to the guy who is
stopping it from coming do you need to
hear about that money before you
entertained the ask Oh incidentally here
roll this down you're asking how how
could I get a hold of these things I'm
no I'm no I don't shill for the White
House apparently they accidentally
mailed it emailed it to reporters and to
Democratic House officials and then to
be fair followed up with a a recall
where they asked you to send them back
please disregard those talking points
that you just got email there's more any
but the talking points are fairly you
know they're about as good as you could
they basically are saying there was no
explicit quid pro quo it just so happens
that the money was withheld the call
came there was a couple of asks and
that's it you know I heard you're
interested in opening up a new Yuk Yuk's
in Kiev mm-hmm is that true I proposed
nothing I remind you at the end of the
conversation Donald Trump just drops in
I think your economy is gonna get a lot
better I think it's gonna get a little
bit of juice yeah if you know what I
mean
still having time to work out new sets
at the clubs I mean this is the I mean
it is fascinating to see how it's done
right I mean and I imagine in the course
of doing business like this eight out of
ten times everybody is aware of what's
going on and there's two out of ten
times where the other person is just
like that's odd I wonder what that was
about
and I would imagine that that 20 percent
of times where the the other party
doesn't know what's going on it's
because there's maybe a broad cultural
divide or you can't possibly imagine
that somebody would be doing this and
now you have your answer of why
the rod right exist people you sit down
you have tea but first you say no thanks
then you need to have three teas it's
too complicated you can't just do a
bribe efficiently we do war it'd be nice
if there was a deal that was like
Obama's deal but it was called Trump's
deal and then they saying I think maybe
your economy will get better if you know
what I mean then the guy offers me a
disgusting dessert how am I supposed to
follow up for that totally confusing
totally confusing deeply unfair pretty
stunning stuff this is gonna be you know
and look here's the reality of of
something like this impeachment is gonna
be difficult and they already have like
30 lawyers working on this stuff and if
jus Rudy Giuliani is the is the is the
point person on this folks it's gonna be
a little bit rough in that White House
definitely close up on the cross fingers
I have my scape I am the least bullish
of impeachment in this room but I love
the time consumption argument and oh my
god if we could have Rudy Giuliani be
like yeah you are you ordered a hit 2004
I don't know what that's got to do with
foreign policies protecting Israel feel
like wait a second Rudy did you just say
that you were aware of a hit that Donald
Trump ordered before anyone of The
Apprentice well that's what you say it
maybe that's what I said but anyways the
point is Hillary Clinton's a
thank you there there you go yes please
more of that now what is it what is your
skepticism tucum that impeachment is
going to actually pass or that well I
mean obviously it's not gonna pass in
the Senate we already know that right so
you know I'm ambivalent about how much
time I want tied up in this in the next
several months I'm not entirely sure
it's gonna play out in the same way that
you're confident will play out but I'm
also I just I'm not I'm not convinced
that I am positive in terms of the
election yeah and I'm perfectly and you
know that I'm perfectly willing to argue
if you want things so this one is just
genuinely like
I just don't have a strong feeling so I
it could be and that's obviously my hope
because it's happening right but I'm I
don't think this is I think some people
you know some people felt very ecstatic
about this and I you know we'll see got
one thing that I am 100% convinced of
and very excited about and I think the
most salient thing to just keep hitting
is the time consumption thing that's
well wonderful absolutely but I also
think that a it's the right thing to do
unequivocally I mean the guy has broken
the law if you're going to hold a count
there's a reason why you get after Iran
Contra after Watergate I mean these
things continue to go on you need to put
down some markers as to what you know
what a president can and cannot do
holding them to account on some level
it's not is it enough no it's
insufficient but it's necessary a B I
think what the Democrats have done is
dodged a big bullet and I think not
impeaching Donald Trump was the riskiest
proposition because then you are
basically saying to the lot of those
people who voted for these house
representatives that they wouldn't there
was nothing for them to do ineffectual
like what we we voted for you to be the
opposition party and you can't even
impeach a guy I mean they impeached a
Democrat for lying about sex in a
deposition which I'm an investigator and
enemy we don't want to bring that one
but because that was stupid of them to
do but although it did mobilize their
base but I mean look honestly my thing
is is that and in the long run I might
have in fact helped them to play a kind
of hardball but my my my thing is really
honestly just it's happening so I hope
it plays well that's it oh yeah I'm not
I'm I have my skepticism I might I might
even have a little bit more of a sort of
but I'm asking you what is the
skepticism well I just kind of outlined
it for you but it's irrelevant it's
happening so hopefully it'll work well
yes and we'll get a better
since I think of like how the Democrats
actually execute this that's also I
actually I should also add that and this
is this is there's there's big picture
institutional how does it play with the
basses ones which I'm just less invested
in now as I keep saying because it's
happening I am literally concerned on a
performance level of you know have they
learned how to manage this thing better
so part of this is spectacle well they
do if you know is it gonna be the molar
hearings or is it gonna be the one that
we played a bit of what Lewandowski
where they actually handed her off to it
you know they're not gonna literally
hand it off to a council but my point is
though that all or they will okay oh
yeah good that guy's been hired by the
Judiciary
he Eisenstein I think it's very I don't
want these things to be big laborious
duds I want them to be clear headline
nothing that needs to be explained
nothing that needs to be overly
elaborated I want it to be simple
embarrassing effective and relentlessly
on message if they're going to do it
yeah
