[Music]
let's do this bar stuff first so look
again does the fact that built I guess
let me kind of revisit first and reset
the Russia thing I still think in my
view the critique of the deployment of
Russia in media and certain democratic
party circles particularly in 2016-2017
stands I still and of course this
broader investigation especially if it's
framed as we've always said if you talk
about it like Goodfellas not the mnsure
II and candidate this report was gonna
reveal a lot of stuff and you know Bill
Barr um obviously misrepresented the
molar report I mean Bob molar is not
writing this letter because he wants a
you know a good ratio on resistance
Twitter he thinks his work has been
misrepresented
now his disparate is this you know again
as so many things of Trump it's a
question of degree not kind and I don't
think that you know attorney generals
and other administrations have obviously
you know play for their team bill Barr
is a guy that you could trust and take
it face value is I mean while you take
any of these people face values
extraordinary but when you go back to
the fact that the guy literally got his
career started in helping put out the
iran-contra affair which still to me
stacks is a far more significant
far-reaching scandal than this should
say something he's refusing to speak in
front of the House Judiciary community
committee because despite the best
efforts of Lindsey Graham and other
Republicans to continue this spin and
obfuscation and lies this was a bad day
for him and the primary takeaway of the
bad day we're not gonna play all of it
we'll play some more of it tomorrow was
Camilla Harris who really I mean this
has her in her element she crushed it
and he did not like it bar has the
president or anyone at the White House
ever asked or suggested that you open an
investigation of anyone I wouldn't I
wouldn't yes or no
could you repeat that question I will
repeat it has the President or anyone at
the White House ever asked or suggested
that you open an investigation of anyone
yes or no please sir the President or
anybody else seems you would remember
something like that and be able to tell
us yeah but I'm trying to grapple with
the word suggest I mean discussion
that's exactly right is is on what the
word suggests suggests I mean there have
been discussions of matters out there
that they have not asked me to open a
investigation but perhaps they've
suggested I don't know I wouldn't say
suggest hinted I don't know inferred you
don't know okay she's got you covered
scumbag I do care I love that she went
through all of the different like words
that you could worm out of your way with
that hashtag bully the right people
hashtag bully the right people it's
incredibly well done I think also you
know I think White House did a little
bit better but like the amount of
Democratic senators that will still say
look and you will promise a you will
return to this committee is mind blowing
it's like they will lie and they will do
whatever the they please and that
is the only tactic that is gonna yield
anything which is just like ruthless
clarity so she did a very good job in
that I will as always make my usual
pitch which is of course obviously I
support Bernie Sanders because I'm
progressive but you know I if you're
voting in the centrist lane which I
would encourage you not to because we
need to do real big things for this
world but if for some reason you had
your way onto our YouTube page you found
your way in YouTube page like what can
you act out Biden and buddhic edge and
vote for Kamala Harris like come on but
I don't I'd really eyelid you I do not
understand like that is the no brainer
centrist center-right choice in my view
anyway yeah go ahead the fact that this
many mediocre white men have piled into
the clown car after Kamala Harris and
Elizabeth Warren is ludicrous and it
shows how far we have not come I think
to me is like that that is definitely
part of it but I'm talking like you know
also just like like look I'm very able
to acknowledge that joe biden has real
political skills I find Budaj edge I get
why elite people are excited about him I
think his skills are actually not gonna
be broadly transferable but like it's
also that like calmly Harris is good at
this right like you know like frankly
like even on these other levels like
look Elizabeth Warren has the substance
I don't think she necessarily has the
same like skillset politically
also I think she's on the center-left
and progressive side versus the centrist
center-right so that's why she needs to
be vice president for eight years and
it'll train her to be President I like
that and then there's you know and then
there's you know and then to me like I'm
sorry like Booker and Gillibrand
pleading or O'Rourke I mean sorry like
they're yeah these are just not but like
Hamlin Harris is good like I I just I
anyways I just don't understand if
you're in that Lane she's the obvious
choice here she is with you know she's a
talented politician and a clear
communicator when she chooses to be I
mean obviously she obfuscate some things
but they all do except for Sanders of
Warren this is her with Chris Matthews
and this is just an opportunity to do a
Chris Matthews impression I guess the
question is once he's testified before
mr. mowers guy of the Special Counsel
investigation how can he now say I won't
make the same testimony in public
claiming executive privilege I think it
is sort of like virginity kind of thing
once you start talking about a matter of
junior jurisdiction and then you say oh
my god doing it anymore you can't do it
once you've started so I understand that
so executive privilege works once you
put giving it up you can't grab it back
how do you see it did an excellent job
of pointing out that there is no I think
valid reason why
he should he being in the Attorney
General should object to Donna McGann
coming before the United States Congress
no testifying okay fine whatever play it
safe but back to the Virginia I think
yeah but back to the virginity thing
there were a lot of girls in Catholic
school various tactics but we realized
in a certain point it was like father
Coughlin said it wasn't a detective
County was the attention to that's how
we say to God's law it's time it's
Aquinas anyways you're very smart
thank you I actually thought it was
gonna be what you know like sometimes
when Chris Matthews is kind of jolly and
he's using like insane metaphors and
ridiculous and he's just sort of like
and he's just like all right anything
but great job today Camila thank you
that was where he's just like oh alright
fine I guess I'll be the only one to use
an obvious metaphor everyone's a critic
everyone's a critic
sorry I can't ruffle papers and do
boring anecdotes from the 70s to explain
why Donald Trump is secretly a KGB agent
certainly great if everything just
became a Rachel Maddow sub suite didn't
he look sort of like someone who's never
used a prophylactic before okay yeah I
guess I'm the only one who's seen that
sure you got a spice up the material
somehow sure dude if you are voting for
a center center-right candidate vote for
Carla Harris Jesus she's my she is the
there's the first and second choice then
there's like the I'll just say Inslee's
my third choice because like why not
climate change good stuff and then
there's like the all right dude gun to
your head nobody you like is running who
do you vote for and Harris is the total
 no-brainer for that I'm sorry
he's not on our side but I respect her
in in sort of fantasy sports there's a
concept called the replacement level
player right a player you can always put
on your roster who's just sitting out
and not picked up but they'll just be
sort of a neutral fill-in that's Kamala
Harris Biden and I just talked about
Biden Biden's worse than that Biden is
Biden is going backwards I
someone's like America's not ready for
to go really hard left like Biden's not
Brian's not going at all left Biden is
alerts to the right no Biden's own
politics are centrist politics and he
wants to compromise from that with the
Republicans absolutely look I I'm
naughty but to me like that all could
describe Harris as well in addition to
her record in the car circle state I'm
so mine is like purely just like we're
just getting down to the level of like
you need to replace Trump and who will I
find to be the least annoying to be
talking to me for four years and Harris
and Harris yeah literally that's it so
actually on the merits like I think her
record is horrifying I mean look at the
piece in The Huffington Post about what
happened to parents of the truancy stuff
but I you know like who would I be least
embarrassed to have representing us on
the world stage yes when you force Jamie
to talk like an NPR host that means that
your choice is commonly harris of that
pack and i will by the way if it was
down to two I would pick Joe Biden over
P boo to get one of them didn't work at
McKinsey sorry
one of them's one of those blue-collar
that's the choice that I would pick
Biden not because I think booted judge
is probably operate enough to maybe be a
little bit better than Biden who it
might have some old boy loyalties but I
think by denied respite ins competence
to be true more they I true I exact
that's another thing too I actually
relaxed ability flexibility which are
not supposed ability except when you do
do you see
