on the majority report on the phone it
is a pleasure to welcome back to the
program the editor of the Justice editor
for thinkprogress.org Ian Milhiser in
welcome back to the program good to be
here thanks so much all right let's
start with the the gerrymandering cases
that are heading to the Supreme Court
because there is a fairly significant
backstory to these to these
gerrymandering cases and the
gerrymandering cases that have been in
front of the Supreme Court and there's a
fairly troubling what do you call it
future story that could be happening
here tell us just give us a little bit
sense of the history of gerrymandering
cases that have gone to the Supreme
Court yeah this is gonna end really
badly so the relevant history here
probably begins with 2004 in a case
called beef in Jeju Garre Justice Scalia
wrote an opinion on behalf of four
members of the court saying that not
only are we not going to strike down the
gerrymander that's being challenged in
this case so we but our view of the view
of these four justices is that partisan
gerrymandering is just not a matter for
federal courts at all federal courts can
never consider a partisan gerrymandering
case um Justice Kennedy gave people a
little bit of hope in that case though
because he wrote a separate opinion
where he said you know I'm not gonna
strike down this ferry Mandor but in a
future case you might be able to
convince me there's a standard I could
use to sort out which which gerrymander
is not allowed and so that was the hope
that people brought into the last
Supreme Court term where they thought
there's this terrible Wisconsin
gerrymander there's this very aggressive
Democratic gerrymander in Maryland
surely we can get Justice Kennedy to say
the fees cross the line and people had
some really you know promising legal
theories well Justice Kennedy decided to
punt the issue and he decided to punt
the issue and then a few days later he
lack the court and good Oh God
well the the the hopes for a Kennedy
were that he had specifically asked for
basically it asked to a social
scientists
I guess broadly speaking come up with a
way in which we can measure when
something has been overly gerrymandered
and in fact social scientists did that
with a concept of wasted votes right
that's right yeah I mean that so Kennedy
it said look I need it's hard to
determine which maps are partisan
gerrymander and which ones aren't
I need something objective something
clear-cut that lets me sort bad maps and
good maps and there were a bunch of
theories of people came but they were
basically just mathematical formulas
where you could take the the records
from the last election plug into this
formula and that would tell you if this
map was likely to be a gerrymander or
not um and so people were really really
hopeful I mean I remember attending ural
argument in the Wisconsin case and
thinking oh yeah we've got five votes
like they're gonna strike this map down
things are going to get better soon and
that is just not what happened Kennedy
decided not to decide the case and then
he decided to give the middle finger to
everyone that was hoping that he would
stick around and retain some semblance
of the rule of law in this country and
Trump replaced him with Brett Cavanaugh
who of course threatened Senate
Democrats at his confirmation hearing
said that what goes around comes around
because Democrats dared to prove
allegations that have not tried to rape
someone and we should say in terms of
Wisconsin the the theories I guess the
the algorithms that would determine
wasted votes it seemed to be borne out
when you look at the results of the last
election where Democrats won what was it
fifty four percent of the vote and
Republicans took sixty three percent of
the seats in the State House that's
right that's nice
I mean that's just like everybody just
sort of like marinate in that we are you
know this is not the sentence this
it being appointed by landowners you
know this is not the Senate set up as a
way of not being particularly democratic
in terms of the number of people
representing this is on a fairly
localized level where you have the VAT
you know a fifty four fifty four percent
to forty six percent split that's like
what we would call a landslide right I'm
wrong yeah yeah I mean Wisconsin for all
intents and purposes is not is no longer
a democratic state like I mean they have
a democratically elected governor who as
of I think yesterday is a Democrat um
but their legislature it is impossible I
mean absent like you know I mean maybe
if Democrats managed to get sixty or
seventy percent of the vote it would
happen but that's not happening in
Wisconsin it is impossible um for
Democrats to which to win the state
assembly when you have a map where you
can get fifty four percent of the vote
and the other car submit sixty three
percent of the seat so that's how
aggressive this gerrymander is that
justice can be looked at and said you
know instead of doing something about
this I'm just gonna leave it to Brett
Kavanaugh um you know so that's that's
the position we're in right now and what
I think is likely to happen now that
these cases are back this time it's a
North Carolina gerrymander which is
almost as aggressive as the Wisconsin
one plus the Maryland case again um and
what's likely to happen is I think
you've got five votes right now to just
say you know what Jerry man who is not
the business of the federal courts
federal courts will never do anything
about gerrymandering and if you're an
entrenched political party who that
wants to ensure that you never lose
control of your state legislature again
go to town that's a pretty convenient
timing for a Republican supreme court to
be making that proclamation and we
should say there's a there's a case in
Maryland right that is also that is it
that is being brought against Democrats
as a way of basically trying to just get
the gerrymandering under some measure of
control right yeah I mean that's the
Maryland case it's one of the few states
so part of the history here is that
Republicans had agreed electoral year in
2010 and a big problem with our system
is that um new maps must be drawn every
10 years every time there's a new census
and so if you happen to win if your
party happens to win the year that ended
zero that means you don't just get
control for two years or until the next
election
it means you also get to draw the state
legislative and the Congressional Maps
ID so since Republicans swept through
basically all the swing states in 2010
they were then able to draw these maps
that entrench the power and now you know
going into the 2020 census and then
going into the next the next round of
redistricting in states where
Republicans still control the
legislature and can't be dislodged you
know in some states maybe they'll
they'll be able to they'll be able to
Democrats will be able to capture the
governor's mansion um and so they'll be
able to at least veto the worst
gerrymanders but Republicans have a huge
advantage in these states because
they're guaranteed to control the
legislature and there's even some states
in North Carolina I believe the governor
doesn't have the power to veto a
redistricting map and that was fate and
that was I say that was from a lame-duck
session in North Carolina like the one
that was done in Wisconsin although
Evers doesn't seem to be basically he's
basically saying like you can sue me in
terms of abiding by those laws but if I
remember correctly the reason why the
Democratic governor in North Carolina
can't veto it is because of laws that
were passed in the lame duck basically
stripping him or you know her in the
future of their ability to do that well
yeah yeah I'm not sure about the origins
there like you know the point is that
you know they have managed not just to
entrench the rule for ten years but
potentially managed to entrench their
rule permanently because the only way
could dislodge Republicans from their
control of the state legislature is to
when a state legend is for Democrats to
winning state legislative race that
cannot be won because Republicans drew
the map now there is a there there seems
to me to be a very sensible and rational
way to deal with this if the the state
the the the citizens of the state vote
to create like an independent commission
these things are never perfect but at
least an independent commission would
have some semblance of neutrality to
some extent right so that seems like the
most rational decision that can be made
but doc Wright died yeah right so a lot
of stage in Arizona has won California
has won you know quite a few states I
think you know Michigan and Wisconsin
just passed ballot initiatives whose
purpose is to make it harder to
gerrymander or at least Michigan did um
but the problem is that um a few years
ago there was a case challenging the
Arizona redistricting commission and the
good news is that the Supreme Court
voted five to four say yes you can have
this redistricting commission the bad
news but the fifth vote was guess who
Anthony Kennedy and Anthony Kennedy has
been replaced by Bartow Cavanaugh who
said that he's going to take revenge on
Democrat so there is a very high
likelihood that these independent
commissions are going to come before the
supreme court again that there will now
be five votes to strike them down and
that means that the Supreme Court will
make gerrymandering even worse than it
already is
what is the possible justification for
striking down these independent
commissions sure so the Constitution
says that as a general rule legislative
map shall be drawn by these by being led
by the state legislatures I think it
says by the legislature thereof what's
there of referring back to the state and
so the argument is that the word
legislature in that context
the elected body of lawmakers who
typically make laws the problem with
that argument is that there's at least a
century of precedent saying that in this
context that's not what the word
legislature means the word legislature
means any body in a state that is
empowered to make laws so that can be
for example a ballot initiative but what
the dissenters argued in the Arizona
case is that they argued that only the
state legislature and not a ballot
initiative is permitted to terrain and
gerrymandering but isn't there I mean
and I guess maybe you've just answered
that by saying that there's a century of
precedent but we see this all the time
where the legislature can farm out their
authority right and either affirmative
ly or by the nature of the the the I
guess the the Constitution of the state
right yeah actually I mean under the
theory of the dissenters things would
get really really troubling I mean if
you take their argument seriously
there's that mean that a governor cannot
veto a a redistricting bill because the
governor is not the legislature he is
the executive and therefore in states
like say Wisconsin where Democrats are
counting on the Democratic governor to
veto the next Republican gerrymander
that the governor can't do that does
that mean that it states like
Pennsylvania where the state Supreme
Court struck down the gerrymander that
will the the judiciary is the judiciary
not the legislature so maybe the
judiciary isn't allowed to weigh it arm
and so this could take us to a world if
either the dissenting view in the
Arizona case ultimately prevails where
the only people who are allowed to draw
maps are legislators which are
controlled by Republicans because
Republicans entrench themselves in the
2010 election as it turns out the 2010
election is the only election that will
ever matter again because you're once
you gain control of the state
legislature it's impossible to dislodge
dislodge the party that control
but is there is there any way that and
now these cases in North Carolina and
and and Maryland
don't necessarily implicate a referendum
for creating an independent commission
is there any way that the court I mean I
know there's probably a way but is there
what's the likelihood of the court
saying hey and incidentally even though
this is not an issue in this case since
we're here we might as well also say
independent commissions not kosher
III don't think that they'd strike down
indicate independent commissions in
either the North Carolina or in the
Maryland case because neither one of
those states has and it has an
independent coalition or independent
commission but all it takes
I mean Arizona could do it again you
know all it takes is for Republicans to
file the exact same lawsuit they filed
in Arizona a few years ago they can even
dust off the same briefs that they filed
and just refil them and you know now it
goes up to the Supreme Court again and
the Supreme Court says ah there were
four of us last time but there's five of
us now
you lose that would seem like a you know
pretty naked nakedly partisan a ruling
wouldn't it but I do you think they care
I mean maybe they care I mean that
that's me you know that is the question
on which the rule of law in this country
hinges is not specifically who if they
care but if Chief Justice John Roberts
cares III mean there are you know the
angel and the devil sitting on Roberts
his shoulder is he has a devil that says
oh you just want conservatives to win
everything you should do that and he is
an angel who says you know if you push
too hard then you're the Supreme Court
is going to be diligent Amaya's people
were stopped listening to your decision
and that's going to undermine your
ability to enact conservative policies
in the long run and the question is
whether he listens to the angel or he
listened to the devil and I mean no one
but John Ross
knows who's who's he's gonna who's gonna
listen to in any given case I like how
John Roberts is angel is just a sort of
pragmatically evil devil I mean he's
just good there's the devil and then
there's just the more pragmatic devil
that sits on his show yeah there's the
lawful evil John Roberts and there's the
chaotic evil John Roberts and you know
you never know which one's going to
prevail all right so with that said we
will keep an eye on that we are probably
a year at least a year away I guess from
the potential of the independent
Commission's being struck down and you
know because of the nature of like if
you can get a if you can get a
democratically elected governor you can
get a referendum like we've seen in
Michigan to have an independent
commission which could be you know the
sort of the last saving grace so I guess
we're a year away from from finding out
whether at the very least a year away or
there or is it possible they could take
another case this late I mean they could
potentially take a case but I don't
think that there's one I don't think
there's one in the work okay I mean what
has you know the saving graces that
someone has to file the case that's to
go to the district court the district
court has to like say hey this is the
exact same tape that the Supreme Court
decided three years ago go away and then
and then that goes up to the Supreme
Court so that will take time there is
however plenty of time for the supreme
court to decide something like that
before the 2020 redistricting cycle
great
