so Dahlia obviously this week Brett
Kavanaugh was sworn in two of the to be
the ninth Supreme Court justice filling
Anthony Kennedy's slot he had a rather
auspicious I guess celebration or
ceremony with Donald Trump at the White
House where he said that it's the job of
a Supreme Court justice to be impartial
and nonpartisan and then went on to
thank all the Republicans and the one
Democrat who voted for him which I think
perhaps maybe Kavanagh doesn't know the
the definition of you know being a
political and non partisan that's quite
a concern before we get to the gist of
your argument that we now need to rely
on the other eight justices to temper
Brett Kavanaugh what what do you see in
in a vacuum when we look at Brett
Cavanaugh's track record what do you see
as the the the biggest implications of
him on the court as opposed to Anthony
Kennedy um
I mean it's it's hard to understate how
consequential this would be I mean even
if you bracket everything that has
happened in the last couple of weeks
with dr. Blasi Ford this will have been
the most consequential appointment you
know of our lifetimes this is the sort
of Nixon era dream come true where for
the first time you will have a
rock-solid 5-4 conservative majority on
the US Supreme Court this is going to be
I mean just as a matter of metrics it
will be you know some of the most
conservative jurists who have seeded
been seated in the last 100 years will
now all be sitting on this Court
it will be the first time we have a
court in in decades where every single
conservative was seated by a Republican
president every single liberal was
seated
a Democrat so this is the most political
and most partisan court we've ever had
and and I think under your question is
this real question and it matters which
is this is going to be the first court
in our lifetimes without a swing justice
without somebody like Anthony Kennedy
Sandra Day O'Connor before him
justice Powell before him who was in
play who at least had the appearance of
the capacity to play for either side
depending on what came before the court
and that's gone so we now have I mean
just the simple fact is John Roberts
will be the quote sink swing vote he
will be at the center of this Court and
with one or two exceptions notably the
affordable care act where John Roberts
defected and voted with the liberal
branch of the court he is a movement
conservative he is a rock solid vote for
the Heritage Foundation for the
Federalist Society values and so I don't
know how to put a finer point on it than
this this is simply the fulfillment of
the ed Meese Nixon capture the court
dream now materialized in front of our
eyes and so I mean major areas obviously
abortion rights doesn't necessarily mean
that roe v wade will be overturned but
it does mean that it will be effectively
maybe overturned in states that are
hostile towards it so we'll see things
like trap laws the scrutiny applied to
what states do in terms of infringing on
this right is going to be far less than
it used to be when Anthony Kennedy was
there we could see roll backs on
marriage equality rights but it also
seems to me that we're going to see a
direct assault perhaps on the Chevron
doctrine which basically says that
agencies have the expertise in which to
promulgate regulations if broadly tasked
with that by Congress the we're gonna
probably see a diminishment on the
ability of government
to regulate without very very very
specific directives from Congress that's
exactly right I think Brett Kavanaugh is
a certain vote for what we've seen as
the slow erosion of the regulatory state
a deep suspicion of regulatory agencies
on the part of the courts and I don't
think Brett Cavanaugh has made any
secret of the fact that he is firmly in
the camp that you know wants to do away
with Chevron deference to agencies to
set their own rules and agendas and I
think that you know in addition to the
laundry list you just put forward I
think that some of the other things that
are really on the table now where
Anthony Kennedy would have been the
decisive fifth vote are affirmative
action in higher education which is
probably now on the chopping block
I think gun regulations is an incredibly
important area where you know the court
weighted it in Heller and then refined
it a little bit in McDonald but has
essentially sat silent for years and
years while gun regulations more or less
won in the lower courts I think that
Cavanaugh has shown a very capacious
view of Second Amendment rights and
we're going to see gun laws start to
come down and probably the single most
important thing and again I don't think
Cavanaugh has made any secret of his
views on this are issues around
executive power and executive authority
and the kind of what our view of the
president's authority whether it's
specifics like can the president be
investigated or can he bit be indicted
or fanciful things like can he pardoned
himself or just questions that we're
going to see I think almost inevitably
arise around the Muller probe all of
those issues Brett Kavanaugh has a very
very very broad view of executive power
and authority and so I think he would
presumably be a fifth vote for that
so in
and I want to get into this idea of how
the other justices you know can or will
or won't influence Cavanaugh or vice
versa for that matter but just I mean
and I know this is maybe maybe beyond
one's ability to predict but when we
look at the Supreme Court looks
adjudicates somewhere around they hear
about 80 cases a year if I'm not
mistaken they decide maybe another 50 or
so I don't know how many of the the last
term when we had Kennedy we had full
complement of Justices you know how many
were 5'4 but I mean are we gonna see and
I guess maybe you know this is a
question that speaks to your ear piece a
bit are we gonna see that much more five
fours I mean was there a certain amount
of horse trading that would take place I
mean so a weekend ABC it exponentially
more 5'4 decisions than we would have
maybe three years ago because maybe in
some instances a Breyer or a Ginsburg or
a Kagan would say I'm gonna vote to make
this 6 3 or 7 2 because maybe down the
road it will build a relationship with a
specific judge and a specific area of
the law that I'll be able to swing them
on to my side does that is it is that
how it happens in the court do we know
yeah I mean it's such a good question
Sam and I think you know there's this
famous story that is told that justice
brennan every year used to ask his
clerks like what is the single most
important constitutional principle of
all and the answer was get to five you
can just you need five votes that's the
only thing that matters and I've seen
some interesting chatter suggesting that
you know you're you're certainly right
and particularly in this last term we
saw Elena Kagan and Steve Breyer try to
find middle positions in a whole bunch
of cases that looked like they were
whether it's explicitly horse-trading
or cultivating relationships or playing
some kind of long game trying to get
Anthony Kennedy to peel off and and and
clump with them and we saw that in a few
instances I've seen some interesting
theorizing that says good now they're
freed up they can become you know full
throated liberal dissenters they were
born to be and they don't have to try to
play this game of getting to five now I
don't know that that's the case I think
sort of by temperament both Breyer and
Kagan tend to be moderates who try to
hive off narrow things and decide as
little as possible certainly Elena Kagan
has said in the last few weeks that her
view of the of the court and these
legitimacy questions around the court in
this polarized moment is that it really
turns on the chief justice on John
Roberts to do minimalist centrist very
narrow very cabined decisions so as to
more or less get out of the headlines
and it's almost like she threw down the
gauntlet and said John Roberts you've
done this before when we had a four for
court and everybody was watching you
know how to do this and you're gonna
have to do it again that's fascinating
all right well let's take a quick break
I'll be right back with Dalia lilyc on
the implications of Brett Kavanaugh
being sworn in as the ninth justice on
the Supreme Court be right back on ring
of fire radio
