I'm curious from your perspective how
those two the the the Republicans
reacting and refusing early on to to to
fund the the bailout as it were and and
then occupy those two phenomenons on
different ideological how how would you
characterize them in relationship to the
crisis in other words what because to me
it seems like occupy was a reaction to
the way that the Obama administration
responded right like not enough stimulus
too much austerity and by eleven you
know there had been a pivot to austerity
versus the the right and the Tea Party
which seemed to be a taking advantage of
an opportunity well I think I mean what
I'd agree with that but I also think
that what we're seeing in the Republican
response to the crisis is something more
systemic which is a you know a profound
reluctance on the part of a substantial
body of Republicans the see public
action to see American government as in
any way a creative and positive force in
American society and a profound fear the
the state the mistake machinery with its
powers of Taxation and coercion and so
on will be turned against whatever they
take to be you know the heart and soul
of America and that expresses itself in
lots of different forms part of it is
that they don't they in fact share with
some people in the teepo in the Occupy
movement an analysis of the cronyism
that you know turned federal government
into a tool for the support of Wall
Street but much more importantly and
fundamental for the tea party is
essentially a kind of anti welfare
protest you know the Tea Party doesn't
start as a protest against the bailouts
of Wall Street it starts as a protest
against the possibility the mere idea
which
the Obama administration doesn't really
ever follow through on or they wholesale
bailout for over-indebted American
households who can't cope with their
mortgages that very idea is enough to
launch the Tea Party but in there you
know what triggers there is this this
much deeper much more fundamental set of
questions about what government in
America is for in a society which this
part of the American political spectrum
sees as drifting as a result of the
culture wars and civil rights and so on
in fundamentally the wrong direction
and so all of that fear and hostility
towards the current trends in American
society culture politics and so on
manifest itself in a residual to allow
government to do anything really other
than fight wars and mobilize troops and
build the security apparatus but any
other function of government is
illegitimate and faced with the kind of
crisis that we saw in o8 that support
profoundly dysfunctional because at that
moment the business sector which of
course Republicans professed the support
and to honor as you know the great
driving entrepreneurial force of
American society actually needs
government support which just doesn't
fit into their vision of the world so
this is where you get this dysfunction
and this split between the kind of
managerial figures like Paulson and
Bernanke who are both mainline
conservatives and the party which they
think they belong to which is basically
digging in its heels and acting as a
kind of party of protest essentially at
that moment that's fascinating so it's
in I guess to a certain extent
theoretically American politics revolves
around that access that axis of of how
people view government's role and so if
I if I understand you collect correctly
the the the right was responding to a
fear that government would actually take
a role a hunt seat role I guess in
fixing this crisis and the left by 2011
was upset that it had not it had not
taken as much of a role iterative yes he
had to nobody and done enough and the
role that it had played had been
predictably once more
you know massively asymmetric and in
favor of big
business and not in favor of ordinary
Americans and so those are the
accusations and there is a part of the
left which of course then pezzo will
fight you know we should smash the
government as well but that is by no
means the dominant and element and the
bidder
you know the predominant memory is
surely the New Deal and it's more
radical phases in which even maybe the
Great Society moment Head Start and
civil rights and so on or if the
American government haven't several
different instances played an absolutely
fundamental role certainly in the
Progressive narrative in American
history so yes I think that is really
the the best way to understand this and
all the two narratives at the moment of
crisis there's no question that the
Democratic Party's narrative has more
purchase on reality so what happens as
this as we as we move across the globe
in terms of because presumably as we hit
different countries and they are struck
by this crisis they have a different
pre-existing you know I guess
ideological debate or do they or I would
imagine some countries do but not
absolutely that is the right way to
think of it the idea that there is you
know a crisis and then populism
abilities out of this everywhere and
then you sort of cherry-pick your way
through the list that in candidate is is
I think absolutely the wrong way to
understand this I do think precisely as
you suggested if we think that this is
an earthquake
now how much damage an earthquake does
depends on how close you are to the
epicenter and how well your building was
built and how well it's been maintained
and those are the key elements and
across the political systems of the West
and the country is affected by this
crisis we see a corresponding range you
know in some cases we can see analogous
responses where the buildings were
similarly constructed or they had
similar you know politics maintaining
them at various points and then we also
see radically divergent responses so
Spain Greece Portugal even if Leon you
know one way of reading the five star
movement there have very powerful
left-wing responses to the crisis you
know we have a radical government in
both Greece and Portugal that come out
of this kind
which in many ways were less badly
affected by the crisis like Britain
nevertheless as a result in part of the
reaction to the austerity politics
adopted by the Conservative government
from 2010 see a turn towards this
recalcitrant nationalist movement at
brexit which itself draws and very
long-standing traditions of euro phobia
in Britain so that's I think exactly the
right way to think about this as a as
varied as a similar shock and
interrelated deviance related shock
which has a profoundly different
political impact depending on the
pre-existing structures in each case how
much of what follows then begins to
create a new set of crises I guess in
other words like I mean to extend the
earthquake metaphor the earthquake
happens but then there's a tsunami or
the earthquake happens and then we get
an explosion from a nuclear power plant
this is great I can talk about it that
way but that's exactly how I would see
something like Ukraine so in you know in
the Ukraine crisis of 2013 you might
think what's that got to do with the
financial crisis I'm sure that this is
just due to you know long-standing
legacies of Russian ambition postcode or
anxiety in the east and so on and all of
that true but Ukraine is in harm's way
and Ukraine puts itself in harm's way
because it's in desperate financial
trouble and it's in desperate financial
trouble of course because of
pre-existing problems but also because
it had the 2008 financial crisis had a
devastating impact on Ukraine's economy
it was probably the worst affected
economy in the world by o8 because it's
hugely dependent on foreign funding and
usually dependent on the export of Steel
and they won once feel when investment
is plunging so you can't understand the
frantic way in which Kiev was bargaining
back and forth between the EU and Moscow
unless you understand that it was
desperately trying to escape from an IMF
program which it had slid into in 2008
and then of course the other things
became then of course you know the
botched EU diplomacy and the aggression
of Moscow unhinges the situation and
create the crisis that we know but
precisely the sort of ripple effect and
then a causality that we see if we see
around the world following on from
following on from this
