[Music]
yeah here is an example of just how cool
Donald Trump is he's so he remember this
is a guy he loves trucks I love big
equipment I love it people don't know
this about me but I'm got a lot of big
muscles under my a big muscle guy here
is we sell bubble
construction we should just say that he
is at the the NASA truck and equipment
with a press conference with talking in
Minnesota to transportation business
leaders who were explaining to him what
kind of trucks they have Bob NASA the US
is explaining what kind of trucks he's
has and we sell bubble construction
equipment and what a better setting to
have a Volvo loader in a Mack truck and
these two represent everything that
builds America and moves America
how can I turn this about me make this
about me I've been on many a loader I've
been on many a truck people don't know
that about me it's I guess they do
actually otherwise the Fifth Avenue
stuff doesn't play nearly as well as
that well I'll tell you you know what
people who have been on a lot of trucks
to say or don't say I've been on a many
a truck been on a lot of loaders brag
about how many trucks I've been on
because I've been on a lot of trucks the
Fifth Avenue stuff doesn't play nearly
as well as that I will tell you I've
been on many many a truck and between
Volvo and Caterpillar and John Deere and
so many of the great companies but
that's just as a real beauty and a
considered a very high-end loader it's
great that you do that I want to say
that today is tax day next day yeah I
need to get out of this a little bit
it's so awesome
it's great how you do the big Trek thing
and so if you really want to know what's
going on inside Donald Trump's mind here
in a the the you really need to look to
fiction and this is from the president
show that the late great president show
Anthony Adam Rock and his interpretation
of what must have been going through
Donald Trump's mind to be around those
trucks and he did this this is from like
a year and a half ago this is from like
the yeah the first few months of here
exactly
so great so cool fella boom
Wow I got it get in there yeah give us a
hug you're free now Donny go bye-bye Joe
guys let's go
don't worry there you go and that was
actually that's him yes that's not
there's no gap between that show but
there was also the other clip though the
other clip when he actually liked it in
the moment that was actually the pilot
episode so good well missed that show
the only mistake he made in real life
was you know not to let him keep on
going forever well that was the best
part when he had that scene where he's
that guy driving in the truck and I've
judge drive off the edge of Manhattan
I'm in the water and when I finally just
let go I love the Deepak Chopra one too
where he goes on that tour of his
subconscious and he realizes that he is
the Krone and she is him and he cries
and he has this big breakthrough and
then he comes out of the meditation and
detox like what did you learn and he's
like nothing he's like a less
sympathetic version of Tony Soprano oh
no Tony is much more psychologically
rich than
