[Music]
there's a Kirsten Nelson I mean this is
probably the last time I ever gonna say
your name here's I guess their Kirsten
Kirsten Kirsten Nelson there's two
things that is it Nielsen Nielsen sorry
it's not important
yeah I mean the real reason why you
should know her name is because she's a
horrible human being and we have seen
her testimony multiple committees over
the years and there should be no
Reformation for people like this this is
it their careers have been locked in she
can find a job obviously in some
corporate structure but these people
they need to be held to account there is
no leaving the Trump administration and
getting a clean pass there is no it was
not my idea I was literally just
following orders
I mean honestly seriously here she is
just to remember she was bragging about
how well they're taking care of the
children back in June of 2018 we now
know that in at least I mean I don't
know how many instances make it
appalling I think one does but in many
instances the so-called family
separation which to be clear is taking
children from their parents this is not
I'm separating two adults who can then
pick up a phone and call or leave
wherever they are and find each other
they're not separating families they're
taking children from their parents and
here she is bragging two years ago - I
guess some Sheriff's this is the
National sheriffs Association
saying don't believe your weight and
again this is before the stories of
children dying in their custody the
stories of children being lost children
having no idea what was going on all the
stories of the way the children were
reacting under intense stress because
there they've been kidnapped
here she is bragging to the National
sheriffs Association that relatively
speaking are the way that we warehouse
these children is pretty good it is
important to note that these minors are
very well taken care of don't believe
the press they are very well taken care
of
you know this as many of you have
detention facilities of your own we
operate according to some of the highest
standards in the country positive some
of the highest standards in the country
and really what and what are the
standards that they're they're competing
against other facilities that detain
children I guess
for-profit prisons in right go ahead we
operate according to some of the highest
standards in the country we provide food
medical education that all needs that
the child requests Wow it really does
sound like a guy that they just nabbed
after like having children tied up in
his basement for years and just like
always fed them that does not sound like
morally different to me at all
it's supposed to feed and give medical
care to children you right now that is
very least that's the baseline yeah what
do you wanted to say like other people
like Steve was proposing that we starve
them you're also supposed to do that for
animals in your care
for that matter here is Christian
Nielsen's former press secretary David
Lipan talking on NPR I can't imagine
there's been much that he got much
pushback to his attempt to sort of to
make it seem like wow
she had no choice she did deep down
she's a good person when she defended
the policy that was so controversial
leading to family separation I mean did
you think that you were seeing someone
who believed in that policy or who was
representing her boss my view is that
she was representing her boss and in
many ways again that that's the role
that the secretary plays remember to
that what what really started that that
policy or what led to that was the
zero-tolerance policy put placed by the
Attorney General so at the time I
thought that it should have been the
Attorney General that was there having
to defend the policy and not the
Secretary of Homeland Security here's
why that type of excuse is such BS
because a we know that she could have
resigned like if you had any type of
moral compass and the Attorney General
says we're going to implement a policy
that's going to require your agency to
warehouse children in in a record manner
and we're going to not only you're going
to warehouse these children they are
going to be forcibly removed from their
parents you're then going to label them
as unaccompanied minors because you have
made them unaccompanied you're then
going to shuttle them to the furthest
reaches of this country in the middle of
the night at times so that human beings
who do have a moral compass can't see
what you're doing that's a very good
opportunity to say you know what pass I
think I'll resign like it doesn't matter
whether it was her idea or Donald
Trump's if you don't have I mean and we
have seen this time and time again right
if she's not there it's gonna be someone
worse but apparently it's gonna be
someone worse anyways and we've seen it
time and time again all the generals who
were saving us from Donald Trump well
then why would you ever leave then why
wouldn't you go public immediately the
day after you're out right I mean if
you're being held hostage there for the
sake of the country
I can't quit because if I quit horrible
things are gonna happen on day one we
should have already we should already be
watching the multitude of interviews
with Christian Nielsen on every Network
talking about the horrors she saw and
her screaming to the heavens like I'm
gonna be the first witness at the
impeachment trials but we don't so it's
 it's yeah and what's
with the quote/unquote liberal media
letting these ghouls come on to
rehabilitate jobs
I wouldn't the NPR has been the same as
it always has been it is a corporate
mouthpiece to power that's that's it
they have never been anything different
and that they that's why they go there
it's because they know they're not going
to get challenged even less oh well if
we go to fox of course we're not gonna
get challenged but nobody's gonna take
it seriously and if we go to any other
Network frankly we might get challenged
it's I mean it's it's grotesque
she should be still she should be
shunned in in public it's it's really
disgusting to watch anybody who would in
any way help with the Reformation of
these people what secretary thinks she's
gonna allow before
ah my guess is if I had the guess she's
gonna be working for the private prison
industry in some fashion or another
just because she's she's well versed and
you know why she's gonna be doing it
because she wants to make it better for
the children
she doesn't lobby for it think of how
bad it's gonna be I am so proud of the
initiative that I started at the private
prison industry when we now have
organic milk for the kids
juice parody the milk people well we
prepared we paired with uh with a major
organic producer and it's just wonderful
the kids just you could just the see
that looks on their know of at least
three instances when a kid had a fever
and we gave them medication for it
oh yeah a diversity program for the
prison guards we were able to have a
coca-cola sponsor many vending machines
in the place now of course they don't
have cash mats all of a sudden like huh
human rights
