some news that that took place now look
the we've you know we've talked about
this all week the bills that the
Democrats in the house pass do nothing
except for set a marker and establish a
baseline we hope for what they'll do if
they get the Senate as well but it also
does create what they do in the house
also does create a tremendous amount of
pressure on the Republicans in the
Senate who are running for re-election
so yesterday the Democrats passed two
pieces of legislation one was the
essentially the funding bill the
continuing resolution that they got from
the Senate last year's Senate and that
goes back to the Senate and Mitch
McConnell is saying that he will not
bring up a vote however in the past like
24 hours Cory Gardner Susan Collins
capito from West Virginia others who are
basically starting to worry even Joni
Ernst who are starting to worry about
their re-election in 2020 are getting
nervous because you know we're still in
that zone there has been already a
tremendous amount of needless suffering
and anxiety experienced by over 800,000
federal workers and contractors some of
whom may expect never to see the money
from the work myths others who will
build up debt in in anticipation of
getting back pay for this we've also
seen a freeze in federal workers pay
raise of one or two percent that they
were supposed to get
and it also debilitates the ability of
these agencies to look forward past you
know the next couple of weeks and
actually do any real planning but as the
week's go by the suffering is going to
increase exponentially you're going to
start to see people on food stamps lose
their funding perhaps as early as early
February you're gonna see people lose
their section out eight housing you're
gonna see people of farmers lose their
ability to get loans and to get funding
and to get the the slush fund payments
that they were supposed to get for the
tariffs this is that's why Joni Ernst is
a little bit worried and so this
pressures going to increase in Nancy
Pelosi to her credit understands this
dynamic apparently far more so than
Donald Trump and Mitch McConnell is just
sitting there hoping some deal can be
struck here is Nancy Pelosi coming out
and talking to reporters and explaining
essentially what the dynamic is right
now is an immorality it's not who we are
as a nation and this is not a wall
between Mexico and the United States
that the president is creating here it's
a wall between reality and his
constituents his supporters he does not
want them to know what he's doing to
Medicare and Medicaid and Social
Security in his budget proposal he does
not want them to know what he's doing to
clean air and clean water and the rest
in his department of anterior end of APA
he does not want them to know how he is
hurting them so it keeps the subject on
the wall he's a master of diversion
we're trying to open up government we're
giving him a mature path to do so
alright and I'll tell you what was
skilled about that everything the
message she wanted to get across was
bookmarked wid the wall because she
knows the press is only gonna cover
stuff that has the word wall in it
because that is what that is the society
we live in we all participate in it when
we buy products that are advertised on
television and what
just the way it is we're just gonna have
to wait until basically the boomers in
the Gen Xers die off and the world can
be owned by Millennials who will just
watch stuff on YouTube and but that is
that is the the world in which we're
living in so that is the dynamic right
now with the government shutdown it
would be a it would be fascinating to
watch how the Senate's going to crumble
and what they're gonna come up with
because I think there's a decent chance
what we may end up seeing is some type
of compromise where and I again you know
we said this last year around this time
I would take a permanent fix for all the
daka folks and dhaba but even just Daka
frankly to start with for two and a half
five billion dollars worth of wall who
cares that walls not gonna get built
there's not gonna be there's no they're
just five billion dollars isn't gonna do
it
Trump needs to bring that back to his
base to pretend that the wall is being
built fine give them the five billion
dollars take daca and say what happened
to Mexico
maybe we also I'd like to also add the
protected status for Haitians as well
which was a really obscene thing I just
want to put that on the table something
that would be great thing to add I know
it's not necessarily possible let's try
to add as many just the broadly the
point being yes I mean if you were to
drink all the baby things for real yes
exactly agree exactly because no one I
mean except the part that goes through a
butterfly sanctuary we can't allow that
to happen but that's the thing it's none
of it's going to go through anything
there's five billion dollars they're
gonna end up spending on just like you
know architecture firms we're gonna
spend it on my trip to Mexico where they
pay me the rest of it and thank me but
every day that passes the Democrats get
more leverage here and the you know the
problem is of course is that the
Democrats broadly speaking broadly
speaking in general
feel more pressure just broadly you know
if you're in Joni orange didn't you come
from Iowa and you're worried about the
farmers but you're worried about all the
stories about the farmers who are
getting screwed over because they're not
getting their slush fund payments and
they can't get loans and farms are
starting to go bankrupt because of this
you're gonna feel that pressure directly
but even if you're not if you're a
Democrat and you're not complete your
district is not completely implicated by
you know you don't have that many
federal workers or you don't have any
you know specific things that many snap
recipients the bottom line is the the
broad force of your constituents are
concerned about government being shut
down even if it doesn't directly
implicate them in a way that Republicans
don't aren't so that's there's a little
asymmetry there but once these real
things start kicking in the Senate's
gonna crack and they're gonna go to
Mitch McConnell and they're gonna go
like I'm not giving up my Senate seat
because of Donald Trump and I'm not
gonna give it up in Jan and you know in
February of 2019 so we shall see what
happens meanwhile
