[Music]
during Elan musk I and all of us took on
so much heat because if you criticize
Elon Musk on YouTube it sets off some
type of like atom bomb inside the
psyches of obsessive young men it seems
like basically obsessive young men I
guess other people too he's amazing
he's trying to help Jesus he's an
innovator you're just jealous
we need a capitalist individual to save
us from language right the biggest
problems on the cat on the planet which
are gonna be never be dealt with without
structural policy initiatives can be
saved by all of us by one innovator
because I don't want responsibility for
my life and I don't want to think and if
you're criticizing him I'm gonna get
comically triggered I also will you know
usually I will grant that you know at
least the things he's working on are you
know desirable but I don't think a guy
that hates public transportation working
to increase the lifespan of the personal
automobile which I think has been
environmentally disastrous and not to
say like sociologically you don't just
think yeah we do automobile is like is a
massive threat to the planet and like
communities also but yeah so I don't
think that the Tesla's necessarily been
a positive project either no and so
people freaked out and then Elon Musk
started doing things like his companies
just don't achieve much besides the
Tesla the longer-term projects don't pan
out he tweets all sorts of bizarre
he accuses a guy of being a pedophile
because that guy is like hey we're
rescuing these tie divers could you
please not make this about you and so it
seemed like at least a couple of people
said you know what Michael
you were right to criticize the guy and
I even got to a point where I just sort
of felt bad for him I didn't have any
kind of personal animosity towards him I
just know that that sort of like
capitalist Savior complex that that
exists is an
neat problem for society it's a problem
with Steve Jobs fulfilled that role it's
a problem in Elon Musk filled that role
though I will say my god as evil as
Steve Jobs was and look up China look up
the environment look up how he treated
his engineers look up even just some
personal life if you need verification
of that statement but my god what a
downgrade from a sort of actual evil
genius and Steve Jobs through I think
just apparently a very talented but you
know very kind of insecure troubled guy
in Elon Musk not a genius not a genius
and a guy who could use our compassion
and support he's under way too much
pressure but also obviously kind of a
narcissistic pain in the ass and here he
is he also got fined by the SEC he had
all sorts of troubles so he led off of
them for a couple of months now he's
back on 60 minutes reminding us that
let's not even personalize it to him
this is the guy that everybody from the
hordes of people on the internet to Sam
Harris to advertorial pages and
politicians this was what we were
putting on a massive pedestal
have you had any of your tweets censored
since the settlement no none does
someone have to read them before they go
out no so your tweets are not supervised
the only tweets that would have to be
saved reviewed would be if if a tweet
had a probability of causing improvement
in the stock and that's it yeah I mean
otherwise it's a Hello First Amendment
it's like speech is fundamental but the
market if they're not reading all of
them before you send them oh I guess we
might make some mistakes who knows it
was perfect you know I I I want to be
clear I do not respect the SEC I do not
respect them but but you're abiding by
the settlement aren't you because I
respect the justice system Oh sharp
distinction there now of course he got
dinged by the SCC got fined earlier in
the year because
he essentially used his Twitter to
manipulate a stock price and he copped
to it and he paid a fine and he still
clearly sore about it I also look I will
be a pendant here because this is a guy
that again
so much weird projections and odd
bizarre emotional issues of the internet
and of techno capitalism and if the
Pinker Harris delusion were projected on
to him no Twitter is not a First
Amendment place but literally not it's a
private platform that can do what it
wants which is a big problem that's why
we should be moving towards breaking up
these monopolies and nationalizing these
areas because they do have implications
for journalism and speech but they don't
implicate free speech that's just a
basic falsehood also Allah Elon Musk
another thing that he was toying with a
couple of months ago while his companies
were not succeeding in between weird
tweet tirades was setting up a
journalist monitoring system which of
course naive cultish idiots immediately
embraced and their complete lack of
understanding of how the world works but
really was actually clearly a system
that would be weaponized to attack any
journalists that even did the most sort
of minimal criticism of his companies
including the abusive labor practices so
I'm not gonna get back into a whole new
Elon must thing and I know that it
there's still some very very weird
dead-enders that still want to worship
the guy but I mean he should just be a
case study as to why the capitalist
savior complex is an innately delusional
idea and should be left to you know I
don't know
Iran's turgid prose and not real life
and hostile to democracy and the rule of
law like right I mean the way that just
the hostility as to the sec right like i
don't know i don't they dinged you
they're there and by the way we're in an
era where the sec if anything should
force way more you so extravagantly try
to influence your sale i believe in that
k-stew a an Emer ago investment funds
I'm thinking about taking it
Tesla private at the price of 420 making
a bad joke yeah the middle of it a bad
joke that might also you know affect
stock prices which of course ironically
trying to get it private into private
Gulf equity hands is another pretty
strong irony of the you know savior of
the climate crisis guy but I guess what
I was gonna say is yeah there is a whole
bunch of rich bastards waiting and just
just really thirsty for somebody make
the case that insider trading and market
manipulation isn't actually that bad
right because like as we know from the
long New York Times report on Trump's
real estate business that's a big part
of how he grew his fortune right I
basically pumping himself up in the
media and yeah like Megan McArdle this
was in the I Megan McArdle one of the
most steady boring yet constantly
destructive and harmful influences in
American life show me the victims of
insider trading outweigh and that's
because these guys want they want to be
able to play with their money in the way
that they can they want crime to be
legal and they want to trade amongst
themselves and never have any
accountability in speed
