with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in
conference rooms of any Elise
[Applause]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex
so machardie report with sam cedar it's
Thursday August 15th 2019 I'm Michael
Brooks on a Michael Thursday and this is
the five-time award-winning the jargon
for broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program Vijay
Prashad executive director of the tri
continental Institute chief editor at
leftward books chief correspondent at
Globetrotter we're talking about the
India's tearing up of its own
constitution for a nationalist extremist
project in Kashmir Pakistan own
escalations what is China's role in
potentially pulling South Asia back from
the brink trumps Iran absurdities and
Vijay is just back from Brazil we'll be
talking about social movements there and
the effort to free political prisoner
Lula de Silva how that is inseparable
from any global struggle against all of
these currents from the United States to
Brazil to India to Israel where Prime
Minister Benjamin and Yahoo is announced
rashida to live in el on Omar they're
not getting into the country apparently
this is a personal request of Donald
Trump I guess go back to where you came
from unless it is occupied Palestine
Kashmir cross-border filer kills three
Pakistani and five Indian troops
us apply us applied to seize detained
Iranian vessel and Jill browser
Gibraltar the Chinese power military
exercises are amassing and a clear
threat to demonstrators in Hong Kong an
autopsy of Jeffrey Epstein finds
multiple finds broken bones in Jeff
Epstein's neck deepening questions
around his death according to the
Washington Post yeah would say so lot of
questions it's a pretty deep question
some very deep questions in the center
of the earth this is the time we really
got asked is this who we are are we a
global black male pedophilia Network
going back to the OSS and Roy Cohn is
this who we are NYPD police union boss
sorry for sharing a racist video but
don't worry he has black friends
children of temporary status holders
fight for their parents protections in
court the Trump administration aims to
shift money for even more immigration
terrorism stocks losses deepen as a
trump recession looms House Homeland
Security Committee to subpoena the owner
of 4chan and Jeffrey Epstein owned a
picture of Bill Clinton in a blue dress
oh yeah is this so we are so so we are
we really a CIA orchestrate a global
pedophile ring with photos of Bill
Clinton and Monica Lewinsky stresses who
we are you know I don't mind a devil
some focus on 4chan stuff I think
disrupting outright sort of networks is
important but I wasn't recent penis on
the epstein front yeah I I don't know
about all that fortune and I was
actually I'm planning some content with
a very good friend of mine an academic
drew McKay L it was based at Queen's
University in Belfast and he does a lot
of work across the globe on
de-radicalization
and we were talking about how from a
social psychology perspective there's
vastly different environments obviously
there's vastly different justifications
one would have a lot more understanding
you know in some ways obviously why
someone in Yemen or even years ago in
Northern Ireland might engage in certain
contact then in somebody who you know is
from El Paso but the core mechanisms of
how you radicalize somebody whether it's
al-qaeda neo-nazi whatever the is is is
similar its global it's it's playing on
sets of very different a very similar
psychological needs and and I think that
conversation does need to go to the
forefront more than you know worrying
about this or that website although I do
think it's fascinating the owner of
fortune I mean I don't know if this is
the current owner there subpoenaing but
the guy who created the website
regularly asks that the website be taken
down he doesn't have control over it
obviously but he said on multiple
occasions basically that he would prefer
the thing to take him down like the FBI
has said they might look at q and on and
groups like that for domestic terrorist
related reasons and before you start
sharing stuff like that don't cheer that
think about the general concept of
criminalizing
a conspiracy theories about elite
pedophile rings and why that might be
important to like sort of maintain the
space for i i've said from the beginning
that well and we see this in these
social media things you know i shared no
tears for whoever has been shut down or
the platforms alex jones whatever great
who cares but if you can't see a pattern
of how conversation and journalism
including quite important stuff will get
shut down in that trend line including i
was using an example facebook relying on
essentially right-wing think tanks in DC
to sort of establish what is and is
incredible and the fact that they've
shut down you know look tell us or
shouldn't be your only source for news
and latin america no doubt but it's an
important incredible source of news and
it's going to be treated as conspiracy
news because frankly any news that you
has a South centric viewpoint is gonna
get put to the bottom of those lists I
mean this is just basic politics here
and yes it is very disturbing when the
FBI starts getting into that territory
even if it does include some people who
are dangerous and terrible and stupid
and all the rest if you can't some
people you got to sit back and have a
little bit of a broader pattern
recognition on these things or not you
could instead of having broader pattern
recognition you could be ben shapiro
and have the have the same degree of
charisma and empathy in equal measure
that he has which is to say negative on
both fronts Kamala Harris has been out
campaigning and in her attempt to prove
some populist bona fides which are just
bluntly not in any way deserved based
off of her record she's noting as many
candidates have noted but as people like
Bernie Sanders of course have been
saying for years even before it was
fashionable that a lot of Americans have
to work two different jobs to basically
survive now of course you could be in
the gig economy how we measure those
employment rates that adds a whole bunch
of other Americans you could be working
one job and not getting paid enough you
could be long-term unemployed and off of
the rolls and not even included in
unemployment statistics so even just
that one metric points to a bigger
structural problem of inequality and a
lot of people not being able to survive
hey if you work in the gig economy
you're not working a job okay you're an
entrepreneur that's right every single
person struggling to survive on an uber
shift is really just essentially Jeff
Bezos and the service sector here's Ben
Shapiro this is kamala first and then
Ben Shapiro is gonna respond to her you
know he's going around crowing about how
this economy is doing so well right oh
the economy is great he says right and
they refer to the unemployment numbers
well yeah I'm traveling our country let
me tell you something yeah people are
working they're working two and three
jobs
and in our America we must agree nobody
should have to work more than one job to
have a roof over their head and food on
the table okay well okay well that seems
also you know basic and common sensical
but here then Shapiro has the same
amount of problem with this rhetoric
coming from Kamala Harris as he does
looking at the camera in a head-on shot
and I know that I don't always maintain
camera eye contact either which I should
but this is a little bit of a different
setup than Shapiro has and there's a lot
more lights going on and a lot more
dynamic activity in the studio why on
earth if you have a static shot like
this and you know that you cannot look
at the camera you would set it up like
that is beyond me but I'm sorry to lose
track here of the substance this is Ben
Shapiro well the fact is that if you had
to work more than one job to have a roof
over your head or food on this table you
probably shouldn't taken the job that's
not paying you enough pause yeah you
prime can we just just let that sink in
in a country that we know in a global
economy that we know is defined by
structural inequities and multiple
barriers to getting well-paying jobs
this kid is literally saying if you work
at Walmart or something full-time and
you need to get another job in order to
survive at the bare minimum you should
have just not taken the Walmart job you
should have just become an engineer at
Google instead that is basically what
he's saying so this is already you know
we're already completely effed in terms
of making any sort of sense here but
let's play it out well the fact is that
if you had to work more than one job to
have a roof over your head or food on
this table you probably shouldn't taken
the job that's not paying you enough
that'd be a you problem
also it is not true the vast majority of
people in the United States are working
two jobs it just is not true according
to the Census so yeah she didn't say
vast majority and I would also say you
know it the people that have to work the
whole thing about having to work more
than one job is bad but it's also the
case where we just need to have people
get more from the one job or the work
that they do now regardless if that's
one job two jobs three right precisely
more jobs we need better jobs we need
better jobs unions and higher wages but
I just I mean one okay so first there's
the total lack of empathy and of course
it will surprise no one that of course
ben shapiro is another trust fund baby
brat who's never had to struggle or deal
with anything in his life he's got a
weird you know he's part of this bizarre
conservative obsession with like teenage
you know with like post immediately post
pubescent boys who can get up on stage
and demand tax cuts and agitate for the
invasion of iraq that's where he comes
from which you know look if he had a
normal psychic trajectory he would be
like that kid jonathan cohn who was
actually on this show years ago and he
was just like i don't know why adults
wanted to see me as a 13 year old talk
about like why we shouldn't have gotten
control or whatever i was kind of weird
I'm in college now and I'd appreciate if
everybody would leave me alone and let
me grow up as a popular as a proper
fully paid-up member of the human race
but ben shapiro never had that growth or
break so he's basically just the same
thing as he was when he was 14 he's just
a you know kind of odd little right-wing
propagandist who came from nothing but
ease so there's that obvious thing then
there's the who gets to have jobs and
why thing which is of course immediately
erased by this and even though commonly
come liars didn't say most but even if
you stipulated that it was say between
five six or eight or even 8% of the
population that is still millions and
millions of human beings in this country
that have to work beyond physical
capacity to survive and acquire basic
goods and services we should oppose that
and recognize that as a problem even if
it is not a majority I don't really
understand these sort of intellectual
and moral limitations and being able to
understand this this is another great
little classic of ben shapiro in a way I
guess it just shows you when you when
you talk fast the same thing is like the
idea that you could just oh yes
presumably you have logic it's the same
logically you'd have to move to a
different community presumably like you
think about all the different like we're
worried about the right-wing starting to
speak to these communities
in the middle of America that are
getting hollowed out well yeah what are
you gonna do just I mean move away
thousands of miles from your family oh
this is why someone like talking Carlson
is way more formidable than Shapiro
because that is what Spiros got but
anyways here's here's Bureau so it
depends on what they have a doctorate in
right so you so you're right there's a
lot of climate scientists and and in you
know climatologists who have who have
said that that global warming is an
absolute fact and anthropogenic global
warming is an absolute fact they have
very different measurements as to how
large that effect is going to be there
is a broad range among climatologists as
far as I can tell among how much the
climate is going to actually change and
what is the direct impact of carbon
emissions on that given the fact that
for the last 15 years there has been no
global warming you know the the the the
single largest study of global warming
that was done in the scriptures is not
involved killing off millions of human
beings
no no no and then no but this is the I
agree but the problem is that if you're
going to provide if you're going to make
maybe maybe you're wrong about climate
change denial but here's the solution
that you're ignoring where's the
solution that's being ignored right I'm
sorry it's not Holocaust denial the use
of the language denier it once alone
basically this is the infamous clip
where he said even if I stipulated that
you were right about anything and yet
beachfront property and it flooded well
you can just sell it so we all remember
that classic bit of the ferocious
precise intellect of ben shapiro all
right we got to take a brief break we're
gonna come back with Vijay Prashad on
the majority report
you
Artie report Michael Brooks here joining
us now is Vijay Prashad he's the
director of the dry cry continental
Institute chief editor of leftward books
and the chief correspondent at globe
trotter Vijay thanks so much for being
here
it's my pleasure thank you so Vijay can
we start by discussing what's been
happening in Kashmir the Indian the
moves of the BJP government to
accelerate troop presence in Kashmir and
also the tearing of the Indian
Constitution with regards to Kashmir is
autonomy can you kind of historian and
Kashmir how and why is this an
escalation and then maybe also
incorporate Pakistani and Chinese
responses to this thanks Michael that's
a very easy thing to say is the
situation in Kashmir today this part of
the unresolved business of the partition
of India in 1947 by the British I mean
the British case with the timetable of
the departure after world war ii and
central arrest
lawyers civil active draw a line between
the two new states of india faster than
the british so wrapped it up with hope
it was extraordinary rapid pace of
events in India and Pakistan so the
state of Kashmir was a monarchy it was a
princely state and people may not know
that about half of the Indian landmass
was actually not an eatable by British
it was governed through this princely
states and so the Maharaja of Kashmir at
the time of partition was not willing
join either India or Pakistan
at which point events Jason and some
irregular troops entered Kashmir from
Pakistan the Indian government went with
Sam quickly join us so we can set in the
middle
and the king did this I mean he joined
India basically under duress but the
Indian government promised two different
things one was that there would be a
plebiscite in Kashmir which was now
divided between ati Pakistan but they
said there'll be a plebiscite very soon
this was pushed by the United Nations as
well that means the people of Kashmir
were to be given the right to vote for
their future the second thing the Indian
government did in the Constitution of
1950 and through a presidential order in
1954 was that Kashmir for now would have
autonomy in article 370 and article 35 a
now why did I say for now because if
you're going to give the people of
Clemmie site a chance to chart their own
path forward these provisions in the
Constitution were basically temporary
until there would be a club aside but
nonetheless because there's not been a
club aside the special status of Kashmir
has remained from 1950 and 54 till today
suddenly the Indian government really
quite suddenly on the 5th of August or
decided to rip up article 370 and 35a
which removes the special status of
Kashmir and now having done this we have
to understand the context there are two
ways two important things to look at
firstly the right-wing government the
BJP government has had since the 1940s
the agenda of somehow just absorbing
Kashmir and since the 1950s of cutting
these two provisions in the Constitution
so for them this is nothing new when
they won a large mandate in the election
this year it was clearly wanted to do
something quite spectacular their base
which is really substantially grown in
India over the years has been itching
for this so there's a popular mandate in
India for the scrapping of article 370
and 35 a but in order to do this there
to reconcile that popular mandate in
India with the
resentment of this inside Kashmir so
just before they announced this in
Parliament on the 5th of August 35,000
paramilitary troops were sent into
Kashmir the troop strength of the Indian
military in Kashmir is over half a
million it's probably the most highly
militarized place on the planet the
internet was shut off the assembly the
the state government's assembly had
already been you know dissolved in the
member of last year but local
politicians were arrested the media was
entirely silenced so Kashmir had no role
in the its own future when this happened
in Parliament on August 5th and
shamefully many centrist parties joined
with the right in voting for scrapping
article 370 and 35 a so that's the as it
were domestic you know context of the
situation there's of course as you said
an international context over the last
10 years or so the Chinese have
developed a project called the belt and
Road initiative which runs across
Eurasia into Africa and parts of South
America is quite a incredible project
you know that has linked the Chinese
coastal cities on the South China Sea
with Europe directly by rail and road
through Iran through substantial parts
of of West Asia but in South Asia in the
last 2 or 3 years the Chinese have
developed two projects to so-called
corridors one into Nepal which was
signed in 2017 and then in 46 billion
dollar corridor which went directly into
Pakistan all the way to a port city in
the Pakistani province of Balochistan
which is called Gwadar this development
by China has rattled the Indian
government to some extent but it also
you know has very much rattled the
United States government and the US
government has been putting pressure on
India not to participate in the belton
Road initiative and it's quite clear
that
this Indian government the right-wing
government being a kind of subordinate
ally of the United States toward the
line and hasn't you know done any kind
of move to you know join either the belt
enroll or to even you know find a way
for India to plug into that I mean it's
an enormous infrastructural project so
there was a sense that the Chinese
Pakistanis nopales etcetera and that
region near Kashmir had some sort of you
know expansion of the project the
right-wing Indian government basically
wanted to exert itself in the border
regions so they not only violated the
Constitution by scrapping 370 and 35 a
but they you know took the state of
Jammu and Kashmir abolished it and
brought that entire region which is the
size of the United Kingdom under the
direct control of New Delhi so they have
sort of centralized rule over their
important border province when we talk
about the Pakistani response what is the
distinction there's there's how much
autonomy this Imran Khan have as a Prime
Minister is he really essentially a
conduit for the intelligence and
military service in Pakistan and what is
their sort of position here both I guess
in terms of their own sense of
historical aggrievement and even things
going back to Bangladesh in the early
70s but also their own strategic
calculations in terms of wanting to have
some type of presence in Kashmir for
their own ability to to wage proxy war
counterweight India well you know the
thing is that it's hard to say whether
Imran Khan has autonomy from the
military or not you know this is the
matter of rumors people suggest that his
between election was entirely because
the military push them forward so maybe
he's not he's been making some ones
after this movie and so on which is what
one could have expected whoever had been
the prime minister in Pakistan in other
words navarre
would have said the same thing even you
know pervez musharraf would have said
the same thing former military man who
was the prize so I don't think it really
matters who is the head of government in
Pakistan all of them would have said the
same thing they would have said this is
a violation of Kashmir and so on but it
is actually something underneath this
that was reported by Suhasini Haider in
the Hindu newspaper which I want to
point out after Imran Khan met with
Donald Trump some statements were made
which I know so harshly writes about it
in I can confirm it has was rattled
grapy one was purely state what happened
was the mr. Trump has been eager to set
a peace deal in Afghanistan even if it
means stuff done to the Afghan Taliban
comes back to power in Kabul you know
he's very eager to pull the US troops
out so one of the pieces of this is that
there will be in this is you know this
is the open friendly government in Kabul
at the same time the Indians know this
is a soft spot for the past unease and
then back the opposite faction so you
know right after the form of the Taliban
the government that came up because I
was pretty much looked was India it
studied in India he had friends in here
and so on so
Stein is a sensitive word and when the
Swiss government after meeting with our
concept you want a peace deal of
Palestine and there was a suggestion
that the Taliban would be allowed to
come back this was a conservative in
secondly in that press conference mr.
John said and we move on to Kashmir
you know in that way that Trump says
things where it's only seem so you know
today said she will solve the thing Hong
Kong no it's just by a magic wand
even some contradictions they said
because me this very much to basically
sees the iron fist on Kashmir the time
you must hasten by the press conference
between Imran Khan and that's great and
Vijay just please make sure to stick
close to the mic because when you do you
sound crystal clear and we get less echo
so I guess before we move on because we
also need to touch on Iran and Brazil
what is well let me ask let me I'll
internationalize it again in a second
but what is the presence of the Indian
left at this point we know that the last
elections were a real consolidation of
the far right in India and we also know
that the Congress party the prime
opposition we wouldn't consider to be a
Left Party however maybe it would be
fair to say that it spite all of their
own contradictions limitations and their
own actually very bloody history at
certain points they were able to hold a
certain to some degree some notion of
Indian pluralism in place going back to
near ruse kind of liberal conceptions
and then there's an Indian left presence
I mean I think a lot of people have
known that Kerala has been governed for
most of its history by or some
significant parts of its history by the
Communist Party and it's and achieved
incredible social gains and that state
relative to not even just India
even globally in some areas of my
understanding where I guess in general
what is the sort of main opposition
positions in India right now and to what
extent is there still a serious left
presence or is it all been relatively
marginalised so the first thing to say
is that the communist parties of which
there are a few and they remain strong
in terms of their mass movements the
main communist parties the cpi-m it
leads the government coalition
government in Kerala even now you know
how and there are you know hundreds of
millions of people in mass organizations
of the Communist left so Communist Left
still exists but I think to the point
here
it was the Communist left that was the
only one who roundly criticized the Modi
government for what it did in Kashmir
and took to the streets as well on
August 7th so and by the way at the same
time a communist Left plus some
independent leftists travelled to
Kashmir between the 9th and 13th of
August returned to Delhi yesterday at
the Press Club of India gave a press
conference where they basically
summarized the situation as democracy is
being murdered in Kashmir so the left
has taken a very strong position and I
would say you know against public
opinion on this case because you know
the left is not going to tail public
opinion this is something people need to
pay attention to that you know that is
why sometimes you become weaker you're
not willing to be an opportunist you
have a longer-term perspective you have
a perspective about minority rights and
so on it's not popular always to stand
up for you know minority populations and
so on so the left has been tarred with
the brush of being anti national I think
this is a serious issue around the world
where people who stand up for human
rights stand up for justice you know
they are disparage the mr. Trump
routinely calls the press for instance
the enemies of the people I mean this is
the same sort of attitude if you don't
stand with the majority then you are a
problem you know your virus they use
you know repellent metaphors describe
people who simply will not stand by the
majority for its sake so that's a big
problem for the left that we should
recognize it's a global problem
yeah the Congress party unfortunately
vacillates because it has you know part
of its agenda is with this sort of
broader secular you know as you said
pluralistic India but it also vacillates
because at times it will run with the
the hounds you know it will go in the
opposite direction then it will say well
we need to be with popular Piron and I
think that's quite shameful we see that
lot with liberalism around the world
right you know people saying well you
know I'm against what Trump is doing at
the boy us-mexico border on the other
hand immigration is a problem no I'm
afraid that's wrong immigration is not a
problem right so and and even just and
maybe just one brief history lesson that
we can correlate I mean I again I I like
recognizing how compromised liberalism
is all of this at the same time not
drawing a false equivalency I would
certainly prefer a Congress government
in India I prefer a democratic
government
you know generically to Trump however at
the same time it's so important to be
honest and clear about these things and
I always remember you know the the
programs against the Sikhs after the
assassination of Indira Gandhi I mean I
was a you know quite personally sort of
you know overseen by a Congress party
government but you know I don't any
animus towards the Congress as an entity
I think it's a contradictory entity in
our countries all of them you know all
around the world we are seeing basically
the disappearance over robust strong
liberal social democracy you know your
electorate is entirely polarized on the
one side you've got this repellent
terrible right-wing on the other side
you have a left which is weak because it
stands for the truth we need that middle
ground to ally with and that's just not
available if you look at the u.s.
Democratic Party
you have people like you know around you
have Rashida played you have you know
all these other people on the left and
even in their own party the speaker is
not always able to be in line with them
and I'm not saying they need to agree
but at least they should have an
attitude of solidarity with each other
even that is not available right
precisely and that's is actually why I
think it's so important really we get to
Lula on Brazil in a bit because that's a
such an important model but before we
move to Iran for a couple of minutes I
mean what everybody always goes to and
in some ways maybe this is our own
international selfishness that anytime
something happens in South Asia there's
all these incredible intricacies that
implicate so many people and such
dynamic politics in India Pakistan
Afghanistan but it always sort of ends
up at some point of like is this going
to escalate to the point where there's
some type of actual serious military
exchange between India and Pakistan
which would obviously you know have
ramifications for the rest of the world
what is your read on the appetite of the
Indian and Pakistani government in terms
of governments in terms of actually
allowing this to escalate beyond the
crisis that already is basically said so
and I also think it's important to
understand that here the Chinese have
changed the situation in South Asia
you know the appetite is much greater
for greater infrastructure then for more
I think that this is quite a significant
qualitative change in very many parts of
Asia I feel like this is what is going
to turn the talk in Afghanistan as well
the moment people in Afghanistan see
that the Chinese are gonna show up and
build big roads and connect at the table
say well maybe this is a better idea I
mean I just want to put forward that
it's been a long time in parts of Asia
it's been far too long whether there's
been no uniting project that is not you
know something to do with war and the
Chinese have for all that flaws
with that project forward right with
Iran we've seen the Trump administration
tear up the deal even though every
observer including our own us you know
State Department and so on confirmed
that Iran was following the deal down to
the T the Europeans were angry but there
isn't necessarily any sort of muscle
behind that anger and now we've seen
this kind of cycle of of tension in in
insight in terms of these sip ships
seizures what what do you see as the
dynamic between the United States Iran
in Europe right now the Europeans are a
test case of spinelessness you know the
Europeans you know that the deal that
was after a great set of compromises by
all sides the deal that was struck in
2015 is a very routine the Europeans
know that they tell you that quite
openly secondly the Europeans know that
the Europeans have not violated the deal
and as you say so does the US State
Department fact so does the CIA
everybody knows the team was not
violated thirdly the Europeans are
desperate for Iranian oil you know their
other main avenues of oil from all
natural gas from Russia from Libya these
have been compromised by sanctions by
very stupid wars so the Europeans are
desperate for Iranian oil you know they
try to create a mechanism to be able to
pay for your onion oil around you
essentials so for these three reasons
Europeans you know the team was good
Europeans know the Iranians haven't
violated the deal and the Europeans are
desperate for all you would think that
in a rational world European social
democracy and so on would stand up and
say that the United States leaving this
deal is ridiculous I mean they would
come beyond the United States it'd be
sharply critical when the US government
decided to sanction Jawad's relief the
foreign minister of Iran you know in a
normal
you'd have expected the foreign
ministers of Europe and the European
Union's foreign chief you know for now
federica mogherini you would have
expected all of them to come out in
public and said this is outrageous
all that happened was they released a
very mild statement saying we will
continue to meet mr. Zarif really is
that the best you can do I mean this
spinelessness of the center is what is
crippling the world today you know we
need to see this it's easy to see
where's the left
what's the left not not doing its this
is not a problem of the left this is the
problem of a center that has been
dissolved into jelly so what and what
was the rationale I mean just elaborate
on the sanctions against jawad Zarif
because that is really the height of the
aggressiveness and the absurdity of the
Trump line and the spinelessness of the
Europeans I mean I and I'm not I'm not
making a value judgment here I don't
want sanctions against anybody it was a
great deal things were moving forward
and so on but when someone pulls you
know when someone comes forward and they
say oh well we we sanctioned some you
know commander and the Republican you
know in the in the Republican Guard or
whatever okay okay you know that this
makes it inside a certain logic this is
sort of part of the kind of conflict
zones in the Middle East javad zarif no
one has done more to try to soothe all
of these tensions and move forward
diplomatically mr. Zarif was educated
almost entirely in the United States he
speaks fluent English he's an extremely
bright and well-prepared person let's
just put that out there you need to have
secretary of state Mike compared on your
show you need to ask him why he's
jealous of mr. Zarif you know I asked I
has somebody in the US State Department
what's the story here because I wrote a
piece about this well he told me look
let's be frank the leaf has been doing
the us talk shows and the Trump
administration is frustrated you know
they can't stand the fact that this guy
is so good and you know partly let's
let's say he he's right in what he's
saying it's not just that he's a good
you know spin doctor he has truth on his
side I mean it's not only that he's a
good
messenger his message is good and Trump
apparently and Pompeyo just can't stand
it you know in amanaki
sometimes you have to look at the
Caprice of the monarch you don't have to
understand structure and you know you
don't have to understand the context
it's just the Monarchs attitude you know
that's how I like to read the Saudi
Arabian situation for instance you know
there's a lot of internal bizarreness
you know when the monarch says something
you have to do it I mean there's no
checks and balance in some ways this
Trump Pompeo you know policy on Zarif
feels monocle it there's no rational
explanation to sanction the foreign
minister of a country who's willing to
negotiate with you you can't on the one
side say we want to negotiate a better
deal and then sanction the only person
who's able to negotiate this deal you
know the Supreme Leader of Iran made a
very good comment he said you know you
want to negotiate the reef is the only
person you're going to negotiate with
this nobody else he said that openly
right so the the fact of this sanction
on Zarif indicates one of two things one
this government is totally comical
farcical doesn't understand the way in
which diplomacy works they are being
motivated in a sense by jealousy or
whatever that's one second thing is
actually this is their path to war they
really don't want to negotiate anything
that eventually when the timetable
perhaps an electoral timetable suits
them they'll do some sort of bombing
raid on Iran it's only one or two one or
the other explanation perhaps both but I
don't see a third explanation so what
can slow that timetable down or reverse
it is it is it dependent on European I
mean did the feckless Europeans what I
mean I certainly Bernie Sanders has at
least been very aggressive in terms of
domestic leadership and trying to bring
this back to Congress as an example as
well as also saying quite clearly than
any type of military exchange with Iran
would obviously be an absolute
catastrophe
what can slow this or stop this well I'm
not confident about the Europeans
I mean they they were not able to build
the spine to deal with you know a pack
of lies around Iraq I doubt very much
that this is going to be any different
that's the one side secondly inside
American politics there's a serious
problem I mean whether it's the
Democrats or the Republicans neither
seem to acknowledge and appreciate the
fact that Iran has the legal right to
process uranium you know it has a legal
nuclear energy policy now I am against
nuclear energy 100% but my opinion is
hardly relevant the United States
government continues to develop nuclear
energy France you know basically exists
on nuclear energy a recent until
recently Germany as well so nuclear
energy is a legitimate and legal you
know procedure legitimate policy and so
on and the Iranians through their
membership in the nuclear
non-proliferation treaty through their
established position with the
International Atomic Energy Agency and
so on they have a right to nuclear
energy and they're processing around
four-and-a-half percent of uranium not
even close to the ninety percent which
is needed for nuclear bomb but in the
u.s. in u.s. political culture any
enrichment by Iran is seen as illegal
and I think this is the really the nub
of the problem I don't see a Democrat
willing to come out there in public and
say Iran has a right to process uranium
for its nuclear energy project and
unless that takes place there is no
long-term solution to this problem you
know what gives a country like the
United States the right to tell another
country what it can do or not do if what
it is doing is illegal this is something
that Americans seriously need to think
about you just got back from Brazil and
I definitely I've certainly used both of
my platforms extensively to talk about
the political imprisonment of Lula I
think that that matters in a variety of
areas quite significantly both for
Brazil in the world so I want to get
specifically to that but first
just your broader impressions of what's
taking place now in Brazil both
obviously the assault on the Amazon on
labor unions and so on this the
manifestation of authoritarianism
they're under under bosun ro but also
the recent setbacks are bolson ro and
mauro and and this the sort of
counterweight in brazil but what's
what's the feeling on the ground there
well firstly it has to be said that if
you think Trump is a comical character
Bolton ro is a hundred Trump's I mean is
there's an element of ridiculousness
about his presidency even the Brazilian
elite I think is quite embarrassed by
him yeah they would like his policies
they just don't like how embarrassing he
is you know the kinds of statements and
the sort of things he believes I think
that's important to put out there
similar in a way to the u.s. situation
where you know the elite very much seem
to be in line with the things Trump is
doing but they just don't like Trump's
personality I think there's something
even more grotesque about balsan ro to
this elite section but Boston ro as a
person and his policies is deeply
polarized Brazil and polarized it in a
terrible way you know polarized it to
the extent where genuinely the health of
the planet is threatened there are two
major carbon sinks in the planet one is
the Amazon and the second is the island
of Papua which is divided between West
Papua now held by Indonesia and by Papua
New Guinea both Naru is basically opened
the Amazon for business this is great
for Canadian Australian American Swiss
companies you know people don't like to
recognize the kind of companies the the
you know the national origin of the
companies that are destroying the Amazon
but they're not so far away from the
good liberals of Canada half the mining
companies in the world basically
headquartered in Canada you know you'll
have Justin Trudeau for all his charisma
but behind him are some quite terrible
mining companies
at the University of Toronto one of the
most distinguished institutions is the
Munk
Centre for international studies you
know I've been there a number of times
but the name monk should set off you
know bells in South America because he
was the head of one of the worst of
these mining companies in fact mr. monk
you know is the one who started writing
quite feverishly when Hugo Chavez came
to power in Venezuela call him a
dictator largely because Chavez
threatened Canadian mining interests
inside Venezuela
so balsa narrow is certainly you know
opened the Amazon for business for
business of these multinational
corporations and this is I think created
some pause inside Brazil obviously there
are labor unions who are greatly upset
and so on but I think the destruction of
the Amazon has even raised eyebrows
among people who sort of sat in the
middle and weren't willing to take a
stand against both Sonora I think there
is now the temperature rising of genuine
concern that the activities in the
Amazon are threatening the planet I
think this is really the soft underbelly
of the neoliberal project inside Brazil
I've always thought that one of the
reasons that the imprisonment of Lula
was so crucial was that the uncritical
coverage and bracing of lava jato by the
global media class and by liberals and
so on and this this corruption rhetoric
which has been used by the global
far-right in it in it not in terms of
understanding systems of corruption but
in this personalised campaigns of saying
that particular leaders almost always on
the Left are corrupt was the sort of
handmaiden of this new rise of
authoritarianism and lava jato was so
perfect because this uncritical embrace
of the sprawling investigation which was
weaponized essentially primarily to
focus on the Workers Party and now we
know from all of the intercept
disclosures that of course it was
politically motivated and also that
there were specifically politicians on
the right and in the centre that they
went easy on or ignored because they
see them as being politically aligned
with them that and and juxtaposing that
with the fact that lula was both such a
successful leader but also such a
conciliatory one is your sense that that
sort of this the the microcosm of the
lava jato Lula story in Brazil is sort
of that type of standing for
understanding these dynamics globally
quickly say that when mister Lula was in
power in Brazil yes it was a
double-faced agenda on the one side
mister Lula decided to compromise with
the banks that was early with his letter
to the bankers and so on so he was never
going to pursue a far left agenda right
secondly importantly he produced one of
the most robust Social Democratic
agendas in a big country in our period
you know Brazil is much bigger than a
place like Venezuela and the two parts
of that project that I think need
emphasis one he basically through his
policies almost eradicated hunger in
Brazil incredible for a country that has
never had a revolution I mean after all
Brazil was created not by some you know
uprising inside Brazil but because the
father essentially donated Brazil to his
son I mean it's hardly a revolution and
secondly Brazil just you know got rid of
slavery just a few days ago you know so
in that context he was able to tackle
the question of hunger I think that's
quite significant and and even the
United Nations said that their scheme
the zero hunger policy is got to be
emulated secondly Lula opened up
universities opened a whole bunch of
public universities around the country
basically opening the door to
working-class rural black indigenous
students to come and study at the
highest level and they basically came in
with you know ability to come and study
with government funds I mean why is this
important you know a whole generation
was able to be educated that came from
deprived backgrounds and not just
primary education they got college
education so even though there were
great limitations in mr. Lew
as agenda he pushed a couple of projects
at least and I'm just emphasizing two of
them that built him up as an enormously
popular person and it's unfortunate that
his success for dilma rousseff came to
power when commodity prices fell she
tried to push some of the same schemes
but not with the same robustness which
is why after the horrible presidency of
mr. Damon much more corrupt than Lula
proven to be more corrupt and then then
Lula Lula yet not sure whether he was
corrupt in the first place
but this man genuinely corrupt in the
time of teman when the next election was
coming up Lula was put as the candidate
of the Workers Party and by all polls
showed that he would have won maybe even
in the first round of the voting so he
had to be removed from power I mean you
know you gotta understand when you look
at the intercept conversations you look
at morale talking to the prosecutor and
so on I mean behind all that is the fear
that this man could become the president
again and you know he may not have
challenged the banks he may not have
done this and that hundred things you
can say about him but he certainly
improved the well-being of Brazilians
and they loved him and they would have
elected him without a problem which
means the left would have come back to
power in Brazil this would have been so
significant you know for South America
just the other day there was a primary
election in Argentina where mr. Makris
party was defeated and then Dilma
Rousseff sent out a tweet immediately
saying that this primary election in
Argentina is a light at the end of the
tunnel for South America
imagine if Lula had won the election it
wouldn't have been a light at the end of
the tunnel it would have been a light
over South America precisely and I just
in the last couple of minutes I mean I
just want to say I think it's extremely
important that especially in the
Brazilian case but elsewhere that we
make a distinction when we talk about
corruption because I think that just as
with the banks when Lula came to power
in 2003 there wasn't um a historical
or global context for him to do much
different than what he did as far as I
understand and he still as you said
delivered these incredible gains for the
Brazilian people and part of that was
making peace with both with Brazilian
politics the Brazilian banks foreign
investors and so on so I think it's
quite important when we when we sort of
juxtapose these corruption questions and
we could see that well there's the
actual case against Lula that they put
him in jail for is farcical right it's
it's modest improvements on a
middle-class home that he was never even
proven to have lived in and spent maybe
one or two visits at right and that more
broadly you know if someone is head of a
government and has already set made
enough sort of an eight compromise in
order to govern that might mean that
they are involved in sort of broad
systemic generic corruption that
certainly does not mean and I think what
most people think in their heads when
they hear the word corruption that okay
someone took several million dollars out
of their funds for clean water and stuck
it in a Swiss bank account there's
nothing like that on Lula and I just
think it's quite important because so
many right-wing leaders even Donald
Trump you know very effectively said
drain the swamp and in his case he was
talking about people like the Clintons
who do have you know they these are no
Lula's by any stretch of the imagination
but the right has been able to use a
simplified dumbed down corruption
discourse to as as political law fair
against the left
politically particularly in Brazil and
it just seems to me that we need to have
a much smarter understanding about
precisely what corruption is and isn't I
mean we saw the same dynamic in
Argentina the main argument that people
like McCree had was against Christina de
Kirchner who's running as vice-president
in that election she's a former
president and they also you know sort of
asserted corruption allegations against
her as well so the I think we can't
separate those threads
first one the election in the previous
masala with the idea that Congress was
gonna I mean corruption is a very empty
word by itself it is just bandied about
I'm not sure people people on what it
means generally what I think people's
suggestions I am NOT doing well in my
life
it appears that some people are doing
well and therefore there is corruption
you know corruption stands in for a
better understanding about capitalism
works that is why people feel like Oh
connection is a real thing but it's not
the sort of personal corruption you
imagine it's system that is you people
away from you but we don't have this
deep understanding of how the system
works so what I get is you get the media
and you speaking my people I mean let's
take apartments very modest apartment
let's take Apartments one of these 3d
sensors very famous president of Brazil
has these enormously expensive apartment
in a major Avenue advance
why is it that being investigated you
know the current president of Ecuador a
great friend of the United States now
mr. Moreno has a very fancy apartment in
Madrid in Spain that was revealed in
some papers sympathy earlier you know
some these are not taken up as costs and
production some connections M on the one
hand is misleading because it it
basically gets it the problems in the
world but then deflects from the
problems you don't get a more structured
understanding of why is this inequality
the one less worry the problem second
one is it's very nice it's used against
certain politicians and not others and
it's this recognization of corruption
and i think we should be very careful
about I mean it's obviously true but
what about the head of the Senate you
know what about that get in you comes
from the Sailor Kentucky
supposedly have a contract of years
now is an enormous learn how to take it
with you no that's also from corruption
perhaps I hear a faction against him
this is very right precisely and just to
echo that gentleman Cardozo who has the
apartment in Paris some of the lava jato
leaks show at the very least that III
believe Mauro saying well this is a guy
that we shouldn't look at quite as much
because he's politically sympathetic to
us and so yeah so we have exactly
precisely that dynamic and then all of a
sudden a person like Lula where there's
actually nothing there are no fancy
apartments or secret bank accounts or
anything like that we have this this you
know this silly modest apartment deal
which has it doesn't have any physical
evidence but then you know these the
sort of broader swirl of accusations
none of which have been proven and the
ones that you know that may exist have
to do with just making compromises with
a structural corrupt system as you
mentioned before which would require an
understanding of wealth concentration of
Brazil and the role of global capital in
Brazil and then all of a sudden we're in
a totally different politics we have to
you know bring into the present I mean
part of the problem is this context you
have a sober conversation is not
available you know people often say oh
my god this is what I think those the
national discussion about politics that
context for that is just not available I
mean I'm not even talking about the fact
that you go on a mainstream television
program people understand what you say
but what I wanted to emphasize is that
they don't understand what you're saying
you sound crazy you sound crazy
what do you feel crazy well because the
context for that conversation is just
gonna be you know if I want
you know the structural problems in the
world the problem as you said structural
corruption and so on I don't think it's
for that question is it you know that's
not a question man I mean I've been on a
lot of media that's the question they
ask you answer the question will not
give you a lot and if you say that is
not right that stops us from actually
thinking out the actual context um well
Vijay Prashad I just always appreciate
your time so much I hope we speak again
very soon I feel like it's been too long
a gap man yeah okay great Vijay Prashad
director of the tri continental
Institute chief editor of leftward books
and chief correspondent at Globetrotter
check out all of his work with a link to
his Twitter page as well
Vijay thank you so much thanks a lot
take care
all right folks um let's see become a
member of the majority report today
majority can you take it down man I'm
gonna call into the system Thank You
majority dot F M slash become a member
that's how this show happens check out
just coffee co-op Fairtrade tea coffee
or chocolate um let's do since we're
running late let's do thumbnail pitches
let's do ten fifteen seconds each Matt
what do we got
literary hangover we did for a couple of
patron episodes before we go to Chicago
so coming up this weekend it's going to
be George Orwell's shooting an elephant
which is actually a rather problematic
essay where we get into or well maybe
not so clearly good of an
anti-imperialist as people like
Christopher Hitchens might suggest we
get into some racial rate basically
racist attitudes and representations and
what it means and to a certain extent
it's defensible in terms of rhetorical
like he literally was a cop and speaking
as a Imperia
cup and that's gonna be racist but
nowhere else does he represent so we get
into problematic or well in the next
literary hangover sweet Jamie this week
on the anti Fattah we have on Simone
Norman actress comedian and commie
organizer and ESA for a bit of a chat I
talked about the DSA convention in
Atlanta including the resolutions on
open borders sex work decriminalization
and Bernie or bust as well as the
manufactured drama that was clap gate I
also talked about the close the camp's
action in New York over the weekend and
how you can get involved and then we
discussed the uses and abuses of irony
on the left check it out also we have a
bonus coming out on Friday for our
patrons in which Simone discusses for
the first time the Praxis video that
broke the internet stay tuned
I feel like Sam on that one like I don't
know all these things oh you didn't see
the video I actually did not see that
video I'll play for you later it's funny
okay on TMDs on Tuesday we talked with
Elaine you she's a correspondent for AFP
and Hong Kong about the context for the
uprisings in Hong Kong then Breanna joy
gray press secretary for the Bernie
Sanders campaign former TM BS regular in
her journalist days we talked about
media bias against Bernie how that
campaign looks on the ground and we did
a look at ideology as a filter for
understanding the presidential
candidates and when someone tells you
they're not ideological why that is the
most powerful statement of ideology
possible this weekend Liz forensic who's
the co-host of the true non podcast
joins me to talk about an actual
strategic response to Tucker Carlson
that's her patrons patreon.com slash
TMDs Michael Brooks show on YouTube
we'll see you in the fun half six four
six two five seven thirty nine twenty
see you in the fun
[Music]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are back
[Music]
and the alpha males are just wanna
degrade the white man alpha males are
back back
I took my lovely bike from alpha males
are back back back
almost has one and the alpha males are
back
I am a total can we bring back the
ug dinner yeah or a couple you put them
in rotation DJ dance well the problem
with those is they're like 45 seconds
long so I don't know if they're enough
of a break that's
I do not have more concerns and the
alpha males are like
Oh almost says what
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
blocked back
alpha males all back
because all black
out there doesn't a little party you
think that America deserves to be taken
over by jihadis keep it at 100
for the bigger game plan by the way it's
my birthday happy birthday to meet you
boy
I haven't thought expensive oil and the
alpha males of black/black alpha males
somebody needs to pay the price request
me around here I am a busy busy busy
welcome to the fun half let's take a
call out of the gate since there's no
doubt I get to all calls you're calling
from a Skype who are you where you go
one more time this is Matt here calling
from London can you hear me Matthew from
London I can hear you now
what's on your mind Matthew fantastic I
just want to let you know that I'm
listening to your podcast lying down
because I'm I'm recovering from several
high level ideas yeah yeah definitely
Vijay Prashad will bring the high level
important ideas what else is on your
mind bud yeah alright what add the word
says I know you may be interested in
going on a podcast but I just gonna get
and your current thoughts on the status
Joe Rogan I had wanted to call in and
chat about his last interview with Eric
Weinstein which is basically I think
he's the brotherís the Weinstein from
evergreen University it's the one who
works with Peter Thiel basically yeah I
watched that or I think I think Sam did
a segment on it I I gotta tell you man I
just think you know Joe people you know
people should not only should people
probably worry less about that show but
take some w's that are coming from that
show right now like Bernie's appearance
was on that show was a major success
well great Cornel West was on yeah I
mean III all of the criticisms still
stand and wines a sucks
why is Weinstein oh boy not both of them
both of them but do you have anything
else you have anything else besides
content reactions to other yeah sorry
everybody the thing I just wanted to to
say was um obviously that's quite your
cover in Kashmir it's it's a real
problem
- look at these things from military
viewpoint and it's really scary because
it you know it looks like these people
are you know Pakistan and India for
various reasons might be having a hot
war and they both got nuclear weapons so
will they hear what let's hope
enthusiastically it's thanks for the
call you're calling from a five seven
three area code who are you calling from
I can you hear me yes can hear you okay
yeah I'm Adam from Missouri for him all
the long time lover
well welcome at him I returned the love
what's on your minds okay so I had a
kind of like a two-parter but one thing
I was wondering and I kind of kind of
tried calling other days hope he gets
Sam on the ranch or something but
fortunately so call back for Sam is a
very bad way to start a call bad bad bad
stuff but my question was I don't know
when this comes in usually to the
political talk but we talked of vice
president's nomination like like who
they're gonna use vice presidents when
did they usually start me when either
the after that usually they're announced
after the nomination mostly you thought
Sam again to a rant about that no not
exactly that one no she probably would
have directed you to let me google that
for you calm cuz I I think that Bernie
see it well all right what's the
question but don't worry about that
until I mean you know that's not what's
top of the docket right now all right
what's the second one buddy
okay let's see how this well so the idea
is about like making housing so we know
that malls are basically closing down or
basically become what dead space are
they being used for anything particular
can we use them the like to have the
government come there's a huge amount of
empty spaces to be inferred into housing
definitely thanks for the call man rx
propriate the malls expropriate a lot of
stuff
right this is what a new segment that
we're gonna do from time to time called
blind item
where we have not seen this we're gonna
listen or watch and respond this is now
it's incredible to watch the wave of
fake pseudo sophisticates who literally
only Alex Jones and pundits on CNN can
think that criticizing media monopolies
and how that influences coverage is the
same as some type of baroque conspiracy
theory most the rest of us are either
intuitively grok the obvious which is
that there are self-interest and self
selection or some of the rest of us have
done things like red manufacturing
consent which is pretty well known book
it really shouldn't I mean it was
plugged in Good Will Hunting for God's
sake let's see how Stephen Colbert does
with the whole anti Bernie uh bias and
media story let's see Colbert who
historically is one of the smarter ones
let's see how he does character was good
his character was good blind item let's
check it out Vermont senator and
sentient Ireland Bernie Sanders four
years of the Bern has been critical of
corporate America especially Amazon CEO
and super cool penis Jeff Bezos
yuck
ladies look I don't tax
that recent event in New Hampshire a
Bernie went after besos again if you
looked at the Washington Post which is
owned by the wealthiest guy in this
country guy named Jeff Bezos Amazon May
10 billion dollars in profit last year
you know how much they paid in taxes
oh god it's zero anyone Des Moines The
Washington Post
it's not one of my great supporters I
wonder why why it is that he's stealing
Trump's Alex this is the Jeff Bezos The
Washington Post is I think and I'm
pointing this phrase fake news said it's
a witch hunts a witch hunt
gumboots the United
[Music]
any matter does this go on much longer
because this is a great explanation of
why so many people are so I think we got
I think we got to do it all right keep
yeah there's like a minute left and this
is he gonna recover
is he gonna recover because it's supply
all right
halfway in Stephen Colbert never give
your heroes the Late Show
there's that article that came out in
Mel magazine earlier this year about how
just late night writing rooms are just
absolutely dead in the water and just
wrote all the time and this is like this
is a perfect example men of it all right
here I'm out guys
Colbert's initial contract was for a
four point six million over three years
yeah he's making he's just getting paid
I mean maybe he could spend some of that
money on more writers maybe it's been
more like or order a book from pals
independent bookstore online called
manufacturing consent go ahead I think
there is a framework about how the
corporate media focuses on politics okay
Bernie that's ridiculous
I Stephen Colbert work for a major
corporate media but I'm free from
corporate influence and I can say
whatever I want
which reminds me all hail the glorious
merger of Viacom and see me
[Applause]
[Music]
demographics creating eternal value for
shareholders by Akama CBS so this is a
basically a reworking of a Wayne's World
joke which was actually funny in the
original Wayne's World movie where they
get sponsors and the whole site gag is
that they're never gonna sell out and
they're always gonna be independent
while they hold up different products
and this is so funny because this this
is very this is like he's so pure Gen X
here because it's like that double move
where it's like as long as I'm overt
there's nothing to see here
so what I'll do is I'll actually after
making this ridiculous you have brain
worms if you think Sanders and Trump are
doing the same thing but I'll explain it
to the people who have trouble
comprehending basic things in a minute
but what he's doing there is after
making that ridiculous false equivalency
is saying like I'll throw like a slight
rhetorical bone to people who have
concerned about media monopolies and
I'll turn it into this lake ultra irony
filled nonsense which is sort of pulling
off a great feat if you take it
seriously or if it was in any way funny
because one one hand what you're doing
is you're basically saying like hey look
for one track you're like no I actually
get it that's why I'm gonna look like
I'm being a shill right now but actually
for most people and the people who are
unable to see the difference in Sanders
and Trump he's doing an extreme
character of what people have made up
and lied that Bernie is saying which is
that it is this linear one-to-one
relationship so a very sad blind item
and I just want to say Donald Trump has
never structurally critiqued anything
he's basically said that if the
Washington Post doesn't narrow
investigative report the New York Times
exposes how he's a trust-fund baby and
all of his you know various misdeeds
that that means they're the enemy of the
people because his personality is
immersed with his base Bernie Sanders is
saying that media monopoly is in media
concentration of a very small group of
people industries
and oligarchs scuse what gets focused on
in terms of coverage and that's why as
an example you don't get uh you know
several years ago in particular you
would never get any if you want to talk
about poverty we get zero coverage so he
and then more broadly of course he's
running a campaign which literally
threatens the self-interest of those who
control the media and so they don't need
to make a call they don't even need to
consciously sort of make a plan
they've already filtered through in
terms of a professional system and an
ideological system a whole
infrastructure that's gonna be opposed
to him and biased against him this is
quite obvious even on the down to the
level who can afford to do internships
and media companies it ain't working
class people nope I can assure you
absolutely and Stephen Colbert is also
doing something kind of gross here where
he's making fun of the idea that he
would be stoked on the CBS Viacom merger
and stand to benefit from it when in
fact he very much does and it's a little
bit tone-deaf towards all of the
employees right now who work at these
two companies who are legitimately
concerned about layoffs and
consolidation right nice one dude way to
be a man of the people or and also just
not funny
well Viacom owns Comedy Central right so
it's not he hasn't worked with Viacom
before it's like getting the gang back
together that's right
um I guess let's I don't know if I can
deal with this I've always said that
people need to be a lot more strategic
it's not enough to just condemn Tucker
Carlson he knows how to he's got some
cleverness in his game Adam Carolla
dozen and this is good reminder of just
like yeesh Adam Carolla and Tucker
Carlson on why is college why they sit
in front of a Nissan these are cool cars
I don't like the Exxon I don't like to
excellence ship either alright here's of
these two undeniably Tucker Carlson is
funnier without a doubt
Adam Carolla supposedly is like a
lifelong comedian I I don't get this guy
alright let's watch this it's and I
would say drop them off in a business
and let them be what they used to call
me on the construction site start off as
a glorified goon / which is low man on
the totem pole ooh can we say low man
anymore no lo what well I don't want to
I don't want to use a pejorative here
and assign the answer but I know the
pronoun is de lo really not on the totem
pole because that's cultural
appropriation point lo they on the
barber pole no lo they on the flagpole
no definite on the flagpole lo they on
the telephone pole
I don't get this little oh my god what's
going on here this is like the new
update of the I'm a helicopter joke
basically all right well that's that's
powerful right wing's community right
conservatives are getting funnier
waiting Dennis Miller to drop in to make
some joke about renaming Death of a
Salesman or something yeah exactly
Willie low person yeah yeah Willie low
person was triggered by the lack of
sales opportunity I am me in the
imperially occupied land of the greater
North East sales region
I for one am shocked that the great mind
behind girls jumping on trampolines has
become a lazy reactionary yeah I'll
admit that I'd seen some man shows as a
young teenage boy and for reasons
besides Corollas comedy but i don't know
i don't remember ever seen I don't
remember ever having any memories of
Adam Carolla making me laugh that is
actually that's a great bit though like
we're watching like the man show it's
like 13 or just leave I wish they would
just get to the trampoline yes there's
Adam Carolla really has significant
limitations as a comedian I understand
like Howard Stern manages to do bits
like this and he's funny what's Adam
Carolla not spilled beer bit oh yeah
it's like okay I get it
and then when you get a Budweiser that's
it even worse hangover
Thank You Adam can we get to the trap a
leads now please the feed discerning man
show watcher that was what it's what a
woof what a split Kimmel and Corolla man
the wonder coral is so resentful and
nobody by the way talk about being low
on an entertainment totem pole relative
to your former buddy that's not that's
not a good trajectory it's been drinking
too much of that mangria was that a
sponsor of his podcast no that was like
he had a branded sangria for men oh my
god Big Mac Christmas drank it once I am
sure he did that's an actual thing
Jesus crazy Sh all right Leafs age I
heard you used the term cloud fat clown
fascism many times obviously this refers
to Trump but I was wondering if you had
a broader definition as it pertains to
the rise of right-wing governments well
I did first I first used that term with
regards to Trump when he was running for
president during the camp during the
campaign that's when I first said it but
um no there I mean there isn't
interesting
I think bolson ro would definitely fit
in that pattern uh Boris Johnson would
fit into that pattern and and the one I
mean look I think it just captures
something particular about Trump but one
thing that I would say that is that is
parallel between ball Cynara Trump and
Johnson even though they're all very
different figures in some key respects
is that they were all three treated as
media oddities and sources of like
bizarre entertainment so even though
like bolson ro was in the Brazilian
Congress he would be on TV I think a
Brazilian journalist or talk-show host
she kind of apologized she was like yeah
I mean we kind of had this guy on he was
an idiot he would be provocative Boris
Johnson has this hole very carefully
cultivated sort of fake spontaneity
about him so I think there's something
with these people who actually are very
extreme in their politics their you know
their their pure sort of top-down class
politics they're very harmful and their
agendas but they do have something kind
of comical and ridiculous about them
so a lot of them have those literal like
clown wigs of hair today do is another
one in Italy whose name escapes Albania
yeah maybe he doesn't I don't think so
look but you know I like Modi on the
other hand I mean Modi is does not have
that effect at all
I mean Modi certainly is extremely
egotistical and so on but his his uh his
effect is very different and I mean you
know that we're posting zand with the
don't era
William bar I was gonna say Donald bar
era we're in the fascism yeah we're at
age I mean there's clowns around because
it's hard to staff because competent
fashion fascists are really hard to come
by because they're borderline
paradoxical but yeah we're a clown
fascist made a lot I think it was a lot
more fun to say in 2016 right than it is
now right and I think now it's like did
the extent it's true it's more it could
almost be like a tool of analysis of
like what the relationship is with media
and the rise of particular personalities
right you know basically um comp kamut
pronounced at dude I'm not even this is
too complicated
where does Matt Walsh rank on the list
of Matt's you've had on the majority
report who's Matt Walsh
oh he's sweaty guy that were know the
guy well unearned pennant from yesterday
quite low the nerd who doesn't know
anything
sab sab Gorkhas worst of both worlds
cept orcas business card solidarity with
everyone in the Bernie campaign
particularly Briana Joy gray on Tuesday
night watched the two of you on T MBS
and immediately opened Twitter
afterwards to find her work on my Bernie
Snorri had been smeared on an unrelated
note does anyone have any movie
recommendations where a horse dies
well of course the Godfather yeah horse
doesn't want this smoke sorry you yeah
for at nobody um what we're some like I
apparently some like weird twerpy
centrist that counts were like really
upset about people uh I think a leader
of the Center for American Progress
thought it was daxing to say that that
guy was a strategist for major
corporations including health care and
from seconds on his LinkedIn so too
so somebody has a anonymous Twitter
account where they constantly sort of
allude to their work at least when I saw
it as a sort of like credibility
credibility established or like hey guys
I'm not just some like random lunatic
smearing people who progressive politics
on on Twitter I've I've I'm a consultant
I I gotta say one product of like you
know going to like a you know certain
like private colleges and going to and
living in a place in like New York is
that there's a lot of consultants out
there and so they how I'll put it it is
not like this automatic credibility yeah
I'll figure out what they're doing when
I talk to them at parties right
precisely it's like I know you're a
consultant my a terrific my first
semester is a communication studies
student a professors like you want to
get into consulting you want to get very
little work yes yes Habra I've managed
Sabra is Facebook page the path of least
resistance when you're graduating from
an elite college so they come to campus
and recruit you so somebody put just
basically I don't even know how they did
it but so so I'm sure Sam will talk
about it but but actually dachshund
somebody is really horrible and
unacceptable and I would never advocate
for anybody that's called putting like
somebody's address yeah like only to
ashes so somebody actually basically
saying like oh there's a LinkedIn
account that goes with this disgusting
Twitter propaganda account yeah and this
is upsetting people
that's I mean it's disingenuous yeah I
know these are engine my editorial is
these people are dishonest actors also
Tom Watson apparently was on it and
Thomas about Watson well I thought he
was a British politician but apparently
there's a lesser-known guy
named Tom Watson compost Watson the
lesser poster is a poster who blocked me
before I even what does that even exist
in 2019
Hillary poster like what other person
had like he's such a fixated
relationship with such a mediocre
politician is so bizarre he's what's
your speculation I think he's on why
your speculation triples yeah some
d-triple-c payroll that's what you post
about like centrist stems and the Mets
basically they're so bad at oh my god I
hate when the people insist on like
having a person I'm a normal guy really
the minute shut up you're not normal I
love being just a complete corporate
shill but also having my child and not
that it either any of these people have
this but the people that have their kids
and their profile pictures oh as they
just do the most horrible most greed
driven the things online funny I'm ready
but yeah retweet that horse everyone
should know about who course ebooks or
whatever his name is
yeah it really no it was the books out
of it I just knew that he was just some
try there was just some trash account
and it's like what I don't I mean I
guess I don't know I guess he didn't
want to have his name but it's like what
he'll we all knew well the tweekly out
that he didn't have the name or name was
insulting the name was specifically
blocked name was specifically blocked I
don't still don't know his name yeah
he's a Aetna Exxon I think yeah they're
like I know the relevant and that he
looks like we're likes auditions for the
roles of dentists you know having based
comedies it's a shame the Liberals don't
respect their phone and fathers anymore
because the founding fathers had a very
very not very deep you know they they
abided to the idea that you would be not
horse whisperer AIDS I'm not comfortable
defending the founding fathers
disinterestedness is the word I was
looking you're calling from a 502 area
code who are you worried calling from
hey Michael this is Aaron from Texas
Aaron what's going on what's on your
minds uh well there was two potential
things I wanted to talk about depending
on how comfortable you were discussing
Bernie going on Rogan I don't wanna I
mean I I'm good I'm glad he did it it's
a
thing do you have anything else yeah
yeah we can talk about something else so
my dad actually is a or was a trump
supporter he voted for Trump in 2016
right and he's always identified with
the Republicans outside go ahead no I
said I I hear you yep go ahead sorry oh
okay but so throughout his first term
I've managed to convince him to support
Bernie Sanders a couple times great but
it seems like he always kind of revert
back to the these right-wing tendencies
and he buys into framing of like procs
news and the Republicans and he's he's
kind of back in there and therefore all
or whatever but and I I guess I was just
curious is there like a futility and
trying to convince certain people well I
mean it's your pops so of assuming you
you're gonna be talking with your dad so
you might as well talk to your dad I
mean I would ask us you find it too you
know unless you get this heart and why
not who else does he talk about politics
with yeah
well that's a good question I don't
think he actually talks about with
anyone but me and maybe people at his
work that's always the thing because
like people workplaces have a bit large
like right-wing email culture and things
like that that really I already report
yeah yeah I so I'm like hey Brendon can
you set every time every time Sam says
something Brendon so it's just like
nonsense Michael let me hit you with
this cue in on stuff later but that's
where at and Brendan and I have a secret
right-wing cell that's where a lot of
stuff Jamie I had no idea for someone
who's constantly talking about being you
know no borders or whatever Jamie's
extremely concerned about where Obama
was born he's all say yeah that's weird
like email email groups and email
forwards are sort of the advanced the
advanced for the right the fascist
takeover really because like FoxNews
couldn't be talking about like or like
bordering on birther stuff that's the
ground wasn't this way for and it is all
through that because that's really
powerful evolved all your
workers are sharing this stuff like
Obama wasn't born here or like Democrats
are what would it lose California if it
wasn't if we had voter ID like right
that is that's I mean what more do you
need that's where you're getting your
money and now that's where you're
getting your ideas from we don't know
that that's what's going on right we
don't know that but that's my I would
say that's where I would start to look
if he keeps reverting I mean I think
this is evidence of how effective and
evil the Fox media empire really is like
I have a friend who had a similar
experience with her dad in rural Rhode
Island who you know is not a rich person
his material class interests align much
more with Bernie Sanders but he and and
he showed some signs of going that way
but then he watches Fox News 24/7 and it
completely blots out any chances of
progress that you know I don't know how
receptive your dad is but the stories
that I've heard like this where and I
you know where there's been a little bit
of an ease up it starts with like the
conversations you're having and then it
seems to are they willing to do
something like listen to the majority
report right because I think partially
you just need to have like a what Fox
does is Fox organizes the information of
your worldview so and all and all media
does this right and so the that's the
question of this like pure objective
thing is a fantasy it's just a question
of which ones are doing it to better
effect for more people and how honest
they're being why they do it but I I
think part of the reason that you can't
persuade somebody with like an argument
here and there is that is that it won
first and foremost that's social I agree
with that Matt and I think secondly your
having your whole your whole like
intellectual infrastructure organized in
a certain way and you know just even
like as an example like when you because
some of it is just like what topics you
use the cover you choose to cover right
like that you saw us a lot with like you
know that part of the reason likes
you know right-wing people on the
internet they could find they could
always find like examples of like some
left-wing people supposedly being
left-wing and you know being ridiculous
and it's like okay sure or like you
could spend that all day doing that and
part and then it's like if you spend all
day actually listening to you know
economists and labor organizers talking
about wage stagnation that will give you
a different baseline for how the process
information so I I would say that maybe
if your dad is open you might suggest
some other you know what you think you
might like in terms of it probably
actually watching the Joe Rogan
interview might not be a bad idea for
your dad for what's worth what's
something that's like a broader
induction into a worldview versus just
like you know some sort of points here
and there that's what I think is is
probably the most effective thing at
least from what I've heard yeah there
are so few platforms anymore that are
not completely polarized in terms of
their viewership and that are seen as
actual neutral platforms whether that's
really true or not and I think that is
one value that Joe Rogan has like Bernie
reached a lot of people whom he wouldn't
have otherwise via going on the Joe
Rogan show and that's valuable of course
absolutely thanks for the call man
appreciate it
no appreciate it thanks let's see all
right let's do some more sounds so which
one do you want to do this one so
there's an uprising in Hong Kong right
now
there is a broad set of concerns at
stake and in the politics in Hong Kong
as far as the sort of capital class goes
there's people on both sides of this
division there's a very large part of
the business sector there that has no
problem with extremely with further and
further integration of Beijing the story
goes back to at least the modern
iteration in 1997 when Britain returned
Hong Kong to China the agreement was one
country two systems' and that was that
Hong Kong really had established a level
of
of basically liberal protections for its
citizens Beijing has never fulfilled
that promise entirely at all and in the
last couple of years things like this
extradition law which was put on the
table which would have allowed citizens
of Hong Kong to be extra dated
extradited to mainland China have helped
grow a serious protest movement as I say
I think there's people on the business
side that are comfortable that are are
on both sides of this conflict if you
have a left perspective and one of the
reasons I get very annoyed with some of
the kind of silly blind China apologize
'm is that labor is definitely extremely
concerned about this in a variety of
ways I mean one area is that even just
hong kong because of its relative
openness is a place where labor unions
can base for monitoring labor conditions
inside china I mean if you're concerned
about the brutal conditions that Apple
as an example uses in China you're
almost certainly getting some of that
information filtered out of people that
are based in Hong Kong so if you are
concerned about those issues those
issues to have a serious stake for you
with regards what's happening in Hong
Kong and look it's a it's a broad
liberal rights movement and that's a
valid thing frankly and I think also
there's no doubt that shishun ping was
consolidated more power for himself than
any Chinese premier since Mao and in a
context where international norms are
shifting that I shine India can just go
into Kashmir make that move the stakes
are really escalating this video is
fascinating one it should give a lot of
people pause about our critique of the
liberation struggle on the Left
movements in South Africa I've done a
lot of coverage of South Africa and
there's no doubt that there's internal
problems in the ANC there's also no
doubt that the economic freedom fighters
have areas where there should be very
serious critiques but this woman from
South Africa who emigrated to Hong Kong
is a great example of the type of class
politics that those that wanted to
rebuild South Africa into a proper
democracy we're up
against yeah this is bigger than her
she's a she represents something that
right and that's why please pray to God
no one finds her name and bothers her
personally or anything like that this is
an avatar for an attitude it's like you
the only reason that this is real like
you crystallized an Amber sort of like
would become precisely yes there's a
good intention is a good and a bad suit
believes and I just whispered side to
disguise thank and what they've hiding
for and I appreciate what everybody's
fighting for it's easy to say those
lovable oriental she's got a skin in the
game except for I just want to be in a
global financial hub with very limited
rights and mass inequality that could be
invaded and formally reoccupied
understand that Michael but I get it
people were lovable the people are
loving welcome a humble inscrutable uh
they had a certain of wisdom to them
certain we got some more a certain free
verbal sense of knowing let's go both
sides you just start under stand what
they fighting for and I appreciate what
everybody's fighting for but this is not
what we supposed to be like we supposed
to be fighting together not again
I would rather go back to South Africa
this is what I'm going to be living with
for the next few years if they're all
fighting please don't a return we
already have enough difficulties can you
maybe look at Singapore this is another
area in Asia that is highly repressive
but does not have political instability
yeah you want to keep can you maybe go
to Singapore would you please consider
that if we're all fighting together who
are we fighting against
yeah the protesters in jouging ping Shi
Zhai and the woman who had her eye shot
out by a beanbag just need to sit down
iron out and say like look South African
lady's feeling very uncomfortable we all
need to fight to make her chill go can
you look maybe I have heard that Kuala
Lumpur is having a boom please consider
there is always Dubai the servants will
not even look at you in the face you can
buy a passport I assume in your economic
bracket um
let's do a couple more footage from Hong
Kong this was footage this is uh we
don't have number 7 you have number 8
let's do number 8 do we have number 8
all right I mean we can pivot from Hong
Kong if we don't have number 8 which
it's on the list guys guys if it's on
the list I need to be able to go to it
all right let's take a cup all right
let's take a call people have requested
I do a show as Sam so I'll just do a
little bit of dos calling from an 8:05
it calling from an 805 area code who are
you where you calling from hi this is
Shane calling from Ventura California am
i on hi Shane what questions do you have
well Jamie said something really clever
a couple of weeks ago a lot of
cause she called the it a lot address
what else do you have and well I wanted
to address it on this show she was
talking about the different things that
our society used to be bound by whether
it was patriarchy religion different
manifestations of tradition that's
something that it feels like the left
has not had the strongest emphasis on at
least in my short couple of years of
coming into the left of drawing those
clear lines from classic traditional
class struggle historically in American
history and emphasizing those things and
instead has kind of not emphasized
either even pre American like the
Levellers or all of these long-standing
traditional liberation movements
historically that you can kind of draw a
pretty straight line to from them to us
and I feel like it's those aesthetics
because we do live in an age of
spectacle that the left should call to
in order to one appeal to the
traditionally minded because there's
always people who are going to prefer
the the older thing over the newer thing
and to to go after specific demographics
that the right has kind of taken over
and colonized for example veterans or
the religious who could easily be
liberated with addressing one their
material concerns into creating and
developing a narrative that welcomes and
then I don't see a lot of that right now
I see that beginning but I love your
reaction to that okay I know that was a
lot but I know your reaction thanks for
the call thank you for the question
I think there might be a bit of
linguistic slippage going on here we
have to be careful on the one hand when
we're talking about the rich tradition
of activism and resistance on the left
certain
we should tap into that going forward
but the kinds of institutions that I was
talking about the kinds of traditional
institutions like patriarchy the church
and the bourgeois family I was not
saying that those things were good I was
saying that those things were incredibly
oppressive both to people inside of them
especially women and people on whose
backs they always existed like the poor
queer people people of color people in
the global south so on the one hand I
think this current era of neoliberal
capitalism has broken down a lot of
these things and that's a good thing but
we need to replace them with something
because everyone's super alienated and
super messed up and I realized that I'm
being I'm oversimplifying things when I
say that because I only have so much
time on this show but I've been saying
that we need to form new kinds of
community and new kinds of social bonds
that go beyond those old ways of
organizing certain sectors of society
because their breakdown has created an
opening in which we can hopefully create
something that's better that's truly
inclusive that's truly reflects the
working class in all of its diversity
and it's not going to be easy it's like
which came first the chicken or the egg
the material we lack a material basis
for that but like we have to try because
I think that's going to be a really
important ingredient in the fight ahead
and like I was talking with some queer
radical organizers the other day it
makes sense to have these efforts be led
by queer people queer people of color
specifically people who have been
historically excluded from these kinds
of formations and have had to form their
own communities outside of it I would
read Scott at Hren well I've been saying
for a long time that if you want
something to do if you're looking for
reading material find something about
your local history because especially if
you want to relate to other people in
your community because being able to do
that is frankly a very simple thing to
draw on that is actually impressive and
tells people that you're speaking to
what they do but I mean I mean literary
hangover I make jokes about becoming the
anti Jordan Peterson but I do think if
you we have to fight myth myth with his
myth with history mess with history
that's that is the book and I think if
you go through history enough and I
think the color kind of suggests this
but if you go through history enough
some of the starts starts to look sort
of familiar and you see the same sort of
patterns emerging and I'm not like a
cyclical like fourth turning band type
of guy I think this is just a sort of
structure of human X with how human
society works and how exploitation works
and you're gonna see the same patterns
over and over again and making those
familiar to people I think are really
important and I think frankly I think
the more democratic a media environment
is the more that will happen naturally
okay you don't owe Harvey JK for the
American project specifically that's
really important I would definitely
check out his work I want to get can I
give two practical examples of this too
because I feel like I'm accused of being
fake when I talk about this well one is
unions right an incredibly diverse
working-class institution that needs to
be brought back to it's only in its
infancy but we're working on a project
in North Brooklyn TSA actually it called
neighborhood councils and my hope is
that if it goes well we can expand it to
other parts of DSA where we put together
hyperlocal groups of organizers we all
have we're all in a little group diem
now we can talk to each other and show
up to our community board meetings our
community gardens and kind of have a
buddy system so people aren't afraid to
go and hopefully through that talk to
our neighbors people that maybe we
weren't talking to before and get some
idea of the power centers in the
community the work that's already being
done people we can help out in coalition
and yada yada
hopefully I hate that I ended that I'd
Yatta Yatta cuz it's very important it's
not yada yada it's it's pre its post
yada yada um alright let's do number
seven please
that's really important
pay these are protesters in Hong Kong of
eye patches on and solidarity with a
protester who was injured a couple of
days ago all right and then Shenzhen
which is where a knock this is where a
Chinese invasion would come we don't
exactly know what is inside these
vehicles but this is this videos
released a couple days ago basically
showing some sort of power military
readiness in Shenzhen and this to me I
mean if they did this is analogous I
mean people make the obviously the
Tiananmen Square crackdown analogies but
this would also be very similar to when
during the Arab uprisings the Saudis
deployed brigades into Bahrain to crush
an uprising there as well I think um
I did a little bit of an elaboration on
this on TMDs and I'll just say really
quickly it's very very important to look
it would be absolutely not even
delusional to think that there isn't US
interests and US influence in every
corner of the planet that's what the
u.s. is right now um and there is a
radically different thing between some
areas where there really are just
essentially kind of local oligarch
us-backed coos then there are situations
where there's a lot of organic
conditions on the ground where maybe I
mean look look it might be advantageous
from a certain strategic US viewpoint to
embarrass China to see them get caught
up in a situation like this
that's all valid but if you think that
this is purely orchestrated from the
outside and this doesn't arise from
real conditions inside Hong Kong in
terms of people wanting to protect and
enhance their civil rights in that sense
or with broader concerns about what the
nature of governance is there as well as
the shifting nature of what Chinese
governance itself is looking like you're
just being incredibly naive a
narcissistic in terms of how you do
politics and again there's a longer TPMS
clip where I elaborate that but I want
to note that because I always see that
feedback every time I talk about this
but a dumb people don't be a dum-dum
anti-imperialist you pretzel yourself
into some really bad positions that way
well it's just it's just not I mean just
look at the world I mean I I don't it's
it's and now again I look at it in such
a practical way if Chinese and Venezuela
of Chinese and Russian influence keeps
the United States from invading in
Venezuela or help subvert the blockade
that's great so you know and and that's
the way you have to understand something
like this I mean you're talking about
China's prime sphere of influence now
the United States is influence
everywhere because the biggest power in
the world there's no doubt about that
but you're you're reducing yourself it's
not even anti-imperialist worldview you
just you just have a u.s. worldview
period and well there's more fair about
it's American imperialism and there's
just more happening in the world than
the United States particularly in that
part of the world alright but speaking
to a part of the world where the United
States has a great deal of power and you
can track the crisis if you look at the
foreign policy towards both the Middle
East and Latin America which have
generated serious migration those are
inseparable from bombings and COO
mongering you cannot have these
conversations of having foreign policy
conversations the epicenter of what has
happened from Latin America is a coup
this is the wrong clip we'll get to that
in a second we want the clip number 10
now I want to do the same voice there is
it this is the wrong clip yep guys guys
this is why we need to run it through
in 2009 I say this all the time but it's
crucial the coup that removed Manuel
Zelaya from office in Honduras is the
Nexus and the basis upon which there's a
broader reversal of the pink tide which
our progressive governments across Latin
America which brought cumulative ly7 D
million people out of poverty 40 million
in Brazil alone Manuel Zelaya was
following that trajectory in Central
America and what you saw coming out of
that coup is military Hunta right-wing
narco governments there's mass protests
happening in HoN Dory's against the
current state all of which have been
backed by the United States in drug war
partnerships in terms of trade in terms
of sweatshops and so on Queen Hillary
legitimized it around the world I
don't think she legitimized it but she
certainly backed it it wasn't
legitimized in like it wasn't
legitimized in Latin America ever but
the Obama Clinton Obama and Hillary
Clinton is Secretary of State
absolutely legitimate absolutely backed
this coup and so you can't understand
anything we're talking about at the
border without that coup being in in the
primary context then this clip from
Democracy Now with Sonia nazara who's a
bold surprise winning journalist with
Amy Goodman really helps broaden that
context I think Amy the the level of rot
that starts at the top and goes to the
bottom it affects people having
medicines that are basically don't work
because people get kickbacks to buy back
bad medicines it affects the lack of
teachers in schools one in four teachers
don't exist their ghost teachers because
of corruption it affects people's daily
lives and I think what I'd want to say
is that we need to have more compassion
towards these people who are running
from these very violent circumstances
and I believe that we should not cut off
US aid to Central America I know that
this is a controversial point of view
but I think some of this aid I have seen
especially humanitarian aid not military
not police aid humanitarian aid has been
used by the u.s. to lower violence to
lower impunity to lower corruption this
is a ten
20 year effort but it is more humane it
is more effective it is better to find a
way to allow people to stay in these
countries and improve conditions there
and it's way cheaper than to lock up all
these people in these horrible prisons
in the United States which is costing us
billions and billions of dollars so I
have no problem with the idea of
humanitarian aid in the region I mean
the concern that comes with humanitarian
aid particularly in Latin America is
that that can be easily be correlated
with the political forces that the
United States wants the support and
propagate in these regions and that's a
global pattern that's a tool of US
foreign policy there's never any pure
altruism that's totally naive
however on balance some of these
programs could be beneficial in corrects
but the broader structure here if you
want to get away from this type of
crisis you see is you need to
fundamentally pull back from the drug
war and from treating Central and Latin
America as a giant natural resources and
sweatshop factory for us corporate and
commercial interests that's always been
our policy there that is truly a
bipartisan thing another thing you know
we shouldn't be destructed from is
looking at Joe Biden's record in Latin
America specifically it's atrocious it's
appalling and it's completely
inseparable from his criminal justice
and imprisonment record but if you want
to actually deal with migration you
actually have to deal with the types of
foreign policies you see from Yemen to
Honduras and that needs to be at the
fundamental structure of this
conversation and then of course that
bleeds to the rising authoritarianism of
the United States
this footage happened this happened in
just a couple just yesterday I believe
these are protesters in New Jersey
protesting an AI facility there wait I
thought it was in Rhode Island uh well I
see it they both say in New Jersey so
where is it I mean I just talked to
someone who right this is it okay so
this is a ice detention center we're
gonna double-check whether it's in Rhode
Island or New Jersey people are
protesting holding a vigil outside of
this Center
someone an Isis an ice detention guard
drives through the crowd
[Applause]
so you know of course a couple years ago
Heather hire was murdered by a white
supremists in Charlottesville the echoes
and the parallels are quite obvious no
sir
during the Dakota access pipeline case
North Dakota Republicans wanted to pass
a law that said that cleared drivers of
liability in the case they hit
protesters in the roadway yes that was a
major legislative push yeah so we have
more of it
this is subsequently when they come in
with pepper spray to clear the crowd
okay they come in with pepper spray
after this guy is driven through to
clear it up with pepper spray and if we
confirmed where this is in Rhode Island
okay go ahead
[Applause]
oh and it wasn't the cops who
pepper-sprayed those protesters either
it was guards from the ice facility
right right so there's you should watch
your history on the coup and the
subsequent right-wing regimes that the
United States is black-backed in
Honduras directly correlates with people
putting their bodies on the line to stop
the kidnapping of children the
detainment of human beings Veda O'Rourke
was never gonna happen I believe I said
that
right out of the gate I never bought it
and he's been through several different
iterations now I am actually shocked I
really did think last week he would drop
out and decide to run for Senate but the
man's delusions know no bounds and now
we've got bado 3.0 let's check it out
there's some part of me pause it and is
it that beta 3.0 still is a is a wobbly
 look at this I gotta tell
you that my hands make gestures that
don't make any sense and he hits the
microphone here it's not a can he's
wacky alright let's go I need to see how
sad he is in this clip doesn't look sad
and I gotta tell you there's some part
of me and there's a big part of me that
wants to stay here and be with my family
and be with my community I love El Paso
there have even been some who suggested
that I stay in Texas and run for Senate
but that would not be good enough for
this community that would not be good
enough for El Paso that would not be
good enough for this country we must
take the fight directly to the source of
this problem that person who has caused
this pain and placed this country in
this moment of peril and that is Donald
Trump I feel like he's still sat on the
inside though
oh he's delusional he's out of his mind
I don't think so
like I said bado call me I'll say look
at that that is so incredible and the
what he knows the way the clap started
is like I guess like I guess we're gonna
support that's like someone just told
you that they were gonna like sink their
life savings into a beachfront property
look at his face he doesn't even look
like he believes it no um what are you
doing baby boy I'm unclear is there
another Democrat besides Keisha Rogers
that's running against Cornyn Santa
Menendez right
oh is that okay please mo Hernandez I
just looked it up and she's a LaRouche
PAC person so I didn't know if so you're
supporting her yes new credit card song
I really thought beta was gonna get out
of here what else silly all right you're
calling from a 911 seven area code who
are you where you calling from
oh hey Michael and this is a water boy
from Kashmir he is good to hear um well
okay thank you it was an excellent
interview today thank you and now you
introduced me to a new source I can
actually look up information from I
don't know the you know the Indian side
at least yeah I just want to give it a
quick I guess update from from what I've
seen so still
and markdown in Kashmir this information
blackout but as of yesterday they
arrested a bogus a large forest
journalists they arrested journalists
and the saffron mission that the guests
mentioned um he they came back and they
did an interview and at least in I think
in post Indian Edition there's an
article there ah then I'll just read the
headline arresting children interfere
and everyone should really check out
this article ah the sickening thing is I
fully expected this but like you're down
the line when the protests we just
caught a whack and they're like
characterize families but they have been
doing this for the past week yeah this
site planning mission is to be believed
oh and so alright they want full brown
shirt and I sent a message in yesterday
because all singing in this bill English
India always like ashes in roaster
they've taken and that has to be no
previous government did that you know
and there's just so much more that you
can go into so yeah I mean you gotta
talk about crown fascists and you know
you're like mortgage not one of them but
there are a lot of chrome fascists and
India but they're just not they're not
given they're not put into power
positions you know they've had a century
of ground game you know our assistants
are NS goes back to the 40s right I mean
maybe even earlier some of the quotes
I've seen but Niro was complaining about
RSS in 30 these are some people of my
house and a me at least adjacent who
assassinated Gandhi I mean yes oh you
mean like his son oh I was thinking
about you buddy but Marlins yeah yeah in
fact after this past election and I
might have mentioned this before one of
the MPs was all right it said that the
guy who assassin Gandhi is misunderstood
ins actually
a hero right um but young that er he was
misunderstood he was actually a hero
sorry that was the clown fascism oh I
couldn't help it like I've been tweeting
out like Trump impressions because it
just makes you I don't know it makes it
makes you it's easier to digest and I
asked I don't know I do it is honest
until you show anyway because you guys
make oh you know horse things just
because otherwise just acquire you know
but the big thing is okay I was in like
social media ball tennis and I jumped on
like last week you know I don't want to
go away I promise never to you know get
on Twitter onions and I gotta say people
are not people you guys talk about or
not know like people are in the world
and you know it was a bliss but in India
from what I've seen like from reading
articles and it's a whole other world
and I think we're not far off there it's
you know ignite I keep stop father 10-15
years hopefully God is where anyone who
speaks out against the government anyone
who talks about you know human rights as
you know you're just mentioned is
labeled like a Pakistani agent or an
eye-fi agent which is like a big thing
in India it's a way to shut down the
conversation and they're attacking like
public intellectuals academics who had
you know we're gonna do this for decades
you know like interviewed Sonia Shankar
about this a couple of months ago and
she said and she said this from the
perspective of somebody who is on the
left and strongly critical of Congress
on economic policies but said look I
mean this is there was for all of the
flaws I keep trying to emphasize this
there was something that held from the
Nehru generation even in some small way
which clearly Modi and BJP are trying to
destroy root and branch and a big part
of that is opposition media
is academics I mean that the other
parallel here you can look at his air to
one there to one certainly always one
real big elections he had genuine
serious ground support and he wanted to
and has done a horrible and effective
job of really streamlining and
destroying open society in Turkey I mean
that's another great you know parallel
there anyways men night I appreciate the
call I'm sorry this is happening
I'll keep covering it everywhere I can
Oh MPs I thought of the other clown
looking ask fascist that I was thinking
of it so much geert wilders
o Geer right in the nether he's actually
like the first one and he's king buddy
øg øg clownfish definitely mr fan
excellent interview Micah kind of I kind
of think the swamp lad talked about
draining was us the left still think
that the Republican Party will start a
fight Bernie true Bernie the true
president in 2020 I didn't follow all of
it uh Kay let's see can't let's see um
so Rogan said in his podcast that Kyle
kolinsky was the one responsible for
getting Bernie on the show that's great
that's awesome
how's the plug called mad props the Kyle
I had actually yes I think that is true
um C pajama boy saw an ad today for
Gillibrand and they're offering a free
t-shirt for one dollar quite desperate
oh my god I can't believe I really
thought I was off the grid for several
days um I really thought she I I
realized well I didn't even think of her
but now that you mentioned her I thought
she would have dropped out in that time
period of time you couldn't tell me a
dollar to wear jovani t-shirt no well
yeah what would I know I have to throw
away a t-shirt yeah that's very
ecologically harmful Gillibrand I only
wear my Bernie 2016 1 like four times a
year you're calling from a 405 area
could who are you worried calling from
hey I'm Gregory from hey it's our buddy
Gregory from Oklahoma how are you Greg
what's going on doing good things been
really well for me the last couple of
months terrific on the serve yeah I'm
getting ready to start college next week
Congrats and have some pretty big things
playing for my show excellent and you
still in going to college in Oklahoma
Gregory am i why you going to college in
Oklahoma yeah you see Owen Edmund no
University of yeah right yep
what's going on with the show Green Corn
rebellion show the Green Corn rebellion
shop check it out I can't announce right
now
show business show business Greg I love
it yeah so very awesome
everyone should zoom didn't find out
what's going on with the show
anyway I'm gonna go ahead and get off
now great look at Greg look at Craig is
just I totally stuck the land because in
some michael brooks TPMS on youtube
itunes he's jamming on lately Greg and
he's still there
you know he landed that limp Biskit I
think landed what he would say a great
defender of new metal yeah he's a big
fan of the chocolate starfish in the hot
dog flavored water album I can learn one
two three or four things from how Greg
does cause you can't lie from a seven
one four area code who are you where you
calling from oh excuse me seven one
three my apology seven one three are you
there hey sorry yeah seven one three
there what's on your mind
yeah this is David from Houston Ilana be
mistaken for tape it from Massachusetts
who wants to the platform on Sam okay
what's on your mind
okay yeah I was trying to call to have
you dunk on one
the progressive medium carpooling scheme
I'm not gonna do that buddy
we got anything else yeah got anything
else I was doing workmen towels doing
good work anything else besides trying
to stir up intro you are you calling on
behalf of progressive voice here I'll
stir up a little bit of drama
are you a cutout operative or
progressive voice is that I saw that he
had a you're still trying trying I'm not
doing it what else you got
hope sorry I hung up on him oh sorry not
sorry not doing it not not in the
drama-free all right here's the thing
about majority report and how our ideas
get eventually adopted by all the social
media or the the YouTube sphere is we
don't force it I mean why is with a
certain specific example where we might
sometimes but actually even two would do
it Jimmy Doris that was our callers that
would constantly say like did you see
Jimmy Dore said this and then we get off
on 30 we are fine with having drama with
certain people though let's be real here
it's just you got to pick your battles
you know like there are some people who
are on the Left who I think are kind of
not that great but they're not my
enemies so I just would never talk about
them I would say I'm burned out on it
we're not and I'm also I legit like like
I I'm sure I've this I don't know like
I've had you know debated Kyle's and
things because great like I'm not and I
don't be looking to stir up nonsense and
like the smallest sub pocket it's not
even stirring up nonsense yeah it's
enforcing orthodoxy right and that's a
problem that I reject entirely and
that's also how you get into sub
culturalism versus mass building your
calling room was 5-7 no area code who
are you where you're calling from yeah
this is you what's on your minds right
going from almost okey a I think when
you think a second to talk about the
situation in Hong Kong where they were
waving the American flag okay that was
actually kind of funny but right now
that they would even be reaching out to
America for some
even you lip service and the fact that
we're right now under their thumb with
somebody like Donald Trump who would
then not even take the time to use this
as an opportunity to attack China
because you think about something you'd
be interested in he then just divorce
back to all protestors man can't have
these protesters these guys are
obviously against the law we need to do
whatever we can to crack down on these
people in Hong Kong better display for
the basic freedoms yeah I wouldn't I
wouldn't hold it against you know
whatever you know people on the ground
but I mean China there's actually a very
clear pattern that that it basically the
only country that Trump has at any clear
consistency and talking about human
rights on is Iran everywhere else in the
world he basically does not speak I
guess occasionally Venezuela but I mean
you know that's pretty obvious why
that's not his bag thanks for the call
can appreciate it I forgot the source of
this information but wasn't there and I
hope it's not John Oliver but wasn't
there a story about how that what
Chinese officials I think it was about
the Silk Road initiative how the Chinese
officials are most concerned about CIA
propaganda specifically about unionizing
the workplace absolutely which is like
if we frankly like if the left were to
take complete power we should probably
just abolish the CIA but if you were to
keep it around that would probably be a
good use for it right but I mean yeah
but I love that because that just shows
the pure opportunism of how a lot of
these things were yeah both sides in
both sides you're calling from an eight
one eight area code who are you where
you coming from
hey Michael day from a frightening I'm
used to hearing you on the main show go
ahead how you doing Dave what's on your
mind buddy actually it's I would say
it's kind of a Jeremy question but it's
for everybody
I generally Jean yes sorry I agree with
the idea of open borders as a future
project for sure hopefully the next 20
years or so because I think it's
necessary for this whole human
civilization thing to keep running but I
guess
out with us Jimmy and you guys how do
you get to that point where the general
population will be you know to kind of
tapped on their tribal instincts because
I seat here in Jamaica as well and other
countries where people's identity and
the border thing are kinda related they
don't we because what look let you guys
go off on that sure um I could take a
stab at this I mean first of all I think
when you say instincts we need to be
careful anytime you're making an
assumption about human nature right like
I'm reading a sexy done right now by
Christopher Ryan and he kind of creates
an anthropological framework for the
idea that people in the state of nature
or whatever hunter-gatherer society
which is most of our history as a
species right because agriculture was a
fairly recent innovation we were not
living in the Hobbesian way that the
Hobbes described right solitary poor
nasty brutish and short we lived in a
much more communal way with much less
conflict and a lot more sex either way
and and it's it's only recently that
humans became more competitive
tribalistic hierarchical yada yada I
keep saying that word butBut I know what
you mean right like people believe in
these things now we've grown up in a
society where we're incredibly
inculcated with it and it doesn't it
seems counterintuitive to a lot of
people like what if we open the borders
the country will cease to exist what's
going on with that like yes actually
global socialism eventually down the
line will necessitate the abolishing of
borders at the same time that we abolish
you know the rule of the market right
because if you open the borders and
capital is still moving people around
that's not really free movement of
people because they all fried
the right to stay where they are if they
want to so how do we move towards that
in in in policy and rhetoric I mean
there are many things that people can
agree on right now
steps we can take towards that goal to
have more open borders right we can
demilitarize the border we can abolish
ice and not replace it with anything we
can close the camps we can decriminalize
migration and all of these are steps on
the way to a much more radical horizon
that's concerned but also we can keep
our eyes on the prize and hopefully in
the course of struggle and in the course
of working with lots of activists who
really believe in this stuff and are
coming from a very radical framework
hopefully more and more people will get
wise to it and see how it benefits not
just immigrants not just basic humanity
towards each other which is definitely
important but you know the working class
as a whole which includes most of us so
I just want to say Dave I'll just give
you a little bit of a different I have a
different spin on it um and you know
I'll just get just cover that quickly um
I think there's a lot of different
interesting perspectives on this I mean
one I just think precisely because it is
a horizon after a horizon after horizon
sort of goal that it's actually really
important right now to disaggregate what
we're actually talking about so I think
that there's no doubt that right now
today 2019 a vast the infinite majority
of the world's people do not want their
countries to dissolve right and whether
or not we think that is a long-term goal
because we want to be post country or
whether we want some type of sort of
like global EU arrangements which is
more of like a kind of practical
realizable thing maybe in decades that's
one thing socialist revolution sure but
in the short term I think it's very
important to basically say again there's
already actually international standards
that if they were upheld on refugees as
an example that would already actually
cover
the vast majority of humanitarian and
rights cases that people are actually
talking about and focusing on so that's
actually number one which is that in
order to be in compliance with and focus
on meeting actual immediate needs right
now there doesn't need to be any
highfalutin rhetoric about this or that
there needs to be an actual focus on
implementing what is already
international law and what is already
actually domestic law that's incredibly
important
the second tension that I think we
actually need to be much more you know
thoughtful about is that a lot you know
there's there's two lanes of the
rhetoric of open borders which is
interesting to me so one comes from the
position of people who are like in some
of the most repressed dangerous
positions on earth needing to cross
borders or survive and I think in many
people's cases again just as like an
objective reality if you didn't have to
travel thousands of miles to survive you
probably wouldn't do it so you're
already talked about arising out of
environments that have been destabilized
by coos and civil war and climate and so
on so those are the structural factors
that could actually ameliorate those
things even as in the crisis conditions
now there's no doubt that people should
be given refuge period and then there's
this others like much more sort of like
you know is it very long term utopian
thinking some of which I actually very
sympathetic to but I know it has nothing
to do with like a certain present
political conditions and I think that
this is something that we need to be
very mindful because when you say like
people in Jamaica are thinking about
borders as an example I have no doubt
that there's right-wing armed forces in
Jamaica and also just like even what the
United States is doing in Venezuela is
gonna create a lot of border and
migration problems which you're already
seeing in Trinidad as an example so
there might be some there's gonna be
some heat there but when as an example
like salsa Omron talks about brazilian
sovereignty and like the sense of brazil
being a country that is not at the whim
of US foreign policy that impulse for
autonomy sovereignty and borders and
developed in a developing context is a
radical
different politics and there's a
radically different thing and if that
gets lost in a broader conversation
about these things that's a really big
problem so I think there's three steps
there's one is that right now dealing
with the human rights crisis as it
exists right now presently doesn't
require any sort of like broader
argument that could trigger a vast
majority of people it has to do with
like this is what so this is what's
reality this is what we need to be in
compliance with now and then there's
radically different versions of why
people come to that rhetoric that needs
to be disaggregated and then number
three like yeah we can explore and
entertain utopian scenarios and that's
cool but it what it should definitely
not be used never used and this is just
a core of my politics that you know
don't allow that to interfere with what
is you know politically effective today
like is it like look Bernie Sanders not
gonna say sports open borders right
that's fine it's not of course not
there's no problem with that
what there needs to be done is is the
clarity of his position on some of these
issues thanks guys you guys want to jump
in on this for a second all right thanks
for the called interfering with our
day-to-day struggles like a lot of
people who are doing the most work
organizing are doing it from a place of
a combination of this what you call a
utopian horizon because they are
socialist communist and anarchist have
exactly the same thinking about some
certain but like we can't be a purely
reactive force in the world its
otherwise we're never going to solve the
problem stuff we launched an option to
fascism right because we have to react
to fascism we have and this this is
connected to that we have to react to
fascism we have to react to kids in
cages these things are horrendous and we
can't wait to do that at the same time
if we're only reactive and we never
solved the root problems and we never
take it further further than the status
quo further than we started from which
was already not that good we're not
going to solve these problems in the
long term and I just want to recommend
an article by a Natasha Lennard
intercept called the El Paso shooter
embraced eco fascism we can't let the
far-right co-opt the environmental
struggle it talks about some of this
rhetoric can take us some very damaging
places if we're not careful as of now
the core of this like in terms of
dealing with more structural long-term
problems that is the u.s. foreign policy
dimension that is the number one thing
in an actionable sense that needs to be
integrated and incorporated in this
conversation and the one thing is that
when you do get to some of that specific
rhetoric which takes us off any sort of
like side conversations at times and
unnecessarily triggers people I don't
see it as being effective or strategic
but that has nothing to do with just
being reactive there's a whole set if
there's nothing to do with abolishing
ice that has nothing to do with as I
said literally conforming with
international standards that can
actually credibly implicate be
implemented now that would have a
radical effect on everything from the
arms trade to foreign policy to refugees
and migration
I appreciate the probably agree we got
it we do have to keep we're got to keep
going though because we only have like
one minute or two minutes you can take
it I'm sure it'll be continued
Medhi as an Iranian listening to show I
agree with your guests thanks changers
Arif is very bad it seems the u.s. ran
out of ideas for diplomacy however we
didn't have we didn't have a nuclear
issue thanks to Donald Trump I would
support being scrutinising of Zarif for
his I would support Zarif being
scrutinized for human rights in Iran
there's several prominent environmental
activists in jail for no reason it's
harder to ask these questions and
politics limited to war nuclear issues
well I agree with you completely
although I don't think Zarif is the
person whose portfolio is implicated
there I mean that's a that's a very odd
pick but you might know more than me
love the shows just became a subscriber
after listening regularly for a few
months can you talk a bit about how
where Weinstein is the new rave Dave
Rubin but with a slight amount of
sophistication then we already do that
yeah we started already did that I mean
just listen to the first 20 minutes of
his interview with Peter tio and like do
all everything he says in the day of
Rubin voice and you'll basically have
the segment we would have done sounds
about right okay arm
literally one very very quick final call
obviously not going to get to all
callers that's just the new reality
you're calling from a 206 area code got
it be quick hello 206 what's on your
mind were you calling from
I'm calling from Bellevue Washington I
just got a quick question what do you
think is the most important thing for
the next presidential candidate that
comes in if it is a Democrat to do I
probably think that I don't like
questions like that because it's such an
interdependent agenda but if I had to
pick one thing a single-payer health
care thanks for the call all right I
would say keep the movement going keep
the movement going that's smart I like
that show up to the grassroots struggles
and be a feed into them rather than
acting as a check on them all right
final duct-tape tip shoot at 3 kt MBS
mangria party no we're not we're only
doing Pleasant things when we hit on
auntie em be reward ourselves not pay up
so we're success yeah we're
accomplishing things and we're doing a
really great show so we're gonna connect
the thing at 3,000 although I did say I
think at 3,000 I will probably try to
wear a tracksuit when I go on i-24 cuz
that would actually be what's your there
they Lily okay final I am of the day see
where is the final I am of the day
where is the final item of the day I
will find this one second trying to find
something good okay let's just try this
[Music]
cosmic yeondu these media types think
that anyone is really offended by
Bernie's critique of the media outside
of DC this is the same exact insularity
that means I'm totally blindsided by
Trump I agree with ya well they know
that certain people are and it's all
their friends in deed all right guys
but I know some
it
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
ya know the clock is ticking
okay
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid for
the rubber bands
brakes fell off switch right
[Music]
teacher takes you yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
