[Music]
you're calling from a 775 area code who
are you where are you calling from
hey this is uh Reverend and four pumps
for progress hey what's going on
ah not a whole lot I wanted to talk to
you I'm so glad that you're actually
hosting Michael because I want to talk
about D platforming a little bit okay I
guess I got a hang up with this issue um
okay so I should say I don't have a real
you know strong stance on it either way
although I am leaning more towards D
platforming of fascism being a good
thing but I also want to sign up before
we get into it point out that there's a
difference between what we me and my
comrades and others did over the last
year to in Berkeley in organizing
counter demonstrations against like Ben
Shapiro and Milo's so-called free speech
week I don't see those as the same thing
and they get lumped into the D
platforming argument a lot yeah so I
agree with you I just mean you can
elaborate but I think protest is part of
the same process of free speech which I
actually believe in pretty strongly so I
agree with you excellent so I'm glad we
sort of established that but then the
other side of it so Kyle Kaminsky just
recently put up a video where he's
really adamant about the sort of
slippery slope argument of B platforming
fascism ultimately hurting us right and
I'm open to this argument now you know I
have a small platform we don't ask for
money my you know my income is not
reliant on it so I don't have as much
you know flesh in the game as people
like you or Kyle do right but I haven't
seen the evidence yet so Kyle a site
it's going down which is a fantastic
media but if people want to check out
true anarchist you know critique in
perspective they're amazing it's just
going down but they were on the time
hold yeah yeah they're incredible and
they've even done stuff for our platform
and they're just amazing for the
community and they were piled on I don't
know year and a half or so ago by all
writers because they were doing such a
great job of supporting Antipa and they
got pulled down off patreon now I don't
know if they've been reestablished or
not but this is the example that Kyle
uses as the slippery slope if we're
going to be bringing down you know
Sargon and you know Infowars and all
these other people and I don't see that
connection and I know that you are
definitely very hesitant and skeptical
of any type of deep platforming and so I
really and most of the time that you've
brought it up on the show Michael you're
kind of like look this is kind of how I
see I don't want to get into it BAM and
then you're kind of out and I really I'm
interested I don't really want to give
in to it
let them come out let me all right let
me okay all right well I do have to two
points I'll make on this but first I
just genuinely want to ask you I mean
because I don't I feel like it's how do
you not see the connection there right
like I to me the connection is okay
really I can answer that pretty it's
linear you know yeah go ahead
well the premise for why in this
situation it's going down Wood had their
issue is a dishonest premise it wasn't
based on their actual activity and
things that they were espousing it was
that so many right-wingers that piled on
a lie I'm not it's so I'm not um yeah
I'm not me come on the conversation I
know I'm soso but well let me just take
it here for a second right so I am NOT
ever gonna trust patreon or Twitter or
any of these platforms and some of them
might have better organizational
cultures than others so whatever we can
make some distinctions potentially but I
am NOT for a second going to trust the
nuance and disaggregating abilities of
any of these companies to make the
distinction you're talking about so
stipulate that I agree with you as a
moral
though you know Sargon and it's going
down are totally different moral
propositions but the process by which a
skittish company that wants to avoid
controversy and will make a business
decision to avoid it mom and its broader
implications on these crowdfunding
platforms I mean it's a very direct link
there so turnabout is gonna be fair play
so I don't so that's what I mean I'm not
making any like the actual right no I
could there's no actual equivalency I'm
talking about as companies and how they
operate so if I understand you correctly
it's you're saying okay you know people
like Sargon and Lorne southern and these
other people have been deep platform for
really gross behavior particularly is
bad for their business model right right
I mean we want them brought down because
we see that they have a real-time
influence on a lot of ignorant minds
that end up collecting you know a big
giant orange cheetah right and so it has
real-time effects in the world so that's
why I mean teaching platform because it
terrifies me that their message to get
back to be so here anything let me just
talk and then I'll just throw it out
before cuz I'll I'll answer what you're
saying and then everybody will jump in
on this because I know there's a lot of
thoughts on this so and I don't and part
of it I just want to hear what everybody
has to say one at a time because it's
important and I don't know all the
answers obviously and I want to learn
but okay so but there's my broader okay
so the broader thing and this is let's
like kind of put it into three buckets
so my first one is just the business of
these platforms and what your the
tendencies you're creating so as an
example one one conversation I had a
long many years ago but it was a really
smart sort of distinction and this is
much less serious but it was like the
whole college like and this was actually
a left-wing critique of comedians
complaining about colleges and the point
was those like
it isn't that there's like leftist or
subversive comedy getting sponsored by
college campuses it's that all of these
campus activity committees is one might
expect from the type of student that
want to be in a campus activity
community no offense but you know I'm
saying is is to book performers that
aren't going to offend anybody and
aren't going to do anything that might
disrupt anybody's Sensibility and I
think that that potentially could be the
trend line on some of these platforms
and I do think that if you know
controversy is your concern and again
I'm thinking about profit-making
companies that are not making obvious
moral and political distinctions that is
gonna have implications for not only
fascists but also socialists and
anarchists okay so that's like the
business concern the other concerns I
have are I think that there is sometimes
a culture on the left that has gone so
quickly to that position versus actually
like winning fights uh whether they're
you know figurative maybe even literal
but I'm focusing on figurative so as an
example a couple years ago of Doug Layne
tells the story his son at a University
of Oregon they did a really important
demonstration at a meeting of
administrators to protest tuition hikes
like one of the most important things
students could protest about and they
got the administration cracked down hard
like we're gonna kick you out of school
type of heart right now right their
response was well to a lot of the
organizers their response was not to you
know call the press digging their heels
you know like get like not only we write
about this issue now we're literally
getting threatened to have our lives
seriously materially harm for exercising
our rights some people not in
significant number of people pivoted to
well there are these like anti-abortion
protesters who don't get in trouble for
their protests on campus and if
we're gonna get in trouble they should
get in trouble like disaster right like
the administration's go ashore we would
be happy to to you know police and
monitor and control as many students as
possible right again obviously I'm
trusting people in the audience to
understand you know and it's annoying
that I even have to say this but I know
there's always like the you know people
who are like intentionally not gonna
understand things or literalist this
obviously is not an embrace of
anti-choice politics in any way shape or
form it was to say that that pivot is a
big problem to not go on like wait a
second we're staying exactly on this
issue and you're not gonna suppress us -
well why aren't these other students
getting into trouble like this kind of
like tattletale self policing thing and
I think that is a bit like that like why
didn't the police shoot the white woman
with the rock that's no we obviously
don't want anybody precisely
that's the Liberatore anyone wrong that
they shot the black person for first
place - precise with the argument of the
white women with rock well there and I
and there is totally by the way there's
absolutely a tendency I could see in
certain sectors of criminal justice
reform where they'll say like you know
what you're totally right about this
there are these really unfair racial and
structural disparities and our answer is
gonna be we're gonna incarcerate even
more people to even out the stats not
we're gonna get rid of this system that
is horrible
full-stop and obviously
disproportionately affects people of
color exactly so I think that's a fairly
you know that's a really big problem I I
had one other point but I guess I'll
just sort of leave it there I think oh
and I guess it's sort of attached to the
third point is I do think at times you
know I I definitely think that there are
some people okay but I think let me make
a distinction I think Milo because Milo
is as far as I understand it was
specifically promising to Doc's and
expose people who were transgender on
his tour in a way that could jeopardize
their well-being so stopping that is a
fundamentally different thing because
you're protecting somebody's well-being
right so that takes on a completely
different equation ben shapiro being a
little smug at your campus
yeah i would say if ben shapiro had been
primarily ignored or people had gone to
his appearances and just been cool calm
and collected and mocked him i don't
think he would have half the career he
has i mean that's what happens in most
of the times that he appears in places
though like there's all these stories of
they were expecting trouble at this
speech somebody made a huge threat about
this and it turned out like no nothing
well not actual trouble but the but it
but well look there's enough material
he's been given for a million montages
to you know feed his brand so on Jerry
cuz I'll tell you Michael I would I
gotta wear a nice one of the main unfair
demonstrations against him at Berkeley
right and what went down there was the
positive you were just describing okay
and anyone that got there and was
complete you know would do the things
that we on the Barris would be
embarrassed or shudder from or
understand could be used against us
would have been squashed instantly and
it that's just him ste they really would
creating copying speeches and people
that old versus new yet okay yeah that's
his team creating property I got I do
think honestly in some in the end man I
just I'm hoping to see that the the
reality and the possibility that there
could be the slippery slope with the
platform I think what I'm asserting at
this point is I just haven't seen II yes
and again so with the it's going down
versus Allwright model it's going down
didn't do things that then got the
attention of patreon house it's that
have an intent antibiotic ounce been
removed from picture I mean I think I
mean isn't auntie fat auntie excuse me
yeah yeah this could see your argument
about not trusting the the business
that's running this stuff because
difference the distinction being I'm
hoping I guess which is maybe you know
kind of misguided that they would
understand okay look you brought down
it's going down because of lie
you brought down Sargon because of
things he actually did there Nana
there's some there's a thing in that art
I don't think so I think you're you're
not going to I would never depend on a
Silicon Valley company making the
adjudication 'he's like that and i think
i everyone know i think what i'm
depending on is I'm not seeing any
reason I should stop supporting the D
platforming at fashion I'm not seeing
I mean look all I'm saying is that
that's the new game you a left aside it
would be different you know what the the
real play might end up being is that we
are going to on some of these platforms
that aren't totally monopolized there
might end up being a left-wing patreon
and a fascist patreon and we're gonna
have to migrate into these different
business models they already have hate
Rhian don't they I think yeah but those
things are always going to run into
payment providers as well well that's
well that's actually right and I think
that's maybe right that's a more what
I'm saying though is if you have two
different platforms that say like okay
we are providing for different types of
politics then it I mean and that's also
scary too frankly but I think like a
payment platform because of the way
their business is run is gonna be more
likely to basically be saying like like
they strop they stopped processing Gavin
McGinnis stuff because they're scared
that there's even a 1% chance that
there's organized criminal activity
going on that's not because of somebody
giving an interview so that already
becomes a completely different metric
that you're measuring by so I you know
but as long as these things are in the
hands of like a patreon uh no I don't
think it's a sporran strategy problem
this is why the I always try to move
this conversation on to monopoly because
I don't think I'd win on actually having
this conversation outside of it as if
there was no monopoly you could have I
would take my business to a left-wing
platform that balances this correctly
right like it Isis out the fascists and
is favorable to the left wingers I think
I could run a patreon like that fairly
well now if we wanted to but I'm not in
charge of patreon and the other thing
people need to realize with patreon and
the sargon stuff is they
realize and they're conscious about the
fact that they're not just monetizing
the content that gets put on patreon
right
somebody could subscribe to literary
hangover if they just liked what I do on
this show it would never even have to
listen to the well they said that in
their statement right and that a said
they basically said like look we check
out especially what our top performers
do on different platforms I was always
gonna happen and that's got to be an
increasing site of risk and I mean the
problem is I don't I I think that
continued to err encouraging these
things will lead so like left when
things it cut 200 I think that's why the
right wing likes to play the like well
if you're gonna let us in then the or if
you're gonna let them and then you have
to let us and and if you're gonna let us
out we're gonna make it house a lot of
this xx and there's always gonna be for
the foreseeable future as we work to
change it there's going to be a
structural advantage on the right in
those dynamic yeah and I think I mean I
I think I understand what he's saying
about now like I think Sargon and Milo
like VF welcome but I I I am genuinely
like I don't want to pour any more gas
on the fire as far as that goes I don't
think it's a wise strategy and I even
think I mean whatever I think we can and
I think we can also frankly if you want
to you can also parse you know like I
think Milo is in some ways a very easy
one to parse even in his tours because
he's specifically talking about doing an
actionable thing to students as far as I
understand it already becomes a totally
different thing then frankly I mean even
somebody like Sargon I mean the guy is a
 jackass like take them on use
them as an example to undermine the
brand I mean it's so easy idea thing and
you would because I think business cuz
it's a business that's and I agree with
you but that's not adorable strategy but
but as soon as it becomes as soon as
they've dumped enough money to make it
so that like you know enough Prague
review videos have been taking literally
enough people that even saying the word
socialism is gonna lead to you know
China you know a Cultural Revolution
that's gonna kill people like they as a
business you as a business will hint
will go away from any controversy you as
a business until they until the backlash
to what happened to Sam became so
unbelievably overwhelming your first
instinct would be you know what I don't
understand all of this it's too
complicated I get that you know this
guy's of uncredible source but the
tweets controversial you know I don't to
deal it that's what businesses do but I
know someone with a smaller someone with
a smaller platform could have been
destroyed by that dude if it's someone
there is no doubt that somebody with a
smaller platform would have been
destroyed by that most people if if that
happened to someone to the smaller
platform they would not have every
single entertainment figure and pundit
if it happened to somebody who hadn't
been platform me and a lot of different
journalists at a lot of different major
publications plunge right person hundred
percent so as long as we're in the
market game it's not a smart play
I guess that's with the monopolization
thing I'm saying like if we weren't in
this context of monopolization and I was
just running a patreon I would still
kickoffs are gone for explicitly his
political beliefs and I wouldn't just I
wouldn't run somebody who speaks like
that but you would be sending a
different company up which is what we're
talking about just like I want my
patreon is comitia - socialist anarchist
cool content exactly you're some weird
you know
 bigoted idiot from Britain no
thank you so you talk about
monopolization yeah sure and that's the
monopolization and innovation right
there you go yeah I mean I agree with
some of what you guys have said and
disagree with other parts of it I do
think it speaks to the need for real
left-wing platforms because I also do
not trust patreon or any evil tech
company really to adjudicate these
things I also agree that we need to pick
our battles and be smart about it and
know where to draw the line between a
real fascist who
poses either clear and present danger to
people or like just spreading a violent
ideology that leads very directly to
violence like we've seen with the proud
boys who have actually put people in the
hospital fairly recently and know when
you're just playing into people's hands
and when you're not but like okay I used
to be much more of a free speech
absolutist than I am right now but over
time like as I've gotten more and more
information about this stuff I've kind
of changed my mind
because first of all like if you provide
a neutral platform we're not on equal
footing in the marketplace of ideas
right some ideas have a lot more money
and power behind them than others so if
I don't think any platform is truly
gonna be neutral and I do think they
have the responsibility to at least try
to be smart about who they're featuring
and who they're not and like we gotta
use all the tools in our toolbox you
know and I used to think that a deep
platforming and protesting people was
pointless because it didn't work but
I've seen it work a bunch of times like
really hurt Alex Jones it really hurt uh
Mike Tsarevich Gavin McInnes like
they're pissed off about it and fewer
people are being polluted with their
white nationalist garbage as a result
also there's no rule there's no law that
says the right and the left have to be
treated equally right so like the
slippery slope argument where oh it
would be so easy once you set this
precedent to use it against the left but
there's there's not and there's no
equivalence there but which side is
capital yeah I mean where I'm not
talking about more I'm talking in terms
of power obviously it's gonna be used
against the left I mean it already is in
fact a more practical just just to add
to this because we we always talk about
like the easy ones okay but on Facebook
in response to a lot of pushes on these
issues okay Alex Jones Gavin McGinnis
massive impacts on websites like Brazil
wire the Atlantic Council we
is a centre-right to neocon think tank
is advising facebook on latin america
content and on foreign policy and it's
already had a massive impact on
independent adversarial journalism on
u.s. foreign policy and there is
absolutely not only is it gonna favor
the right in terms of where capitals
will go it it it is i mean it are it
that's not even slippery slope it
already is barring a couple of top line
personalities that we all focus on the
structural creep of what already is
getting flattened and moved out of the
discourse is on the left and that's for
obvious reasons that of course capital
will favor the the right so i just think
like look it's both a bad play because
of the context we're in and I also think
which shouldn't we shouldn't lose sight
to of you know the other facets of this
as well which is that like these people
can be out and we can defeat them and
beat them and we don't have to kind of
play that cop hall monitor role here's
the thing though they're gonna do that
to the left no matter what the left up I
don't know I don't know about that they
are well I do and they will but what's
the evidence for that like we have
actual evidence of how these things are
working and we need to respond to like
what the actual evidence is versus
respec you could be right but that's not
what the reality is now so the reality I
feel like you don't think that they
would keep trying to deep platform it's
going down if the left stop trying to do
platform Gavin McInnes because I think
they absolutely good possible and one
thing I know what's right what is is
smart is they use absolutely every tool
in their toolbox and they don't have
conversations like this unless it's in a
totally disingenuous way the only
benefits but I guess the problems are
sharpening the tools for them right
you're giving them I don't agree they
have more tools they have more
advantages and your hand like again we
don't operate in an idealized world I'm
having the conversation as if it's
already baked in that they have
structural I think you cannot to give
them I think they invented this and the
left has picked it up because the vast
majority of instances where people have
been harassed
d platformed forced to leave their jobs
it's been for expressing left-wing views
I mean my worry with the with and I
think the examples of Sargon and Gavin
and Milo beam to platformer I think it
has damaged their careers and probably
definitely minimize their ability to
damage society but I worry that the
availability of those case studies is
overshadowing things like the crimes of
Britain accounts that get shut down or
that no tell this or I mean it's a
classic like the headlines tell like
look at these companies they're cracking
down on the alright but the structural
instruments that are being it put into
place from the Google algorithm searches
to Facebook certainly Twitter accounts
in fact Twitter accounts still are you
know there is there's satiric left-wing
personalities that have been banned and
Richard Spencer is still on so the top
line is that even in this like it's
already being lost on the left so maybe
look maybe the most practical answer is
and like you know there's conversations
that people are having about this that
maybe will come out down the road is
really just being like there needs to be
at least on like the patreon level some
type of explicitly left platform yeah I
and that because that I agree with you
here stay tuned man if you had so if you
have these sort of different you know
patreon sort of services or you know
personal services they're not normalized
by being on the same platform as
everybody else so it's like oh come on
you know this was how Milo got as far as
he did it's like oh he he's you know
he's just you know he's not that bad and
look he's on this thing and he's talking
on that thing he's dumping we're sharing
this space with them if people have to
go to the place that says like in their
mission statement we're totally good
with neo-nazis and liars then people
know that going I agree with that
I agree with that and I also just want
to say to that another reason that Milo
got really punctured was because of also
just like like that BuzzFeed report on
Milo is I mean there was there was the
comment that people dug up
the pedophilia thing which I don't
remember but that was one and and to be
honest with you my read on that was that
he was already on the way out anyways I
was Dean scream yeah they would have
they would have run interference for him
because that's exactly to type a comment
that he would make and say like who I
was just joking get away with so I don't
know about that but the BuzzFeed report
that actually was like all right this
isn't speculative like this is the
pipeline this is the piece and Breitbart
this is how they advise like actual
active white nationalists this is how it
gets reframed and laundered for you know
that was devastating
because it it shut down a whole spectrum
of the conduit bullshit's conversations
from people like dave rubin who did the
ideas and then it was like okay this is
the actual idea process and that was you
know that was frankly just journalism
and analysis I think that really bought
him no and it destroyed their entire
sort of finely tuned yeah dog whistle
NER exactly that was so careful to not
be racist and fascist and bigoted but
you know you just scrape the surface a
little bit and it just ripped the whole
thing off and I had you know a total
ripple effect because now we can apply
that rubric to other people look his
rhetoric is exactly the same things that
Milo was saying you know so obviously
he's you know that's what started on
toll stick you know he was recently I
heard him on a Kevin Logan podcast and
they ripped him apart calling him names
tore his argument apart repeatedly and
were totally disrespectful to him he's
really fun sounds like another way to
learn following my lead - how did
debates kosher well he came away from it
like he took all the jabs all rode
gender-specific name-calling at him and
all this stuff and came away like I can
take it because I'm in the marketplace
of ideas so it was like yeah it was fun
to watch him just get ripped apart but
he just laughed it off right and so
that's again where that BuzzFeed article
is so important because he thought an
honest actor he's not
Sargon isn't debating issues give me a
 break hundred percent
oh you fish you two hundred percent
either line for what
it's worth and this is where it's the
last thing I'll say I think where
there's value and defending like the
actual liberal bujji values that anybody
who I think is just even contextually
honest like if you're you know in your
early 30s in the United States of
America even in a radically changed
political situation you're gonna want to
preserve some of these things that we
call Buju or whatever the hell and
frankly I think for what it's worth the
Milo case is actually an example of the
most potent thing that really destroyed
him was aggressive smart first amendment
enabled investigative journalism and
that's when where he was totally
destroyed that was when the book company
dropped his book and now he's a joke so
I mean I feel like these are all these
liberal media platforms who still think
that they can be neutral and provide an
equal amount of time to these people
they need to wake up because throughout
history we've seen fascists do not
respect their liberal values and they're
going to use any platform they're given
against them no doubt Richard Spencer we
played a clip of him yeah you're an ass
no he said we'll use it and then we get
in power we get rid of the First
Amendment yeah yeah so he doesn't care
about free speech and I realize I do
yeah and I realized that most of these
companies are more likely to break for
the right than the left
when push comes to shove but they should
be a little smarter than that about it
because the fascists are not on their
side
well I unlike you as a socialist versus
anarchist I have no trust in the
companies having an allegiance just I'm
not I'm a communist with anarchists
leaning just an update on the IDW
patreon Exodus all right they're not
doing it well Jordan Peterson and Dave
Rubin are still on Patriot hell yeah of
course they are did you think really
seriously I'm actually making stupid
money what am I supposed to do you mean
maybe we should have had the replacement
set up guys so there's a really
interesting question which is also sorry
I'll test an interview and it's time to
do an exile but Carl Jung was with like
we just have 30 thousand dollars coming
in a month so we just walk away from
that yeah and of course the answer is no
I mean that would be chaos
so what do you do so socialists I mean
Sam Harris gets the shut down his
patreon because he's literally like I
mean this is a material interest okay I
haven't it like look Dave Rubin and
Jordan Peterson definitely make more
money than they should make in my
estimation but they are not trust fund
babies as far as I understand Sam Harris
can do the patreon flourish because he
is literally like Scrooge McDuck in
Golden Girls money okay like he can do
that little play Dave Rubin I mean I'm
sure he gets plenty of you know
corporate money but I think he does have
actual patrons and part of his budget is
actually Al is actually like oh I need
this 3,200 patrons yeah so that's real I
also find it telling that the thing that
really turned the right against Milo was
him talking granted in a very flippant
way about something that I've heard a
lot of my gay male friends talk about
which was oh yeah my first sexual
experience was with an older dude and
you know maybe that was a little creepy
on his part but I feel okay about it and
this is the thing and conservatives were
like oh no no no we can't have that
because I knew at the end of the day
they were gonna reject him for being gay
not for being a fascist or whatever I
didn't follow that story very much but I
do recall to echo what you're saying
that when he when I heard that clip it
was like yes it was like first of all if
you had friends like that are gay men it
wasn't such an entirely shocking thing
to hear necessarily and it was also like
there was some things he said around it
as I recall that were actually really
gross that weren't just that but I do
remember being like this dude said like
literally hundreds of better worse than
this look to me like him joking about
his
childhood sexual assault like to almost
feel better about it yeah yeah it was
probably one of course on the alt-right
the most like humanizing potentially
controversial thing you'd say it would
be what would get you what is it
I've got seven thousand four hundred and
fifty one the hatred yeah a lot of
patrons so yeah maybe you Sargon ate
less french fries he would be in a
different shape what I would what is it
what a different comedy podcast has nine
thousand something so nice I was alright
patreon.com slash t mb a--
