grassroots there's a you know meanwhile
the Senate machine to just crank in
right-wing justices for lifetime
appointments on federal courts remember
Donald Trump is already I think the most
successful in placing his judges on the
federal court and the the most recent
who has been sped through and your good
friend Chuck Schumer made multiple deals
to allow this well it's hard
Chuck Schumer has done as far as I can
tell absolutely nothing to stop this
this this like you know relentless
onslaught of right-wing judges and and
there's only and there's a limited
amount in what he could do frankly it's
just the he could make it he could slow
the you know he could slow the roll
somewhat and at the very least he could
just make an effort which would make
people feel like he's making an effort
this the latest judge is this guy Steven
minashi
he's a legal aide to Donald Trump he has
incredible hostility for women as far as
I can tell for folks of color for LGBTQ
he's a forty year old lawyer clerked for
Sam Alito served as acting general
counsel for Betsy DeVos wrote dozens of
incendiary editorials and blog posts in
the late 90s and early 2000s decrying
leftist multiculturalism and PC
orthodoxy there's gonna be a federal
judge folks he complained about guy no
centrists what is that you're just so
you all UK it's like I think you see the
whole world through your vagina
essentially
we're penis centrists penile centrists
right he said that he complained that
gyno centrist were participating and
they take back the night marches the
Take Back the Night marches are marches
that are essentially anti-rape marches
they're trying to raise awareness that
women shouldn't be afraid to go out at
night for getting raped
so motorizing yes so PC he accused the
Human Rights Campaign of having to quote
incessantly exploiting the slaying of
Matthew Shepard who was a young guy who
was killed because he was gay he claimed
that a Dartmouth fraternity wasn't being
racist when it held a quote ghetto party
attended by white party goers wearing
afros and carrying toy guns some of his
past writings include him comparing race
data collection and college admissions
to Germany under Adolf Hitler denouncing
women's marches as sexual assault
that's opposing the radical abortion
rights advocated by campus feminists and
codified in roe v wade arguing that
diverse communities quote exhibit less
political and civil civic engagement
less effective government institutions
and fewer public goods he opposed
need-based financial aid because it hurt
wealthy people oh my god and he was also
full of means he also exactly people
struck with affluenza he also spread the
the myth the Islamic phobic myth that
Donald Trump did as well that general
john pershing executed muslim prisoners
in the philippines in 1913 with bullets
dipped in pig fat yeah
and he's horrible
we have protesters though going and not
just protesting Republicans because of
course but people like Chris Coons
Democratic senator senator from Maryland
excuse me Delaware who has talked about
how we need to get bring back the
filibuster if Democrats take the Senate
for judicial pics and and also Susan
Collins who of course I'm sure it's just
absolutely upset about this guy and
we'll have to vote for him
[Music]
Oh
now they're there yelling we won't back
down on Brown because what right-wing
justices have now done as they are
refusing to say if Brown v Board of
Education the ruling that basically said
separate but equal is not equal was
correctly decided that's so bad it's
unbelievable Rights Act yep let's go to
the phones
