so Scott let's there are two cases that
are making their way to the Supreme
Court in this in this session regarding
gerrymandering and not only are they
unlikely to go in a direction that you
and I and democracy would want to see
but it's conceivable that a that it's go
even further in in in harming the
ability for voters in this country to
really have their vote count I mean this
is ultimately what it what it comes down
to and and it is you know based upon the
rulings of the Supreme Court in the past
20 years stunning that it could come to
this I I am still fixated on Bush v Gore
I suspect that you may have your moments
of that as well but before we get to to
something like that let's go back and
give us a history a little bit if you
will of gerrymandering with the Supreme
Court because it implicates Anthony
Kennedy who exited the court and the
timing in which he exited the court and
what he did before he left the court and
its implications on his legacy are
really bound up in this question of
gerrymandering perhaps more than just
about any other question so so tell us
the history of gerrymandering and and
and how that implicates Kennedy Shirin
and Anthony Kennedy didn't exactly cover
himself with glory in his last term's
who talked about so the Supreme Court
has on a few occasions argued that
consciously racial gerrymandering is
unconstitutional and there's an irony
there in which you know Democrats have
often supported majority minority
districts but they're actually sort of
they're better for minority
representation in terms of getting more
minorities in the legislature but back
to the Democratic Party overall so it's
kind of a complicated partisan balance
which is one reason grass that on a few
occasions the Supreme Court has
intervened but the Supreme Court has
never done is argued that a gerrymander
done for partisan reasons is
unconstitutional but there have never
been five votes for the Scalia position
that partisan gerrymandering is just a
political question that the courts can't
address you know so it's the classic
thing where Kennedy wouldn't vote to
strike down gerrymanders but would
always hold out hope that you know
something would be so egregious as to
trigger that well last year in Gilbert
Whitford which I think we talked about
there was just you know the ridiculous
Wisconsin gerrymander where you know
Republicans were able to turn 50 percent
of the vote into 69 percent of the seats
and that persists you know Democrats I
believe Republicans lost Democrats got
about 54% of the boats for the
responsive legislature and barely picked
up any seats I mean the gerrymander
essentially means that Wisconsin
Republicans can't lose under current
partisan norms you know it just be like
it's impossible and yet yo Kennedy who
looked at oral arguments like this was
going to be the one that finally
triggered him you know obviously just
refused to say anything and then the
case ended up being dismissed on on
standing grounds but I think most people
have interpreted that as you know the
Liberals would rather do that and just
have a loss but at any rate Kennedy you
just would not sign out the ending
opinions writing down the gerrymander
and essentially if the Wisconsin
gerrymander is unconstitutional you know
nothing is alright yeah III want to just
I just want to stop and I want people to
marinate a little bit in this concept
because you know it goes by quickly and
I don't think people fully is understand
how outrageous and really in many
respects just like fundamentally
anti-democratic this is in Wisconsin 50
and this is not like you know look the
electoral college is set up this way
that is the in the Constitution we you
and I could disagree with it it can be
anti-democratic but I mean that's the
way it's set up the the idea of the
Senate is you know somewhat
anti-democratic be
you have two senators who have the same
votes whether they come from you know
Wyoming with a million people less in
this population versus the two senators
who come from California with millions
and millions of people who represent
their vote but that's setup and we all
know that on the day that you know when
we go in to cast our ballots but I I
would argue that the people of Wisconsin
are Tara are just not familiar with the
idea that 56 percent of them go to vote
on you know for their state legislators
and they vote for the Democrat but we
end up with a legislature that is 63
percent Republican that's just stunning
and if that's not a you know sort of
like an offensive gerrymander like you
say nothing could be but but Kennedy
also asked right a decade ago
could there be a social science solution
to assessing when a gerrymander has gone
too far and social scientists responded
and provided that answer in that
Whitford case and that was still not
enough so we are now stuck with no
response and we have two cases that are
now heading to the Supreme Court tell us
about those cases before I get to that
students to pick up on your point one
really telling thing is that yeah that's
what the Conservatives have said is you
know it's just impossible to come up
with standards you know it's beyond the
reach of social science and that's
actually not true that's the same social
science that allows gerrymanders to be
so devastating you know all the computer
models and all that also mean that it's
much easier than it used to be to come
up with fair standards you know and
Roberts kind of made fun of that all
right you say you're all that's
gobbledygook I don't understand math you
know but that's just you know fake
anti-intellectualism and what really
gets me is that this worked in
Pennsylvania you know that the state
courts they're you know used social
science they drew up a map that didn't
benefit Democrats it was just fair you
know and it works perfectly fought you
know that we have
the tools in social science to say you
know we could construct a relatively
fair map and like one-person one-vote
you know if the map still gives a 0.5%
edge to one party the other that's
within the realm of democratic
acceptability you know yeah you can't
you know there'll be some marginal cases
but it's just the idea that it's
impossible to come up with standards
it's just nonsense it's just complete
nonsense
but you know the it's clear that Roberts
will do that anyway so so that leads us
into these go this leads into these
cases one of which is from Maryland and
wanted which is from North Carolina and
there are a couple interesting things
about that case selection the first
thing is that North Carolina and I think
we've talked about this before to sort
of demonstrates that there's really in
most cases no meaningful difference
between a partisan gerrymander and a
racial gerrymander you know literally
the week after the Supreme Court gutted
the Voting Rights Act in Shelby County
versus holder on North Carolina
legislators asked for racial data about
voting so they got data for
african-american you know they asked can
we get this for Latinos you know like
you know they they asked for this data
and they made an omnibus change to the
state's election statute every single
one of which made it more difficult for
african-americans to vote or went after
african-american voters as the Fourth
Circuit found in a unanimous opinion it
targeted african-american voters with
almost surgical precision
so really to call that just a partisan
gerrymander as opposed to a racial
gerrymander is you know it's a
distinction without a difference
Akio deliberately targeted
african-americans and if it did that
because there were Democrats rather than
because they're african-americans like
that still just crew cares that monthly
support you to mebut you away it doesn't
matter what your motives for
discriminating against african-americans
or at least should so you know again
North Carolina isn't you know and and
and really Wisconsin has the same
properties that um and Wisconsin
legislators are very upfront about that
is you know why should voters in Madison
and Milwaukee be able to like decide the
outcomes of Elections just because more
people live you know it's the same you
know and it's not you know that would be
with the sundog very hidden subtext that
was an African
and voters get a say in who who becomes
governor who's in the legislature and
Scott I would add the the irony is of
course there was a Texas redistricting
case where the intent it was sort of
like on with the converse right was the
because the Texas Legislature did not
create the original racially constructed
districts then their intent was
irrelevant even though in the end it was
racialized
in that respect so it sort of cut the
other direction for that Texas
Legislature all right well listen we
gotta take a break when we come back I
want to talk about what we anticipate
the Supreme Court will do with its
newest members gorsek and Brett
Kavanaugh in terms of this redistricting
and that it could actually get worse
because this year in Michigan we saw a
situation where by referendum the the
citizens of Michigan said like you know
we're done with this gerrymandering
let's let an independent commission deal
with it well the Supreme Court may have
some other ideas we're going to take a
quick break when we come back Scotland
will tell us about that
I'm Sam cedar this is ring a fire radio
