[Music]
turning to foreign policy this week we
have according to John Bolton dispatched
a carrier fight group I imagined down to
the the Straits our moves is that
wherewhere is it I'm not exactly sure
where it's going I think it's the block
the Strait of Hormuz which is where this
plant prime oil flow point and this of
course is an incredibly aggressive move
this is the way that Iran ian's get
their oil out of their country and the
u.s. is going I don't know if it's to
block or if it's just to hang around and
see what happens
but that level belligerence is you know
could be the predicate to some type of
war or bombing with Iran or perhaps it
is a predicate to some proxy bombing
Iran and our positioning there is to
basically do one of those things where
it's like oh this is even worse I mean
they're actually saying that it's a
deterrence from what is seen as a
potential preparation by Iranian forces
and its proxies that may indicate a
possible attacks on US forces in the
region which is incredibly dishonest and
dangerous I mean this is like when they
made the Republican National Guard a
terrorist group they did that like they
determined a couple of months ago that
was incredibly provocative in Iran in
response said that all US forces in the
region are terrorist force essentially
as a kind of like tit for tat well and
one shoe tha's they've been playing near
each other at times targeting each other
at times informally cooperating for
years so nothing is different anybody
that would kind of put reporting forward
on some type of new like Lebanon 1980s
scenario is lying well first off the
idea that Iran would pick a fight with
United
is absurd it's just simply absurd but
more importantly recall that like you
said when we designated the Iranian
Guard a terrorist organization one of
the things that people were concerned
about is does that mean under the AUMF
which is the authorization for use of
military force which was signed in the
wake of 9/11 which allows for a far too
much power in the executive to wage war
amongst far too many people but
specifically terror groups this could be
a predicate to opening up a legal
justification for kinetic energy or
whatever they call it in in a war on
Iran so this is disturbing and matte
dust from from Bernie Sanders team this
Barbara Starr from CNN credulous Li
reporting just in yeah I mean robber
star is not credulous Li reporting
anything she is repeating yeah oh yeah
no Barbara Starr Garces doesn't was part
of the Bush administration in pushing
this stuff in in many respects and
Barbara Starr repeats Justin US
officials wonder who tell me the threats
from Iran included quote specific
incredible intelligence that Iranian
forces and proxies were targeting US
forces in Syria Iraq and at sea there
were multiple threads of intelligence
about multiple locations the official
said
hashtag Iran and Matt said Bolton has a
well-documented history of
misrepresenting Intel to justify
escalation and the administration is
desperate to change subject after taking
a pie in the face in Venezuela but okay
and I think Matt does is right about
that one of the other things that
they're doing to avoid a
the face is also getting into a trade
fight with China and this again you know
Donald Trump has a I think a sort of a a
built-in almost knee-jerk response to
losing something and to feeling like
he's being humiliated by starting up you
know another squabble somewhere else
it's almost childlike in many respects
like I'm gonna get attention even if
it's for doing bad things and here's
Mike Pompeo going on Face the Nation to
talk about we're getting tough with
China and which you know I think we're
probably getting tough and all the
things that I at least care about and
getting not so tough and the things that
I do care about and this Margaret
Brennan on Face the Nation brings up
some of the things that I would care
about that we were getting a tough on
China and that is really almost
offensive to Mike Pompeo and he won't
say certain words can you come up with
what words he won't say in this
conversation let's and I'll give him
maybe a little hint but go we heard from
a Pentagon official on Friday a pretty
stark description of what is underway
right now in China he said that there
are three million Muslims being rounded
up into concentration camps in China why
hasn't the administration closet any
three million Muslims roundup into
concentration camps contemplate that
that is a horror listen to how much Mike
Pompeo does not want to repeat what the
Defense Department has said why hasn't
the administration taken any kind of
action or sanction against Beijing for
this oh goodness
the president Trump has pushed back
against China in a way that no previous
president had
that they'd given they had given the
Chinese a free pass in every dimension
President Trump is not pushing back on
the enormous trade abuses you've seen me
personally speak out about the same
situation you're describing this this
number certainly up to a million people
held in re-education camps the Trump
administration is going to hold every
name did did you see what he just did
there every three million people from a
concentration camp just turned into 1
million people in a reeducation camp and
the amazing thing is he thinks that's a
mitigating oh it's just a reaction camp
oh oh ok just a reaction camp is in
mitigation use switch to their state
terminology which means it's not just
that it wasn't that's a term that they
would tend to use getting tough on China
certainly up to a million people held in
re-education camps the Trump
administration is going to hold it every
nation accountable with that term
reeducation camps not concentration
camps which the Pentagon used we can we
can use lots of different terms to
describe what's taking place is enormous
human rights violations I've spoken
about it repeatedly the entire
administration has spoken out it you
just said a million minorities the
Pentagon says 3 million is there a
discrepancy within the administration on
what to do about this and what's
actually there's not don't don't play
ticky tack there's no discrepancy this
administration's a loaded term sir and
three million Muslims being rounded up
is something that many would expect the
United States to raise at the highest
levels and and we've done so sounds like
you're satisfied with that we've done so
right that because the accusation as you
know sir is that the trade talks are
causing the u.s. to choose its own
financial interests over its values are
you saying that's not the case and there
will be actions taken thanks for the
clarification of your question I
appreciate that this administration can
do more than one thing at a time we're
working to stop the intellectual
property theft that has destroyed
millions of jobs the United States we're
working to stop the foreign technology
transports technology transfers that
have taken place
we've got the largest defense budget in
history in place part of which will go
to ensuring we counter Chinese military
power who are working on these human
rights violations as well this
administration takes a back seat to no
one in our that feeling when you get
asked about a concentration camp 3
million concentrate with 3 million
people and you talk about we're
protecting the rights of Hollywood
filmmakers to not have their DVDs copied
well I'll tell you what we won't let
those Chinese bastards do do
another friggin bootleg key priority
Ableton Live yeah kung fu red dead
letter not this time yeah come out of
this administration fool hustle to is
not gonna be on a street corner in
Bushwick again he doesn't want to be a
hypocrite considering that the US
government also has concentration camps
you know we're working on these human
rights violations as well this
administration takes a back seat to no
one in our efforts and our outcomes in
achieving a more rational relationship
with China the previous administration
put us in a bad place and we're working
to fix it were you just saying human
rights are gonna be included in the
trade deal no human rights are going to
be addressed and we've done so I've
raised it in multiple conversations with
my counterpart their foreign minister
and with others I've said the words and
how we backing that up you better not be
making those knockoff DVDs Mike raised
it and I pushed back what more do you
want us to do he was raised and pushed
back both which that's a lot of things
we did the raise and the pushback it was
good it was raised and a push but no
it's not going to come up with the trade
tax Mike do you hypertension very touchy
the interview speaking of
