Elano mare she's another one of the
great inspiring new people who have
joined Congress and this question is
basically they're asking her about
representing I guess white people in a
district this is a very awkward and
weird question and again this is exactly
where I think actually people who do
adopt more of an adolf Reid perspective
it's so easy in some ways to say we are
absolutely we are funded we are opposed
to astrum discrimination and
essentialism of all kinds and where does
primary and primary identity politics
and the negative sense comes out of the
Republican Party which practices white
identity politics and the presupposition
of this question shows how widespread
this poison and this delusion is because
this question is never gonna get asked
of a white candidate representing a
predominant minority district I just
wanted to follow up on that I represent
a district that's nearly 70 percent
white and congressman keith Ellison used
to represent this district the question
that is never asked of a white candidate
when they represent a minority majority
district is that how did you win your
election so I just want to say right in
a new era where we are focused on
talking about what's at stake for the
people that we represent I hope that
kind of question is one that we never
ask in the same way that I hope we are
never continuously talking about the
first I think perfect and they're also
frankly in that district it is it's
actually pretty shabby to the people of
that district because yeah voting
intelligently and dropping nonsense
identity some good old liberals in
Minnesota yeah there's some good old
liberals who are picking the best people
who represent them like her and keith
Ellison
