[Music]
alright let's just do the the bado clip
as well because this was pretty
impressive and I think this is Beto
realizing like I'm not running for
Senate in Texas I may not have much of a
you know statewide future in Texas at
least the the time being and so I'm
going all in on this and of course you
know I think he was genuinely moved by
the events that have taken place in
Texas over the past six weeks the high
impact high velocity round when it hits
your body shreds everything inside of
your body because it was designed to do
that so that you would bleed to death on
a battlefield not be able to get up and
kill one of our soldiers when we see
that being used against children and in
Odessa I met the mother of a 15 year old
girl who was shot by an ar-15 and that
mother watched her bleed to death over
the course of an hour because so many
other people were shot by that ar-15 in
Odessa in Midland there weren't enough
ambulances to get to them in time hell
yes we're gonna take your ar-15 your
ak-47
and just to make the point here somebody
found this guy drew McKevitt I don't
know who he is found an ad from an NRA
magazine in 1962 the armalite ar-50
knoefel it is a complete report on a 22
caliber rifle being offered for military
purposes I mean this is what it was
designed for and you know the NRA knew
what it was back in 62 they understood
what it was is they wrote about it in
the American Rifleman like oh one
sentence is just two words
NATO caliber right you know that well
that moment you know I didn't would
actually moved me and I can't say that
much in politics moves me anymore
I found that very moving and it was
obviously because bado the the passion
shone through and he was saying
something that people are saying all
over the country that millions and
millions of people say is common sense
right that these weapons should not be
in the hands of civilians that it's
outrageous that we have them other
countries don't have them this is not
some it's not something it's not a
god-given right to have a semi-automatic
weapon there is no reason that people
need those for any other purpose than
for mass killings and I don't know
showing off to your friends when you go
to Starbucks or whatever your reasons
are none of which are rational and
reasonable and the fact that a
politician said that in fact I think ID
tweeted somebody last night when I was
watching it you know I've been waiting
20 years for somebody to say that to
somebody just come out and say it
they've done it in other countries they
did it in Australia they've done it in
other countries there there is no you no
rational reason why that can't be done
other than this you know completely
ridiculous gun culture that we have and
the NRA and it's its influence on you
know members of both parties although
that seems to be bifurcating now and
it's really concentrated in the
Republican Party and the NRA is in
district
although I'm not sure that the gun
rights movement is you know going to be
defang simply if the NRA goes away but
we'll have to wait and see but I thought
that was a brilliant moment and I think
it does you know it speaks to the value
of somebody just saying you know
speaking from the heart in politics it's
rare you just don't see it very often I
mean in a way I think I understood that
you know as we just discussed with his
definition of democratic socialism
Warren does it when she's talking about
you know I think middle class the middle
class squeeze and the families there's
some real passion there and they towed
it on that and on on racism as well I
mean he took both of those issues I
think those are going to be something
that he'll be working on after he you
know now that he's blown himself up in
Texas politics he's not going to get
anywhere but he'll be doing something
along those lines and obviously feels
very passionate about it and it was
really good to see I mean I think you
know that's the kind of thing and I was
you know it's the kind of thing that if
Democrats were like Republicans they
would say that they just made the
Republican gun outing snowflakes cry
right I mean they're drowning and
conservative tears I mean that would be
but Democrats don't look at it that way
it's not done to troll the Republicans
it's done because it comes from a very
real and authentic sense of total
outrage and frustration that we're
dealing with these mass killings and
that we're dealing with the gun violence
in general I mean it's just it's it's
reaching this point where people are
just you know they are just absolutely
appalled I know we're dealing with it I
think Beethoven that very effectively I
will note that I saw a clip of Chris
Coons on some morning show this morning
but moaning the fact that beto said this
and you know in folks keep an eye on
Chris Coons because if you ever missed
you know who was Joe Lieberman
well I give you Chris Coons he's gonna
be there he's going to be the guy who's
given probable the filibuster with with
the guns everything else Chris Coons is
the latest in he
he wants the fulcrum seat as it were but
I'm alright I really got to say
something about this you know I love me
some sad bado right anytime he looks
like he's gonna cry
that just really does it for me but the
framing of this answer and I'm sure he
wasn't thinking about it because most of
them don't we're by weapons of war are
fine to use on the battlefield
on people in other countries but not
here in the US just really sets my teeth
on edge like nobody should be gunned
down by an ar-15 no matter where they
live you know but you're not saying that
people should be shot by single
bolt-action in war you just don't think
there should be war oh yeah and we can
stop selling arms to countries like
Saudi Arabia that are using them to
conduct horrible massacres right but I
mean it's not just that you have a
problem with that specific gun that he's
talking about you just don't think there
should be we should we should be
fighting wars which i think is I I mean
I think the idea is that it's a it's a
separate issue silo and I think yes it
would be it would be nice if there was
none of these guns whatsoever I think
certainly the first step in let's say
you just look at let's say like even
tobacco right like what's happened with
tobacco is we have more or less made it
not used in this country and they have
basically just focused all on using it
you know selling it overseas and I think
it's a it's it's evolutionary but I
don't connected violence abroad is
certainly connected to violence at home
when we look at these mass shootings and
the reasons behind them we have to look
at the violence of our society yes and I
would also even expand it to you know we
should get rid of all guns because
30,000 suicides a year I don't know what
percentage of them could be stopped
probably well more than half if people
didn't have access to guns and they're
certainly not using ar-15s to kill
themselves they're they're using
handguns or maybe they're using a
shotgun or something like that but
within the context of
this you know getting some movement I
mean you know I think yeah I take your
point but I'm not sure in that moment
like it's it's gonna be more effective
in getting rid of ar-15s in our society
to say we shouldn't have guns or war and
that move is used more egregiously I
think by Buddha Gig who uses it as a way
to point out his military service yes he
is in there definitely trying to say
like I've handled these things and I've
I just wanna remind everybody I went to
war
Digby any last words
