[Music]
so alright let's just I want to touch on
this this scandal you know that I don't
know I have mixed feelings about it I
mean I don't want to sound jaded but
there were 50 indictments the FBI
presented that involved I mean it's a
fascinating story and it and it's it is
indicative of a real ill in our society
that you know we talked about a little
bit with with Rutger Bregman about this
the what inequality does in terms of
like driving everyone insane and
creating massive discontent across the
across the board you had 40 some-odd
parents who apparently have been
indicted for paying what appears to be
some type of network of people who would
go out and according to the perpetrator
find a guaranteed side door into the
admissions process of colleges you don't
get the backdoor which is I'm gonna
donate a library or something to that
effect but a guaranteed admission which
is basically we're going to do stuff
like pay off the crew coach to say that
he wants to recruit these people for
crew and then they'll never be on the
crew team or we're going to Photoshop
pictures of my child playing water polo
as part of a cover story as to why they
should get in we're going to bribe
people the media is making this about
Hollywood because apparently they're two
actresses involved two there was also a
a top hedge funder this guy bill
McGlashan who was an investor at the
private equity firm TPG
[Music]
he's among these other 49 people accused
of participating in a bribery ring
involving parents admissions counselors
and athletic coaches at Yale Wake Forest
and the University of Southern
California you mean it's a bribe to get
your kids total snob snob here but like
is it really that hard to get into USC
given all the advantages that you people
have had in life you want a guarantee
you want a guarantee if you came from a
poor family and you got into USC huge
accomplishment but if you come from a
family like this and you need to pull
some type of hustle to get into USC well
it's ridiculous because I read one one
of the parents was like we don't want
them to get into Arizona State and it's
like just go to Arizona State just don't
go to school you're fine you could
literally do nothing just drive you're
gonna inherit money it's like it's over
apparently signed off on plans to dr.
photo that would make McGlashan son look
like a football recruit and apparently
they had people take fake tests for them
they had a whole system where they would
set up where like you know if you had to
take the SATs or something you'd need a
special like oh he's got a doctor's
appointment or he's got some problems so
they would do like a separate one they'd
have a different blade of Proctor's and
I just saw in one of the emails one of
the actresses I forget which one she
wrote she wrote to the person that they
were coordinating this with like rut ro
the high school wants to use their own
Proctor like why do you want to go to
college in the first place like what do
you think you're gonna do when you get
there you're gonna pay someone to write
all your papers for you sure they're
gonna bat well that's actually that's a
really good point because a lot of these
kids buy their way into Ivy League
schools and guess what they graduate
just fine
exactly there's the thing you know there
was a quote from the from and Kushner do
this all legally because his dad was
seriously lemme here's the point
there was a query and it's very exciting
there's a quote from the the quote from
the US attorney who I think was part of
the announcement of these indictments
and he said we're not talking about
donating a building we're talking about
fraud here's the problem right like this
is this is why I I think this is this
story it's revealing in some respects
but it's also akin to saying we're gonna
focus on on Bernie Madoff instead of all
of the things that nearly brought down
the entire economy and and and lost
millions of people's their jobs and
millions of people their homes under the
mortgage crisis I mean this is there is
a problem with higher education being so
out of reach for people without going
seriously into debt with essentially
some type of filter that ranges from
that tuition through donating a building
and I just donating a building and
getting your kid in is legal but it
seems to be even far more corrosive then
even what we've seen here I mean people
are talking about like I feel bad for
the kids because they've been taught to
steal and lie as opposed to you could
buy a building and get in yeah that
merit is a function of how wealthy your
parents are that your merit is a
function statistically speaking of the
zip code that you've been born in and
the idea that this is not a bad value to
be teaching kids or that to be
unleashing in society or to have a US
Attorney say like we're talking about
something bad here not like donating a
building and getting your kid
no this is a problem like oh it's not
the problem that people rich people can
buy their kids way into school it's that
they did it in this one very illegal way
but possibly because you know when
multiple generations of rich people buy
their way into school and pay people to
do their work for them
eventually they're not even smart enough
to pull off this camp it's reached a
decadent period no those are the people
that don't have the nest the same level
of money to just buy a building or the
connections that's why they have to do
it in this new money hustle tacky sort
of way versus just the like oh no we'll
just donate a build six million can get
you at least like an auditorium or
something also certain parents did this
in a way that was tax deductible too
right oh I think there's a lot of ways
to but I think I just also think like
yeah I mean when I when they do those
like silly like sanctimonious like it
teaches young people you know to cheat
and it's like every single thing in this
culture teaches you to do that in the
country as sucker to not do that indeed
and if you're gonna chain or change
policy to disincentivize it of course
but like it's it's so the people who
aren't hustling are the suckers and
that's the system they've created and
you know what the real problem with this
is of course it's that it besmirch --is
successful people in america yeah I was
scandal millions of dollars paid to
bribe to college coaches school
officials administrators actor Felicity
Huffman was released on two hundred and
fifty thousand dollar bond actor Lori
Loughlin husband will be released on a 1
million dollar bond
let speak with us now you know I said
before I'm tired of moral lectures from
the elites and this makes things worse
Harvey Weinstein and now college
admissions right I mean it is one second
wait why this is a moral lecture from
the elites that you shouldn't be kissing
the millionaires who buy their way into
colleges and then she says yeah this is
a problem with Hollywood just like
Weinstein I mean the
because they've got to get better
writers or something over there
I kind of agree unfortunately this is
not just Hollywood its wealthy people
all across America and I think what's so
offensive it's unfortunate it's not just
Hollywood because then we could write it
off as a liberal thing this is gonna
actually require just a little bit of
imagination on our part go back to what
its wealthy people all across America
and I think what's so offensive about
this is first of all in one of the
tragedies is the kids the kids are being
basically taught from their parents that
this is the way to get ahead in life to
cheat and steal secondly already we have
Alexandria Ocasio Cortes out there
saying oh just another example about how
the wealthy and powerful in our country
are not playing on the same field as
everybody else and she already has and
this is going to become another cudgel
with basically beating up successful
Americans I think though the the real
tragedy here is that the kids involved
in this who apparently did not know what
was going on are ashamed they're
probably going to lose their spots in
school and obviously we don't have to
feel too sorry for them because they're
all rich and famous but it's this is a
horrible thing that these parents have
done to the system and to the kids oh
you're so right Liz you really are yeah
you said that so let's just just a
review there are two tragedies here one
is that the kids the kids at these 39
adults there are embarrassed and they're
gonna have to live with this although a
couple of them knew about it but but the
ones who didn't which is tragic but
that's the that's the main tragedy the
other tragedy of course is the kids who
don't get in and that it indicates
there's a deep rot in our in this
so-called Meritage wait now I'm sorry
that's not the second tragedy the
tragedy is that someone's pointing out
that there's a deep rot in that video
see as a talking point but yeah the de
Oca is talking point that there is a
deep rot in our society those are the
two tragedies incidentally they were
taking other people's place and
incidentally you know this is again this
is just sort of
the part of the corruption that sticks
out from the you know it's it's it's
little us peek out of the the water on
the whole other low ends of it there's
also there's the whole test prep
industry to like exact every single step
of the way this is a loaded from the I
mean legacy mission which literally is
futile istic all the way through the
criminal conspiracy of this which is
kind of hilarious and Coen Brothers but
all the way through just the things that
we take for granted like you know I know
it a lot of elite colleges like I talked
to somebody once who's like look like a
third of the kids have different rules
so they can take tests at different time
and get extra like everybody's got a
psychiatrist note everybody has of this
and at that everybody gets paid you know
everybody has tutoring I mean it's it's
a whole game that reflects all of our
other social pathology
