[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Wednesday October 5th October
17th excuse me October 17 2018 my name
is Michael Brooks on a Michael Wednesday
and this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on today's
program
Tina Vasquez she's a senior immigration
reporter for rear eyre dot news and she
has a piece abolish ice beyond the
slogan we're talking about the history
of ice where does it come from
what would an actual humane alternative
look like with regards to immigration
and how can we actually get rid of this
terrorist agency Mike Pompeo is in Saudi
Arabia because there's a mystery to
uncover who killed Jamal --is-- cachaca
lieutenant whodunit it's a classic
whodunit we really have no idea
strangers on a train earth sits murdered
on the middle-eastern Express except
well it's the Orient Express doesn't
that work here in the Arabian express
Saudi Arabia times a 100 million dollar
gift to us efforts to stabilize Syria
quote unquote stabilize Syria nicely
synchronized with the Pompeo visit
McConnell eyes cuts to Medicare and
Social Security to address the deficit
as the
next cycle of the right-wing game plays
itself out and you need to go out and
vote in 2018 only weeks away Brian Kemp
continues to purge and attack voters
across the board in Georgia but
protestors activists and the very
effective very smart Stacey Abrams
campaign is fighting back the white
house looks to replace Ryan's inky the
Interior Secretary who is getting
investigated is this another guy that
didn't give Trump his cut it's got a
history of this already
he's definitely as a history of this
also lied about being able to fly fish
apparently really yeah which is I mean I
can't I don't know why he says a career
in Montana politics well I know why he
sells a career in Republican politics
defrauded students win a class-action
certification in a lawsuit against DeVos
great news for students and America
Alaska's lieutenant governor resigns
after so what he calls inappropriate
remarks we'll get to that jr. Bolton ro
has a strong lead in the polls as
fascism surges in Brazil with the
strategic guidance of Steve Bannon and
the total claps and breaking of the
centrist political class in Brazil to
fascism as Lula da Silva remains gagged
in prison by the Brazilian Supreme Court
we could be on the verge of the largest
famine in the world in a hundred years
because of the Saudi UAE US war on Yemen
and getting back to basics Canada makes
marijuana legal I'm thinking of one song
contributor they're finally Canadians
will chill out a little finally
Canadians can relax and I guess well
this is in the packet some guy who owned
a brothel in Nevada of who like Trump
died okay goodbye guy we hardly knew ye
nor particularly cared
and Christian services they Bethany
Christian services is fostering migrant
kids it also has a coercive history of
adoptions all that and more on today's
majority report Mike Pompeo the
Secretary of State who looks like a
creation from the Koch brothers labs
sort of we say like corn syrup come to
life
he's a extraordinarily extremist
far-right figure a Koch bract guy you
know like pretty much all of them are
but it's just important to note that
when even this guy this sort of you know
extremist House guy has ascended to the
heights when you come from the Koch
brothers House District and then you're
putting in the positions of power that
Pompeo is it's time to get concerned a
little bit yeah but of course I'm sure
that folks are super concerned about the
Trump administration because they pour
racism say not like I've been funding
racist literally discriminatory efforts
for decades going back to James Buchanan
say I really don't like the racism um
anytime a libertarian tells you they
don't like the racism say you're not
very bright do you like inheritances
from the racism times right do you like
the idea of doing anything about the
racism
do you support policies that codify it
how about the structures the racism put
in place the structures that feed the
racism well that's not a thought
experiment none of that is thought
experiment based thinking which is where
Liberty comes from Mike Pompeo is in
Saudi Arabia because of course we have a
classic whodunit on our hands we do know
and we have known for years both the
Obama administration the Trump
administration who done it in terms of
mass murder in Yemen and it's also us or
accomplices in the crime but who done it
of the interrogation and murder of Jamal
Khashoggi so here's what we know
it's important to review this because
this isn't just taking Turkish reports
at face value this is we have CCTV
footage of Jamal khashoggi goes into the
Saudi embassy the Saudi consulate and
doesn't leave and then we have the
surveillance footage of that team that
came from Saudi including a DNA expert
so that's what we know supposedly the
Saudis have been preparing and they're
putting out the story that this was an
interrogation gone wrong which we got
Coen Brothers situation right it was a
very it was a very Coen Brothers
situation and I mean I I guess in the
strict that like I there pretty much it
matter like yeah we tortured him and
we're interrogating and we were gonna
abduct him and then I guess somebody got
a little overly frisky and murdered him
see I told you there was an innocent
innocent explanation there obviously
literally right now as we speak if they
haven't decided already figuring out
who's expendable here and no doubt MBS
felt comfortable doing this in the
context of a trump presidency Donald
Trump calls the press the enemy the
people all the time
MBS is just following his lead but
here's Mike Pompeo in Saudi Arabia and
there's an interesting accidental word
choice in this clip but of course you
can tell as representative of the Trump
team they're really serious about
getting to the bottom of the murder of
Jamal khashoggi
told me they were going to conduct a
thorough complete transparent
investigation they made a commitment to
to hold anyone connected to any
wrongdoing that may be found accountable
for that whether they are a senior
officer official they promised
accountability for each of those persons
whom they determine as a result of their
investigation as it deserves
accountability they made no exceptions
to today withhold accountable they would
they would just start they were very
clear they understand the importance of
decision I was implying they are
determined to get to the bottom of it
and that they will conduct the report
and we'll all get a chance to see it
they they each promised that they would
achieve that
I don't want to talk about any of the
facts they didn't want to either and if
they want to have that with this
investigation in a thorough way and I
think that's I think that's I think
that's a reasonable thing to do to give
them that opportunity and then we'll all
get to judge right so they want an
opportunity to figure out what their
cover story is for the abduction and
murder of this guy the detention of him
in a consulate and I will say given MBS
his record and his moves against rival
members of the royal family I would not
be surprised if he feels comfortable
with other royal family being held
accountable for this
I would definitely chalk that as
extremely plausible than MDS could
probably think of several cousins that
he would be down with penniless on the
trouble is for him in terms of covering
this up is that Jamal khashoggi and
other people on the hill in Washington
had connections to other members of the
royal family who rivals of this guy so
that might be hard to do that but it
says I don't control these guys know
sorry that was Gavin McInnes
yeah right exactly like we started it
with it's a thing it's called the
monarchy 38 hundreds of years it's like
a club and we have the Royal sites and
but you know if people killer
blasphemous I don't you know that's just
my army and intelligence service I don't
run them I'm a reformer this is a
picture of Mike Pompeo and NBS this is
about their fourth date and they are I
will say MPs really does he has the he's
got a winning smile I can't tell who has
more butterflies in their stomach yeah I
like how they're gonna read bromance
I love how like the Saudis are like the
only Muslims that these guys don't hate
they're like we would be completely
loathe Muslims period if it was just the
Saudi monarchy man good guys okay so
when someone pointed out to me the other
day that MBS is a millennial mm-hmm he's
only 33 if there
before which makes sense because
Millennials do you tend to murder things
and people right they also murdered Joe
Crowley's career apparently but this is
the sound I hear when I see this picture
do you want to go the picture just
quickly yeah copy right there's three
seconds but you get the joke I like this
that is like I like how there they are
they really are they're like no we're
not even gonna do let's not even pretend
to have even pretend of the photo-op
where I look like gravely concerned
about you clipping torturing murdering
and dismembering I mean I'm sorry and if
kids are listening and they probably
already should have been listening to
this if they're really young but like
let's just outline that for a second
this Turkish police version of this
story which they have the the video
surveillance evidence which everybody
sees supports this as well as the
testimony of Jamal khashoggi zuv former
fiance who has been very brave and
aggressive on this is that he walks into
the consulate is detained tortured
murdered and then cut up into pieces and
driven out in a van like I mean I'm not
trying to put two five mean I guess like
on some level like to kill somebody is
to kill somebody but like premeditation
that is a rat in a consulate
that's like where you know people go to
update their friggin passport pictures I
mean he was going there to get to
basically just take care of some
domestic business because he's getting
remarried and they tortured him and they
chopped his body up like I mean I'm not
even gonna do a movie analogy because it
actually is tasteless like that's
literally what they did and this
is the outcome of that it's like a hey
man how's it going
it's impunity that's global
authoritarianism that is the Trump era
typical millennial entitlement he's
really really trying to turn us into a
millennial bit millennial bin Salman is
like mom mom why can't I kill Jamal guys
Auggie
mutt dad has killed all the dissonance
there is no dissonance for me to kill
why did the baby boomers kill all the
dissidents there wasn't an opportunity
for us to kill the dissidents well as
Thomas Friedman say he had a dark side
including millennial entitlement and
some balls as Thomas Frieden would also
say yeah and if you willing to have the
balls to chop up Jamal tashaki
if you have a New York Times
subscription cancel it folks indeed
support something that needs support and
is actual resistance one of today's
sponsors or today's sponsor is news
voice comm slash majority we all know
and actually perfectly apropos with what
Matt's talking about we live in an era
of high media concentration monopolies
and bubbles where people only consume
news from very narrow sources which
either fit pre-existing narratives that
they already have or don't challenge
bigger narratives that the conglomerates
have it's important and smart and wise
to have a high-quality diverse range of
news analysis and opinion and there's a
new company that's come up with their
own response to these problems it's
called news voice it's an app for iOS
and Android which you can access for
free if you go to news voice comm /
majority and it gives you a personalized
news feed by aggregating a mix of
mainstream media sources international
sources and independent media sources a
big part of my process for both shows I
do is a lot of international news
sources and I know that people know that
I pay attention to enter
shanell stories so that's part of it but
I also like to read and watch how is an
examiner ants 24 is talking about
elections here talking about dynamics
here they have sometimes analysts from
the United States that don't go on the
cable networks that are actually really
good
come guest for this show as an example
multiple sources are provided for each
news story the entire app is fueled by
crowdsourcing you can upload stories you
think are important so more people will
see them you can add stories to the app
you can add a source that's missing for
a story it's meant to be completely open
and democratized news aggregator that
lets you get every side of every story
they also have video interviews then a
video interview series featuring guests
from Chris Hedges to Alexandria Kazuya
Cortez go download the app for free at
news voiced calm / majority I've Anna
we've put a link under this video if
you're watching on YouTube we're gonna
take a brief break and we will be right
back with Tina Vasquez we're talking
about how to get rid of a ice by the way
I just want to say we got DJ dinner key
on the music oh yes indeed DJ Dan turkey
gave us a slew of fresh beats for M R
and T mb/s he is a gem Dan our key set
up a patreon so we can all support you
thanks brother
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I was simply trying to fix the culture
in many ways we were a superpower we are
now a hyper palette
[Music]
as the moms
[Music]
you have a wonderful day bro and I'll
see you again soon welcome back to the
majority report Michael Brooks here
joining us now is Tina Vasquez she is a
senior immigration reporter at rewire
dot news Tina thanks for being here
thank you for having me Tina you have a
new piece out called abolish ice beyond
the slogan before we get to how we
actually abolish this monstrosity can
you go back and give us a history of ice
does ice go back to the founding of this
country
it doesn't which is maybe well at least
that's the argument of the advocates
that want to abolish ice is that it's
it's doable because it's not like an
agency like border patrol which has been
around since the 1920s ice was created
in 2003 as part of the Department of
Homeland Security and it was created
right after the September 11th terrorist
attacks and so immediately you saw this
sort of conflating of immigration with
terrorism and in the beginning at least
ice really impacted Muslim immigrant
communities in unprecedented ways and
now you're seeing sort of similar
tactics being applied to immigrants of
all kinds including Central American
immigrants Mexican immigrants you have
these narratives about them being
rapists and drug dealers and violent
gang members and criminals so that
conflating of immigration with bad stuff
has kind of been how ice has always
operated but yeah it's only a 15 year
old agency how did ice ramp itself up I
think it's important to ladies history
out because there's no doubt that
there's a departure and an acceleration
under Trump and people who would draw a
false equivalency between Trump and
Obama's an example that's just
inaccurate at the same time obviously it
was created under Bush in the context of
counterterrorism that's a really
dangerous thing to merge and equate
immigration writ large and terrorism
specifically and then under you know as
the Bush years progressed and then under
Obama ice became an incredibly
aggressive and really ruthless almost
like power military mindset agency how
did that happen I mean I think it really
has to do with funding I mean there are
multiple instances in which you see ice
asking for far beyond what they budgeted
and Congress gives them the money just
about every time so they have these
resources to detain and deport people
and unprecedented numbers and there's
really not a series of checks and
balances for ice there are multiple
instances like even when something as
egregious as sexual assault happens in
an ice detention center it's basically
ice investigating itself so this is an
agency that has unprecedented funding
that moves too quickly hire people at
reduced standards and so and then with
the Obama administration in particular
you see ice basically get militarized
and that's often tied to it's like two
steps forward one step back so you'll
have something like daca rollout and
it's almost like to to appease
Republicans or people in opposition to
doing anything for immigrant communities
you'll you'll see administration's then
feel the need to ramp up immigration
enforcement if they're going to give a
small percentage of immigrant
communities anything like daca then that
came with increased border enforcement
it came with more ice agents it came
with an uptick in things like ice raids
so it's like a tit for tat kind of thing
if there's any sort of advancement for
immigrant communities you see huge
increases and financial support for ice
which just lets them carry out the kind
of enforcement that we're seeing now so
I want you to talk specifically about
what concretely the shifts from Obama to
Trump have been in terms of the
aggressiveness of ice and I asking that
specifically because I think that and
tell me whether this is true or not
because I was seeing no more than I do
but my read on it is there's many many
things to criticize
Obama about with regards to ice and
immigration writ large from the
militarization of ice to amping up
deportations and so on and like you said
it was sort of in the context of both
trying to appease Republicans will never
be a piece they'll always say that Obama
is a you know Maoist Muslim whatever who
wants open borders no matter what he
does right and then at the same time sit
sorta sort of like make a deal because
generically if you polled us most people
I think not knowing much specifics but
if you ask most people including even I
think actually majority of Republicans
they're like yeah increase enforcement
but provide a path for citizenship for
people who are already here that's kind
of roughly popular and that's what Obama
was actually doing or attempting to do
so he did also to Dhaka on the positive
side he also was sort of like looking to
make a deal to with Trump it seems to me
not only is it
I mean first and foremost humanitarian
catastrophe but it's it's like a
strategic white supremacy it's part of a
broader effort whether we're talking
about voter suppression other issues to
try to engineer an electorate that can
favor a predominant like basically white
identity politics party so first like
does that read make sense to you and
then specifically how is it jumped like
what have the change has been under
Trump from Obama like even in like the
real nuances yeah I mean that makes
sense to me that's I think that's
certainly the case I mean something that
we unpack in the article is that like I
think asylum seekers are a very good
example of the shift that you're seeing
between the two administrations whereas
under the Obama administration we did
see horrible things like family
detention was brought back we saw really
horrible treatment of asylum seekers so
you know when family units migrated they
were then put in detention together and
that was brought back under the Obama
administration but the really important
context that we impact in the article is
that the Obama administration was
responding to a humanitarian crisis at
the border meaning that our immigration
system was not prepared to handle the
number of people migrating to the US
seeking asylum from Central America the
Trump administration
raishin created a humanitarian crisis at
the border by separating families and
basically disappearing children into a
system deporting their parents and
having no mechanism in place for them to
be reunited so that's one example but
under the Obama administration you did
see I think sincere moves to help
immigrant communities it was an
administration that was in a really
tough place there wasn't a lot that
could be done for comprehensive
immigration reform I think that was
discussed throughout Obama's eight years
but then you have the Trump
administration which is just overtly
racist both overtly anti-immigrant and
everything that we're seeing under this
administration is specifically to limit
the number of people who can migrate to
the u.s. especially black and brown
immigrants and to expel as many black
and brown and against as humanly
possible like this is just a clamp down
on the system and you see all of the
federal immigration agencies working
together in a way that in my years doing
immigration reporting for example I've
not really seen USCIS participate in
immigration enforcement but under this
administration with an appointee like
Cissna that was appointed by Trump you
see like you know they're not calling it
a denaturalization task force but you're
seeing a concerted effort to
denaturalize people who have been here
for many years and for minor offenses
and I think those are the most market
shifts where the immigration system
under Obama wasn't operating well and a
lot of people were being deported and I
think it was a person who didn't know
how to handle it or there weren't the
correct systems in place in order to
help more immigrant communities but the
Trump administration has no desire to
help immigrant communities they want to
expel them and keep them from coming
here absolutely so in the piece you
start by taking us back to 2013 and a
group called a woman named Marisa Franco
and a group called the national day
laboring organization and they started
something the hashtag not one more
campaign which you know if I'm reading
you correctly sort of like that's the
sort of precursor of abolish ice can you
take us specific because that will
parallel
what you were already talking about but
that history basically on the other side
of this equation which is of activist
organizations who actually care about
the human dimension the actual dimension
of these issues when their shift sort of
pivoted to ending deportations and
dealing also specifically with the with
the crimes of Joe Arpaio versus a sort
of congressional process so yeah we
decided to start with Marissa Franco
she's now with me gente and so we're
gonna that's the organization that we
profile pretty prominently in the piece
because they've released a pretty
thorough platform of what abolishing ice
looks like to them but in 2013 Marissa
Franco was behind the not one more
campaign so it was like a coalition of
different organizations and their entire
goal was to stop the Obama
administration from deporting any more
immigrants and we start there because
Marissa then goes on to be the executive
director of me gente and now they've
released this platform for abolishing
that idea where she was coming from in
Arizona there was SB 1070 under Joe
Arpaio and it was one of the most
anti-immigrant laws in the country that
basically allowed for racial profiling
and so they were fighting our Payoh but
then nationally they were also trying to
stop deportations under the obama
administration largely also so you have
that kind of mindset now with me gente
where they're being told to wait until
Trump leaves office they're being told
to wait for some sort of congressional
intervention and to them that doesn't
seem feasible and so the agency that is
responsible for carrying out
deportations is ice so they tried to
stop deportations in 2013 and this is
kind of just a continuation of the same
thing what's their plan let's outline it
and then we'll get to Isis response and
how Republicans are trying to leverage
this but the kind of meet of it like
what what are they actually proposing
and what does it concretely look like to
abolish ice and really fundamentally
reset what immigration policy is all
about I mean it
it's I can't remember how many pages is
it it's pretty thorough but it starts
with you know they want to see the
removal of Attorney General Jeff
Sessions they want to repeal laws that
criminalize migration so specifically
they talk about laws that were passed in
1996 that led to more immigrants being
detained and for longer periods of time
they want to end all forms of detention
and then they want to halt things like
Operation Streamline which is you see
like now you're seeing images under the
Trump administration zero-tolerance
policy of like court rooms filled with a
bunch of immigrants and it's like one
fearing for a bunch of people Operation
Streamline has been doing that for a
really long time so it's criminal
prosecution of immigrants it's very
rapid processing of their cases so there
is no due process and it's basically
trying to get people deported as quickly
as possible so those are kind of the
major pillars of their platform and and
does their is do they have a
relationship or a sense of sort of
building brick I mean because first and
foremost like I like that approach and
it's true it's an activist action it
needs to take place even in the worst of
circumstances obviously but is there a
sense that at least you know people on
the Left whether they're Alexandria
Acacio Cortes you mentioned the article
or mark Pocan or others starting to look
into this and develop policy out of it
for the future in Congress so that you
know because as you said it maybe you
could integrate this into the answer to
like the Republicans are you know
they're seeing like oh yeah let's let's
put abolishes out for a vote and you
know we'll use it to gin up our base and
make you look like you have no plan is
there some sort of democratic response
to working policy based off of this I
mean I think there was some controversy
with the person like Ocasio Cortes
because abolish ice was initially part
of her her platform but then she
clarified that to her abolishing ice
didn't mean abolishing deportations and
so a lot of the organizers and activists
that I spoke to for the piece abolishing
deportation is absolutely about
abolishing ice for them and so that's
the tricky part is that
everyone that I spoke to understood that
at some point they're going to need
elected officials to get on board but at
the same time they seemed very wary of
how elected officials would use this
movement to create bills that actually
at the end of the day didn't help
immigrants I mean three Democrats have
proposed a bill that would shut down ice
it would probe you know whether or not
they floated international law it would
create a special commission for people
who've been deported I mean there there
is movement but how that will take shape
at the end of the day and whether that
will like actually benefit the most
impacted which is undocumented
immigrants who have no recourse for
staying in this country under this
administration I think that's really
hard to tell yeah
senator Rock Christian dilib random um
kind of power for his I don't have it in
front of me but she said something like
that recently like she she made a show
along you know with some other much more
centrist you know politicians a couple
months ago kind of getting with hashtag
abolish ice but she had a statement of
like it sounded almost like something
from like some type of like like
something like a yoga teacher would say
it's like yeah that's like reinvent like
the idea of like what ice could be it
was like by the time you parse that it
was like oh you literally are talking
about like let's junk that name yeah I
mean if it just means creating another
agency that sole purpose is detaining
and deporting immigrants I mean what you
know I don't know if that's really
beneficial right so they so there needs
to be much more like structural me put
into like even when people are using
that hashtag even like in a social media
sense starting to use a report like this
and reporting like yours to be like well
no actually we've got some actual
demands here we're not talking a rebrand
yeah I mean I think what's really
important and what I say all the time is
is that I mean I think step number one
for people who really want to get
involved in this movement to abolish ice
is to understand their own immigration
system I mean you really saw a huge
uptick in the call to abolish ice after
the family separation policy at the
border and maybe
this is nitpicky but it actually is an
ice that carried out those separations
that's EVP and Border Patrol so like
these very basic understandings I think
are sometimes lacking but if you
understand all of these pieces and how
they come together and how these
agencies interact to carry out
immigration enforcement and what
agencies detain what immigrants and for
what reasons I mean like that's that's
like really crucial knowledge if you
need to understand what ice does before
you can call to abolish it could you do
a little brief I mean I don't want to
make it too complicated but can you give
us a little primer right now on that
like what what does ice handle what does
Border Patrol I don't know sure so they
all founder the Department of Homeland
Security so you've heard a lot about our
our the office of refugee resettlement
recently because they handle so they
take custody of immigrant children
basically young people under the age of
18 who migrate alone or were subjected
to the family separation policy so
they're in Orr custody ice carries out I
mean ice has different arms but
essentially they carry out the detaining
and deportation of immigrants so they
run well that's murky too ice oversees
the detention system but they contract
with private prison companies so ice
actually doesn't run a lot of its own
detention centers though those contracts
go to private prison companies and then
you have Customs and Border Protection
and Border Patrol and they're largely in
charge of border enforcement so they
were the agencies that carried out the
family separation policy they're the
agencies that work at the border okay so
that's actually yeah that's extremely
helpful so yeah because that's and also
I think that the the privatization piece
that also goes back to the 90s right
like even some of the legislation pushed
by the Republican Congress then and
signed by Bill Clinton started a process
whereby private you know private
detention centers were integrated into
this process - yeah private private
detention centers I mean it's the same
companies that also run prisons and so
you like the big
the biggest thing that gets discussed
with me for people who've been detained
is the lack of health care so you have
people literally dying in custody
because the people who run the the
detention center the private prison
employees just don't receive proper
training there aren't enough of them
whatever ice actually carry like they
provide the health care but I mean there
are cases where a person is clearly
having a heart attack and it doesn't
occur to anyone at the detention center
to call an ambulance for hours and that
person eventually ends up dying in a
hospital these are like very very common
stories and so these private prison
companies like geo group like CCA
Corrections Corporation of America they
run a bulk of Isis detention centers and
the medical care in them is really
really egregious which is why you know
how that connects to Isis when ice
detains more and more people and the
standards are already so low and people
are already so harmed the detention what
are the chances that with this huge
uptick in detention that we'll be able
to properly care for people in detention
right well that actually leads me we'll
leave a little bit of a disgusting note
other people really need to read this
piece but I do have to say apropos of
you outlining that so Wow
I'm gonna quote now from your piece I
asked ice itself for comment recent ice
responded this way recent calls to
abolish ice are dangerously misguided
and overlooked the vital work that ice
officers and special agents perform each
day to keep communities safe agency per
spokesman told me an email
instead of being insulted with
politically motivated attacks the men
and women of ice I feel like I should
have Mission Impossible music better
under this the men and women of ice
should be praised for risking life and
limb every day in the name of national
security and public safety my only
question is where's a 911 reference can
you break down the stats how many uh
just in the interest of fairness how
many ice agents have died and been
seriously injured in the course of
separating families or any or doing any
of their work so that's a really good
question I mean that's something that I
wanted to look into for this piece
it didn't make it in so we know that
over 200 immigrants have died in ice
custody but several have already died
this year I believe at seven or eight
with the last person dying in July when
researching for this piece I tried to
find instances of ice agents being
harmed or or killed in the line of duty
I found two relatively recent cases
within the last ten years
one was to ice agents fighting each
other and one of them shot the other and
then the other case was they were
performing some operation in Mexico and
an agent was shot then literally but not
inside the United States yes okay so
that might have actually been something
that might have that might have they
might have actually been dealing with
something real there yeah idea that this
is I mean they are alive
agents though there are risks but I
couldn't find it it's not like
undocumented immigrants are in the
streets harming ice agents it's not like
that yeah right but that being said Tina
we should thank them for risking life
and limb every day and I want to thank
you for risking life and limb in your
reporting the pieces abolish ice beyond
a slogan you can find it at rewire news
Tina Vasquez senior immigration reporter
at rewire news will have links to
Twitter and all the other ways that you
can follow Tina's work on the show notes
for majority dot F M Tina thanks a lot
for your time
oh cool alright folks we are gonna go to
the fun half or we have a lot of sounds
is it fun sound guys there's some good
beta or roar oh yeah Ted here's the
morning yeah Ted Cruz debate nerd
getting owned in a debate oh I like tie
a cool kid that's a cool skateboard punk
guy yeah high school cape or skateboard
Whataburger fan Wow
lyin Ted can't catch a break
there was a line ted moment actually
soaks you're gonna want this fun half
everybody should have adopted all of
trumps nickname gonna bully ted cruz
yes hashtag bully the right people uh
yeah no cuz Sam near the day in prep was
bleak he's no fun challenge anymore
he really that's another that's a real
Sam like oscillation there cuz he goes
in between like how come nobody got to
trustees report from Social Security we
could take ten minutes of that and I
could just Arif MIT we could just be
like like jazz in the funny hat
you know and then two months later he's
like why is he looking at Ross story I
innocent Cooper look-alike kicked a Bob
Boehner look-alike in the nut and I
could talk about that do you see yeah I
got I must say like as you could
probably gauge our sort of mental
stability by what goes on the shot sound
sheet there's certain times like after
you know the IPCC climate change report
where you don't really have the appetite
for just dumb fox clips know that you're
just like whatever just let the oceans
drown them yeah like where they like
sitting there and talking to this steak
doctor and a giant storm just comes in
like the only good effects of climate
change
we had a great TPMS last night man as we
always do but uh the linking the
democracy and chains research with an
in-depth interview with a NOAA Changa
and what's happening in Georgia voter
suppression but also the very positive
and very real possibility of Stacey
Abrams when the future of the southern
Democratic Party my Anna Navarro
impression which was actually pretty
funny to me I think I stole one of your
lines actually by accident I remembered
it did you do off-mike wood and Navarro
being like I don't know what John McCain
would say but it would be classy yeah
then she actually say that I did okay I
love Don Shula and when Ronald Reagan
supported power militaries to kill you
know it was classy totally different
than Trump so we did that we had a very
long a really good postgame I mean you
know all
we are we are well on our way now or we
cleared 1700 so we're on our way to our
new goal of 2,000 patrons and this past
weekend the illicit history of patrice
lumumba the Congo civil war an apple
made an appearance as well patreon.com
slash T mb/s Plus YouTube channel
Michael Brooks show on YouTube lots of
new clips up right now including really
fun actually dis sessions of Thomas
Friedman with both Alex Perrine and Matt
Taibbi Jamie so this week on the anti
Fattah we had a bit of a discussion of
comrade gritty is he friend to workers
or perhaps he's mocking the sports fans
of Philadelphia maybe a little bit of
both then we took some questions from
our listeners we didn't have a guest
this week it was just the skeleton crew
me Sean and Andy and and I gotta say the
listeners questions were pretty quality
so shout out to you guys we talked about
what do we talk about so out of it today
which is in the occult we talked about
mandatory voting which is the thing I
talked about on here the other day I
flesh that out a little people asked my
support it you want to have meant or
avoiding what happened to that in in a
socialist society yes I do we talked
about why Sean says dead ask so much how
often we question our beliefs and even
waited a little bit into the Anglin Agel
controversy so you check it out folks
there's an ongoing engine all this so is
it for the original one I don't even
know it's still a good book listen to
the show and find out a literary
hangover we did Cory Robbins book
recently that's gonna be on YouTube it
was still I was hoping to be exported
overnight little explore still had about
four hours to go so so that's where
that's at but as you should have it
uploaded tonight and I am going to be
doing a well some people might say
George Carlin other might other people
might say age of Napoleon but a
monologue style history edition of the
litter
hangover where I'm going to go into the
Pequot War and the mystic massacre and
sounds of old home and yeah so look out
for that I listened to the reactionary
mind episode oh yeah and I thought it
was very good though it was just
defamatory and shameful how you took me
out of context I rip you and Jackie from
context you ripped Jamie and I both from
context in a way that was just just
unethical literal violence it was
literal violence it was unethical and I
am gonna be releasing an email exchange
or a text exchange that you and I had
about it
all right folks I am will be fired up in
a minute phones will be on in a minute
seeing the fun what's up do we want to
do a shorter fun hello I need him okay
give me just one second here and we'll
go to the we're gonna do the I'm gonna
do good old anarchy folks I'm gonna be
in LA this weekend with Sam at Politico
if you have any restaurant
recommendations for LA DME have you been
to LA before I've been a few times but
it's a massive County yeah there's a lot
of places I am what partly what part LA
is the thing in I have to check you guys
are gonna tear it up some Convention
Center okay I'm gonna be in Boise Idaho
which pairs a lot of good DSA and other
people there who I don't know cuz I'm
gonna be really busy but maybe if maybe
we could I don't know yeah watch out
there's all there's a watering hole in
Boise there's a watering hole I think
there's a little water all because I
think I'll hopefully I'll be hanging out
my buddy Luke may bill there are
everybody will see you in the front half
all right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the fun
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna degrade the white man alpha males
are back alpha males are back back
almost as what the alpha males are
I am a total junk can we bring back DJ
Tanner
yeah or a couple you put them in
rotation DJ dance well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're enough for the
break that's Hawkinson and the alpha
males psych
Oh almost says what
[Music]
on the back
on the back
back
have you tried doing an impression on a
college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
alpha males
because
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
now the birthday to meet you boy
I have a talking Spanish to foil and the
alpha males of alpha males
to pay the price we around here
ah that's a really good song DJ Dan
turkey
it's a giant um yeah let's do it let's
get straight to this oh you got yeah you
guys teased that very well and now I'm
Eagle eager to hear it so Ted Cruz most
repulsive man on planet earth and better
o'rourke likeable skateboarder centrist
uphill battle making a mark and and also
the type of race that this does lay the
groundwork with if we're serious about
safeguarding voting rights and dealing
with you know the broader Republican
strategic white supremacy Texas will
definitely look radically different
politically and that will have
implications not only for national
politics but it's also gonna have
implications for public health in Texas
which is abysmal the environmental
conditions in Texas which are abysmal
and a lot of other structural issues
that you get from you know unbridled
corny capitalism a policing - I just a
small aside I have friends in the Dallas
area and we're driving around when I was
visiting them a few years ago and and
he's Latino or half Latino and and his
girlfriend was white but driving around
like we get to certain suburbs the music
that gets turned down everyone's looking
for the local police department it's
pretty nuts down there so I I I didn't
pull that video for last night that was
terrifying
but the better thing where he said that
about the kneeling and you know like I
think a lot of those things were a bit
edited to make Beto seem a little bit
more punchy than he was in the moment
but still great to be like putting these
messages even if he doesn't win on the
other side of that was a video he that
Ted Cruz posted a better at the church
just talking about Filipe police exactly
this is illicitly well ted cruz's in
peter phrases terminology he's an
elimination astounded 'it and he's a he
really is I mean besides his obvious
just many you know disgusting and
repulsive
you know grotesque personal qualities he
is and his politics are right up there
with Trump and Paulsen ro and everything
this is a very extreme very dangerous
pure authoritarian corporatist and he
got smacked around a little bit by beta
o rourke let's start with clip number
three with Congressman O'Rourke leading
the way two years of a partisan circus
shutting down the federal government in
a witch hunt on the president that's not
good for the state of Texas it's not
good for our country senator that is
your time 90 seconds response from you
mister o'rourke really interesting to
hear you talk about a partisan circus
after your last six years in the US
Senate that was yes you can definitely
see the tonal contrast there and of
course Ted Cruz is known for partisan
grandstanding going back to when he
first got into Senate he I think he
helped spread a lie that Chuck Hagel
who's a former Republican senator from
Nebraska and a realist
you know old school establishment type
who was Obama's defense secretary and he
had said some mildly critical things
about Israel and there was a rumor
Alice Mir a lie about him I think taking
a check from a group called friends of
hamas and cruz I believe was part of
spreading that long with that great
intellect bench bureau but now this is
where we get a we got to double check
that but I'm pretty sure that's the case
now this is where it gets really good
this is where power twins unite and you
know the thing about Donald Trump one of
the worst people on the planet as well
but creative bully excellent nicknames
and the thing that he's not aiming his
main talents are inheriting money and
owning Republicans and beta O'Rourke
jumped off that business this is what
you can expect over the course of this
debate
senator Cruz is not going to be honest
with you he's gonna make up positions
and votes that I've never held or I've
ever taken he's dishonest it's why the
president called him blind Ted and it's
why the nickname stuck because it's true
yeah you go suburban dad Obama yeah
yeah you go sensible Adidas shoes Obama
it's awesome I'm smart enough to know
that you own me but graceless enough to
pretend that I don't care and I here is
their final exchange where O'Rourke
continues on the lying Ted team speed of
balance and budgets only one of us has
with good friends in El Paso started a
small business met that payroll every
week balanced the books made sure that
we delivered for our clients only one of
us has served at the local government
level every single year balancing the
budget seeing each other not as
Republicans and Democrats but as council
members entrusted with a fiduciary
responsibility to deliver for the
taxpayers of El Paso every single year
we did and for senator Cruz to say that
this isn't going to bust the budget at a
time of 21 trillion dollars in debt when
we're on track to deficit spend to the
tune of a trillion dollars a year he
voted to add two trillion dollars and
those tax cuts disproportionately will
flow to corporations who are already
sitting on record piles of cash and the
already wealthy in a country that is
riven with income inequality unseen
since the last Gilded Age why in the
days just before and just after that
vote senator Cruz accepted one hundred
and twenty thousand dollars from the
political action committees who
represent the corporate interests that
benefited from this tax cut why does he
vote for this why does he vote for
Internet companies to sell your private
browsing data to the highest bidder
without your consent why does he not
vote for universal background checks in
a country that loses thirty thousand
people to gun violence every year follow
the money in each of these cases if you
look at the political action committee
contributions to senator Cruz it helps
to explain the reasons for his vote and
how corrupted Congress has become
I don't take that PAC money not a dime I
obviously have your present the people
of Texas car that's great that's a
strong man I mean look and actually that
is also really interesting because as we
keep saying better or work is no he's I
mean certainly not a socialist and he's
not a liberal I mean he's a centrist
Democrat but first of all I and I think
yet but he's actually more of a genuine
centrist in the sense that that is where
the center of most people are at it's
not a left position to oppose selling
your private data information to third
parties and it's obvious that most
people want the sort of background check
policies they pose pull over at seventy
percent he's talking about and don't
want to sell the Internet to right tech
company I don't want to sell the
Internet to tech companies and don't
want to have tax breaks that are just
designed to benefit oligarchs and
corporations so the way he's branding
and being the centrist is actually if
bado aurora came to represent centrism
we'd have many battles and disagreements
with him but that would be a vast
improvement for our country's politics
so yeah I mean Godspeed and keep
embarrassing that that thing yeah yeah
I'm not inspired by bado
org he is a status quo neoliberal
centrist but the Republicans are a death
cult they want to drive us off of a
cliff so given the choices certainly
support the centrist absolutely and as I
say it's it's I if that's centrism
versus Hillary Clinton that's an upgrade
and there's different yeah they're
different flavors of centrist that's
another yeah that's the center ISM we
had when FDR was empower is different
than even the one we had when Truman was
a power and very different than the one
we had when JFK and Nixon and put it in
the context of Texas as well I mean this
guy even standing next to Ted Cruz
you're like when you could have just let
it replace Ted Cruz yeah the background
check thing out to them like that's
that's that was surprised sort of
messaging I I'm surprised by the
decision that's I think that's a
decision that he's like this is all
about the new electorate which is
another shift in
centrism it's a conscious path fine if
you become like yeah absolutely
is that board I don't know what happened
to it but uh it's somehow it's unplugged
what all right well let's figure that
out before tomorrow so well I won't be
here so if they say we didn't like Boyd
I won't have to deal with it
nice enjoy yourselves
if you wonder how climate change keeps
getting kicked down the can down the
road well I mean I'm the nice and chill
one so I would like to get it fixed now
but I don't see any takers to come over
or figure it out so I guess we'll wait
till tomorrow and then I'm actually
alright afraid I'm gonna make it work no
that's okay don't we should not try they
should try we okay let's do let's do
this cuz this is awesome so let's do the
Aqua Deena job thing so okay start with
Lindsey Graham why not yeah Lindsey
Graham uh is another just utter oddity
um really really terrible person and he
had a little tantrum about MBS yesterday
which I'm sure won't last but he has
been a diligent and constant war monger
and bigoted towards Iranians this is a
so he's gonna be an and be
bigoted towards Iran and also just make
just lame joke that falls flat and then
we have another ongoing in a series of
rogue woke Brian Kilmeade
big story is the president's getting
better and better being president have
you seen this he told me he was getting
better it's so much fun doing he's
rocking it leave it out then re but up
Donald Lindsay Graham thank you very
much come back in a couple of weeks ago
really our problem Iranian and be like
terrible are there great people just bad
leaders yeah bad leaders alright
that I can't believe how fast Kilmeade
was to pick up that oh that was just a
blatantly racist deficit great people
bad leaders God sailing at some point
for this like support for drone strikes
and getting kind of woke about racism
kill me it's part of the Obama coalition
yeah it probably has like a Iranian like
dermatologists or something like that
yeah yeah my gerb gave me Giants tickets
he's a cool guy let's just look at this
casual racism by Lindsey Graham which
once again because he's a senator in a
yes and a leading Center yeah a handful
of one is given constant media platforms
and also the type of guy that people
would say like wonder people like
Lindsey Graham didn't call Donald Trump
for being a bigot because of course
bigotry isn't what the Republican
Party's on yeah and most of the time
American leaders probably could be cots
saying this maybe in private maybe in
private it's also I'm also you know as
is why I want this is just so goddamn
unfunny problem Iranian s be like
terrible great people just bad leaders
bad leader Ayatollah Brent wait why is
Lindsey Graham taking a DNA test if it
was Elizabeth Warren thing for the
record don't play Trump's race science
games folks yes
like if anyone else if he tries to get
anyone any other Democrats to do it just
say no he just tries to get it Pelosi
let's go to this yeah what are you so
anyways I know wait let me try I don't
get that
yeah well do two separate clips this is
okay just uh all right not happen it's
okay so you know how George W Bush I
think were you talking about this will
be making this comparison yeah basically
he's a Ronnie and George Bush like if we
can if we can launder George but that's
the point and we should
George Bush weeks I mean George Bush
obviously just via the nature of the
country Iran has way more you know
destruction on his place Edina jawed way
more bodies akka Medina jawed Mohammed
not gonna do there's some interesting
things about this before we get to the
amazingly hilarious part Mohammed knock
Medina jihad was President of Iran for a
couple of terms I think from 2003 to
2012 I'm not mistaken he was a
right-wing populists his most grave
moment in my view and I know there's
certainly it I remember there even back
then there was tanky conspiracies about
this but he definitely crushed and was
part of a broader regime that crushed
the green civil rights movement in 2009
which happened after Mir Hussein Musa
vey said that the election was stolen
from him by Aqua D Nejad which is a very
credible charge I don't you know I don't
know for a fact but I would tend to
believe most of a former president
Khatami who was a great reformer and the
green movement so Ockman D Nejad has
this on his list and he also obviously
you know he certainly said auntie
somatic things he definitely did not say
the comment about wiping Israel off the
map that's a lie and a mistranslation
and he on the other hand in ways that
actually offended some of the more
conservative elements the Iranian
establishment built very close ties with
the Latin American Left and had a sort
of at times kind of developing world
oriented populism and he has gotten and
so the point being this guy was not
Hitler which is how he was covered in
the u.s. press when he was the head of
Iran when he was the president of Iran
so a guy who in reality you could
compare you know maybe to you know sure
another autocratic leader guy was bad
human rights record nowhere near the
record of as an example Saudi Arabia a
country that we support obviously and
people were up at night
having hysterics over this guy and using
it to justify everything from the
Israeli occupation killing in Gaza to
huge defense spending to people actually
wanting what something is still
terrifyingly possible a war in Iran
people really use this guy as a
boogeyman and it was ridiculous then but
it was commonly accepted practice fast
forward to 2018 and Mohammed Ahmed inna
Judd is probably has one of the most
positive optimistic sunny and civil
Twitter accounts on planet Earth and
before we read this I'm gonna paraphrase
one from the other day well also and
also he did he's a he's a free Lula so
that gets a lot of points with me but he
got a he he got a tweet from somebody
because it's sort of catching on that
he's very nice and somebody was
complaining I think was that Michigan's
having a bad season I think it was
Michigan oh yeah you got to Michigan
tweet you got we gotta read it we got to
do that one before this one cuz this
one's actually a great precursor I think
so this guy goes this guy tweets dear
mock mood ok ok ok mokmou document Gina
jot actually tweets this because he's
woke the NFL season will start once
again this week unfortunately again at
Colin Kaepernick 7 is not on the NFL
roster even though he's one of the best
quarterbacks in the league hashtag
called Kaepernick hashtag NFL come on
Giants so you know yes
och Medina jawed is more wolf than the
Giants Kaepernick is is good I don't
know he's one of the best in the league
he might slightly over so he's the best
he's oh he is literally the best
I don't know play wise but he's good
it's ridicu it's obvious that he's
getting shut out of a job for his
politics now in Iran there are streets
named after Malcolm X as an example
because there is actually a lot of sort
of respect for an interest in the civil
rights movement so this is where some of
this is coming from and this guy took
the right response here which is yes
politics is interesting it's cool that
he did that but let's see where else we
could take aquitine a judge in terms of
his civil and positive twitter
engagement so this guy writes dear
Mahmoud
we have much bigger problems here
Michigan is eight nate who last six
games 16 games under coach at under a
coach Jim Harbaugh yeah yeah I'm just
reading it just makes it funnier at
coach Jim for um hashtag go blue also
college football's the only authentic
football cordially Fred pragmatic now
now Ockman Dean jawed how does he
respond to this now if he was some
annoying woke Twitter activist he would
say how dare you minimize you know Colin
Kaepernick or say he would alienate he
wouldn't build coalition he would say
what brendan is gonna say which is a
cute idiot yeah college football players
don't get played Europe yeah Lloyd
exactly yeah but instead och Medina JA
with the politicians touch and frankly
just good goddamn Twitter etiquette
writes back with hard work inshallah you
of have returned to its glory days which
like literally like everybody should be
wat like could you imagine the contrast
between mockingly huge Medina just
Twitter gonna have to imagine it just
can contrast it with Trump this guy's an
angel to be fair Michigan is ranked 6th
in college football right now they're
six and one well it's hard work in
shelah U of M will return to its glory
days Brian Trump Trump would respond
being like yeah Jim Harbaugh's above
yeah Michigan sad spit of terrible
season everybody's saying it no weird
hired by family yeah alright and that
led to our friend virgin Virgil Texas of
troppo Trap House to Virgil Texas of
Chapo Trap House to come up with this
innovative question so wait wait there's
another first knock Medina John tweet
right let's read the first one we're
like whoa this is were like woke Medina
John one of the main objectives of the
hashtag Panther Party
wit was and by the way this is
absolutely true was feeding the hungry
which did not sit well with the hashtag
United States government hashtag brother
Huey hashtag October 15th it's time to
fight back that's what you II said two
shots in the dark and now you he's dead
and quote which is a saying from the
time
Virgil Texas then tweets sir do you
follow back
knock Medina jawed continuing as the
most classy gentleman and all Twitter
responds what do you usually post about
sir this is so weird
definitely like I could imagine some
wild particularly with experiences
under certain substances when I was
younger but I have to say when I was
following Iran I definitely never had
like writing like a term paper on Iran
and being like you know what one day
there's gonna be this thing that
everybody wastes their days on called
Twitter and och Medina jaw it's gonna be
one of the most knowledgeable classy
civil rights oriented people in the
entire thing well maybe virtual will
teach him some intersectionality be an
amazing Chapel guest no I I will brawl
40 mb/s he is a natural TM BS guest if
he's going on any of these shows it is
absolutely my show that's no
I'm gonna ask him if he still thinks
there are no gay people in Iran there's
some rumors about that but I won't get
into it yeah you're calling from an
eight five-o area code who are you where
you're calling from hey Michael this is
an instant in Pensacola Florida hey
Nathan what's going on what's on your
mind hey man I was just one of the
comment real quick about the commentary
I've been seeing about Elizabeth Warren
with this DNA test okay I have a problem
with it not on this show but kind of in
the general media just the way like her
racial background is being litigated and
it would seem to me like that kind of
comes from a I guess a really privileged
place and it's a muting a kind of racism
one like you're splitting here is over
like you know if 1/16 of her great great
whatever grandparents may or may not
have been an Indian or you know they're
saying like
somehow that you know that experience
doesn't they exist and I have just been
connecting it to my own life like my
ancestors come from five or six
different continents just because the
history of colonialism in this in this
uh you know in the Americas I I'm
thinking you know I couldn't really tell
you where all my different ancestors
came from and it seems to you know be a
the same sort of a I deal with today and
I kind of am slumming some of those I
had written here I don't know I hear
what you have to say I mean I think and
I get I got to just say big picture I
really like I just don't keep I don't
care and in a lot of ways and even know
I mean not your point but just this
whole story and part of it is honestly
because this is not for me to care one
way or another right like the Cherokee
tribe in Cherokee tribe says like they
don't like what she did
then I that's certainly not for me to
comment on and then conversely it's not
for me to say that she isn't what her
family says she is I think more deeply
if you get in you know how do you
negotiate the fact that fundamentally
these things are not real right
literally right right we have an anti
essential effective these things are not
real they're there they're made up
categories and then conversely obviously
it is offensive to people who had a very
real experience historically and
presently to claim an identity of which
you don't share certain very core
characteristics of that experience okay
that's true and then there's also you
know the third point which is I mean I
guess if I have to be blunt it's like I
think she has a family story uh she
obviously got where she is
because she's smart and she works hard
she's a pretty a very admirable
fascinating bio and I think she also saw
an opportunity in a certain context that
you know maybe it'll give her a couple
more points on a job application or
something I don't know
that's my read on it and and that's an
indictment frankly of um of meritocracy
of competition in the job market
whatever but like it's just not like if
I I'm glad it's it's frankly I like the
idea that it might hurt her relative to
Bernie because I prefer Bernie but I
don't care I just I I cannot be precise
from here did ya you could just see the
I'm a little more focused on what I
wanted to say now okay I guess I I sort
of see like this is kind of a pitch from
the right to minority groups and like
what they're do it seems like they're
trying to activate resentment among
among non-white people again someone you
know oh look look at her look at this
white live pretending let me tell you
something boy I could tell you
anecdotally and it's not huge but it's
two people he didn't need to do that for
people to think that that was a very
stupid thing for her to do so I'm like
yeah I mean look let's be real here
like if you give Trump that open lane
he's gonna take it and if you know you
play with that stuff it's gonna offend
some people and that's not a right word
you know I don't I guess I don't buy
that part of it's because there was no
way for her to win that game with him
yeah the only way to win was not to play
honestly and it's gonna end the offense
that some people took had nothing to do
with Trump and I think that yes he did
see an example you know yes
when liberal types give Republicans even
if they're trivial and they don't matter
it doesn't matter
the whole you know oh you say you're
liberal but you you know Bernie Sanders
wears a winter coat you
no I mean yes these idiots are gonna
always use stuff like that that's I mean
it's politics what do you well the
hypocrisy that Trump thinks he was
exposing right is that on the one hand
liberals say oh race isn't real it's not
biological that everything is postmodern
and on the other hand when they when it
suits them they want to leverage their
racial identity for political benefit do
you think Trump I really thought that I
don't think so I think he just I mean I
hear I think you're right but I think
Trump was just like she said she was but
she's not Pocahontas and the way you
square that circle is that race is a
real abstraction right it's a socially
constructed category that does very real
things in the world so the mistake she
made I think like like she really could
have presented it like I'm just trolling
you into giving a million dollars to
charity but that's not what she did it
was very sincere and she does present
Native American heritage or race or
whatever as something biologically
determined well I went exact point in
here because she explicitly says in the
video that she does not she understands
the distinction between biology and
tribal affiliation she does say that she
pays lip service to that that's good but
I understand the overall like yeah at
the end of the day your race is
determined by how you are perceived and
treated in this society and she has
never been treated as a Native American
right that's right yep
and that's why it's never good that's
 I agree I agree with you but
Jamie I mean yeah that's really the
bottom line you know and I you could
yeah like that's that's and right that
and we and there's always the history
you know even obviously much more
dangerous in serious histories of like
people quote unquote passing and that
illustrates like what I mean yeah
the reality is is that her life was not
shaped
as far as we know at all by the
experience of what being a Native
American woman would entail in this
country and that's the bottom line
yeah I guess I guess since we're talking
about this we can just address it like I
when the ben Carson thing happened if
people remember that ben Carson was also
saying he was part Cherokee and he took
he did 23andme and it turned out he
wasn't and he's like I guess I was just
a myth
I thought Elizabeth Warren should do
that because I thought a test was gonna
say she wasn't and then she should just
say and then she could have just
addressed like look these are family
myths that get Beckett you know passed
down the ages and we were wrong this
makes it more complicated right because
she does have like some connection to
that I think most white people from this
part of the country know I know right
and this is not unproblematic but it is
something notable that she probably
should have addressed with like a tribal
leader or something which is that your
family kept that story alive in a family
mythology and I do think there's
problematic parts of that but it's also
not like it's not they weren't doing
this to try to get a granddaughter into
Harvard down the line right no like it
was a more genuine family shorter thing
and I do think it is problematic the way
white people would you know like hold on
to that as if like it's some sort of
like that like American history is full
of this sort of thing like the like the
the cross racial mixing and that sort of
like your claim to American myths or
something like that right like that
there's a calm thing and that's the
discussion she should have had instead
what she did is say look I got this DNA
results and it vindicates everything
I've been saying and here's my families
meanwhile I'm talking about freeing Lula
desala and meanwhile like Native
Americans are getting disenfranchised in
North Dakota that was a thing it also
struck me was like if she did the video
like hey here's this like you said turn
it kind of into a joke say like all
right you Trump and incidentally I
have legislation that's gonna address
this travesty that was just confirmed by
the Supreme Court to disenfranchise
Native American voters um thanks for the
call man appreciate it yeah you're
calling from an 8 for 7 area code who
are
where you calling from hey Michael it's
Josh from Chicago Josh from Chicago how
you doing I'm good how are you I'm well
I'm doing well
it's good to hear your voice what's
going on good hear your voice too
Michael this is like yeah this is a very
Pompeo MBS meeting very intimate yeah
welcome to Riyadh my friends I consider
this show of mini emirate when I host I
am I'm calling first of all you guys
were discussing yesterday Oh Howie
Hawkins the the guy who is uh the Green
Party candidate how is our governor
mm-hmm yep I also just unendorsed him is
awesome okay why because he is
campaigning with jimmy dore actually oh
oh well that answers my question about
who I'm voting for forget it all right I
guess I was I guess Cuomo on the Working
Families Party it is yeah yeah I was
bhaskar endorse Tomas that was the
reason that Bhaskar endorsed Muslims
like that makes my decision yeah that's
what I do that well I mean not everyone
knows everything you know about jimmy
dore right i mean for what it was worth
yeah actually might be what is i kind of
a petty reason what to do with ISO are
they like anti dum-dum left now is Oh
watching the show the reason the reason
they said is because of Jimmy's take on
Assad and Syria yeah they find
unacceptable I agree acceptable
he's also his like he just did another
video I can't get into it he just he has
this thing everybody just say I'm not
even gonna get into it read or watch
Benjamin Dixon's did a great video
called wise Jimmy door so desperate to
unite with fascists which is important
to watch and it would also watch our
video on Michael Brooks show a YouTube
page on jimmy dore even up
brazil I mean jazz Christ geez
I mean lava jato he missed a throat
Hampton right that was Fred Hampton he
was oh that was a month yep
he said along with Chris Hedges which I
would expect more from Chris Hedges for
what it's worth I'm not like the biggest
Chris Hedges fan of the world but she
knows yeah you should know better they
literally said that Fred Hampton who was
assassinated by either the FBI or the
Chicago police or some version of both
he was anime it was only 21 years old
he's one of the most impressive leaders
in American life was assassination
leader generational leader assassinated
by state security apparatus was 21 years
old and he appealed to the young Lords
who I think we were talkin and other
groups that were race-based like the
Panthers but left one of those groups
was called the young Patriots now the
young Patriots war Confederate flags in
the beginning because they were trying
to reclaim that image they actually
later got rid of him because that
wouldn't work but they were a white blue
collar and obviously it wasn't like you
needed to be white to join but that's
literally what they were a southern
white blue collar whatever left Marx's
anti-racist group that were you know all
about radical Marxist politics and
here's a picture of them hanging with
the Panthers and they're in similar garb
but they were leftists I would recommend
there was a great piece in the Jackman
about it somehow hedges endure smear I
would say their legacy by saying that
they were you know actually on the right
or Klansmen or Confederates they were
not they were socialists and that all of
a sudden became a leverage point for
some type of insane argument
which actually is distilled in the
screencap of the video which is can the
fat the original jimmy dore video is can
fascists and the left work together and
there's a picture of a black lives
matter activists and and and then a
picture of a guy a white guy at
Charlotte's ville as if and by the way
you know
that's disgusting and you can have
critiques of black lives matter and no
group is perfect and all I I'm not
talking about that but if you can't
understand that black lives matter and
Jews won't replace us and run over hi
Heather hire or on totally different le
just from a moral perspective completely
different moral planes but that there is
not a shared economic issue there those
are primarily upper-middle class you
know very weird identity obsessed white
people who have no economic agenda they
have an ethnos state agenda and the
young Patriots were an amazing
organization and that type of politics
is actually crucial for saving our
future and totally the opposite of what
they said and that geyser of history is
directly helpful to fascism I mean it
early if it was if it wasn't already
asking the left to work with fascists
if you don't know anything you don't
know anything so yeah I mean I don't
know man i I on the other hand I don't
want to like get into like oh they were
on jimmy dore show or whatever I'm not I
don't want to play that game ya know
that were supporting more it yeah yeah
it's more it's more to do with like
policy and like potentially the fact
that maybe not again foreign policy with
governors is you know it's it's not the
same thing as you know someone like
running for president but like the fact
that Howie Hawkins I don't never heard
him speak about Syria but like you know
now I've agreed with you you guys when
you say like look don't go into Syria at
the same time Assad is an absolute
 dictators right and there's and
I don't want to support someone who
white washes what not is doing yeah
Julia you know and so I think that one
more thing can I mentioned there was
just this is for Chicago this is
critical there was a some of JB Pritzker
staffers just filed a lawsuit against
them alleging racial discrimination I
don't know if you've read this or heard
about this he's the Democratic nominee
for governor yeah yeah no no I really 49
yep so he basically refuses to go into
African American neighborhoods and
Latino neighborhoods unless they quote
unquote
stop shooting lists they stopped their
shooting this is what you Dave
accusing him of saying obviously I hope
the demo rounder doesn't win his
election again but it's just really I
believe these accusations too because I
mean I believe that someone like him
what Dave like that it's just really
disappointing to see this especially you
know to see him act like this
well it's disgusting I mean I actually
would be really interested in what the
state protocols could be to replace him
if the Democrats could get another
nominee because that is I mean that
might begin to the level of functionally
unacceptable in terms of the you know
just in terms of unit governing um
thanks for the call man I appreciate it
let's do a few Iams Vespa I hate to keep
bringing up the same thing but I'm
reading stuff about Larry Hoover and I
feel very I don't know who Larry Hoover
is who's Larry Hoover do you guys know
that is no clue stuff about very rare
drug dealer in Chicago
oh and and thoughts are very conflicted
as I see the validity for and against I
very liked very much like to see an
analysis and conclusion from you at some
point here on TMDs left his best hope
Jay ad-libs okay I'll look into that I
got you oh it's time to fight back
that's what you he said to shot in the
dark now you he's dead is a Tupac quote
I was wondering where that was to quote
uh that was the best part of Tupac right
like his movement very historically or
II I'm not a huge no-no Tupac fan but he
was yeah he brought he brought that I'm
his mother was a black panther yeah and
I feel like just symbolically for the
culture he represents that even though
it might not be as substantive is I
think it was parsley and he was but also
you know the thing that's about him is
he's only he was 24 when he was killed
so it's like you don't know I I remember
when I got I was probably 12 or
something and I got
probably like the last CD right before
he was killed I don't even remember the
name of it but it was a double-disc
death row records CD and you know it was
total like Dre the east cut
like it was pure great just like
gangster music and I remember on the on
the liner notes though it was like free
Mumia abu-jamal that's like right like
you could you could see the this
interesting tensions there Ryan from
California Brendan politicans in
downtown LA if you go to the coast go to
baby blues and Venice on Lincoln it's a
tiny joint but delicious there was a
large larger second store in mid-city
Fairfax area but I don't know if it's
still around I don't know if you'll get
out there that's a little bit of a
schlep I think I think so but funky for
the recommendation it's going in my
saved notes on my Google Maps Jay cool
can we count on Brendan's record Sam
when he gets into Social Security
arguments at the dinner table Brendan
are you gonna Pakman him we'll see all
right we'll see I think Brendan's got
I'm been concerned that Brendan's been
recording all of us actually that's sort
of my maybe that's what his podcast is
gonna be hmm ah damn it
alright us went in a friend of mine
occasionally parrots the left is growing
because Trump won and Clinton would have
suffocated the left further empowering
the right argument that argument drives
me crazy what if Clinton
escalated a war with Russia and that
issue delineated the left and the
central and the Clinton Center left it's
just way too hypothetical and there's so
many scenarios that could have
potentially done for the left what Trump
did he would have accomplished a
ton less terror against immigrants
Muslims women science the planet etc
just shut the up about Trump
helping the left and go up and get to
building the global Left project you
know Godspeed mr crew I agree with that
completely and I also think that that's
also not a material analysis because the
left was already growing in already
momentum and you would have seen what
Bernie Sanders campaign was if the
conditions were not already setting up
the
the growth of the need in more and more
people's minds for that kind of politics
and the idea and in fact that's actually
a very anti left argument in a way
because if you actually really drill
down on it you're sort of saying that
those neoliberal conditions weren't as
barbaric and ruthless enough on their
own terms to get to that point which
they absolutely were so you're saying
like oh no we absolutely need to just
get things are the complete freefall and
terror mostly for other people of course
because most people I hear making these
arguments are not on the frontlines of
anything it's a argument it's
 stupid fat Nixon okay I hate
Tucker Carlson but calling Warren the
leader of the me zoom of this hilarious
a penny for your thoughts
great hiking in Idaho yes I am a bring
my boots I'm trying I do want to get out
there re Melbourne as the best response
to the war on DNA story think of the
impact if it would been of much tension
would go to North Dakota voter
suppression Native American voters yeah
Matt brought that up bolt Prague no
wonder plant abandoned was Finch
flinching and looking over his shoulders
on the Saudi Arabia trip also the courts
unsealed Keith Ellison's divorce papers
today right-wing smear merchants were
looking for claims of abuse but turns
out he was the one allegedly abused yet
I never bought those Ellison story yeah
I didn't like to comment on it publicly
but I was prepared to believe that maybe
Allison was abusive in relationship but
I was not prepared to believe that the
Minnesota media was covering up for him
and they had apparently been looking at
these texts and then a video was alleged
to exist and it didn't and they any
constant shifting reasons of why the
meet the video couldn't come yeah and I
think it's in a fortune I think it's a
really really unfortunate situation that
I think was disgustingly I guess fanned
by the GOP in the in Minnesota and I
think it's something that we're going to
have yeah feature not a bug that's only
gonna increase do you think a lot of do
you think people do you think a lot of
contagion
chameleons do you think a lot of polling
even in specific districts is missing
new energized voters will make up much
of the blue of the Blue Wave
I there's no way to tell I can't that my
guess would be is gonna really vary that
type of thing would really vary by
candidate um
random I am yes we did address the Jimmy
Dore thing uh retcon my girlfriend and I
are Big M R and T and BS fans today is
my birthday can you please use an Obama
boy so the happy birthday white boy
she's going to hear it and think I'm the
coolest
happy birthday white boy your
boyfriend's really cool in a certain
sense lock bar head heath DG check out
the bernie new video about Yemen and
Saudi Arabia very effective and on point
do we have that ok this is a piece that
NBC News did they profiled the white
supremacist group Europa mission to
Europa identity he rope excuse me um
which is a I mean it it is what it
sounds like they're proud boys without
tattoos they're yes they're they're
nerdy proud boys they're more explicitly
racist right bad boy they don't do the
game of its culture not not race yelling
I don't know that there are any people
of color and identity Europa whereas
there are in the pradd boys right right
and force and uh and look this is
another aspect of the culture and of
Trump being president and of the rise of
global fascism and of credulous
mainstream flattened centrism this is
how a totally soft incredulous report
about a disgusting hate group gets aired
on NBC News during the Today Show the
man with the megaphone is Patrick AC
executive director of identity Europa
one of the
that marched at last year's unite the
right rally in Charlottesville that
would turn deadly posit groups in it it
didn't turn deadly one of the people
that is aligned with the group you're
profiling with is this actually NBC's
music but they bet it yep this isn't
some copy okay that's ridiculous
this is yeah this is their exposed Nazi
ideas to the world music one of their
comrades ran over and murdered a woman
who Heather hair who was marching and
protesting for the correct side of
history yeah white supremacist rammed
his car into protest yes and murdered
one of them and there was also other
people that were beaten by these same
people that the same groups that these
people you're profiling or aligned with
go ahead clean caught no visible tattoos
no criminal record its message Pro white
I do think that we need to maintain a
super majority in this country identity
Europa makes it clear to join you have
to be of European heritage whites only
so you have to be white and you can't be
Jewish
I imagine right why is it that racist
wouldn't most say that that's impose a
cyst yes it's racist they are a racist
organization they're gonna do a change
my mind I know he's gonna do a spin like
presumably where it's like newts boat
everybody knows her own identity you
know everybody needs to be protected
he's gonna use the same way that Richard
Spencer leveraged identity politics he's
gonna do the same thing but that is them
I don't even know if that's credulous
that's a criminally negligent question
for a white supremacist group keep going
well we're trying to move beyond the
paradigm that includes you know
buzzwords like racist anything so what
is it if not racist what is it
identitarian it's how watchdog state
groups like this often disguise white
supremacist views
Kaycee runs identity rope out of his
home a few hours outside Washington he's
asked us not to identify exactly where
he lives
in addition to hosting anti-immigration
demonstrations like this one at the
Mexico border
Casey's deploying some of his 800
members to post recruitment signs on
college campuses nationwide from San
Diego State to NYU experts warned these
groups are trying to lure students by
blending into the mainstream these are
very smart very savvy groups and that's
one of the things that differentiates
them from groups in the past is you
can't just write them off as ignorant
thugs among identity Europa's goals KC
told us covertly taking over the GOP we
encourage our guys to go to Young
Republicans College Republicans meetings
to very others as well to network with
people to perhaps somewhat discreetly at
first start broaching identitarian and
nationalist ideas why discreetly at
first you want to make an effort to
blend in right these ideas are a bit
controversial but we we are convinced
that the logical conclusion of trumps
make America great again agenda does
need to address
demographics why the need to blend in if
these views you think aren't ones that
would be widely embraced right well
they're controversial at this point but
that doesn't negate their validity quite
often controversial ideas start off as
being very tabbed but when people have
to be very careful with them but they
can skillfully insert them into the
mainstream through TV interviews like
this yeah through getting a mass a
platform for easy interviews and doing
it right now yeah are you actually
happening thank you for your support in
this you we don't have to
dismiss them as what'd she say ignorant
thugs we can dismiss them as preppy
 morons they already run the
Republican Party they're absolutely in
the center of the Republican Party it is
happening now Steve King Donald Trump
Paul Ryan Mitch McConnell John Roberts
gutted the Voting Rights Act and also in
addition to that look at that sign save
the Boers that is the lie white
supremists meme about South African
farms that Joe Rogan recycled that's how
this stuff flows
I don't know that a group that is
explicitly white nationalist is going to
be admitted at least formally into the
mainstream of the right though like it's
always going to be a second order thing
behind it whereas I think maybe we gave
short shrift to it the other day but the
proud boys they're not explicitly white
nationalist obviously they are racist
they are explicitly sexist that is an
explicit part of their ideology Gavin
has gone on TV talking about like making
some very gender essentialist arguments
about how like women are happier when
they're like in the home taking care of
the kids so it's interesting to see who
gets admitted to mainstream circles and
who doesn't and I think the proud boys
are closer to that than identity Europa
just just reading up on organization's
founder Nathan dummy go dim ego grew up
in San Jose California and was a member
of the US Marine Corps from 2005 to 2007
remember we were saying about right-wing
Marines how they're interesting people
in November 2007 Domingo robbed a los
Mesa California taxi cab driver at
gunpoint believing that the man was
Araki
amigo was convicted of armed robbery and
was incarcerated for a year in County
Jail and four years in state prison and
I said of the event that it's something
I'm certainly not proud of attributed
his behavior to major issues after
returning from Iraq so probably his
group is something that we need to we
need to give airtime to definitely be
monitoring I do want to say though you
brought up Gavin McGinnis and sometimes
you ask yourself I mean Sam would know
better than me you would know better
than me I don't know Gavin McGinnis I've
never met Gavin McGinnis I only know
whom Gavin Guinness is basically because
of clips on this show and and my buddy
Dante Nero's which is a whole other
story actually but a really worthwhile
one but you do ask yourself why is
someone who they are where does it come
from what are the origins
what was it in their background family
country society economy and sometimes
the answer to that very seemingly
complex question is a shave away it's
right under your nose
it is literally right under your nose or
right under your mouth if you're Gavin
McGinnis check out this picture if you
want to understand really just
everything of where Gavin McGinnis is
coming from and I just want to put out a
warning if there are children in the
room have them leave full on Halloween
 right there look at that all right
Wow if any of us in that room and this
room had that chin situation we might
you know Sam was like if my career
collapsed I wouldn't be a racist well
let me tell you something if Sam had
that chin he might be a problem I think
his chin rested his chin recedes a
millimeter a fraction of a millimeter
every time he does something racist like
opposite Pinocchio oh my god on the
topic of legitimizing these people NYT
Metro just published a very bad tweet
about Gavin what it says Gavin McInnes
they like they profiled him I guess
Gavin McInnes has set himself apart from
the current crop of professionally
outraged right-wing pundits not only for
being able to spout aggressive rhetoric
but also for being willing to get
physical at times nice way that's the
bouncer that makes him sound like a you
know fun dude basically that's the times
job I live though whether it's like the
the nerd prince or him the New York
Times is like weed of any way of
laundering any far lite brite figure you
can imagine thanks New York Times thank
you like that spate of embarrassing
press that happened around Richard
Spencer last year but nope nope nope and
God that was embarrassing you're calling
from a 202 area code who are you where
you coming from what's going on Michael
odd to Beal from Boston how you guys
doing hey Nabil good to hear from you
how's it going
it's going excellent well I have a
question about Christopher Hitchens
actually doing a really good job of
breaking down the kind of odious and a
historical analysis that Sam Harris has
of Islam it's kind of flirtation with
new conservatism you know I was
wondering if you could do the same for
Hitchens though because he obviously was
much more historically minded and much
more intelligent about this stuff but he
still made the same sort of mistake so
we kind of break that down
well Hitchens is a little bit more
complicated because I remember even a
one interview he did close to before he
died on some some it might have even
been like you you at some bizarre
right-wing show and and they were
talking about Israel Palestine and all
and Hitchens was you know he was rolling
on you know defending the invasion of
Iraq and all of this you know monstrous
foreign policy and then at one point
when they were talking about Israel
Palestine Hitchens wasn't as aggressive
but it remember he literally said he's
like look I can't unlearn history to
paraphrase him and his point was was
like I still oppose the occupation like
I can't you can't completely divorce me
from any political or historical
awareness I think though that he was
also I mean he was a guy that really
seemed to be the world was like a proxy
for his social circles and personal
arguments inman thinness so if like you
read his initial exchanges after
September 11th with people like Noam
Chomsky some of the things he says are
you know I get their appeal they made
sense like you know obviously a
phenomenon like al-qaeda is not simply
reducible to US foreign policy there's
other factors there's also nothing I
mean this is the opposite of the 80s
there's nothing these are not the
Sandinistas these are you know far
right-wing religious fanatics that are
cruel to everybody that isn't inside an
incredibly small group right but uh but
to me it seemed like a career
opportunity it seemed like it was about
scoring like if you read his book his
forget his autobiography it's like
here's 22 yeah I don't think it's 22
there's almost no mention of like paul
bremer or the iraq provisional authority
he it's almost like he's historical but
he turned the world like if you know
harris does his thought experiments and
Hitchens turned the world like into a
dinner party and it was all about
scoring arguments in a dinner party I
also I also wonder from reading if I
remember I haven't read him in a while
but I also think there was some
misplaced Trotskyism there as he kind of
deluded himself into the idea that like
I'm still a guy who's about global
revolution and uprisings across the
globe it's just that now the US Marine
Corps is like the armed wing of his
insertion cease which is that factors
into the Kurds it well right and that's
why he could always find and I agree I
mean of course I also have utmost
sympathy and support for the Kurds but
he was very into and and he usually
would be very eloquent because who else
knew cuz he because he could find you
know idiot leftist who still sometimes
do it where they minimize or justify
oppression and killing of the Kurds or
you know all the idiot centrists were
dazzled because they don't even know
occurred czar and people on the right
are always willing to especially during
the Bush era they cynically used the
human rights of Afghan women Kurds and
the idea of Iraqi democracy and
unfortunately you know he was obviously
the most effective I mean just like Tony
Blair was the most effective global
propagandist and liar as a politician
hitch at the end the day was I have no
doubt there are plenty of impressionable
young people who wouldn't have gone the
wrong way on things like invading Iraq
if they weren't reading him so yeah yeah
yeah yeah it's it's fascinating to watch
some of his clips when he was in his
socialist phase I mean how scathing and
really just on target he was almost all
the time I still think there was a lot
of that social-climbing aspect to him
and you know he still was it was playing
that game but there was something
different he really tried to frame
himself is like a George Orwell
character he said you know I've always
fought against totalitarianism even when
I was a leftist so he tried to bridge
that gap it was always very forced very
contrived
it makes sense but just the
juxtaposition between his earlier self
to like that kind of sweaty sausage look
he always had just complaining about
Islam later on it's just uh yeah that's
depressing for a sec
I remember one the last thing I think of
I remember one of the last profiles I
read of him you know the the journalist
spent the day with him drinking cuz that
was I mean the dude was also just like a
drunk here a lot of those stories yeah
and the guy spent the day with him
completely drunk
yeah they spent the day with him
drinking and uh and you know he said of
course like there's a lot of flashes of
like wit and charisma and everything but
I forget I don't remember how he set it
up but it was sort of just like you know
perhaps hitch has turned into a like the
worst case scenario possible he's just
become a bore and I think like you know
yeah
like yeah if you if you look at Hitchens
in the 80s and like c-span oh that's
amazing
it's very but he also has a huge
appetite for engaging with like Buckley
and other like right-wingers right like
that's not like he loved that sort of
thing yes yes yes he did but he also ran
guy who and Savage them yeah all right
thanks for the call you're calling from
a two to five area code who are you
where you calling from hello hello two
to five are you there hello can you hear
me yep hi this is a curry from Baton
Rouge hey what's going on Zachary what's
on your mind's eye I just wanted to
bring some awareness to an upcoming
constitutional amendment ballot on the
election coming up in November in
Louisiana
okay the amendment to and Louisiana is
currently in one of two states along
with Oregon that doesn't require a
unanimous jury for convictions and
felonies Wow and so the amendment is to
change that to requiring an anonymous
jury for felony convictions okay and as
you can probably imagine this has like
huge implications for over populations
and over what a conviction and the state
so yeah I mean it's how does it learn
many elections it's hard to say
there's not a lot of pull wings okay and
the the elections aren't super popular
because there's not a lot of competitive
ones but this is something that I think
needs to you know have a wider awareness
because it's super important appreciate
its accurate the call for important
thanks man
see what okay yeah let's do this
[Music]
Trump has a vision of himself and it's a
painting it's sort of like the dogs
playing poker of American presidents
this was caught someone took a shot of
this during his 60 minutes meltdown with
Lesley Stahl and this is a painting that
apparently has hung in somewhere in the
Oval Office I don't know what room
they're in and it is of the Republican
presidents and they're sitting at some
kind of poker table I'd really like that
I have to say because it's all of them
Eisenhower's next to trump Teddy
Roosevelt's looking over shoulder Ford's
kind of actually for it's looking very
cool he's almost looking like James Caan
in the background there's a few missing
from the Gilded Age I feel like I'm sure
there's a few missing for the but it's
the heavy hitters it's nice in Hauer
it's the new guys and the Aviators
where's Andrew Jackson he was with him
in spirit though he's littering him in
the Democrat painting yeah he's in the
Democrat painting so what I will say
here is ok let's take this by tears
I think Reagan was you know more
charming and good stuff on arms control
but he was a far-right white supremacist
entertainer so who traces jokes like the
quantity probably Reagan right probably
Reagan Reagan is like well that reminds
me of how do you tell the black burglar
and the Trump of the head of this guy so
who likes Trump the most and who likes
him the least
although this is the point I'm trying to
work
too though because take let's take
Reagan and then let's just throw both
the bushes in whatever and then
Nixon is his own weird arch criminal
sociopath Teddy Roosevelt imperialist
and so on but I don't think he'd like
what Trump is doing for like the
environment and factories he'd be okay
with the ice stuff he'd out he'd be
totally into the ice stuff he'd be like
you'd be harder on Bezos now I have to
say and again I already can anticipate
the annoying SJW Iams so I understand
that Lincoln was far from perfect blah
blah blah
as far as presidents go I find the idea
of Lincoln grinning across from Trump to
be like actually profoundly offense I
agree like like just the I like like not
only politically like if you read about
Lincoln he was a he I mean a ultra poor
self-made intellectual attorney who
struggled with depression like he
struggled with emotional issues that in
in modern terms would be a clay deep
clinical depression and had an
incredible compassion and decency about
him but was also a very ruthless
Machiavellian political player of which
of course I mean as a compliment and
just the idea of him sitting across from
Trump and Trump's just like and that was
a great hotel and we did that by the way
that was in Springfield Illinois a lot
of people don't talk about Springfield
Illinois just like Trump Motor mouthing
like that's the one that actually does I
gotta admit it just doesn't sit right
with me that's up that's not cool
yeah Nixon would absolutely hate Trump
as well no Nixon would definitely hate
Trump but Nixon's Nixon can be just fine
next to Trump but I do think Nixon would
be like this guy doesn't shut up can we
kill him
and I think Eisenhower Eisenhower okay
Eisenhower just on military-industrial
complex speech alone is gonna be like I
as an hour would have voted for Clinton
Eisenhower would have been like however
Republican my whole life but Hillary
Clinton's proven to me that she'll kill
some goddamn Indonesians need me and she
knows how to manage the country although
she does want to put a little bit more
in defense spending that I think is
prudent Eisenhower would probably look
like do I want to be clapper or I don't
want to be do I want to be playing golf
with Trump right thank you thank you
probably could go the other way actually
you think he's clapper or playing golf
with Trump I think he could play golf
with Trump I think yeah but he wouldn't
have liked that he draft dodged yeah II
be able to handle the diet that trumps
going yeah he would not like the diet
that's true so Lincoln Lincoln G you
could see Lincoln in his smart his side
profile they literally drew like his
eyes are crease to be like Oh Donald
that really was a tremendous idea you
had for a casino with naked girls in
Macau you are a great president and
doing a terrific job
yeah that's offensive all right here are
the Republicans to stop taking the
credit for Honest Abe okay things have
changed a lot Lincoln would not be a
Republican today I think we came quite
safe they're ready they have an
appreciation of what the Radical
Republicans were yeah the Radical
Republicans were both something that we
should have a sincere appreciation for
and are not Republicans okay here is the
Obama and this is another funny
juxtaposition because Andrew Jackson is
across Obama he looks puzzled that oh
body looks like why is this Negro
playing billiards with us
don't tell me wait was he the gay
Indonesian that I read about in news max
in the time capsule they gave me was he
the gay one from the from the
hinterlands who paid a choirboy to give
him oral sex in a limousine as I have
read in Breitbart
Obama sees Woodrow Wilson and Andrew
Jackson talking amongst himself
across the room just like one thing
to say arc of history and abstraction
but goddamn would drive it hasn't even
said hi yeah
what row well shake my hat we're
supposed to be all presidents thing
meanwhile LBJ can't stop giving me back
row yeah I mean while LBJ whilst we go
to talk with him it's work and Bill
Clinton's just like everybody loves me
we have more Andrew Jackson than Andrew
Jackson and more Barack than Barack I
like that FDR is one of the few standing
to it's not one of the one sitting oh no
he said no FDR sitting that's Wilson
you're looking at oh wow exactly it is
funny and JFK is just sort of like wow
Old Hickory he's a crazy
that guy gave is he gonna use the n-word
X look at the Jeff kids a little rear
end there I think I think Andy Thomas
spent a little time up to like Andrew
Jackson's like next thing you know this
this friggin Pope worshiper next to me
in the Muslim I gotta get together I
don't belong in this picture where's the
world of marmalade face who owns casinos
okay yes now this is a painting of Nixon
at the Nixon Library a very weird I
don't even want to go it's called Nixon
it and oh yeah I don't like where that
kids placed but anyway this is this is
the this is the caption here Nixon met
and now in the fall of 1956 the Soviet
Union brutally suppressed an anti
community revolution anti-community
revolution in Hungary at Christmastime
President Eisenhower sent his young vice
president Richard Nixon on a goodwill
mission to help sympathy for over 100
 drag you've just had an uprising
crushed by Soviet tanks and that guy
they were anti-capitalist still in that
revolution yes and Nixon's like I mean
that's the interesting thing about Nixon
he was he was heterodox with regards to
internationalism compared to certain I
mean that part that strain of the
Republic China after after official
meetings at the dinner in his honor
Nixon broke away from the constraints of
protocol and returned to see what
conditions were really like in the camps
he stayed up on that I don't know
truth is he stayed up all night riding
in a hay wagon pulled by a tractor as he
accompanied the freedom fighters on
their rounds through the countryside to
search for others who had escaped the
Soviet crackdown now I would just say I
and I don't know much about this
revolution but if Freedom Riders are
showing you around at night on a hayride
you're probably maybe not getting the
full story I don't know maybe not but
whatever
maybe not the full deal all right there
is a very aggressive voter suppression
happening in Georgia and it's happening
because that's what Republicans do from
North Dakota to North Carolina to
Georgia obviously to Texas
it's happening because the Roberts
Supreme Court gutted the Voting Rights
Act and Congress never reauthorized it
but the aggressiveness and the pace that
Secretary of State Brian Kemp who
oversees voting in the state and who is
the Republican nominee for governor is
going about this is because Stacey
Abrams is running an incredibly
impressive campaign and she could
absolutely win making history and
resetting the direction of Georgia and
the broader South as well as I would
argue the Democratic Party black voters
matter are going out and overcoming and
dealing with the voter suppression
specifically we have some would a
footage here of black vote matters
activists and this is actually the bus
of seniors that was blocked from voting
is at the tape we have this is footage
from that day and when they were stopped
okay so they took and actually a no
explaining this last line on CMBS they
took a bus of 40 senior citizens to go
vote this bus was stopped for absolutely
no reason and this gives you a real
sense of precisely what's happening
there good morning how you doing
like what was better bus rolling it into
Louisville in Jefferson County George a
great day an incredible gather with
someone to see who's at the center we
had an amazing nonpartisan rally this
morning we were going out so that the
scenes to see the bus and many of them
wanted to ride the bus they were fired
up high-energy excited to go spreads and
works there folks excited to go vote out
here literally out here dancing and
having a party in front of the Senior
Center get it on the bus to go vote at
the polling place everybody excited to
go vote
[Music]
[Applause]
someone has passed by it's all the
procedures getting on the bus and called
the County Commissioners Office to tell
them that we can't do that now we know
there's no law there's no is that black
bow paint ride on buses now we didn't
jealous but they can't stop the race
[Music]
they're gonna vote and Noah actually I
know explain this these people are
voting in fact she was she yes she knows
about this but yes that is a perfect
example like that's what they're doing
and that's what I sorry I forget do we
know who called we I guess they don't
know that person whoever did should
definitely be identified and talked
about I'd really like to hear their
benignant yeah I'd like given many many
nicknames many many nicknames PO please
Patti you're calling from a three one
three area code who are you where you
calling from
oh hello is it three three one three
hi yeah sorry I've never called in
before so I it's okay what's up yeah I
was thinking about sort of the so
someone called in before about like the
sort of gun calls like I I was paying
attention uh you know a couple weeks ago
someone called it uh about the redneck
revolt people and how they and and the
guy was a really sort of putting it I
think in a really sort of fantastical
kind of like when I mean that they they
do sort of they are sort of more about
sort of protecting
communities rather than kind of you know
and sort of taking people to people who
are susceptible to it more kind of kind
of like white supremacy to be to to a
more like socialist politics and sort of
organizing a series of future light and
so would be reason with the recent kind
of really terrifying rise of kind of I
think with like the fastest in in in
Brazil and the the the even this stuff
sorry I'm kind of nervous it's okay man
tickets I've been to one oh that's okay
go ahead yeah so the thing with Brazil
and I don't know if you heard the David
Duke the you know KKK you know Grand
Wizard criminal yes um he actually
endorsed he endorsed post-event and yes
yes and I also yes absolutely
yep of course and there's a lot of kind
of like you see these gangs and they are
like beating up people and like I mean
in in just just a few days ago with in
NYC and then then import Portland and I
mean they're you know I mean they're all
like congregating so I'm just like so
what's and I have a yeah I was very I
have it very scary kind of feeling about
you know what I mean and we talk about
and just you know what can we do for
kind of Brazil and and and not only just
Brazil and just kind of just I mean we
always hear Imperial alarm bells go off
when there's a country that is like not
you know complying with American
interest you know be that you know a bad
country or like you know what yeah so
you're saying so are you saying I'm not
I'm just just trying to to summarize a
little bit you so you're kind of saying
like hey I think there was a guy a
couple weeks ago who called with some
kind of like fantasy revolution scenario
but you never be able to buy enough guns
to have an offensive revolution right
that's that's ridiculous obviously but
if you're saying that I think I've said
many
times before that there it's
particularly there are groups in this
country like black people as an example
if you want to like own guns I don't
have any I'm also I'm not really more
broadly I'm not I I'm interested in a
gun control conversation that has to do
with how you would actually seriously
regulate the gun industry I'm not pretty
and I'm and I don't know maybe there is
a gun culture there probably is there's
obviously I mean we played that Bernie
Bernstein guy a couple months ago
there's obviously people would really
sick bizarre twisted relationships with
guns there's also people like I mean
Jesus even where I grew up there's
people who hunt have shotguns have
pickup trucks it's really not such a big
big deal or radical thing and I mean I
don't know what it gets you to be honest
like I don't think that people like you
are not gonna be protected from any type
of police power in the event country
that any need that were done but on the
other hand I think more broadly if
people want to have some sense of like a
culture in the left of like whether it's
having guns or even just like physical
conditioning and self-defense I think
that's actually probably good idea yeah
although I wouldn't concur Amanda
melodrama of it too I think that we can
also like let some of these groups like
tell on themselves and go away I think
we also shouldn't like the people who
run the client like Kris Kobach is still
an infinitely bigger deal than Gavin
McGinnis and has infinitely more power
and infinitely more influence so like
all so don't get lost in the melodrama
of these groups either and don't play
that game I mean I was gonna say yeah
like if there are people out there who
are already inclined towards a gun
culture or towards violent altercations
I would rather have them be on our side
than on their side and like maybe it's
not the most important thing like I
think it's good that people show up to
counter
protest the proud boys and Gavin and
stuff but like you should be prepared
for what might happen and like honestly
take a self-defense class because there
they're not around the proud
boys and you need to roll deep and you
need to know how to fight and like if
you don't want that to happen you can do
lots and lots of other things like we
have a diversity of tactics on the left
but in terms of self-defense like I
think it is important like I'm for
Responsible gun control laws but like
things like the socialist Rifle
Association redneck revolt like things
are gonna happen fast when they start
happening so I'm not opposed at all to
people doing stuff like that I think
it's actually a good idea I do I at the
same time I think that I also think I do
think that people these groups relative
to who actually and and and to the
extent they're connected to runs the
country we can use that to toxify their
brands but as I say Kris Kobach is a far
more infinitely more important figure
and influential in all of our lives and
Gavin McGinnis and a part of me does
think that some element of this can just
be like go ahead do your right
and we're you and you're gonna evaporate
because it's not that part is not as
long-term as the part that's literally
running things yeah
and then also police and and literal
like state security agencies that might
have white supremists working in them
that are carrying out white supremacy
yeah that's what I was gonna say too
like even more disturbing than the fact
that there are violent fascist street
gangs is the fact that the cops are on
their side in a lot of these scenarios
because the cops are the violent arm of
the state and they're backed by state
power yeah I grew up around guns and
technically have a couple to my name
right and if I lived in you know
probably the middle of the country I
might have one in my household at the
same time I would caution that
statistically you're more likely to
injure yourself or someone you love
that's the truth then stop invading
fascist from invading your house yeah I
would actually say like I
think that is the part right that's
really to caution against don't go in
with like a corollary of their like
melodrama and delusions of grandeur
about what guns give you exact terms of
power like guns mostly just end up
harming the people that own them you're
calling from a 6'5 one area code who are
you where you're calling from hello
ma'am yes 651 are you there hi uh yeah
this is Mariana from the Minneapolis st.
Paul area hey Mariana how you doing
honey good I have two quick points but
I'll just try to do the first one
because it's more relevant to what the
interview was about today okay it's
actually not directly about ice but I
have a lot of connections I have to be
kind of in the great community and that
my mom is a social worker at an
elementary school with like 38% or so
Hispanic students so there's a lot of
undocumented families that are pretty
new to the area and the past few years
there's been a lot of concerns with
obviously deportations in ice I would
like to just let people know that yes
ice is definitely tracking people like
outside public buildings and by their
own homes for example a few days ago
maybe like a week ago there's a father
that was deported after walking out of
his own house because they were tracking
where he lived and it just is a
worrisome time and if people feel really
powerless even with the immigrant stuff
yes we need to abolish ice a hundred
percent but there's a lot of ways you
can directly help I know a lot of local
church communities if you're part of a
church have programs where you can
donate clothing and food same
public schools like my mom helps lobbies
families go to Goodwill or whatever and
get clothing for the winter or furniture
so just if there's like local libraries
schools something like that and you ask
human resources or cultural advocates
how to help there's always a ton of
stuff you can do
Mariana thank you so much Paul yeah I'm
having I know it's ok real quick cuz I'm
getting the signal we have a couple of
minutes here but yes one more thing go
ahead ok I'm sorry
no so if anyone's going to Minneapolis
Chepo tomorrow yeah we indeed Jade
anarchy and some other people are color
going to beautiful you can just if
you're part of the can be s discord
there's a just at Minnesota as a command
and we can try to meet up or something
awesome rivers don't represent GBS of it
thanks Mariana the current chat boat
tour is very good I went when they were
in New York it was awesome I believe
that I'm holding out for my equity Nejad
interview uh new human did Matt say he
was doing a George Carlin style history
podcast this and Dennis Miller living
moving left's 80s comedy Renaissance
under well who's the guy Dave Karl's a
Dan Dan Carlin I was a little confused
imagine equals yeah yeah vacuumed is
silly on there con I get it sounds we're
off all right let's see
George damn Carlin George Carlin it make
him make Carlin a lot more interesting
hardcore history that's true
okay no I guess I don't like either
their politics that much to be honest
Carla and George movie I was better to
Dan Carla no I thought I saw some George
Carlin signed ups that's where I wasn't
like he has become a favorite among like
the three the free-speech edge Lords I
know he's dead but like there are
certain bits of his that there was
there's really no way to interpret it in
a right wing
seems a bit misanthropy comedians a
comedian Jesus Christ mmm oh my god look
at the Maoist thought control police
over here we've got from Matt I don't
know I think people will agree with me
on some of this
well I'm sure people will agree with you
on some of this as they will agree with
literally anything on some of this some
will agree on anything
hey crew this past week and I intended
the Talladega NASCAR race I camped on
the infield I don't like racing and I've
never been to Alabama but it was but I
was not surprised a bit when I saw Trump
Confederate flag swells endless troop
appreciation I wore my Bernie t-shirt
one night and received many long dumb
glares debated a few idiots and got
accused of being an anti-fog super
soldier lol can we please beat these
 yes we can
you're doing the Lord's work mattias hey
guys have you been following Peter Dow
he's been having surprisingly good takes
this Jenner of this past months such as
calling for a general strike in response
to Cavanaugh being seated and generally
being willing to move left to unify the
party if you have an opinion on him do
you think this is a genuine shift in his
opinions or just the first Clinton
opportunity operated to see where the
wind is blowing where the energy is in
the party I don't care whatever welcome
to me welcome to the party anyone who's
willing to support a general strike
welcome to the real resistance um let's
see we want to talk about Francis
Fukuyama we only have literally two
minutes what do you say France when we
come in the New Statesman said socialism
ought to come back and Marx certainly
Karl Marx was said a lot of true things
and epidemis says Sir mix-a-lot
I've probably underrated small but
perfect analogy oh that's perfect
militant apathy Jamie's right police are
the tip of the spear of white supremacy
lots of Klan proud boys alright folks
throughout the police departments and
everywhere no doubt and also what's up
at shmuly bowtie boutique well he's an
black Marxist whereas Michael get his
Einsteinian knowledge of foreign policy
what do you think of the epidemic of
kids leaving with their parents and
their 20 living with their parents their
20s
I don't know well that's the economy the
economy is why a Saudi boomer MBS would
already have this under wraps if he'd
put down his phone millennial
bin Salman okay and let's see let us
okay Sean the debate looked like the
Penguins painting Bruce Wayne okay the
final that's like terrifyingly true all
right we see the final I am the day I
will remind you that bado has said that
he will vote for Bernie's Medicare for
all bill if he's in the Senate he may be
a centrist but he's a centrist and but
but he he may be a centrist but he's a
centrist that would vote for the most
important piece of legislation last 50
years that said I watched the debate
last night and it was fairly
underwhelmed by bado he needs to go get
figure out a better way of showing that
Cruz is actually a soulless lizard
subhuman inhuman and no one talks like
Cruz talks the only people happy to vote
for him have probably even have probably
murdered at least four people might be a
lot of those intentions right
youie Lewis line is from changes Sam is
here tomorrow Friday and I'll see you
next week in that
to get to where I want but I know some
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feel any better
ya know the clock is ticking
[Music]
I'd assume where the choice is made so
the option will you tell get paid for
the rub
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
they play
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
