[Music]
this is what was happening last night as
the protesters were on the fourth floor
the State Capitol folks may remember
from 2011 similar images they were
shouting through the doors of a
committee hearing where the lawmakers
were considering these really
unbelievably undemocratic small D
measures to disempower the voters really
and who they chose to run their state
and here you can see this now
[Laughter]
protesters descended on the Wisconsin
State Capitol a day to crying what they
are calling a last minute lame-duck
power grab by the state's Republican
legislature there you go so fortunately
Hayes was Carrie I was covering that
last night
I think Rachel Maddow did as well I
imagine not so much on the other
stations but maybe but um the disparity
between like what Ricky Rubio was saying
about voter fraud a couple weeks ago
versus what's happening in North
Carolina now and the silence can't be
stressed enough it's crazy
Ricky Rubio the point guard oh yeah
those your new nickname from Marco Rubio
