[Music]
Bernie Sanders is up he's walking it
should be noted that in addition to this
episode with his heart his
daughter-in-law just died of cancer she
was only 46 years old it was a basically
diagnosed and then an incredibly fast
process the this family is going through
a lot and you know I'm you know this is
one of the few people in American
politics that frankly we can look back
and and see and you know witness him is
actually a decent person that incredibly
powerful crowd-sourced ad or grass roots
ad documenting the difference between
the just utterly grotesque media
coverage of Bernie Sanders versus what
he's actually doing on the trail please
everybody watch now this guy still
crushed the last quarter in fundraising
it's still a three-way race and he's
cutting back on his schedule we're gonna
play this clip and then I'll it
contextualise it you expect when you do
start to travel more that you'll be able
to keep up the same type of robust no I
don't know I think not certainly
immediately look we were doing you know
in some cases five or six meetings day
you know three or four rallies and town
meetings
and meeting with groups of people I
don't think I'm gonna do that but I
certainly intend to be actively
campaigning I think we can change the
nature of the campaign a bit I'll make
sure that I have the strength to do what
I have to do I mean by nature well
probably not doing for rallies a day I'm
done quite sure that I could be one of
us but I don't know there's anybody who
did more rallies and we have done all
over the state so we're gonna you know
probably not do three or four rallies
that they do - so that's true there's no
other candidate including ones that are
significantly younger than Sanders who
have remotely the schedule that he is
kept up and keep in mind that you know
he's hasn't broke pace since campaigning
2016 then trying his utmost to elect
Hillary Clinton president then working
to kill the Republicans health care
efforts to destroy the ACA which he was
actually a leader in the fight against
then in the midterms and now assembling
this groundbreaking grassroots
unparallel presidential race in addition
to a serious legislative agenda
including more work to end the genocide
in Yemen than anyone else as well as um
an attempt to actually restore some
congressional oversight of foreign
policy which has just been decimated in
the last several decades so no one's
kept up a more thorough set a schedule
and done more than Bernie Sanders in the
game I think that you know this is
objectively a setback but he's
objectively still very much in the race
and the dialectic that we have to
establish is between the fact and look
this is the reason I'm not messing
around this is why I you know I'm not
playing with Warren or Gabbard or yang
or whatever this is an unparalleled left
campaign and if you profess to care
about those things whether it be on
foreign policy or the most thorough
growing domestic policy you have just I
mean it's just an unparalleled candidate
nothing's been offered like this in
modern American politics on every major
issue so we need to work incredibly hard
and I think that this is also
we're the not-me us dimension comes in
as well but take heart and I look
forward to the debate now
