[Music]
before we get to the debates just talk
about these two Supreme Court hearings I
had mentioned him last night before our
debate prep but one was the ruling on
the census question which you know is
it's it's a win to the extent that you
know it you know there's no it may be
revisited in some fashion but it it
would have been such a huge blow to the
credibility of the Supreme Court to side
with the Department of Justice's
explanation as to why they wanted this
question on immigration or I should say
citizenship in the census question when
we now have literally an entire
documentary record of how they are lying
about that
like again in some respects you would
almost want the Supreme Court if they
had the capacity to find the Department
of Justice for contempt or something for
lying so obviously to all these courts
because this information came through
but that's encouraging but let's just
talk about the the gerrymandering one
because the implications of that Merrick
garland seat now are that we have at
least a half a dozen states who can have
situations like we have in Wisconsin
where you have 54% of the votes go to
Democrats and the Republicans control
65% of the seats in the state
legislature I mean this is just so effed
up it's unbelievable
well and it's so incredibly openly
partisan I mean like this isn't even the
argument for it which just cracks me up
yesterday on Twitter they there were a
lot of Republicans people like Scott
Walker you know that we're making these
excuses for this saying oh well it's
perfectly fair because all the Democrats
are in the cities so that's you know
that so they get representation for
their city and then but there's all
these other counties out here in other
places where you know there aren't where
where the Republicans are and I'm going
you know we don't have
presentation for rocks or for cows
that's really not what this is about
it was supposed to be that humans you
know actual human beings people who who
live in this country would be rep you
know represented proportionately in our
government or in our government and you
know they're just basically saying yeah
we're you know all the cities they're
just sort of get alized into these you
know these small districts where you get
one representative and you know that's
how we do it but then we're going to
allocate all this so we're going to make
sure that there are many more people
represented by the Republican you know
the the right-wing conservative
Republicans who would be more likely to
represent people out in the rural areas
and that's really what they're saying
and it's it's so blatantly undemocratic
and so clearly partisan that you know it
kind of shocked me to be honest with you
I really I really didn't expect that
they would that they would do it and I
don't know why everybody said now
they're going for it you know they're
gonna do it but it really is I mean I
think that this is a signal of just how
openly and blatantly partisan this Court
is really going to get and you know
going to the census question now look
you know Chief Justice Roberts you know
apparently he you know and he was the
swing vote and he voted to send the the
case back and sort of mentioned in the
in and it was mentioned in the in the
opinion now well you know they weren't
exactly honest they didn't exactly tell
us the truth so they I mean yeah I mean
they yes they lied blatantly but you
know he's he his he took that position
you know most of the legal scholars that
I've read say you know well he's trying
to show that that you know the court
really isn't so so nakedly partisan and
you know it doesn't pass the smell test
because when it comes down to something
truly important and consequential this
Court is as far right as we've ever seen
and we're going to see more and more of
this I mean that you know that the
Federalist Society lawyers and and the
Republicans in the legal community are
pushing as hard as they can to get these
cases before the court and they're going
to end
look they don't even have to hurry
because this court majority is going to
be there for a long time it's going to
be super durable I think Thomas is going
to retire in he may retire in the next
month or two he may announce it like
literally days away from announcing it
or oh I think you could I think he could
wait retired no three months before the
election Mitch McConnell just kind of
stick it the Democratic that's what
they're gonna do I think that's gonna be
a way of engaging they're gonna back put
that in their back pocket as a way of
engaging a lot of those Christian
conservative voters who came out and
voted for Trump last time because it's
gonna be a reminder it's gonna there's
gonna be this sort of like they I think
they look back at the Kavanagh hearing
and say that was helpful and they may or
may not be right about that but I think
they're thinking that was helpful and
maybe the next person we bring up there
will offend the sensibilities the
questioning by the the Dems will offend
the sensibilities enough people and
we'll bring more people to out to vote
so I suspect you know he's gonna resign
probably this time next year and and and
McConnell may just wait until like you
know August to start the hearings so
that this is fresh in people's minds the
let me just say that though on the on
the on the gerrymander thing the idea
like the argument that they're making
about we should have areas represented I
mean I think there's something to that
insofar as like we have states that are
represented right that theoretically of
different regions that may have
different types of problems but the the
argument is just shown to be BS when you
have these different types of regions
the rural parts of Wisconsin let's say
are overruling what can happen in the in
the cities like you know like it cuts
both ways you could say like these
individuals are being denied Republican
you know in all these rural sections of
the the state which is
I think not quite correct but even if
even if that was that's not the way that
state legislatures work they dictate
over over the cities or you know the
they land play this way they're their
purview is beyond the local geography
that they inhabit so it's just at the
end of the day it's all about numbers I
mean I just
alright and on a national level let's
not forget I mean all these states get
two senators you know California gets
the same number of senators as Alaska
and you know we haven't you know but you
know thirty times the population I mean
it's been sane so you know this is that
there is that sort of you know on the
national level there is that kind of you
know it enhanced representation for
under you know underrepresented areas
say so I mean not that that hasn't
needed was a house but there is this
other house and cotton in the US
Congress that sort of makes up for it I
also find it hilarious that he is
arguing that Walker does that doesn't
mean they should have a larger share of
the seats just because they went big by
big margins in some districts well the
reason why they're winning by such big
margins in a lot of these districts is
because they've been drawn in such a way
to corral as many Democratic votes in as
specific of a location as possible
that's the that is exactly the plan with
the gerrymandering and we should say
that one of these cases that are in
front that was in front of the Supreme
Court I think it was North Carolina
those districts were drawn literally
drawn by the same guy who came up with
the plan to put the question on the on
the census that guy Hofstetter right and
so it would have made it that much more
embarrassing I think for the supreme
court to do it now and I guess like I
don't know I'm of two minds on that
because it would have been nice to rip
the band-aid off and to sort of stop
with this pretense that the Supreme
Court is anything other than
completely politicized and partisan and
this the this this thin veneer that
basically you know keeps any sort of
dramatic reform at bay or calls for it I
think is really I mean I think that's
part of it I think that's that that's
what Roberts I think thinking is in this
but all right let's talk about the
debates
