[Music]
there are major demonstrations going on
in Puerto Rico right now I don't know if
we have any footage of it so in the last
couple of weeks or week or so there's
been a scandal that has been set off by
the a big set of leaked telegram text
messages between the governor ricardo
Rosello and various members of his team
supporters cabinet and so on part of the
top lines has been that this is you know
there's a lot of just sort of crude
stuff there's a lot of homophobia a lot
of transphobia so on there's a lot of
really disgusting comments about poor
people and so on uh and they've said hey
is just us kind of blowing off steam but
the more broad and and really the
structural stuff and things that are
actually dropping today point to bribe
and corruption networks in the Puerto
Rican government so then this is and now
and there's massive demonstrations
taking place on the street they've been
met with riot gear and a really brutal
response celebrities like Ricky Martin
and Benicio del Toro have actually flown
back-to-back the protests Ricky Martin
was it was mentioned in the text
messages because it's really yeah as a
homophobic comment about Ricky Martin
exactly and you know this is really
important and all solidarity with Puerto
Rico obviously there isn't I think that
right now it would be fair to say there
isn't a specific cast to this right now
it does seem to represent a pretty broad
section of society that are just sort of
totally disgusted by the corruption the
buffoonish nasteria of ricardo Rosello
and the current Puerto Rican government
and you know the broader conversation
you always have to have a Puerto Rico
though is that if if these corruption
networks and these revelations go deeper
I have
no doubt that you will see connections
to politicians obviously from both
parties in the mainland you will see how
a small group of corrupt politicians and
networks have benefited from a colonial
system in Puerto Rico that is shockingly
unjust to most Puerto Ricans that
benefits predatory capital and hedge
fund managers in the mainland and you'll
also have to get to the bigger history
here of a truly brutal colonization if
you read Nelson denny's as war against
all Puerto Ricans you'll know of periods
of US military administered martial law
in Puerto Rico of Puerto Rican
independence activists becoming
political prisoners of mass killings
that's all been in Puerto Rico then you
add in Vieques the island of Vieques had
Miletich is a small small I mean I was
spent some time there recently it's it's
a very ecologically vulnerable small and
high poverty levels place the US
military was developed was testing
serious munitions on the islands local
people died in military accidents as
well and people are reporting that the
protests against the government are the
biggest scene in Puerto Rico since the
movements against the US military
testing in Vieques so this is really
significant but I want to bring that
bigger context in because ultimately
whether it's you know McKinsey a
McKinsey a-- did a conversation
obviously about Mackenzie's role as
consultants in administering increasing
poverty and slashing public education in
Puerto Rico all of the same systems of
of of corporate domination and austerity
linked with corrupt local political
structures and capital are all in Puerto
Rico amplified by the fact that it still
is literally a u.s. colony in actuality
taxation without representation like DC
like
Guam a new poll was released saying that
recently actually today poured in
Politico that two-thirds of America that
two-thirds of the of Americans support
statehood for Puerto Rico two and three
Americans support stated for the island
of Puerto Rico according to a Gallup
poll released Thursday morning the
sixty-six percent amid support admits
the sixty six percent support for
omitting the island as the 51st state is
consistent with polling dating back to
the early 1960s support is highest
amongst Democrats younger voters and
non-white voters but nearly half of
Republicans also back the proposal which
is impressive party leaders do not then
it goes on to talk about Donald Trump
and Mitch McConnell's despicable and
bigoted treatment of Puerto Rico
although again this is a very bipartisan
thing Democratic Party's relationship to
Puerto Rico is incredibly pernicious and
and some cases deeply corrupt that the
difference between the GOP leadership
and the GOP voters GOP is basically the
race of the GOP itself the actual body
of like basically political hacks is
like the mind the racist mind and the
voters are bit the GOP partisans at the
racist heart of America right and I so I
always say look I mean Puerto Rico's and
I as a colony Puerto Rico should choose
its own fate whether it wants
independence as a nation state or if it
wants to be a state in the United States
it should be a hundred percent up to
Puerto Ricans but as a matter of both
you know the right thing to do and
political strategy every single Democrat
should be pushing every single second
for Puerto Rican statehood it is a bare
minimum and and I'm again I would frame
it as have a referendum and Puerto Rico
decides obviously the status quo is
complete
the unacceptable it is a four it is it
is it is a colony in a one of the most
economically I mean if you look at
things like the Jones Act the fact that
Puerto Rico has to pay it importation
tax on some of its own products that
itself produces but has to go back out
of the country and be rien ported in
it's a it's an insane insane obscene
exploitative system so it needs to be up
to them but every single Democrat should
be saying if they want it we will fight
our hearts out for a 51st state with
Puerto Rico as well as voting
representation obviously for Washington
DC Guam and and also there's actually
several Caribbean islands that could
fall into this as well but Puerto Rico
is central focal point of that and these
protests are incredibly important
