so Friday night with the backdrop of
seeing someone like you Hewitt on MSNBC
making some type of equivalency between
somebody upsetting Mitch McConnell's
dinner by banging on his table or saying
your food is bad or saying shame is
literally someone we don't even know the
name no one I haven't heard the name is
the equivalent of the president going on
national television talking about doing
violent things excusing violent things
seeing the entire Republican media
apparatus talk about a caravan as being
a full-scale invasion with military-age
males with hostile intent we're talking
about families who are walking on foot a
month away from the United States
creating the sense that we are under
siege and then I was on MSNBC with
Barbara Boxer who I was always the
favorite of mine of the two california
senators I should say and she had this
to say and I hopped on my hobby horse
about the problem being much more
problematic than Donald Trump or or will
play the play the tape
you know he and I are about the same age
I'm a little older but we're about the
same vintage and we lived through three
assassinations of leaders John F Kennedy
Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King and
to think that his response to this is to
double down on going after the press not
to look at the people and say you know
what I get heated sometimes if my
rhetoric had anything to do with it we
are dealing
with someone who is a bully inside and
out has no compassion didn't even
mention the names of two former
presidents we've only had 45 and this
bomber who did the act let's be clear he
did the act of bomber dead
the roadmap was the President of the
United States and everyone that he
singled out for hatred so the politics
of hatred when practiced by a president
has resulted in a nightmare for our
nation and we have a president who has
to be checked and balanced in this next
election and I agreed with everything
she said there about Donald Trump but my
the issue that I took was that that's
not nearly an exhaustive list of the
people who are responsible for this this
next election Sam yeah I mean even if
someone wants to make the bizarre claim
that there was no relationship between
what Donald Trump has been doing and
what this guy did
Donald Trump's actions after the fact to
not even call the former president
United State to not even call the former
Secretary of State to not even to say
like we are committed to protecting you
people he's basically sending the
message to the other potential bombers
out there hey you know I don't blame you
I can understand why you would do this
hey and be I'm at the point like where
the outrage about Donald Trump is
useless mm-hmm
there are people who have this there are
people who have enabled him who continue
to enable him for their own political
and frankly money profit and those
people are members of the Republican
Party they are the leadership of the
Republican Party and the conservative
styles and the conservative
establishment they heard when Donald
Trump said hey if you beat up that
protester I'll cover your lawsuit I mean
they still rallied behind this guy Mitch
McConnell Paul Ryan every other
Republican leadership should have to
answer more than he does they need to
come up and deal with yeah what do you
think of that Center well absolutely
that's why we are having an election
right
in midterm it's not an election where
Donald Trump is physically on the ballot
but his style of politics the politics
of fear and hate and we see the result
of that that is on the ballot and I have
to say this there are many issues that
are going to impact people this is one
of them we have to look deeper inside
the Republican Party not only are they
enablers but they want to take away
things from the people of America their
social security their Medicare their
health care we are not going to forget
about that this man must be checked and
yes it all lies with the House and
Senate leadership we need to take that
both the House and the Senate to restore
sanity to this country to restore hope
for this country well I mean first off
with all due respect to the former
senator that will not restore sanity in
this country with you okay that's fine
but the Democrats can take back the
house but just like when Barack Obama
thought right this would break the fever
this is not going to break the fever the
establishment of this country we all
know who they are
they sit in seats in these rooms as well
they need to start holding the
Republican leadership to account not
just implore people to go and vote this
isn't a question of people going voting
you saw the the the assessments of those
people in line at the at the rally they
thought it was you know Bernie Sanders
so so what I'm talking about there is
they just played a clip of and and I
think we have this of of what the people
in line think about these bombers they
think that these bombers are and will
play at Linna in a bit later but they
think that the well Barack Obama sent it
to himself in any and my point was not
that we shouldn't go out and vote but
that we're on MSNBC on Chris Hayes's
program and the percentage of people who
are watching this program who do who are
planning not to vote is somewhere
between 0% and immeasurable immeasurably
small everyone watching Chris Hayes is
going to vote I would say it's arguable
whether or not a majority of people a
week before the election who are
watching Crusades have already voted
they're the first persons in line to
early voting the problem was earlier in
the day in that studio Hugh Hewitt was
allowed to come and spew his false
equivalency that Paul Ryan can hide out
wherever he's hiding out and say this is
real reprehensible I don't know how this
happened and Mitch McConnell can be
there or that Dianne Feinstein is not
getting the message from barbara boxer
that hey you should be calling out every
one of the members of the Senate right
now for not standing up and saying we're
done we're not showing up to vote on
anything continue yeah the assessments
of those people in line at the at the
rally they thought it was you know
Bernie Sanders or they thought that
Barack Obama had mailed this to
themselves the reporters in this country
the the establishment media figures who
even entertain the notion of some type
of false equivalency or simply upsetting
the Mitch McConnell at a restaurant some
nameless person protesting at a
restaurant versus the President of the
United States not even telling people of
this country you shouldn't have done
this right that nobody should do this we
are beyond I mean of the election is one
thing but they make no mistake about it
sanity will not return if the Democrats
take the habit or the Senate let me say
the election the election isn't one
thing the election is the thing you know
you can write your columns and I used to
be a reporter and I love to write
you can go on television the people have
the power you've got to take away the
power from the Mitch McConnell's yes
from the Paul Ryan's from the Dean
Heller's and I could go on and the only
way to do that is the vote because all
this outreach doesn't mean anything are
in power I will say this my own take on
this is that it's necessary but not
sufficient right yeah it's nests
sorry but not sufficient he's correct
but the bottom line is it's not just a
question first off it's not just a
question of taking away the power from
from these Republicans because there's
no way to take away all their power this
is a cultural problem and to the extent
that there's anything that any of us
sitting in that room or on that
television on MSNBC can do to diminish
the power of Donald Trump it is to take
our access for the highest levels of our
government and tell them that they are
being shameful now none of those people
are gonna listen to me of the three of
us sitting on that studio none of them
are gonna listen to me but they may
listen to a former senator so with all
due respect the Barbara Boxer who of
whom I have great admiration but
whatever relationships whatever she got
as a senator where it's like you know
well my good colleague from so-and-so or
whatnot do you think this is just about
electing a Democratic Congress and I
agree every single person in the sound
of my voice should vote and again I
would be willing to bet that 99% of them
are but the elite of this country have
to step up and start holding their
fellow elite to account even if it means
they won't be able to lobby other
senators they won't be able to go to the
same parties they won't be held in the
same esteem they have to expend some of
their cachet their social cachet for the
betterment of the country and stop
clinging on to this sort of the New York
Times posted a headline do we have a
copy that headline on that day on Friday
they were sent pipe bombs here what
they've said about Trump a look at the
contentious words between the president
some of his most outspoken critics now
they changed that headline to here's
what they
said about Trump and what Trump said
about them but Sam cedar can sit here
and say hey that's big ass
it doesn't matter what these people have
said about Donald Trump in the course of
politics none of it was elimination
astana vit justifies getting sent a pipe
bomb in the mail sometimes when you
frame certain things in that way it
communicates a certain perspective that
it legitimizes certain things Sam cedar
can talk about this and guess who cares
no one I mean I like to think maybe you
people care but but if Barbara Boxer
says I on national television I call out
the New York Times right now this is
irresponsible and they've got to behave
better that makes a difference there is
no one again with all due respect to
Senator boxer there is no one who is
watching Chris Hayes on a Friday night
who her exhortation is to vote are going
to make a difference they're already
voting if anybody knows her name they're
voting and so the bottom line is use the
assets you have instead of telling
people that is all that is necessary is
voting it may be the only thing they can
do in the next 10 days and that's fine
but you should do what you can do which
is far more than just voting it is
actually bringing some of your social
assets to bear on what is an
increasingly dangerous situation and
they're not doing it you need to disrupt
norms to save norms we keep saying that
yep
they also ran that headline where they
referred to ball sodaro as a divisive
popular
list which like you would think that
getting literal bombs sent in the mail
to mainstream media outlets would make
them think maybe these people don't
deserve equal time but yeah it's absurd
but a false equivalency is maddening
it's maddening and it is maddening to
see the people who really have the
ability I mean really let's have been
let's face it it's there's no amount of
you know yes it would be great if all
the New York Times subscribers on on you
know next Monday decided to send an
email to the Times I'm canceling my
subscriptions because of your false
equivalency but that's not going to
happen but the ability for people like
senator boxer and I'm not calling her
out in particular just so happens that
we had this conversation but there's a
lot more of them call out people on that
network and say how why are you hosting
shows to promote false equivalency
