[Music]
the phones come from a310 area code
who's this where you come from
hi I'm Chandler from New York how are
you good how you doing who's this Samer
okay now have you listened to Joe Rogan
on Friday
no all right so he had a guest I don't
know but maybe do 10 cool and he said
the new the green new deal
it included economic security for people
who are willing to work that's correct
this is correct well it speaks to people
for instance I can tell you that the
chief of staff that a OCS chief of staff
spoke to this there are instances right
let's say you are you are 55 years old
and you're a minor
ok you're a minor and you're starting to
contract black lung disease and you you
stop working because or the coal
business let's say is is drying up 50
years old let's just say that if you
call business drying up be 50 years old
55 years old it is conceivable and I
think quite justifiably that someone
that age living in West Virginia thinks
I'm not going to be able to find a new
job I'm not going to go into some type
of training program where because it
also offers training off so for these
folks the where I'm gonna go and learn
some other trade at age 50 and I'm not
gonna find any new work I think
providing support for that any for folks
like that if they you know they'll say
alright I'm gonna go do some part-time
work or whatnot but that's not going to
sustain them obviously right I mean it
can't live on that
I think providing I think providing
material support I think providing
material support for them is worthwhile
I think it is addresses an important
reality that in the context of of this
business I mean like this imagine it
juxtaposed to the idea of Medicare for
all a lot of people have made a you know
made a lot about there's gonna be two
million people put out of work if we go
to a single-payer system because the
private insurance industry is going to
go away the private insurance industry
is going to go away but wait a second
Sameer but all those people who who work
not all but the vast majority of those
people who work on administrative things
dealing with health insurance are gonna
find new work in the context of of
Medicare for all and this is not the
same as having a specific skill like I'm
a coal miner how am I gonna transition
at age 50 you're gonna have to provide
support for these people and for some
it's gonna be job retraining and for
others it may just be early retirement
when we see the buyouts all the time
right I mean this is how we should
forward offering buyouts to engineers
because they're not going in a certain
direction with a certain with a certain
type of thing that they're developing
people take buyouts and so this is
basically a buyout for you know coal
miners or people who are engaged in some
of these fossil fuel businesses that are
going out of business
that's all no but there is a difference
between people who are out of work
because of automation or because the
industry went away and they are too old
to be retrained in which case these
people are not able to work not
unwilling to work the word thing when
you say they are for people not willing
to work it's as if this are young
healthy people want to work and you'll
get money from the government this is
what the wording means unwilling this if
you are wanting to work but your skills
are known
in need and your 1555 this is not a
situation where you be labeled as
unwilling to work I mean I I guess I
mean that's the language they chose in
better language that's how many jobs do
because you're working for example you
know the wording that this is not the
same yeah okay I I wonder I may be
projecting on you but I just know like
even people that like in my family who
are a hundred percent on board with all
these policy sets a hundred percent and
there's something about that kind of
word choice given their own sort of I
found my understanding is that is that
that wording is from ms according to the
hill on on Saturday that the the what
was being floating around with that
language was an early
raft of an FAQ that I don't think is in
part of the resolution but I'll dig into
it but the concept the concept is people
who are it's not quite unable to work
but look you can't be an uber driver
necessarily in Kolkata country and make
anything close to a living I you know I
getting increasingly harder to frankly
to even do it in New York but but you
know so there's you know I think that is
what it's addressing but I'll look into
it and I think the man clearly is not
opposed to the merits of it I just I do
think preciate the call language for
whatever yeah I'm not sure the wording
let me double check on this okay
Samir listen let me check the wording it
doesn't look like the word unwilling
appears anywhere in this document okay
so I mean what was being spread around
was an early draft of the FAQ that was
basically a shorthand for saying folks
who are in a predicament where they
don't they don't have a physical m'lady
malady but they do have a m'lady malady
they don't have a physical malady but
they do have basically it they just
think it's going to be too difficult
it's a buyout essentially
