[Music]
I've said Chris Coons name I don't know
maybe a dozen times on this show over
the years and it seems that it's always
in the context of him throwing water on
any potential sparks of actual change in
this country
he literally I mean if there's a single
individual in the country who spends any
time thinking about politics is not
aware of what the Republican Party has
done in regards to the judicial they
refused to have hearings for Merrick
garland unprecedent they were completely
obstructionist during the Obama years
they widely used blue slips as a way of
preventing judges from sitting on
federal courts then they took all those
vacancies including Merrick garland they
got rid of filibusters for all judges
they got rid of honoring blue strips
slips from states that had two
Democratic senators even they've ran
through the highest number of judges in
the history I think of any first term
president with lifetime appointments
Chris Coons his response to what would
you guys do if the Senate takes over
this if the Democrats take over the
Senate I think the first thing we should
do is reinstate the filibuster to give
Republicans the opportunity to
completely obstruct again that was the
Horny was only for Iraq but now he's
starting to see like hey wait a second
Democrats could take over the Senate
I've got to begin to position myself
right in the center I mean this is one
of the things that we heard about in the
context years ago about reforming the
filibuster you could change the number
that is necessary but whatever number
you sit there's going to be some
Democratic senators who are gonna say
like I'm going to position myself to be
that number you need 55 people I'm gonna
be vote 55 I'm gonna be vote 54
and chris coons is maybe in his mind I'm
gonna be vote 51 UK you can worry about
Joe Manchin but Joe Lieberman hold my
beer and along those lines
here he is on Fox & Friends today if it
is tied directly to Iran what's
appropriate action now well first I want
to I want to see the intelligence but it
seems credible that the Hootie's don't
have the sort of advanced drones that
carried out this crippling strike on
Saudi oil facilities my hope is that the
president will consult with his generals
as diplomats as advisors will look hard
at the intelligence Iran is one of the
the most dangerous state sponsors of
terrorism this may well be the thing
that calls for military action against
Iran if that's what the intelligence
supports what about people who say you
know we got our own oil we don't need
that oil as much as we used to
not our problem what would you say to
that I'd say one of the things that has
kept America safe and secure for seven
decades is a global network of alliances
obviously our alliance with the Saudis
has been badly strained by the murder of
Khashoggi and by some of the other
things that MBS the crown prince has
done but this is a moment where Iran is
really pushing our resolve and is really
testing to see whether we're actually
going to stand up and if there's a tax
by Iran on our close allies like Jordan
Israel or the Saudis we need to take
seriously taking action again I think it
would be great to know that republishes
and Democrats would be behind that
action if it should take place and the
evidence would be always overwhelming as
it seems
yeah there you have it Democrats and
Republicans that's what he's doing he's
providing cover for a new war a couple
of things that stuck out to me you know
those other things that the Saudis are
doing that's training our relationship
with them they're using our weapons our
facilities our support to kill thousands
of people thousands of people in Yemen
know hundreds of thousands and the Dinan
is almost exactly like the dynamic they
claim the Hootie's have with Iran you
know we are enabling the killings tens
of thousands hundreds of thousands of
people in Yemen and when the rebels
essentially or the civil war fire back
on the people that are attacking them I
mean let's be honest here this is not
terrorism right
this is Saudi Arabia is engaged in a an
air war with that country
well hey have struck back I mean and
just just to fill it out a little bit
hundred percent right also Sudanese
military forces which have been
subcontracted by the Saudis are on the
ground they're committing other
atrocities so they actually have troops
on the ground through the Sudan they
have killed hundreds of thousands of
airstrikes but there's also been cholera
outbreaks and food shortages and it is
an international I mean there is ZERO
debate for anybody who takes
international law seriously which Chris
Coons probably does not though he would
cite it that yes if you are fighting an
occupying force that definitionally I
mean not only is it not terrorism it's
legal it is a it is a correct action it
is a justified action but I mean and we
should not accept this talking point
that like oh there's no way the Houthis
could have done this they might have
gotten the art you know one of the
things that's so terrifying about drones
now is that a lot of drones aren't even
that technically we're going to hold
countries that sell weapon well there
you go - fighting parties responsible
for the use of those weapons because I
get some bad news for us if that's the
case yeah if the bad news would be that
by that logic the Houthis should be able
to drop drone strikes on our facade sure
of course
act reality and not just the Hootie's
everybody there's not only not a country
on earth I mean that setting a IIIi
don't know that we want to go down that
road where that becomes the
the the justification for war but I
there's another option that Chris Coons
doesn't talk about if he's very
concerned about supporting our allies
and that is let's not be allies with
Saudi Arabia anymore well you have to be
so demented to still be married to this
Israel Saudi axis in the Middle East
with all of the atrocities that those
countries commit and all the problems
that that basic structure causes and you
know it went back to the deal with Iran
that that the Saudis and the Israelis
were so upset not because of you know
the non-crazy people understood it was a
good deal and that it wasn't a threat to
them but just the idea that the United
States might start to have like a
rational non biased view of the Middle
East as a fundamental threat to their
own hegemonic ambitions let's watch Fox
and Friends further go on to surely this
awful awful to cheerlead this war with
Iran now back in the day when the u.s.
invaded and occupied illegally Iraq some
of us hippies as you can see I would say
like there's no reason to do this he's
no threat to us this is just about oil
not just Iraqi oil but also being able
to have a beachhead in a region that in
some way it's basically less about us
getting the oil because they would say
well how come was more expensive now
anybody who has been to a keg party
understands the value of having your
friends control the keg control the tap
cuz then you can just cut line just say
yeah give me a cup of beer please and
you don't have to wait in line that's
basically I think what the US foreign
policy has been we want to be the guys
controlling the tap we may not give it
to America first but we may want to
control the tap
here's Fox and Friends they don't even
they forgot that this was the premise of
wars that we don't want to get involved
in now it's just being sold that way
Iran attacks Saudi Arabia that has over
100 times we are prepared to take action
well big question is what is that going
to be and they have provoked us before I
mean think about the tankers they have
seized they've got one of our drones out
of the sky ah and now it looks like this
even though the Hoodoo rebels are saying
oh we did it 100% yeah right we have all
this national news show and just going
like pootie rep like he doesn't know
there's no doubt in my mind that maybe
the first time the words hoody rebels
came out you know thinks Steve Doocy
fluence in the politics of Yemen right
oh oh yeah right you did sure right sure
I'm sorry about the Kuti rebels before
it was fashionable although they don't
have that kind of that 2 a.m. to look at
the operational yeah saying oh we did it
a hundred percent yeah right we have we
have video of all that you just know it
by the way two things number one the
drone attacks extremely disturbing from
a security standpoint we would stops it
from happening here number two
well positive to keep well what stops it
from happening here do you already
saying we've got to stop the drones over
there before they come over here I got I
mean this is just this is like this is
pre Iraq invasion this is but this is D
team level pro-war propaganda we got to
stop them we got to stop the Iranian
drones over there before they do to you
too rose from a security standpoint what
stops it from happening here number two
is we have to keep the Strait of Hormuz
open and we got to protect the world's
oil supply that just comes with being a
being the United States of America even
though we make a lot of it ourselves we
have to in this case make sure the
Middle East has a sense of normalcy and
that's got a half and the Europeans
should step up as well as we go after
the cause so we will become Kelly and
convoy makes a great point you know why
are we dependent on somebody else for
our energy exactly right well we do have
a responsibility to the free world we
have the number one defense
and I think we should not go duck from
that responsibility yeah we have kill me
it is does he is sud kill me is
personally anxious oh yeah yeah the
whole thing is just amazing like oh yeah
no we do we do we can pay for our own
oil but we need to we have a
responsibility cuz we've spent all this
money on creating the most massive
Defence Force in the world like the you
know all the others combined two times
over I also I do dig the frame that we
need to ensure some sense of normalcy in
the region by starting like a absolutely
catastrophic war that's actually an
untold amount of people and destabilize
the place like almost apocalyptically to
be fair to be fair based upon what we
did in last twenty years pretty close to
pretty normal normal us action yeah look
normal u.s. spill out the region is
being destabilized because of the lack
of major invading force that is coming
look I understand Yemen and Syria are
both absolute bloodbath there's multiple
proxy wars the Israelis are starting to
more overtly bomb Syria but it's just
it's still it's too chill of Asian of
Iran it really is mask off time for
these people which I kind of appreciate
at least they're not talking about human
rights anymore you know it's a total
exactly it's totally but it's d-team
stuff like god I can't wait to go to
those rallies where people like they
shot down our drone man we gotta fight
we're gonna put a boot in your asses
well I can't wait to all the the songs
that come out about about that time
right booty shot our drone down and we
got to stop there Jones will fly your
drone over your house it's the American
Way yeah it's a lot less metaphorical
Trump doesn't count as civilians it's
the American what Trump just towards out
plenty of oil exclamation point
yesterday yeah plenty of oil
