so you're saying that in the early
aughts
we saw a greenspan basically dropping
interest rates and inducing in many
respects the the returns that were
coming from the housing market and then
in 2004 we we entered into a slightly
different phase yes exactly this is
really one driven by private label
securitisation and mortgages so this is
the classic subprime phase and that's
very sharp very sudden it results in
about trillion dollars worth of lending
and that's the bit which then ultimately
quits very suddenly in 2007 into crisis
mode it would however not have led to
the comprehensive crisis that we saw in
2008 if it had not been for the fact
that over a longer time horizon really
back to the 1980s and early 1990s
banking globally had moved to a model of
banking funding which was based on
wholesale markets and and the financing
of fixed income assets and it's really
that the combination of the two things
the surge in subprime from 2004 funded
through a model which had been
developing since the 1990s which relies
on this short term money market based
funding it's a combination of those
things together that produces the
possibility of two thousand and two
thousand an X so our avoidance of that
situation could have either been a
function of changing the the broader
context of our financial markets or
preventing that sort of I guess
injection of like a high-wire act in
2004 essentially right that the the the
the the
the securitization on steroids yes I
think so it all handed had been on deck
on the regulatory side from 2004 onwards
it's possible that they might have been
able to suppress some of the really
low-quality subprime securitization that
goes on the risks that needed to be
worried about would not really you know
that may not even the country wise or
the Washington neutrals what caused
systemic risk was the fact that you know
this stuff was accumulating on the
balance sheets of the city groups and
the Lehman's which had the massive
networked into connection with the
entire financial system there's one
thing if your mortgage lenders
specialized mortgage lenders go bad
which is what happens saying the savings
and loans crisis of the 1980s it's quite
another it Keystone commercial banks
high street banks or Keystone investment
banks are entangled in that same mess
and the other thing I guess that would
have had to have happened to contain
this is is global regulation of banking
of a much tighter variety of the type
that we have now with what's called
Basel 3 so a much closer attention to
both the capitalization of the banks to
increase their ability to absorb losses
and liquidity in other words their
ability to withstand runs of funding and
those have really been the key centers
of attention in global bank regulation
since since the crisis - just to broaden
out a little bit what was the what were
the narratives that the sort of the
broader narratives that either in in
Europe or in this country that people
have been operating under the like broad
misconceptions that I guess 2008 sort of
you know upended in in many respects
well I think that you know the most
obvious one is the idea that markets and
and private actors businesses in markets
can be expected to adequately ensure
their own risks by way of various types
of derivative product and this was
fundamental to the blackness of banking
regulation before 2008 the assumption
was that the best risk models were the
risk models that the banks themselves
operated because they knew best they had
obviously an interest in not not
self-destructing and so surely to
goodness if one simply followed the best
practice of the bank then all would be
well and that will clearly turned out to
be a profound miscalculation more
broadly I think we've had to come to
terms with is the fact that the state of
big private actors cannot be separated
from the state of the entire economy
this is the too-big-to-fail problem so
not only are our private actors not
really capable of fully assessing the
risks that they face but when they miss
when they make mistakes if they're of a
sufficiently large type it has
ramifications for everybody which forces
us then into public action of an
unprecedented type and so there you have
a whole interconnected set of
assumptions that really have come
unstuck and you know if you go back to
somebody like Greenspan when he was
asked in 2007 who is going to vote for
in 2008 he simply said you know it
doesn't matter go vote for because we're
fortunate enough to be in the world in
which which is basically governed by
markets so it doesn't matter who you
know here is the chief executive of the
United States it doesn't matter who the
president is except for foreign policy
except the security policy you know and
that obviously is the sort of the most
fundamental delusion but that was really
blown apart by 2008 there's a big
whoopsie after that it seems to me let's
so let's uh all right so so let's talk
about those political the implications I
mean in this in Europe and in some
respects well I don't I mean I let's
talk about the political ramifications
and the decisions that were made in the
implications let's start in this country
and then we will move around the globe
well I mean I think in in in the u.s.
what you see is this stark this juncture
right between a relatively effective
technocratic management of the crisis
itself which given its epic scale and
the dangers that were involved is quite
remarkable in its own right and by the
summer of 2009 the immediate risk to the
cardiovascular
the United States economy has passed the
banking system is not fixed that it is
on the mend and the real economy begins
to recover from the second half of 2009
in part because of stimulus action in
part because of the recovery of
confidence the fact that things stopped
getting worse so that's as it were one
side of the ledger but on the other side
of the ledger is the fact that the party
political system as we know it is
obvious showing signs of coming apart at
the seams basically and you began to see
that already in the summer of 2008 and
it's most visible and it's very
consequential obviously all the way down
to the present inside the Republican
Party because at the height of the
crisis in the summer and fall of 2008 a
Republican presidency struggling to
contain this crisis cannot get the votes
of its own party in Congress and to
support the bailout of Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac or tarp the instrument they
used to recapitalize the American banks
and it relies essentially on the
opposition in Congress the Democrats to
do the deal through the deals that are
necessary and in 2009 with Obama in the
White House you then have this
extraordinary kind of combination of
both
absolutely bloodthirsty parties and
opposition in Congress by the leadership
of the Republican Party and you know an
insurgency of the grassroots in the form
of the tea party which already had many
of the elements of the old right which
you know has spiraled down to the
present and then on the other side of
the divide as disillusionment with the
Obama presidency really sets in by the
fall of 2011 of course you have the
Occupy movement which I take to be
symbolic of a much broader disaffection
of the left wing of American politics
with the entire spectrum of mainstream
parties in Washington and so in that
respects new this sort of triple on the
one hand that it were technocratic
management but then fraying of the
ability of either the Democrats or the
Republicans to contain these tensions
that really I think you know marks
American politics and shape the 2016
election
