[Music]
we have the Katie Pavlich
video let's just put that up as a little
and then we I want to go into some bait
Oh Aurora cat stuff because we've been a
couple of good pieces about bait Oh
Roarke and of course he is coming off of
his big fundraising victory but we'll
talk about that a moment Katie Pavlich
apparently you know she'd out like on a
fox on a more regular basis now
oh she a five regular contributor now
she's the sixth of the five now wasn't
she a didn't she formally go out with
that guy Brandon Darby who was the FBI
informant in some protests and was
running around I think occupy as well if
I remember correctly now we're getting
way back here but it looks like looks
like you're right so yeah there you go
I still got it folks here is Katie
Pavlich I didn't know Brooklyn was in
Brooklyn I'm a little tie it didn't all
of a sudden locket so Katie Pavlich
coming on bringing the the completely
fact and historical free assessment I
mean fact and historical free
conclusions and what would you call this
assertions about facts and history they
keep blaming America for the sin of
slavery but the truth is the real
positive and let's go back she's talking
about reparations now it's my opinion
that reparations actually should not
just be for slavery but for the
continued racism practiced by the US
government through you know just like an
official policy through the the the
middle of the twentieth century in terms
of preventing the accumulation of wealth
within the black community but here is
Katie Pavlich
with her her fact in his
Oracle free historical and factual
assertion they keep blaming America for
the sin of slavery but the truth is
throughout human history slavery has
existed and America came along as the
first country to end it within a hundred
and fifty years and we get no credit for
that to move forward and try and be dead
have a very bloody civil war over the
racial attendance of the Civil War right
particularly blacks in the south right
yeah that was not it was bloody and
violent and deadly and there were Native
Americans everybody is that we all of
that a country that decided to end it
and we're still dealing with the issue
but if you want to start a problem and
to inflame racial tension even more
start blaming people who have nothing to
do with slavery for the sin of slavery
that is not fair that's not the American
Way
and we shouldn't be doing it oh you're
welcome also um I'm sorry being a little
bit pedantic here but maybe usefully
there was a place called Haiti what
happened or Britain or Britain or Spain
or Spain or Sweden and apparently the
Netherlands and Denmark and France
Portugal and we should also say that
when the United States apparently which
was founded on this notion of ending
slavery right like we at least came
along and decided to end it that's what
that's why we that's one of the reasons
why we weren't gonna be named the United
States of slavery Enders exactly and
we're just like and we'll do that we
will get to that in a hundred or so
years we're by ending slavery what we
mean is ending slavery by non prison
folk because of course we still allow
for prison slavery and the this notion
that somehow reparations are our
punishment for people had nothing to do
with slavery no what it is it is the
fact is is that we all on some level as
a society
benefit from slavery continuing to
benefit today whether it's I mean across
the income spectrum on some level or
wealth spectrum but obviously far more
so for those who have had great success
we're all continuing to benefit all of
the great exceptionalism of the United
States was built on an enormous amount
of free labor and all of the wealth that
exists within the white society is at
least in part a function of having less
people to compete against who live in
society they will contribute to the
building of that wealth but they will
not share in the building of that wealth
things like redlining things like not
providing secondary mortgages these are
all governmental policies things like
not allowing them to have political
power for the greater part of our
history as a country so it's not a
question of punishing anybody it is a
question of trying to make up for that
deficit which of course also exists not
just as a function of cash but of just a
deficit that's been created in terms of
just a way of seeing the world I mean we
spoke to I guess we played that
interview over the break but it was deep
roots and I can't remember the Matthew
who one of the authors were Matthew
Blackwell but the research that they
have done shows that you can track to
this day the racism of white people on a
county-by-county level
and track it directly to the number of
slaves relative to white people who
lived in a given County hundreds of
years ago and so if you can track the
attitudes of white people based upon the
ratio of slaves to white people in a
given County hundreds of years ago and
you can see a play out there must have
been an impact that has equal resonance
amongst ancestors of of those slaves of
descendants of those slaves and upon the
community broadly speaking we can't
track it in the same way because they
were completely denied any type of
political power for much of those years
so you can't see how it plays out in the
context of society but that's just a
function of how little political power
they had so Katie Pavlich Oh for
everything she said in that segment
she should she goes try a fast food Sam
she was talking as if nothing she was
saying could be checked easily I mean
him including by some former Vijay
libertarian who managed to at least
retrieve the Civil War yeah exactly it
was this is lightly import I mean we
went really unfair we talked about
Sweden and Haiti and Portugal and
Britain but you could also even just go
like you know that thing in our country
that there's been a spill bird movie
about right it's called the civil war
and when you contemplate how slavery was
abolished basically through the 1800s
all those countries we mentioned before
the United States
it wasn't even as if it was just those
countries we were like maybe we should
get on board with this it was also like
maybe we should get on board of this and
it's gonna cost hundreds of thousands of
lives to get it through well and also if
you read documents of
anyone in America at the time it's a
very like they're very conscious like
Britain makes fun of us for still having
slaves in like the 1820s and 30s like
it's a this is a known thing that we
were behind on this well you have your
facts Matt and Katie Pavlich has hers
