the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any ELISA they are
unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday December 12 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Adam Koch Hesh a libertarian a candidate
for president in 2020 also formerly host
of Adam versus the man will be joining
us for a debate about libertarianism and
not libertarianism also on the program
Trump Trump threatens a shutdown and
cannot find a chief of staff Nancy
Pelosi close to securing her speakership
and in a win for progressive drops the
supermajority for tax rule Pago may be
next to go and Jovanka x' gains may be
illegal but the opportunity zones tax
benefits should be criminal regardless
Senate confirms another right wing
unqualified judge for life this time on
a 50-50 tie broken by Mike Pence
meanwhile speaking of judges Trump heads
to the Supreme Court seeking the ability
to promote a an asylum ban at the
southern border
and Harris will remain on the judiciary
but he chucked up again joe manchin now
the leader in the statutory fight
against climate change on behalf of
democrats tell you what drinks ha ha
meanwhile Michael Cohen sentenced not
quite sure what he got
I think it's 36 months 36 months yeah
that's good waiting on that work and
Teresa may may a fate or I should say
will face a vote of no-confidence this
evening in the complete mess that is
brexit orna brexit or brexit Dems save
snap and Republicans block the War
Powers Act in the farm bill and Amazon
employees at Staten Island seek to
unionize and are using the 3 billion
dollar giveaway from New York City as
leverage all this and more on today's
program yes ladies and gentlemen we were
taking the opportunity the end of the
year to to have a debate we haven't had
one of these libertarian debates or
really any debates in a long time I have
to say I mean obviously if you are a a
member of the show and you listen to
your listen to the second half live or
not you can you'll hear occasionally
we'll have little debates with with with
people who call in on the phone but this
is the first time that we've set up on
purpose I mean with advance notice in a
long time
basically this came about because as you
know I thought I was going to debate
steven crowder at patriot uh what is it
called patron ah political it akan and
and then he just ghost it which I think
I was just reading as a millennial thing
where you just you know like you got
plans to debate somebody and then you
just stop returning the emails of
politican I guess it's how ghosted
dating cops yeah I'm a pretty flaky guy
yeah I mean I guess that's that's what I
understand how it works it's up yeah you
said I just debate I just looked it up
into the urban dictionary and anyways
eight so steven crowder ghosted and I
ended up debating Charlie Kirk that was
that was fun anyways but I really wanted
to debate steven crowder and you know I
made an email hoping that he would
respond and he didn't and then he took a
break because he's I think he's dealing
with some some personal illness issues
and certainly understand how how
relentless this job would can be and my
hope is is that when he comes back he'll
he'll agree to debate me because he
seemed so earnest about his desire to
have people change his mind and to
debate the issues and he keeps saying he
has left this on anyways in the middle
of this back-and-forth on on Twitter I
guess Adam khopesh had had had some
questioning a run-in with Crowder I'm
not 100% sure but someone had told him
that I have a standing a challenge to
libertarians and then he tweeted me it
took it up and we arranged it and all
happened fairly quick I mean I'm open to
this stuff as that guy Brendan Brendan
target off no and in Straka Brandon
Straka
I'm sorry people know I'm bad with names
I'm bad with names it really should be
nicer to me person who remembers his
name and and the walk away guy there was
a walk away and I said I would go on his
show I'm very open to these type of
things so impressed you could even find
a libertarian to debate these days
aren't they all Nazis no well no that's
the thing is I've actually I think Adam
is very sincere about this stuff I've
seen some other people who have lessons
here but that's for another day let me
just remind you
so uh eh you can become a member by
going to join the majority report calm
and B if you're interested in coming to
the live show we are now down in to
where you can say basic what three dozen
tickets are left so you've got very
little time we so go to majority dot F M
for tickets for the January 13th show
one of today's sponsors is scale share
and the first 500 people go to sk l dot
s h / majority are going to get two
whole months of totally free access to
skill shares entire library of super
quality online courses and tutorials we
may need to confirm that we still have
that there's still room for that you
should just double-check with with Noah
because we've been doing this for a
couple of weeks you get free two months
of total access to their entire library
it's a vibrant online learning community
that offers courses on everything from
design to video editing photography
business technology cooking meditation I
think the first time I said mediation
it's possible I haven't checked on that
but meditation and everything in between
there are skills short of share courses
for everyone you can have no problem
finding courses that be useful to you
both in your personal and professional
life I've got I do not have the kids for
the majority of the weekend I am NOT
with the kids so I'm gonna be catching
up on a couple of these you want to shop
bring your skills with something you
already love doing or you want to learn
how to do something totally new
Skillshare has you covered they have
courses for entrepreneurs courses on
computer coding web development personal
nutrition learning new languages
Photoshop you name it I feel like I
could take a Photoshop class right now
and an accounting are the two I think
that I should do like I say I did the
the knife work and I employed that in
cutting onions for latkes that's cool
are you taking suggestions as the ones
you should do or from the staff because
I'm voting meditation I'm not doing that
all right you can get two entire months
of free access to every single course
offered by Skillshare by going to sk l
dot s h / majority just think of
everything you'll have at your
fingertips for two whole months that's
sk l dot s h / majority and i put a link
underneath this video if you're watching
on youtube or it'll be in our podcast
description check it out sk l dot s h /
majority all right let's start with this
Donald Trump by all by now you've
probably heard about the wait no this
isn't the meeting with him with Nancy is
it oh this is afterwards okay so they
had a meeting with do we have any of
that Nancy and Chuck meeting oh I
thought we had oh you played that
yesterday oh we saw some of it but not
all of it but he's had this line there
too he meets with Pelosi and Schumer and
it doesn't go well he keeps trying to
say I want border security and then they
say oh we're willing to pay for border
security goes well it has to have a wall
on it and they go we didn't want the
wall and then he's coming up with all
the you could see it's his mind working
like I've got to get all access all
those reasons why we need the wall again
it's like the caravan and the drugs
drugs and the murderers and of course
the really sick people and apparently he
really enjoyed that one because I don't
know why he's surrounded by a a member
you know some type of like like a bishop
in this thing but he's not Mike Pence's
Nouveau no he he's in the Oval Office
later and he starts he's really really
stuck in the medical problems motor
security you know Republicans want very
strong border security and honestly the
Democrats are most of them it's hard to
believe but
someone open borders and that leads to
crime and leads to other problems and
you know one of the problems that people
don't talk about
you have a tremendous medical problem
coming into a country communicable
disease tremendous problems people don't
want to talk about it I don't like
talking about it but these are because
they can't be a disease they want to do
so we want strong borders we want people
coming into our country legally through
a process we want people that are going
to love and help our country and I don't
think they feel the same way or maybe
they just don't want us to get a vote
you know it could be that too because
it's hard to believe that they don't
want some form of protection well you
know it's so weird
III increasingly I look at this and it's
like it's like watching a cosplay
but he thinks everybody's taking it
seriously and I get that there's a
there's a subset of people out there who
he feels need this reinforcement and
will believe what he's saying but
increasingly it feels like they they're
they're just they'll they're behind you
you you got them and just saying stuff
like communicable diseases over and over
again I don't know that it really is is
is gaining it just it's starting to feel
a little monotonous is the problem I
think he's he's just got it losing go
read and just come up with a couple of
names of diseases at least right because
you saw him look down when he's a
communicable diseases just take it to
the next level you could just say like I
don't know we have tuberculosis coming
in or diphtheria or meningitis I don't
know I it makes you at least me want to
go on a very like typically liberal
rants in the sense that like the notion
of this guy commenting on other people's
contributions to this country it's just
right on inspiring we are living in an
era where crime all sorts of crime
are at the lowest in generations more
than likely a function in my estimation
of getting led out of gasoline but
that's just a theory that has gained
some credence but the idea that somehow
we're letting in more crime there's no
data to support that immigrants are
anymore after commit a crime than the
native-born x' into actually in some
respects less but it's you know I
understand why needs to keep saying that
but I just feel like mix it up a little
bit yeah and and how about all of the
people who have committed crimes and
have changed and reformed themselves and
are contributing to society like I don't
care what metric you use he's below it
like he's just the worst well the other
problem is is that we have right now
like you know on top of all the crimes I
think that that arguably the president
has committed and Jovanka has committed
the most recent is that they were they
were actively promulgating a tax cut
that they are both taking advantage of
to the tune of hundreds of millions of
dollars I'm not talking about a capital
gains I'm talking about those
opportunities owns that they're gaining
money synergy because of their real
estate holdings but that's that's a
separate thing but so Donald Trump again
I think is is in for some problems and
there seems to be at least a heightened
confidence by the Democrats in some
respect and I think you know part of
that is coming to a large extent from
the heightened confidence by the
progressive caucus we've had two things
happening in the House and the Senate
that are worth noting one being that
Nancy Pelosi is seems to have come to an
agreement with rebels in the in their
caucus rebels the insurgency whatever
now as insurrectionist yeah except for
they unfortunately these people tend to
be more centrist you
sort of more centrist insurrectionists
but al-qaeda yeah and but nevertheless
they were able to at least get a
commitment for a rules change involving
leadership that leadership cannot serve
more than three terms in a row and that
it would be retroactive for the existing
set of democratic leaders in the house
so Clyburn Hoyer and Pelosi this would
be their last term if this passes and
the only way they could stay if there
was a two-thirds majority of the
Democratic caucus that voted for them as
opposed to 50/50 and you know based upon
what we saw with Jeffries and Lee you
know 50/50 is typical so that's a good
sign not sure if that's going to apply
to committees not even sure if that's
going to apply as a permanent rule
because the caucus has to vote on it but
Pelosi said she would abide by it
anyways
so she's stepping down this is her last
go and hopefully there'll be nurturing
of other leadership in the house
simultaneously Democrats basically saved
SNAP benefits food stamps as we used to
call it for probably it's hard to
measure what and what the Republicans
would have cut but it's safe to say
millions and we don't know if it's 10
million we know if it's 5 million or 2
million because it's a counterfactual
but they haven't saved suffering for
millions and millions of people will be
getting food stamps unfortunately in
that same bill the forint farm bill
Republicans have put in a provision that
will unprivileged and it's unclear if
this is going to get stripped out or not
but it seems like Paul Ryan the great
Paul Ryan who's going out just like he
came in slimy he's going to keep it in
which will unprivileged O'War Powers Act
Roca HANA has a resolution under the War
Powers Act to stop what's going on Yemen
that matches essentially the one that
Burnie and Mike Lee are promoting in or
will get passed in the Senate the
problem is is that if it doesn't pass in
the house it's unclear as to whether or
not it would pass it's unlikely that it
would pass in the Senate with the new
Senate coming in so the new house would
pass it but the new Senate wouldn't so
it's unclear what the implications are
to me I can't I can't I haven't seen
anybody quite map it out but it's not
good in terms of raining and what we're
doing in Yemen in particular is what
it's about
meanwhile in the Senate Chuck Schumer
two pieces of evidence really three
pieces of evidence that Chuck Schumer is
just not up to this job okay put aside
his politics for a moment Harry Reid
came into the Senate was anti-choice
that never ever implicated his
leadership and it never implicated any
of his votes frankly so put aside a
moment for Chuck Schumer's politics
although I suspect that they they inform
his incompetence in certain areas but
I'm not sure about that Chuck Schumer
negotiated with the Republicans so that
Kamala Harris could stay on the Senate
Judiciary Committee the loss of those
seats in the last midterms meant that
the Democrats had one less seat on the
Judiciary Committee she really wanted to
stay he negotiated a deal with the
Republicans where they added one more
member to the committee so their
dominance on that committee is greater
but it's irrelevant because it's always
going to be a party vote anyways she
will stay on the committee so they'll
have an opportunity that's why I think
she does the best frankly is in asking
questions of nominees and whatnot but
that is evidence to chuck schumer's
either competent incompetence or willful
incompetence or
inability to lead and sometimes when you
lead it's about getting people to do
stuff that they don't want to do for the
sake of the group that you're leading
that's that's that's basically the point
of it
what if leadership was I just hand out
goodies then anybody could do that if
leadership just meant like I'm never
going to ask anything of you then you
know Santa would be a leader as opposed
to just a guy who gives presents
something you might get coal still it
actually doesn't work that's true that's
has more of an accountability system so
here's my point why do I think the Chuck
Schumer can't get anybody to do anything
that they don't want to do in the Senate
why do I even where do I even get the
idea that the Senate leader does stuff
like that
why would I think that that that Harry
Reid would sometimes go to a member and
say look I'm not gonna release you for
this vote there's going to be a price to
pay for it if you do it and I know you
think you need to vote this way for your
re-election or I know this is part of
your brand or whatnot but we need you on
this vote or we need you to do X or Y
and I want you to do it if you don't do
it then you're gonna be on the wrong
side of me and that's a bad place to be
that's what a leader does or at least
that's my imaginary notion of what a
leader does
if only we had insight as to what a
senate leader does from let's say
someone who served in the senate someone
who is not even necessarily aligned with
my politics someone like I don't know
like Claire McCaskill former senator
just got was just on her way out I guess
still a senator
what about your party though Democrats
have gone ahead and re-elected Schumer
here on the Senate side to be Majority
Leader Nancy Pelosi looks like she will
be elected Speaker of the House this is
not exactly a fresh new face of
leadership for the party are they the
right people to challenge oh I don't
yeah I mean I think Schumer is really
good at his job and I've
I publicly opposed Harry Reid in his
reelection at one point just because I
didn't think he was the right guy for
the job at that moment I think Chuck's
the right guy for the job at this moment
because he is very good at trying to
pull people together when it really
matters and giving people the space to
vote against the party line and not and
not get on him I mean he was great with
me and whenever I needed to vote against
most of the Democratic caucus because of
I had a difference of opinion with him
he never made me feel uncomfortable or
that I was somehow betraying him or my
fellow Democrats so it really more is
about who is coming up that is inspiring
who are the young voices and faces is it
who they are and you know is the center
of gravity changed in the party
if Republicans have seen their party
sort of taken over by Trump there is
this interesting split you know people
like you are more and more of vanishing
breed when it comes from you know
senators who are from Republican leaning
states is it so possible to is there a
center oh yeah there there will always
be a center it's not heavily populated
right now but when the pendulum swings
back it will be more populated you know
Kristin's cinema one in Arizona is a
moderate bet Oh lost in Texas as a
progressive there states are very
similar in terms of their makeup and
Kirsten said I want to work together I
want to I'm a moderate she was not she
was an unabashed moderate Barrow was not
that and so if you want I don't even
care about her assessment of that I'm
more interested in just the whole point
of Chuck Schumer's never asked me to do
anything that was uncomfortable never
now you could say well that was smarter
Chuck because if it wasn't for Chuck
doing that Croat claire mccaskill could
have gotten voted out of office was in
the face of a massive um you know blue
wave she could have gotten voted out of
office
isn't Harry Reid a really illustrative
because she's complaining about Harry
Reid who
is by all accounts a Servat of democrats
well any respect sir I'm not on actually
not on key spending on economic economic
populist streak for sure but clearly was
able to recognize people needing to take
a vote and was not a rigid ideologue but
still also expected and actually spent
capital on killing Social Security cuts
so it's not an ideological objection
it's just an any accountability to any
constituencies of the Democratic Party
ever
objective yeah Chuck Schumer made it
easy for me to and facilitated the idea
of a non cohesive Democratic Party
that's what it is right like that's
distinct from Rochelle Schumer never
this isn't just distinct from ideology
this is partisan right like the the the
most partisan you know Democrat in the
world whose is whose ideology could be
far to the to the right of mine would
take should take the exact same issue
with it like there's no party discipline
that we can't do there's no way to
execute a strategy or a tactic or to to
wage politics if you do not hold those
members of your party to account when
they don't when they don't help the team
when they need to absolutely and that's
another reason to well they'll never be
any kind of like parallel with
quote-unquote Republican moderates
because we all I mean I was wrong about
Susan Collins in the disgusting vote on
Kavanagh but it's like even as a
quote-unquote moderate the best way to
understand her is just as a Republican
team player yeah I don't I'll rate that
no of course I had people core and
people shouldn't here either and Schumer
doesn't have human rata Gini barely his
time well I mean I his strategy just may
be like how do I stay in power
right and I will be I will continue to
be the Minority Leader because if I
don't ask anything of anybody I'm the
perfect guy doggone it people like me I
can tell you that just
gives out a z' there's an old way
exactly called there's nothing in the
middle of the road but yellow stripes
and dead armadillos by Jim Hightower all
right we got to take a quick break we
got to take a quick break when we come
back Adam Koch ash for our debate
you
I watched a
in Australia
you
I wish we are back Sam cedar on the
majority report and I'm used to saying
on the phone for we have a new
technology that we are introducing and I
think it should be fine
via Skype this is the first time we've
done this incidentally via Skype I'd
like to welcome to the program Adam Koch
esh he is a libertarian candidate for
president in 2020 he was formerly the
host of Adam versus the man and Adam
welcome to the program thank you very
much Sam all right so what's that oh
yeah okay I'm sorry just bear with us
this is a new process for us so there we
go right better okay great how do I get
me out of there okay great
all right terrific all right so Adam
thank you for doing this and let's let's
just start with and I've explained to
everybody how how this debate came about
I saw that you had questioned steven
crowder and somehow in the the steven
crowder my pitch to him to to debate me
you got wind of my libertarian debate
challenge and and I used to I remember
back in the day watching some of your
videos I think I saw you like at the at
the maybe the Lincoln Memorial instead
of the monuments oh the Jefferson
monument yeah and I remember you know
appreciating it I'm not a fan of
libertarianism but I I appreciate a
certain amount of of anti-authoritarian
impulse I have a little bit at myself
all right but let's so let's just start
with this and we can take this anywhere
you want we haven't really discussed
beforehand what what we would be talking
about but why don't you just Express
because in my experience there's a lot
of different libertarian
it's types of libertarians out there why
don't you just Express what what what
ilk of libertarian you are and and what
you and what that means sure and let me
just say thanks again for the
opportunity and thanks to the people on
Twitter who brought us together around
this so first very broadly libertarian
could just mean anyone who believes in
freedom and and I generally like that we
have that inclusive definition but to me
freedom is something very specific and
you can define the word freedom and as I
do freedom is what you have when no one
is forcing their will upon you in any
way when you have the ability to
exercise your rights without any
forceful interference and I describe
myself as a voluntary as a type of
libertarian if you will and that just
means that I believe all human
relationships all human interactions
should be voluntary that is free of
force and fraud and coercion and when
you apply that to government you see
what government is today that it's a
coercive monopoly based on a territorial
claim that it claims that it has it has
a sovereign right within a certain
geographic area that's how we think of
the government today and just to be
clear I'm not talking about you know a
family government or a community
government or a corporate government or
a organizational government or your
clubs government nothing like that we're
talking about the sovereign institutions
the government is a coercive monopoly
and that means it's fundamentally
illegitimate it's not based on an in
ethical premise and so the question that
I see is is most important is how do we
move past this as a species right now
you this this paradigm of violence and
coercion and achieve a voluntary society
one that's harmonious and peaceful and
and much more productive as a result in
terms of meeting real human needs so I
what I want to do is create a world in
which human problems are addressed with
peaceful cooperation rather than a
coercive central authority okay all
right so I mean I think that's a pretty
comprehensive definition let me ask you
just a couple of questions so that I'm
just clear on some stuff the so we start
with this premise of freedom is this
notion of of you're free from
essentially other people's will as it
were right and it's universally the
ideal of universal non-violence well
okay I mean but what about the notion of
like you said we this is all a means in
which to meet human needs right I mean
is it is it is it is the is the this
ideology or philosophy I'm not sure
which you consider it is it a a means to
meet those human needs or does it is it
irrespective of meeting those human
needs you know it's a good question I've
never I've never heard it asked exactly
in those terms because you could
describe it in in both ways it's just
it's a fundamental truth that is how how
we determine you know consistent ethics
you know what into sort of when we ask
the question what is the right thing to
do is it ever right to use violence to
use force or the threat of force against
someone who's acting peacefully and then
you go well gee those principles lead us
to a practical benefit as well but you
could start from the premise of it how
do we maximize the benefit and and then
seek the principles well we the way well
wait no but I that's different because
it's it's quite possible it seems to me
right in fact I think it's my argument
that following those libertarian
principles that you're talking about as
their practice does not meet human needs
now I think it's perfectly legitimate to
say okay well sometimes it does and
sometimes it doesn't but when I am
confronted with the idea of either
hewing to my what you call a fundamental
truth I would argue it's not but but
will you call a fundamental truth when I
am confronted with the idea of hewing to
my fundamental truth versus data let's
say that show it's not meeting human
needs which one wins out for you sir
well you might be framing looking at
this from a framing that's just so
different from mine it may be I can kind
of bring that together first because
what what I'm suggesting here is that
nonviolent cooperative solutions are on
the whole better than violent solutions
so it's not just if somebody would agree
with that I mean right but so it's the
question is no oh I'll get to the
question specifically because you can
you can look at that data and say well
good things have come out of these
violent means government has done good
things government has produced certain
goods and services that maybe humanity
would not have produced otherwise at the
time you know and I would make the case
then that that represents a
misallocation of resources in terms of
meeting real human needs as efficiently
as we can so I there's that data I can
you know can't really compare to what is
the universal principle I think if you
really look at the data you don't you
don't chat with a conclusion
well sometimes violence is the only way
and and we're talking about social
organization not cases of individual
defense I believe in in being able to
use violence for self-defense but you
know we talk about social organization
you never come to the conclusion well
gee I guess if we apply just a little
violence like this it's all gonna be
better well now to be clear when you say
violence you're just simply saying the
the the state's monopoly of force right
so just to be clear where people for
instance for instance I mean I think I
can come up with one very just obvious
to me
example of where those things do come
into conflict right like let's say for
instance like health right I mean health
I think we would agree is a basic human
need vaccinations now maybe not all
vaccine let's say polio right labor if
we don't have everyone vaccinated and
the government is the one that says it's
the law you need to be vaccinated or you
need to be vaccinated before you go to
school you need to be vaccinated that
just just to be clear by your definition
is a violent act by the government right
it's saying the law is you got to get
vaccinated that if I'm not mistaken is a
violation of the non-aggression
principle it is a curtailment on freedom
well that is a human I mean that health
is essential those two principles that
you have the idea of meeting human needs
and freedom come into conflict there and
I guess my question to you is when that
rubber hits the road which one wins out
for you yeah no and if you if you love
me here as it's a it's a great example
to examine these different worldviews
that the challenge of vaccination and
the libertarian worldview allows for
people to have whatever collectives they
want voluntarily it's not necessarily an
individualist philosophy I think it's
often misrepresented is that it could be
just as well described through the
relationships of human beings being
voluntary rather than coercive so in the
case of vaccinations you don't have a
right to decide for someone else what
goes in their body what vaccinations are
good for them you do have a right to
decide who you want to associate with
and what collectives you want to form so
if you want to come together and form a
community where you say we are gonna do
these vaccinations and if you don't have
these vaccinations you're not welcome in
our community or your kids are welcome
to come to our school you can do that
but you have to give people the ability
to choose for themselves and to opt out
so in the case of if it was the United
States federal government say saying if
you're not vaccinated
not allowed to live in the United States
it's you could you could look at it two
ways you could say they're forcing the
actual vaccination on people or more
accurately philosophically they are
claiming to own as their property all of
the territory that is the United States
and saying if you live in here you have
to play by our rules that are gonna be
forced on you and that's not legitimate
so if I hear you correctly then you
don't have a problem with the
government's monopolization of force as
long as they give everybody the option
who doesn't want to abide by it to leave
the country essentially yeah you could
say that that wouldn't make something
voluntary if ever if the absolute right
to individual secession was respected
that that that would make that that
would be a big step in in making the
government and ethically legitimate
institution but don't people have the
right right now to renounce their
citizenship in the United States and
leave the country oh you can leave but
you can't claim your property and secede
what another oh so you're saying you
want your house and to be not part of
America right I mean if I own do you
know what did I have you know how polio
works right for instance I mean you know
how disease works like you could be in
your house I mean I there's a there's a
notion of herd immunity I mean it's just
that's not plausible right and and and
when there are things like that where
humans should come together and and
should apply these great scientific
principles that's fine we should just do
it with an ethical basis and say we're
not gonna force it well but nobody but
for herd immunity to work everybody
needs to get vaccinated that's just a
way of work that's right you have a
right to kick someone out of the herd if
the herd is if you define the herd as
your probably that the collective of
private property if someone says I
refuse to get vaccinated and I'm gonna
be a threat to you you can say okay fine
but now you have to only you have to
stay isolated on your own property and
you can't come near any of us there's no
as a public right to come you don't have
a right to expose someone else to polio
like just because we don't want the
government or or any other authority to
force vaccinations on someone doesn't
mean that we want people to be able to
force a disease on someone that's worse
so so I'm confused now so if I want to
have mandatory polio vaccinations you
can opt out but the option that you have
is to just stay in your house and never
come out well when you say mandatory
what do you mean
do you mean for your city for your state
for the entire country our country
excuse me let's say the entire country
yeah so if the if the federal government
decides hey we're gonna force a
vaccination on everybody and California
says hey you know what that's it we're
gonna work that's the last straw for us
we're gonna secede yeah I think the
federal government has to respect that
that right of that separate collective
to assert their autonomy and can't
invade the sovereign country of
California and force the polio vaccine
well it's not kick I don't want I don't
want to get worried about California I
want to talk about I want to talk about
Adam Koch ish you say that there's a
there's a federal vaccination there
there in this instance there is no
federal a vaccination law but all 50
states require all right back so there's
a writ for you really to impose what's
that it'd be very difficult to impose it
would be very difficult to impose but
I'm just trying to give an example of
like where those two things come in
conflict and how they're resolved let's
let's move on to to the notion of
property rights because my sense is is
that I mean you were talking about you
don't have a problem with corporate
governance you know you're not talking
about corporate governments and and
right well I use the word corporation
there because that's how we think of
large company collectives but in a world
where there is no corporatism where the
government gives no special privileges
corporations you'll just have companies
right and how does like how do like what
about let's say mail the mail service
like a postal service right like how
does that is that just doesn't exist in
your world I mean it I mean could it
like the idea of like a US Postal
Service like the US Postal Service for
instance if we were to presumably you
would abolish it because it it's a
government institution and what would
happen then people is it your
presumption that the market would take
care of it or just that like you're
you're you're out of luck if you
live out in the the in the rural parts
of the country or something I'm not sure
what you mean we already have FedEx and
UPS there's a lot of places they won't
deliver to and they certainly won't
deliver a letter for 42 cents okay well
you know it's it's funny that you bring
that up and you presume that the
government is the solution as you say
you want to know about Adam Koch as well
Adam Co cash lives down three miles of
dirt road and USPS does not deliver to
where I am but FedEx usually does so I
mean already we have we have a better
voluntary solution than the coercive
solution but bigger picture I want to
point out because well I'm waiting but
it's simply I mean that may be the case
on your on your private road but the
reality is is that there's a lot of
places that FedEx and UPS won't deliver
period and the US Postal Service goes a
lot of places that they won't and will
in in terms of a letter a 42 cent letter
now yes you can buy something for you
know 15 bucks 20 bucks on Amazon or
whatever and they'll deliver it to you
but in terms of a postal service set up
to bind the nation and provide
communication it's simply just a fact
that the US Postal Service does it
better than any private entity ever
would because it's not profitable to do
it in certain areas they are statutorily
required to provide postal service
within a certain distance of everybody
in the country
there's some there's some legitimate
points you make in there but I don't
want to bind the country in a sort of
isolating communication system I would
want the world to be able to be bound by
this communication capability and if
anything the market is the US Mail goes
around the world too right no no I know
I know but you say that I was to abolish
the postal service and and that's not
necessarily the case just because it's a
government agency for example like the
VA you know I'm a veteran myself I was
in Fallujah in 2004 with the Marines and
what my platform is president if I may
back up for a second if you're gonna
introduce me as a libertarian
presidential candidate I have to point
out that a part of me really dies inside
every time I I'm introduced is that
because I you have to be a psychopath of
some kind at least to want to be
President of the United States to say I
want to have this authority in this
power over so many people I think there
has to be something really wrong with
you my platform is based on turning the
presidential election into a referendum
on whether or not the federal government
should be allowed to exist at all
so I'm not going to be putting on the
ring of power I'm throwing it into the
fire right away I resign on day one my
platform is to serve as a bankruptcy
agent of the federal government and
Percy and be able to proceed through a
peaceful orderly responsible disillusion
that would leave us with 50 independent
states so of course I'm a value what
course you know foresee the bankruptcy
what court yeah the American people you
know you don't need a court to oversee a
bankruptcy necessarily well you're gonna
protect I mean what do you mean by the
bankruptcy you mean me like you
protection from the creditors sell off
the assets like what what under what ah
Saudis right so the platform for this is
going to be laid out in detail before
long before the election ever happened
so the American people will know exactly
what they are voting for and in that
sense we're disowning the illegitimate
debt most of the national debt is as I
think you would agree the debt to
foreign governments and foreign banks
and foreign corporations or American
corporations even it's not a legitimate
debt in fact it's intergenerational
child abuse too for
your children to pay for stuff that they
never had a say and so we get to go wait
are you talking about well we are we
talking about social security here
no the net well that would be included
in some ways it depends on how you want
to see how the investment into social
security is you know how fair you you
would decide that that is but I would do
all this unilaterally is that it like I
guess I listen I mean I'm being half
osetia because obviously like I don't
with all due respect I don't think
you're gonna win but but and and we may
not come to this but I guess my point is
is that like the idea of having no
central authority no authority that we
all agree and enter into some type of
social contract about whether is simply
by birth right we get certain rights by
birth and certain advantages you would
still if you want a central authority
you can have it at the state level after
we dissolve the federal government well
why is this not level necessarily better
than the federal level well well how big
if I mean let me ask you Sam for as
someone who believes in in the coercive
institution of the state what is the
ideal level of of size of that
collective should it be City and
community or county or state or you know
something the size of the United States
should be something the size of Canada
or should it be global and why I mean I
think I think there's an argument that
we would want you know something a
little bit more global but I think I
certainly wouldn't want to I think the
federal government is is an important
institution in the in this country I
mean largely not so much theoretically
but largely because of just what we've
seen in this country I think the the
existence of a federal government is why
we have as as poorly as we've executed
at least the aspiration for integrated
schools
or some measure of equality I think it
is we can see it in the context of
providing things like health care and
social security insurance I mean is
there an argument to break up America
into three separate countries panel
maybe but the GI Bill the VA I mean I
think the idea that you could move from
state to state and know that there is at
very least some measure of consistency
because you you know you know available
to you through the VA I mean I think the
VA is a great example of an institution
that could not exist except for on that
scale okay
okay yeah there's so much in there to
respond to and you point out a lot of
the good things that the federal
government is achieved but if and
especially in terms of social progress
there and respect for rights but then
you look at the issue of slavery just go
back and say well you know we're the
only country this is the only country in
the world that needed a war to abolish
slavery and didn't even do a very good
job of it so in that sense it hasn't
been a great track record of
accomplishing these things and I'm not
saying it's not important I'm not saying
it hasn't done great things generally
speaking I look at those examples I
think that's more the government taking
credit of things for things that the
people deserve a lot more credit for but
I'm saying that things can be better
just because we've used violence to get
to this point you know for example I'm a
vegan and a lot of a lot of people
making the case for eating meat will say
well you know humanity if we didn't kill
animals when we were you know we were
you know hunters and gatherers who never
had the brain explosion involved to
where we are today and I go yeah sure
that's true that that I'm not arguing
history here I'm just saying look at
where we are now
look at these ethical principles look at
how we can apply them to make the world
a better place and you go yeah there's
some really compelling reasons that we
need to examine there are the
fundamental premises of government now
what on some level was not the SAU
using that right that you talked about
of succession and and I guess I mean so
the federal government had two choices
there right it's either you can succeed
you can secede and this slavery would
exist in those southern states whatever
that country would be called the I guess
the Confederacy and in the the Union of
the United States of America we wouldn't
have slavery I mean I'm not look oh I'm
not
eventually the Confederacy or the
Confederate States would have ended
slavery as well as a practice and for
the people in the north do you think
that would have been you think they
would have been a gentle unwinding of
that certainly more gentle than a war
yeah and it wouldn't have been gentle I
mean slavery was a brutal institution
that needs to be happy how do you
imagine that would ended let's say there
was there what they just did to see and
it was a sad truth well how did it end
in every other country in the world in
the United States it would have been
very easy to allow runaway slaves to
count to the northern states it would
have been relatively easy to purchase
them to encourage that to change the
economic incentives for the southern
institutions that depended on slavery
the invention of the cotton gin
obviously drastically reduced the need
for human labor there were lots of ways
that slavery was abolished in other
countries that would have worked just
fine in the United States but like I
said how many years don't you imagine it
would have taken for slavery to end and
then where you well how many more years
I mean you the rollout of technology a
concerted effort for people to to by
freed slaves from the north then we
start getting into the late 1800s
presumably the South is going to be a
little bit upset that across the border
there they're former you know that this
country is now starting to welcome in
dissidents I guess right I mean so I
would start getting into these early
nineteen hundred's I'm just saying that
like the the assumption that everything
would have taken care of itself and
everything would have been
would have been that's not what's that
so how'd that order it's not what it's
not that it would have taken care of
itself it would have required a
significant social effort as it did that
social effort would have been much
better manifest along ethical grounds
then along the grounds of starting the
war
hey I can't hear what you saying my god
alright well alright so eventually
slavery would have been decisive right
is that is that the point sorry say
again please eventually if we had
allowed the south to secede it would
have it would have it would have
resolved itself and presumably these
generations of people who had spent
another decade or two maybe some quasi
years of would have I mean I think the
the the situation for literally millions
of former slaves and then ongoing slaves
would have been worth Michael wants me
to mention Haiti but I mean I think like
there's there's plenty of I think just
sort of a rational assessment of that
may have been problematic I'm not
promoting the idea of war but South I
don't think was in a huge hurry to give
up slavery now maybe they eventually
would have I presume by now I would like
to think that they would have but I just
don't see the the evidence that
necessarily you're going to get
something better with a smaller form of
government I mean surely you've lived in
small towns you know I've lived in in
very small towns the level of corruption
there is as big as anywhere in some
respects it's it's even deeper people
who grab that power there do so as a way
because they can genuinely influence
their own personal outcomes and but
let's go back to the notion of if I may
you you race to sever points if I'd like
to response you there
first my reading of the history of
Civil War and I'm I don't pretend to be
any historical expert but I seems to
include a lot of negative consequences
in the Jim Crow South
and all the lynchings and negative
consequences that follow the Civil War
for a lot of people as is true about the
aftermath of every war especially in the
case of the Civil War with the with the
amputees but if you look at the bigger
dynamics there were a lot of other
problems my reading of the history again
not as an expert makes it clear to me
that a nonviolent solution would have
been better for everyone in the long run
to the Civil War looking at the problem
of slavery in the questions I can tell
you that that Lincoln did try to buy the
slaves you know that right
you know that Lincoln did offer that to
buy the slaves essentially I mean that's
a no I'm sorry it's that part of the
story oh well all right well like you
say you didn't you should look into the
attempts by Lincoln to actually to to do
to do that in terms of economically and
I guess you could argue that the the
north should have just let the the south
secede maybe there would have been a
slaughter I'm sorry they actually
offered to buy every individual slave in
the south in order to prevent the war
from happening well I don't think he did
it by individual I think the idea was
here's a lot of cash that slavery was
not violence well no he said slavery was
violence he said slavery was violence
but no you should you should you should
look into that there was exactly
attempts to by the the federal
government to essentially here's lump
sums I mean I don't know if he was going
to go around go each individual slave
but I think the idea was here are
massive payments so that you will give
up slavery and that was research on that
yes no you should but small town big
towns you're absolutely right to point
out that small governments still have
corruption small local governments don't
have an NSA or a CIA or an FBI or a drug
war or start wars Wow and lose truly
they do have a drug war they do
do have a drug war they don't have an
NSA or CIA they would they would end up
building their own part of the reason
small isn't part of the reason listen
New York City right had its own little
CIA you know that they literally had
they were sending people as far afield
as New England to go and spy on Muslims
cities can do it and in the absence of a
federal government I can assure you they
will the reason why they don't have
those now is because the federal
government has that and the federal
government says you can't compete with
us on this allowed New York City to do
that but you're going to get that I mean
it's gonna it's just gonna be they're
gonna know everybody's name that's the
only difference you look at Ferguson
right ladies we're going out more of the
evils of government for we Sam well
listen I'm not I'm not arguing that
there's no bad parts of government I'm
not arguing that there aren't parts of
government that I would like to curtail
or diminish what we're running what
we're arguing there's a way to keep all
the good parts and get rid of all the
bad parts I would say you haven't told
me yet I'm open to that
what is it okay well it's that people
are still able to come together in
voluntary ways to form the collectives
to do all the good things that you want
government to do if you want a
government welfare system fine you just
can't steal from people in order to get
it people can still pool their resources
and get that you want to community we're
by steals let me just get clear you're
considered in taxation lists you can
have that as long as you don't force it
on anybody so alright give me an example
of a country with a hundred million
people where you do that and buy steel
you mean tax right right because
taxation is theft right where what
country where do we see an example of
what you're talking about a totally
voluntary
on touristic country and maybe maybe you
can't do it on that scale that does not
have a central authority and that
everything they do every is done with
the consent of everyone else in that
community
like I've never even heard of like
communes where there aren't rules sure
well you know there was a point in human
history where slavery was the norm and
if you said hey without slavery who's
gonna pick the cotton we've never had a
society that exists without slavery you
know that's not an argument for keeping
slavery going similarly when you see
that the current status quo of the world
of statism of turning to coercive
monopolies to address social problems is
wrong you do what you can to move past
it based on principle Adam I'm not
saying that because it hasn't existed
that that's proof that it cannot exist
I'm saying that's a piece of evidence
but I mean I could you know saying that
because there was a time where slavery
was a norm and we ultimately got rid of
it is is not that those are not
analogous I'm not saying hey there was a
time where humans couldn't fly so maybe
someday we'll be able to fly I mean
that's not the argument I'm making I'm
simply making like you're trying to
premise to offer the notion that we can
have a society of 300 million people or
let's say I don't know you want to say
New York City just a million people well
seven seven million people we're
building million with a B 7 billion
people where everybody just agrees to
all the rules and there's no material
conflicts about how society is going to
operate and there is no central there's
no one who has no one entity that has a
monopoly of authority to adjudicate
these differences I just that to me
seems fantastical and well with the
world here's like that misrepresenting
something you're misrepresenting
something variant
because when you said when you say all
rules you're still in this current
paradigm of thinking of like uniformity
of a sort of flat texture of society
when in in a free world there are
differences among different groups of
people in different communities so we
only have two we don't agree on all the
rules globally we'll only have to agree
on one rule and that's you own yourself
and I own myself and on ethical grounds
what about it was pretty right what
about property rights right well I
generally believe in the the Lockean
concept of property rights this seems to
be the same doughnuts an ethical concept
of self ownership of course it's
subjective based on how much labor
mixing with natural resources qualifies
you don't own something yeah you know
what if I don't what if you don't yeah
what if I come from let's say tradition
of uh let's say Native American
tradition of that does not recognize the
property rights in a Lockean fashion how
do we resolve that well are you you have
a house I walk into the house I look
around I'm like I'm gonna sleep at night
how do we resolve that why think
generally speaking we respect the right
of ownership of a domicile of a home of
a place to be able to protect from the
elements but no it comes down to being
able to I don't I don't I don't accept
that
what do we do about it I don't accept
them I'm gonna defend my home against
intruders
wait what you're not gonna get a gret
you you're gonna initiate force against
me well when I think what I believe that
I'm defending my property and I'm
asserting that I have a right to own
that you violate the property then that
would be the act of aggression I assert
that you don't have a right to own that
property no I would hope that we could
find a non-violent way of told me I
wasn't doing anything violent to you man
I just came into your house I was gonna
take it I was gonna sleep and you just
told me you were gonna beat me up well
I'm gonna ask you to leave I'm gonna
defend my home by force if necessary
what you mean you're hot in that ear
wait what do you mean your home I don't
even get that where I come from my
people we don't have your home it's it's
everybody's home I'm gonna sleep here
because I need to sleep you're gonna
there's Universal reality of the human
condition of being an independent
consciousness in your own body that
comes with it a certain concept of
ownership that you own yourself I know I
know you own you but this is a house
it's not it's not a it's not a you it's
not alive it's land it's part of let me
ask I walk up to you and I say you don't
own that shirt and I start ripping that
shirt off you what are you gonna do I'm
gonna call the police okay do you have
an agreement with someone else to do
exactly what I would be doing for myself
for you that's fine but wait wait a sec
wait a sec I don't I don't have a
non-aggression principle I don't I'm not
as housing but wait a second I I
acknowledge that you could come up and
grab my shirt and that's why I subscribe
to the idea that we as a society need to
provide a monopoly of authority to the
state and that comes with a lot of
conditions in my mind and there may be
disagreements about how that
relationship works but fundamentally I
understand that because you and I may
have a different concept of who owns
this shirt right I need to subscribe to
a Thor 'ti that will adjudicate it and
use a lot you don't think that we need a
third party to adjudicate it but at the
same time you're also telling me that
she from my perspective you're
arbitrarily drawing a line and that is
property rights exist now it's one thing
to say like okay as a human being
freedom okay that doesn't implicate
anybody else but it's the moment you
draw a line around something and say
this is mine to not just this human body
that I take with me but this other stuff
is mine well then
you're implicating the rest of us
because it's not it's not an infinite
resource and it's not one that is
portable with yourself you're deciding
property rights are okay and that
doesn't make any sense based on what
that we taking property isn't of itself
a violent aggressive act because you are
saying that I deemed this area to be
off-limits to you so this is based on
the idea that as an individual human
being we all own ourselves right and as
beings on this planet we have a right to
equitable access to natural resources
now it sounds like you're scared almost
of giving up all of the securities and
protections provided by the current
system the status quo and that makes
sense a lot of people feel that but if
you step back and you look at all of the
problems facing humanity today you look
at the violence that's done in the world
today and you look at the violence
that's been done over the course of
human history how humans have died by
each other's hands it's it's it's very
conservative to estimate that that even
today 90 plus percent of the violence
and coercion in the world is done in the
name of governments and it's really
heartless to say well because I can't
figure out this situation or this
abstract situation or this scenario or
this concept of property rights and Sam
you are absolutely right to point out
that without a government people coming
together peacefully will have to come up
with better mechanisms to solve these
conflicts it's not going to be automatic
it's not just poof government's gone and
everything's you know better no
absolutely not I'm not suggesting that
what I am suggesting is that when we
identify the unethical grounds the
unethical premises of an institution we
have a moral imperative to try to see
how we move past those
and I understand you I would mean you
but but but we haven't see you and I
have not agreed on that ethical problem
I mean oh you you you one breath say
that we have universal access to
resources yet you want to draw a line
around stuff and say this is my property
now I don't have a problem with with
with with with with with property rights
but that's not I don't have any massive
principle that says that says that I
cannot the that I you know that I don't
that that I have a problem with anything
that is aggressive or in any way invade
I understand that property rights are an
offense to other people on some level I
am excluding people from access to those
resources and that's just part of the
way that society we have found society
to function I personally I would like to
loosen and diminish some of those
property rights so people can't own so
much so that they get a little bit
closer to the size of their body okay as
opposed to owning huge tracts of land or
maybe even like mansion huh
like the system that you're doing the
system that you're defending here is
doing exactly what you're saying is a
problem here so let me give you an
example from from my experience I think
we can I I definitely think that that we
can we can reform our system so that
property rights are not as preeminent as
you would make them in an era where
there's nobody to even adjudicate them
okay so I own 10 acres in in the
mountains in Arizona and I'm building a
homestead on 10 acres and I could have
gotten 40 acres I could have gotten 160
acres I could have gotten more but
there's a reason I got 10 acres is that
I believe that 10 acres is what I'm
gonna use and that I can reasonably say
even without government giving me a deed
and saying that I own this little square
if I put up a fence around 10 acres and
I claim that I'm using
ten acres and I'm building a homestead
and I want to support a family and I
want to be able to make a home and and
raise plant you know you know farm and
do whatever you know I want to do to be
self-sustaining there then it's gonna be
a long time before the the population of
the planet gets so big that someone's
gonna say ten acres is too much for you
so I think that there's not just a
respect under the current paradigm I
think under my principle paradigm of the
future there's still a fundamental
respect for that now if I put up a fence
around a million acres in Wyoming right
let's say I go out to the plains in
Wyoming and I put up a fence around a
million acres and I say screw you guys I
own a million acres this is all mine if
I'm not using it that's not a legitimate
property rights claim so in order for me
to claim a million acres
I would not only have to have a
legitimate claim based on usage I would
have to have the consent of society
around me that no one else is gonna
claim that in homesteaded if I put up a
fence around a million acres and I live
in a house in the corner I can't stop
someone from coming and claiming ten
acres basically here's what I don't
understand who decides that you're using
that million acres properly and who
decides that you're using that 10 acres
properly well so under our current
system it's government under what I'm
suggesting it would be done by social
consent okay how much how many people
would it take to breach that social
consent oh it's gonna depend on the
circumstances 'king a question oh no no
but I'm I'm asking the question that
like okay we do have some migration of
people or maybe somebody comes up to
your 10 acres and sees like hey man he's
not using that that what is that a tree
house that's not I don't consider that
use I can say only food in fact the only
legitimate use I think is legitimate is
digging for oil and I'm gonna come in
there with my drilling machine I'm gonna
drill for oil on your
that's that's use right because that oil
is going to power vehicles all around
the country
you're just making lettuce for yourself
sir hua Zhu de Kate's that in your world
well one of the things that just sheer
force do I win because I got an oil
company and I got more guns than you do
I mean who would Judah Kate's that oh
well I already told you that it was
based on the concept of social consent
right so one of the things that would
never mean I don't
Irish no I honestly don't understand
what you're talking about what is social
consent mean in this context like what
is the what is the app how does that
what like what does that look like in in
the real world right are you gonna let
me explain yeah okay so in your scenario
when you say that you come in to my
property with an oil company and and
you're gonna drill there there's a
certain amount of social consent behind
you doing that because an oil company is
not something that one individual can
create by themselves there has to be an
organization and an institution and a
huge customer base in order to do that a
big part of what I am advocating is an
increase in awareness that results in a
higher level of conscientious
consumerism so today in terms of
settling disputes and all of these
services provided by government we're
not very conscientious consumers we let
the government take whatever it takes
out of our paychecks we go and vote
every two years and we generally let it
do its thing without questioning it or
looking for alternatives or competition
so in the case of the consent with this
oil company if it was under the
government the government would be
protecting that oil company's right to
exist as a corporation in the society
that I envision there would be a level
of conscientiousness required for that
oil company to come together and violate
my property that in such a way that I
would be able to appeal to the people
behind that and challenge that consent
and say hey guys I actually own this
property is this really what you want to
do there's a there's a way that we can a
draw you know we can address this
peacefully as opposed to having the
government force corporate rights onto
my prop
okay now you understand that you say the
government allows the the the
corporation to come there the government
also in my world regulates the company
from going on there but let's say like
Chevron going down on into wait a second
wait a second wait a second wait a
second wait a second look let me I've
heard your your your your scenario and I
don't know how you appeal to the
customers of Chevron who don't know who
you are I don't know how you appeal to
them I don't know if you do it through
YouTube or what to say hey your company
that you buy a gasoline from they're
coming and digging on my property
because it didn't work that well for
Latin America I can assure you you
wouldn't it wouldn't be possible at that
point I mean what you're saying is like
what if what if we what if we figure out
indoor plumbing and then someone doesn't
shower for a year aren't they gonna
smell yeah but that's not a reason to
not have indoor plumbing I've given you
a scenario I don't know I don't I'm not
following that I giving you a scenario
where an oil company comes to your
property you say you can't come on to
this property because I use all the 10
acres that's how I determined that I get
to own this property because I use it
all and the oil company says you use it
all according to the Adam kokis
definition of use but according to the
Chevron definition of use this is all in
use property because there's oil
underneath you so we're gonna dig that
right and you're telling me that in the
scenario you are envisioning you will be
able to go to appeal to the customers of
Chevron and to the people who work there
and the Board of Directors or whatever
it is the group whatever committee they
have and say hey I'm growing lettuce
here don't go and dig for oil and that's
right that's right
I mean do I have that right not exactly
no not exactly see here you're presuming
that that people are dicks I mean you're
going from like I'm presuming the oil
companies are dicks yes exactly so
but oil people who are in charge of oil
companies and people who are in charge
of governments are dicks by in law let's
stick with oil companies because because
oil companies are gonna I can I can
assure you like after spending I spend a
lot of time going and talking to to tort
lawyers who go and they through
discovery see the documents from
corporations when they are breaking the
rules of government they're doing it in
secret because they don't wanna get
caught and I get news for you in these
corporations there are some real dicks
and some of them earn oil companies some
of them earn pharmaceuticals some of
them are manufacturing there are dicks
in the world and they don't care about
you or your lettuce that you're growing
on your property they want the oil or
they want the profit all right so I mean
I can tell you're getting you're really
excited about this and there's a lot
that you're passionate about here and
you see a lot of injustice in the world
that really motivates you and I
appreciate that and I really respect
that because you know me as an activist
you know I started with the ROC Veterans
Against the War I think in that sense I
really like that we both come in and
mutual mutual
we're motivated by a deep-seated sense
of injustice yes so you you keep kind of
running over me trying to explain stuff
going back to all of these problems with
the current status quo and with the
injustice of today so I'm gonna try to
make this really sort on the points that
you bring up with corporatism and
property rights and all of that is that
by and large people are good people like
you know I don't want to play this game
are people good or evil no but by and
large people are nice cooperative they
want to get along they don't want to you
know drill and spill oil and fracking
water all over my lettuce
you know like generally people don't
want to do that so there's a system
today where the people who want to be
 have the system of government
corporatism that protects them from real
accountability I want to take that
protection away from them
I want the general body of the people of
the world
who are good people to stop allowing
corporations as corporations as special
legal entities and governments with
special violent privileges to exist
let's stop empowering them let's have a
higher standard of behavior let's have a
better mechanism of accountability
that's what I'm suggesting
I think that we can address I'm not
saying that the problems that you're
raising are not legitimate I'm not
saying that I have the perfect answer to
every single one of them I'm just
pointing out there's a there's an
underlying element of a false ethical
premise underneath the current system
government so we can do better if we
examine that and really seek a more
ethical society I am NOT making an
ethical argument I'm making a practical
one because what you what what you are
suggesting to me sounds like feudalism
and what you see these corporations as
being enabled by the government and I
see them as being in a flawed manner
without a doubt and I would like to
strengthen this I mean my proactive
agenda would be far less freedom for
these groups of people who organize to
dig oil let's say in particular among
others and what you're suggesting to me
is feudalism because I haven't heard not
just I haven't heard III haven't heard
of an example of a mechanism like what
you're suggesting to me is utopian I
think maybe even if I agree that most
people are basically good which I think
I do the fact is there are bad actors
and there are bad actors who accumulate
in a system of property more power and
property than other people and it's not
often a coincidence that bad actors do
this because they are willing to do
things to accumulate more which
necessarily come out of the height of
other people and so I'm saying that
humanity has this problem and what's the
most efficient way that we have found in
dealing with it and in my mind it is
government and government at least is a
vehicle in which we can attempt to
improve and exist beyond the lifespan of
humans so that we don't have to recreate
this and hope that that each successive
generation or every time someone moves
from one state to another or migrates
over that there's a certain set of rules
that we can rely on and and I would also
say that I think government does a lot
of great things for people
social insurance keeping people out of
poverty it would be nice
i I think in a world where everyone just
figured out a way and everybody could
agree on the best most practical
methodology to to fulfill those human
needs that you talk about but unless I
hear of like you know even an example of
how we resolve the conflict a simple
conflict of of your property and some
entity that wants to come and use it or
take it I mean we couldn't even resolve
what happens when I walk into your house
and want to take a nap there and and so
there's really get into those identicals
I'm happy to but we had this statement
the statement that you made at the very
beginning there of what you just said I
think is most important in illuminating
the difference in our worldviews and and
this could really be the crux and the
difference between libertarianism and
and all forms of statism and it's that
you're saying the ends justify the means
you're willing to look at what's
practical over what's ethical and I
reject that I say no principle is
pragmatic there's no dichotomy here of
principle versus pragmatism when you do
unprincipled things you get impractical
results government you look at the cost
fit analysis really clearly bears that
out if you want the examples but now I
am not willing to do something or
support something or advocate for
something that is unethical because I
see some practical benefit well I mean
you and I disagree on what constitutes
unethical I don't think taxes are
unethical at all and so we have a
fundamental disagreement there but I
would also add that for me you're right
I do not have a I do not have the
confidence that I have the access to a
fundamental truth that beyond wanting to
meet as much human need and mitigate as
much human suffering as possible and
after that basic agenda it's what is the
most pragmatic way to do that so I don't
have the dilemma that you have I don't
think taxes are unethical I don't think
that it is fundamentally wrong to to
join a social compact even if I didn't
get the opportunity to opt out I mean I
could leave the United States but
everything that's here is a function of
other people having been in the social
compact before I was born
and and there is really no place to go
on the planet where for the most part I
mean maybe there's some reaches of the
planet where you can go where you're not
walking on the the the the suffering or
the the achievements of others and so I
don't have the same ethical problem so
I'm not making that calculation that you
assume I'm making that the ends
justifies the means I don't think the
means are so horrific so I don't have
that dilemma so what so whether you're
going about the system I assume that you
have some concept of ethics you have
some limitation for what government can
or cannot do or should or shouldn't do
what is the foundation of your system of
ethics and how would you describe your
concept of ethics well I mean I have a
system of personal ethics but in terms
of what government can and cannot do I
mean I think there's no such thing as
like when I mean ethics here at least
what I'm asking here is not like
personal something what universal human
ethics is and code of conduct behavior
between human beings well I think we
should operate in a way that maximizes
or that minimizes human suffering and
that maximizes the satisfaction of human
need so that's those aren't really
ethical principles those are objectives
looking like ethical like what's right
and what's wrong how do you determine
what's what what is that what you're
describing there describes an approach
or an attitude or objective how I'm
asking for what is your line between
right and wrong well I like I say I have
a set of personal ethics and but things
that bring about that mitigate human
suffering do you don't have you you
can't tell me a system where every human
being should get along by the by
universal rules that apply to everybody
you don't have that well I mean I think
that we have a a flawed system of making
that determination in the context of our
of our society well so I'm suggesting
that you know when you look at what is
ethics it's not that hard to come to it
due to a consistent conclusion say you
know as an individual consciousness and
its own body I don't I just I just I
mean I guess it is hard for me to do
that because I don't see the point I
mean I don't I don't have to I don't see
the point of determining what's right
and wrong well I don't have I mean I've
told you and you don't you don't accept
it I have a test and that test is not
the test does not exist in a vacuum it
exists based upon what I see I don't I
don't have my concept of good and evil
or right or wrong does not exist in a
vacuum
it exists in the world it's purely based
on practical outcome then you don't have
principal you have a way of measuring
outcomes and judging I'm telling you it
is based on the principle as to what
provides the best outcomes okay well I
would say that when you examine that
closely enough you get past that
superficial level of what looks
practical you start getting two
principles the one principle is
non-violence nonviolent cooperation is
better than yeah do I think not violet
cooperation is better than then fine
like non-cooperation yes but but it you
know I mean Adam with with with respect
you and I differ in the sense that you
have a you are a fundamentalist you have
some all right let's try believe in
front of you're a fundamentalist I mean
definitely I'm not it's not a pejorative
this is a value neutral term but you are
under a lot of a set of values that do
not that that the real-world examples
are irrelevant at the end of the day
outcomes like you say are not going to
in it going to in any way impact your
set of fundamental beliefs and that I
don't operate that way I'm the world
changing dynamics and I hold on if
you're gonna characterize me that way
let me just at least I I do believe in
putting principles first but I test
those principles against pragmatic
results well but we've we've had
examples here I mean like I keep giving
you the opportunity to test those
principles in the context of like
real-world scenarios which is hey my
tribe lives here
Chevron's coming and taking our land and
X appropriating it for their own for
their their own desire to profit I mean
we have so many examples of this yeah
and that's okay you can't give me a
mechanism in which that doesn't happen
except to say that you're going to
appeal to the consumers
Chevron and that doesn't work no because
right now what we saw again you're
you're you're saying that Adam if you're
if what you're advocating isn't perfect
then where was I saying what we act I'm
saying completely dysfunctional no no
I'm saying it to God I'm saying it
doesn't exist okay again I agree with
you that it doesn't exist so you're not
you're not like making a counterpoint
there you're just repeating yourself
because I'm telling you like this is
something that we are progressing
towards as a species we are getting less
violent over time and this isn't my
observations this is Professor Steven
Pinker at Harvard who can who has proven
academically that violence is on a decay
curve over the course of human existence
we are getting less violent over time
that's that's progress I want to see
that progress continued and and in these
scenarios that you throw at me there's
not a single one where you go you know
violence made this situation better on
some kind of principled grounds know
when Chevron comes in to some Native
American land it's always with the
protection of government you want to
look at how it's always been you go yeah
we've always had a government making
that worse empowering those corporations
protecting them from accountability to
their consumers limiting choice limiting
competition yeah I mean I guess I guess
we're not going to resolve this but I
you know I even I think you know III I
guess you know I I don't know if you
would agree that your your prescription
is utopian in some way I mean to me it
sort of feels that way the biggest
problem the opposite the the
prescription of statism of saying that
we can have a violence central authority
and that's gonna solve our problems
that's utopian but stamp simply step
back for a second say you might you say
we were not gonna like resolve this I
don't think the point of this
conversation is the resolves I just
wanna say I'm having a lot of fun and I
think this conversation has been really
good in illuminating the differences and
I think this has been a really good
exchange and I'm really grateful for for
how you've been
in this and again for the opportunity to
present that that you've given me in the
course of this conversation to present
my ideas to your audience well Adam I
appreciate your coming on and and also
creating the innovative new technology
that we're using where we the first the
first Skype call but yeah I appreciate
your coming on Adam and and thanks for
sharing with favor hopefully I get to
return the favor soon I mean I'm working
on bringing back Adam versus the man and
a variety of form and it would it would
be an honor to keep this conversation
going
I'm there I'll do it I appreciate it
Adam Koch age where should people go
again yeah this is my book I don't have
a copy of it here because all my copies
where I'm at right now are in envelopes
impressed kits going out to announce the
Big Easy book bomb this is my
libertarian manifesto it's a hundred
pages it's free and every digital format
possible including audiobook I don't you
can see that their item line become new
freedom live.com we are about liver over
200,000 copies of this book one to every
single residential mailbox in the city
of New Orleans and I will be there the
first two weeks of January very much
looking forward to that my website the
freedom line.com you can email me Adam
at the freedom line comm Sam thank you
and thanks to everybody who's made this
Adam thank you I just I have to ask how
are you getting it to the mailboxes USPS
books are printed in communist China
beautiful all right thanks bye thanks
Adam bye-bye that is not necessarily the
least violent way to print your books it
seems to me but can I just say something
that maybe will be in slightly poor
taste but I'm gonna do in a character
hold on for one second okay right wait
wait let's go into the fun half oh we
just got we're gonna do a short
obviously fun half today but that was
fun there's a little murmuring around
here that I didn't appreciate you can't
talk off camera like
oh it's like the old racks like the oh I
mean most of it was like let me Adam I
got some stuff to say I think I do very
well against a right-wing libertarian in
a debate I why I think that would be a
great programmatic choice for the ante
fodder but that's when I get a
libertarian forget it
I know that's like send me to an
all-you-can-eat Chinese buffet I'm not
gonna Sam claims property rights exactly
probably live it down this was
definitely not evolving during I did not
like my it was actually narrowing well
we quiet it down
all right folks just remember you can
become a member at join the majority
report calm the tickets for the January
13th live majority report are selling
like it's almost like the crumbs of
hotcakes now there's so few left so you
better hurry head over to majority dot F
M you also just have a couple days left
I think to go to just coffee co-op fair
trade coffee tea or chocolate 30% off no
coupon code needed for the next couple
of days 30% off and last night was
Tuesday
Michael miraculously got healthy again
miraculously was nice I needed to to
rest up in preparation for listening to
you debate a libertarian there you go
exactly
Matt Taibbi was in studio we did it it
was one reference what I helped you good
actually watch how a pro handles this so
we talked to Matt Taibbi it I was trying
to keep it that I couldn't he pulled the
plug on yeah that was amazing I've never
seen a libertarian was get it back that
Darryl Perry had a real jet pack I just
gotta say that I used to I used to
answer the door with
seventh-day adventists I had at least on
two occasions them going we gotta go
sure you tortured those poor ladies I
was just so excited by the direction you
were going and I wanted you to know I
know Matt Taibbi was in we talked about
Facebook the future of journalism why
the Assange case matters regardless of
what you think of Assange if he is
indeed charged big deep dive on McCrone
letter from Lula this Sunday liz breunig
with an illicit history of beta O'Rourke
for patrons patreon.com oh yeah sorry
have you already recording it tomorrow
more oh it's phase two of the coordinate
base two of the coordinated campaign
it's actually a firt we're gonna do an
illicit primer on all of the
presidential contenders for patrons
patreon.com slash t MDS halfway sold out
for the bail house show get your tickets
at the homepage as well hopefully see
you at both shows Jamie out now on the
anti Fattah this episode just dropped
today in which we speak with Justin
Akers Chacon author of radicals in the
barrio mag oh nice toes socialist
Wobblies and communists in the Mexican
American working class we talked with
him about how immigrants from Mexico and
other places have actually breathed life
into the u.s. labor movement through
history and how the criminalization of
migration only ever hurts the working
class and benefits the capitalist class
check it out and Matt yet literary
hangover still on the democracy in
Chains episode we released this last
weekend all right folks
quick break fun half see in a minute
Jamie and I may have a disagreement yeah
you can't just say whatever you want
about people just cuz you're rich I have
an absolute right to mock them on
YouTube
they're buggy whipping like he's boss I
am NOT your employer you know I'm tired
of the negativity I'm sorry I didn't
mean to upset you
you're nervous a little bit upset you
riled up yeah maybe you should rethink
your defense of that you idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes
do you feel like you are a dinosaur good
 exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's a win-win-win hell yeah now listen
to me two three four five times eight
four seven nine oh six five oh one four
five seven two three eight 56:27
1/2 5/8 three point nine billion
Wow he's the ultimate math nerd don't
you see why don't you get a real job
instead of spewing this we all hatred
you left one will involve everybody's
taking their dumb juice today come on
Sammy
dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul had my first post-coital
seafood I'm hoping to add more moves to
my repertoire all I have is the dip in
the swirl fine we can double dip yes
this is a perfect moment no wait what
you make under a million dollars they
accuse me
 you you will Elise I think
you belong all right gonna take quick
break while I take a moment to talk to
some of the libertarians out there dick
whatever vehicle you want to drive to
the library what you're talking about is
jibber jabber lastik I'm feeling more
chill already hood Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses
hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to do
some evil Shitler with such America
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
all right we are back it's the fun half
I lost my sound sheet I found it
becoming a pattern it is becoming a
paddock
it's becoming a pattern that's it we're
getting closer to to vacation and things
just start falling apart from me as we
get close to the occasion I found that I
enjoyed that oh really
even the slavery part was boring I I
enjoyed it so I always comes back around
to slavery somehow it's all just about
me could have been done not violently
I'll think about it
Jakub x' let's go thinking dangerous
times why am i skeptical let's keep that
watch when you head up number five why
am i sceptical at the notion of of their
being able to be particularly at this
country and this time that we haven't
quite fully evolved to the point where
we could have a social consensus about
things why am i skeptical of that well
exhibit I don't know if this would be
exhibit a but it would certainly be in
the first half of the alphabet exhibit
AC the eighth this is Laura Ingraham and
Ann Coulter we can actually shop we
don't even have to play the video but
Laura Ingham and Ann Coulter I think
we're gonna be seeing a lot of these
disputes in in the Democratic Party base
because they all hate one another I mean
you have the Muslims and the Jews and
the various exotic sexual
sends the the black church ladies with
with you know the college queers the
only thing that keeps this the
Democratic base together is for them to
keep focusing on no white men are the
one keep one's keeping you down you must
hate white men it's the one thing they
all have in common I I almost don't know
where to start with that I mean first of
all the premise about this woman's March
I don't know if you read this piece I've
read a little bit about it there was a
big piece I think it was in the tablet
maybe which was incredibly misleading
for a number of reasons about it it made
it sound like there was us all this
nefarious stuff for people who I know
that's just based upon having done some
work in the not-for-profit film world
but and my understanding is the
not-for-profit 503 C world is similar to
this many time when organization
organizations start up they they don't
have time to get their filings in with
the IRS to become a non-profit
tax-deductible non-political partisan
organization so what they do is they go
get sponsorship from an existing entity
I just remember this from you know the
documentary film world where where if
you were you you were looking to make
your documentary donations
tax-deductible you get sponsored by I
don't know you know friends have filmed
or whatever it is tablet made this all
out to seem like it was like some type
of like backdoor slush fund it was a
very strange article if you know it was
interesting it would be an interesting
thing to break down that piece to to
know the reality of the way these groups
are formed that most groups are formed
like this and then to read it because
anything could be made to be nefarious I
think if you're just simply not aware of
it and you're not given the full context
so it's very strange but
that's ostensibly what the piece was
about but it amazes me that Fox still
allows that stuff on there and that Ann
Coulter who's you know personal life I
think was it would not be consistent
with with her I guess her her CMAs like
you know shock at these exotic sexual
exploits and I mean it's pretty gross
but a Laura Ingraham channeling that
stuff is not terribly surprising but
there is the Democratic Party has always
been or at least you know in the past 30
40 50 years a broad coalition of of
different people and the irony is of
course that and Coulter will go on
another show and talk about how the
Democratic Party is all about identity
politics when she promotes a party which
clings to one identity she did just
describe a very good rainbow coalition
though and if you replace the white men
with the ruling class which is mostly
white men that's exactly what we want
there you go identity Polly she should
be afraid of what she's saying and not
like instead she's trying to present it
as a liability because that's what they
want to sell on Fox exactly exactly
meanwhile Michael Cohen is going to jail
for three years is that it yeah just got
sentenced to three years and and he will
be serving concurrent terms I think
right are those two separate terms
because the Southern District of New
York felt that he was not cooperative in
their investigations of him of criminal
activity that had nothing to do with
that had to do they have nothing to do
with the Mahler investigation they felt
he was uncooperative probably because
Michael Cohen has probably been doing a
lot of criminal things
says who over the years Muller however
felt that Cohen was cooperative in his
investigation and therefore said we
would endorse a concurrence of his
criminal sentences now Michael Cohen
worked for Donald Trump for what 12
years as his personal attorney as his
consigliere and Donald Trump is named in
that Southern District of New York
indictment of of Michael Cohen it's why
Michael Cohen's going to prison for
three years Donald Trump was the one who
directed him to find a to imply or to
assume that Michael that Donald Trump
did not know what he was telling Michael
Cohen to do seems absurd you'd have to
be a child to believe that so there are
criminal allegations strong criminal
allegations coming from the Southern
District of New York against Donald
Trump how will those stalwarts of the
Senate those people who are to provide
checks and balances in the Republican
Party because you know the Republican
Party is distinct from Donald Trump
they're not corrupt
they're just beholden they can't there's
nothing they can do
let's here here's a compilation of the
Republican senators seem to have no
problem we have to wait till we have
more complete
if you phrase it a my concern that the
president might be involved in the crime
of course his question is then whether
or not this so-called hush money is a
chronic Republican Utah senator orrin
hatch took it one step further but I I
don't care all I can say is he's doing a
good job as president I don't think he
was involved in crimes but even then you
know you can make anything a crime under
the current laws if you want it you can
revoke way out of proportion you can do
a lot of things yeah that's a former
prosecutor isn't he
orrin hatch yeah there you go
I mean I just do it all I can hear is
his accent in the words rule of laws
they impeached Bill Clinton unbelievable
unbelievable I have a soft spot for the
raw power where's the consistency from
these Republican Democrats I just can't
deal with it
hypocrites call him from a five on seven
area code who's this where you come from
hi Jacob
hi Jacob what's on your mind where you
come from
hi Jacob from cause of oakum s Michigan
and what's in your mind Jacob a couple
points first off I just wanted to say
your conversation with coke s he asked
you to find a ethical philosophy if I
remember that correctly
yeah and you give a pretty standard
definition of John Stuart Mill's
utilitarianism and he just kind of
protected that out of hands and I would
say the reason he probably did that just
because he said he kept pointing out
that uh you only did you only look at
the ends see if they justified it means
kind of argument and that's because you
see fundamentally is beyond illogical
with this ethic so he only looked at
whether an action is moral or immoral
not what it does so he you're looking at
two different sizes of thing and he's
just kind of dismissing you
ethics which like obviously they're
valid but it's two different approaches
to an ethical problem yeah I would say
he's a fundamentalist insofar as those I
I mean maybe that's a little bit too
colloquial and not grounded and I would
say most fundamentalists are
deontological yeah but I'm not saying I
wouldn't necessarily institute
synonymously okay all right and and and
the second point I would make is I have
a question for Michael he kind of uses
the like nerdism as other conservative
and I don't think I maybe I'm maybe I'm
dense but I I don't understand like what
you're specifically referring to when
you talk about that call in tomorrow
when I'm hosting I mean basically
pedantry thinking you can win arguments
with facts faith in science innovation
being what's going to say we have faith
in science and innovation saving us
outside of a market critique facts will
win over real power disputes that they
aren't a second-order for the first
order thing so it is it like they're
kind of like losing the forest for the
trees or yeah I think that's fair yeah I
like that and not only they losing other
the forest for the trees they are really
really going on and on about a certain
part of the tree and how fascinating it
is and how they're how really if you
have a total understanding of actually
the the the the angle of this branch it
will solve all of our problem there's a
long lineage of futurists being
especially either either in the Italian
sense you know working with fascists or
HG Wells the famous you wrote were the
world's God Hitler really wrong because
he thought that we were just going to
advance technologically and that people
would think Hitler was a joke
so like that there's a there's a long
sort of
of sort of I guess naivety when when
people talk about especially like
different types of nerdism being what's
the most important thing Jacob thanks
for the call appreciate it thank you
very much good night
gone from a seven one seven Erica hey
what's a who's that Vinnie for
Pennsylvania Vinny Wow don't worry they
enjoyed your show today I'm doing well
thank you I just wanted to offer some
advice as well similar to the previous
caller he confronted you directly about
what your interpretation of a righteous
or correct government would be and my
go-to for that was always Rawls
principles of justice I don't know if
you're familiar with that I'm not so
basically it's a deontological not
necessarily deontological but uh he
tries to take that approach in that we
make all of our governing decisions
behind the veil of ignorance in that you
don't know what your place in society
will be in the future
so you are more likely to make decisions
that benefit all of society um it gets a
little deeper than that but uh that's
the basic premise of it I just wanted to
throw that out there and see what you
thought about it well it sounds
interesting I will I will check it out I
mean I I would I will confess a certain
predisposition against getting too
theoretical or philosophy of
philosophically this stuff I mean I have
probably a little better grounding in
this stuff then I I deploy but it it it
it doesn't interest me that much and I
don't think it's relevant in in terms of
what what the
what I'm trying to do here and but I do
I do have some interest in this stuff
but I think you know fundamentally I I
think I could be called a utilitarian
and on some level but those principles
to the extent that I abide by them lead
me not to talk about philosophy that
much reminds me of when libertarians
talk about Murray Rothbard versus Hayek
or something yeah I just I I just I mean
part of the problem I have with
libertarianism is that it is not
grounded in you know I think reality
yeah but your hundred percent right but
I think you talk a lot about how in
debate was your phrase you use getting
in the circle oh oh yeah yeah yeah yeah
I think that sometimes when you're at
least for me and I obviously do not have
the experience debating these people
that you do my instinct is to go to like
real actual examples which is where I
wanted to talk about like Haiti or
Brazil but they don't like actual
examples so I think there's something
really effective about rawls because
it's sort of like appeals to exactly the
same brain centers of like some type of
like massive abstraction is more
important than actually occurring things
and then it takes those same synapses
and turns them towards empathy and
basically makes all of the same points
about how arbitrary starting points are
but in the terms they like non-material
that always sort of like like why like
so my property rights are ten acres like
I mean to say like like you should have
the property that can be yours is that
which you determined you're using like
your definition of use is appropriate
and I mean that was not on like Walter
blogs right which was that sort of
French version the reason why property
rights are established as
you know uh the colonialist came over
here and started working the land that's
when it became that's that's one
property rights get established the
natives who were just who were who you
didn't have those concept of property
rights
well it doesn't count they once they
were just smoking like it's just it's
not it's just completely arbitrary Rawls
and lets through that with that that's
is why cuz it's sort of like alright
let's just play this this game and then
it again it makes the same point but in
a way that they like because it's a
thought a thought experiment thinking I
don't want to play that game because
that guy mean that's I think too so I
understand I get I I sympathize with
your approach but I've had at least
anecdotally a few examples of like all
of the real examples don't move the
needle at all and then Rawls is Lou
the search for the search for a
non-aggression principle or some other
libertarian like fundamental idea is
just them being antisocial and not
wanting to do this stuff democratically
that's all that is right all right let's
go one more phone call come from a 608
area code who's this where you call him
from from a Content Tom from Wisconsin
what's on your mind Tom still in the
debate so at the end he said that
according to Pinker human beings are
becoming less violent but I think it's
more the argument that societies are
becoming less violent and I think Pinker
would argue that is because of the large
governments we have that kind of enforce
non-violence on us no it's more of an
argument for your well I mean it's quite
a coincidence right that we have
mitigated violence on some level with
essentially the introduction of of
aspirationally democratic governments on
some level and I mean and it could be
just a coincidence
I would question the very premise of
Pinker's argument because I'm gonna
guess he doesn't clued he doesn't
include uh bi-state violence on the part
of the police
I'm gonna guess he'd uh he definitely
doesn't include the violence of the
capitalist status quo you know all of
the people who died because they don't
have proper nutrition or health care
like that's violence too and
libertarians like to ignore that i I
think that's I think I I would agree
with that it's violent particularly
insofar as those things exist for other
you know for other people you go back a
couple hundred years health care
nutrition not so great and so that would
be I think probably hard to measure but
if we are accepting his you know Adams
terms and you know trajectory hard to
not recognize that during that
progression there has been a more
there's been more social cohesion it
seems to me at least in the form of
creating a monopoly of force right like
we've had more monopolization of force
amongst greater amounts of people than
less over that time span I mean that I
think is you know I I I'm I am a very
strong dislike ur of Steven Pinker's
work and his secular theology appreciate
progress but I do want to just say I
proposed this conversation because I
he's not a libertarian by any stretch
and he wrote a piece in 2018 called does
everyone have the same values yes but
libertarian isn't one of them you and he
basically say that again everyone have
the same values yes but libertarianism
isn't one of them by Steve Pinker it
might seem like you maybe era of the
pajama boy is over
you know the key sort of goes on to make
a point
look I I haven't read this piece yet but
I know that I know enough of his writing
that he's not opposed
two states use a market liberal he's a
market liberal I mean definitely
correlates like international
institutions as expressed through like
free-trade agreements which are highly
bureaucratic and governmental
governmental regulators part of the
reason there's less war he's making more
of like a Thomas Friedman like two
countries with McDonald's don't fight
each other argument right and we're
becoming like God consciousness peaceful
beings which is a much cooler argument
I'll grant to Adam but not what we're
saying
does he think it's not violent when I
don't know
NAFTA basically recolonize Mexico no and
an entire community of indigenous people
killed themselves rather than submit to
that kind of oppression no no I I mean I
think there's no die I think what the
point is is that it's not that we're
endorsing pinker it's that Adam endorsed
Pinker's assessment and on its own terms
it doesn't I just man that's all anybody
thinker and by all right so yesterday
look we have a real problem with with
with the massive monopolies we have
particularly in the tech space Google
being one of them and in fact yesterday
at the House Judiciary Committee
hearings
CEO of Google sundar pichai was was
being grilled by the Republicans
unfortunately not on the basis of the
fact that like you guys have far too
much market share and leverage things
and are your political power is too
great I mean Steve King kind of gets
here in the end of this does he really a
little bit a little bit and but sitting
behind him was the monopoly man which
was fun I don't know if we'll see it but
here Stephen King is this where he's
okay yeah which one is a six okay and
here is a Stephen King trying to get to
the bottom of why people write bad
things about him on the internet make
this
point and I believe I've made it with a
number of the of the Internet companies
that have been sitting here at this
table in the past well remember
situation here is that there's a very
strong conviction on this side of the
aisle that the algorithms are written
with a with a bias against conservatives
so people on the other side don't agree
with that because of course it benefits
them and but what we don't know are who
are these people
you know what I'm convinced of I'm
convinced that the algorithms are
written in such a way that I do not get
the promotion that I deserve if you
google great political analysis I should
be the first 10 entries on Google but
I'm not now of course other people could
share similar sentiment yeah other
people could say though oh no it's
working right because it benefits them I
put in the search results and it got no
life or who are these thousand people
and we don't know what their social
media looks like but we do know that the
people that come from that County were
about 80 percent supporters of Hillary
Clinton if I listen to the gentlelady
from California correctly and so that
would be a built-in bias if I know
people from California and know their
politics from California and I think I
do
so we've got at least theoretically a
built-in bias that's here it's not being
examined and not examining the social
media how would you expect that you
could get to an objective result which
you said that you know we build our
products in a neutral way but that
doesn't mean that your product comes out
neutral so how would you expect to get
to unbiased result with a built in
formula that I've described that I don't
think you object to or disagree with
congressman it's an important question
but the way we rank our results is
essentially based on user feedback and
that's what drives the iterative loop in
our you know in what we put in so I do
understand how its prioritized that way
and I watch what's going on but I made
this point that if we don't know who the
thousand are and we can't look at their
social media and we can't see the
algorithms to understand their results
of the work they're doing behind closed
doors and yet the public believes that
it's an open forum where there is an a
balanced exchange of what
access for information of course it's
not and so I have said we either need to
know who they are and look at their
social media and if that doesn't solve
this problem next step then is publish
the algorithms if that doesn't happen
then the next step on the line is
section 230 the amendments to section
230 and the step on the line beyond that
is a Teddy Roosevelt step bingo
let's get those other steps where we
invade the privacy of the individuals
working for Google and all those other
sort of highly invasive meaningless
gestures that Steven K and let's just go
let's break this stuff up so that we can
have 10 different Google's that will all
give the same result that Stephen King
is an a-hole
up until now Steve King had all the
worst parts of Teddy Roosevelt right and
if he could just get the antitrust stuff
that may be useful well he still holds
that seat down do you think that he is
being purposefully ignorant as to what
an algorithm means and to what those a
thousand people do or do you think he
really doesn't know well I guess we will
answer the question Stephen King evil or
ignorant or evil and Ingrid I have a
seven-year-old granddaughter who picked
up her phone before the election and
she's playing a little game kind of game
a kid would play pause it up on there
look folks don't give your
seven-year-old a phone all right I have
a daughter I think I think we waited
probably till she was eight or nine or
whenever she was walking to school
fourth grade too early
get her a flip phone okay but let's wind
it back a little bit come and she's
playing a little game kind of game a kid
would play and up on there pops a
picture of her grandfather and I'm not
going to say into their record what kind
of language was used around that picture
of her grandfather but I'd ask you how
does that show up on a seven-year-olds
iPhone
who's playing a kids game Congressman
iPhone is made by a different company
and so you know I mean I might have been
an Android
I was just it was a hand-me-down of some
kind you know I guess I'm happy to
follow up and understand the specifics
it there may be an application which was
being used which had a notification but
I'm happy to understand it better and
clarify it for you okay thank you for
your testimony and yield back just
reduced him to like any IT guy like I
can't what I can't
can you please figure this out when I
get my iCloud and I'm getting contacts
from all different types of people and
you know what that is it sounds to me
like Stephen King gave this kid a
hand-me-down phone that he had all of
these news alerts for himself on there
I mean if could what app do you have
that do you either have like news photos
showing up on your phone or just photos
of your grandfather with with like grant
sucks you know those free to play kids
games that are ad supported dude check
where you're coming from so a political
ad could have came through when they
were playing candy crush or something
that said like hey this guy's a white
supremacist let's boot him out of Iowa
and that's pretty fun there's a lot of
really serious privacy and civil
liberties issues with these predatory
companies that's that's the bizarre
thing about seeing him go through this
minefield or whatever it is like he
doing all over the right things and
getting the wrong message from it there
was a story in The Times just yesterday
about apps and you know frankly our our
tech guru here Kyle has told me this the
apps all track you and even when you
turn them off they track you the way
that the money are is made through apps
and I will say this not the majority
report app not the majority report app I
can tell you that is a completely money
losing endeavor not only is it not not
only is it money losing endeavor it
makes nothing it is not it is every
dollar spent on that is completely
has been completely unrecovered every
dollar every I can assure you of that
Sam's pledge to you yeah it's my pledge
to you but apparently what they do is
they put in these sdk packets and they
just send data back to just random
I don't know mostly hedge funds I think
little spies yeah figure out like
where's the best place for us to put
this Banana Republic well we know that
you know these they track your your
where you go and then they say with this
is where we need the kroger sir whatever
it is and the hedge funds by the
Kroger's there and Steve knows didn't
get it excuse me a Gandhi my
granddaughter is seeing insults of me on
the phone can you fix it as I T when you
need it thank goodness we are holding
absolutely no members of the Trump
regime accountable we are doing
everything we can at every moment to
point out how brave and how ethical and
how much integrity anybody who is a
Republican who's not Donald Trump is
good for you for not being Donald Trump
is really the essence of this interview
on The Today Show
as NBC allows her to basically
rehabilitate her image in in advance of
a 2020 or 2024 run she's speaking out
soon she's speaking out nikki Haley
speaks out it would appear to some of
the special counsels investigation is is
growing closer to the President did you
say not at all I have not had any time
to even pay attention to the Moller
investigation I have not at all I have
tuned it out I can't do anything about
the one thing I've said publicly and I
strongly believe is I think the
investigation if it's going forward
should go forward but they need to hurry
up for the good of the country they need
to hurry up and let us know what they
know president says it's a witch on
we'll find out speaks often come Haley
says sometimes it's by design is it sure
that you use the president's
unpredictable rhetoric to our advantage
diplomatically if I needed to pick up
the phone and say this is what I'm gonna
do you know are you good with this or
this we we kind of partnered in that and
so he would like ratchet up the rhetoric
and then I'd go back to the ambassadors
and say you know he's pretty upset I
can't promise you what he's gonna do or
not but I can tell you if we do these
sanctions it will keep him from going
too far so you were playing good cop bad
cop I was trying to get the job done and
I got the job done by being truthful but
also by letting him be unpredictable and
and not showing our cards well she's so
great she's so great first off she's
been she's had her nose to the
grindstone she hasn't heard a thing
about this mauler thing is this still
going on is the investigation still
going I had no idea i all i care about
guy from NBC is i care about this
country i care about this country so
much that i'm gonna give away the secret
that we've been pretending to do the
madman theory oops did I give that away
I guess maybe I didn't I mean like even
by her own terms right she just gave up
the ghost like it just the the idea that
she was in control of of him and this
was all basically my strategy I got the
job done I rolled up my sleeves and I go
in there I got the job done I lasted two
years Nootka punjab cop like the
question they do though was your was
your apparently cowardly silence through
one of the most corrupt administration's
of all time was that actually serving us
there was that for our benefit no I was
doing it for all for America in
let me give away our secret was your
Craven performance at the United Nations
as part of the most corrupt
administration in US history actually a
net gain for us I'm glad you asked that
because yes I just wanted to get the job
done because that's I it's that kind of
can-do spirit and also listen they need
to wrap up the Muller investigation and
let the chips fall where they may
because Mike Pence and I are gonna want
to run in 2020 and it would be much
better to have this done quicker now of
course I could play this off by because
everybody is saying this and I will not
alienate the base of the the Republican
Party in fact the Republican Party now
which is a sick bonus rounds here an
extra minute to say something personal
into the camera that the president will
like and appreciate exactly oh can I
just add Haley 2020 calm on the end of
this can I just get my plugs in he
certainly put in her time for every
single grotesque Craven u.s. foreign
policy prerogative of the Empire and
Republican foreign policy establishment
from Iran to Gaza to Venezuela she is
truly disgusting let's go to the phone's
call him from a 7:30 for area code who's
this where he called from hey um so I
was just wondering kind of plug in my
mind for a but I think when Kyrsten
Sinema was elected I think Mike said uh
she was trash even when she was left and
I know she has like a an interesting
history that like she was basically like
she she was in the Green Party or
something or she was like you know
anti-war radical or whatever you know
and I mean it's a real shame to see that
you know she's like doesn't even support
universal health care you know now and
you know she's like basically like I
know she's got black pills or something
she like totally like gave
wonderful principles and stuff like that
and or maybe she never had maybe she
didn't give up on her principles from
then maybe that's maybe she's returned
to her actual principles yeah I also
want to ask what you guys think of
Kshama Sawant which is like you guys
talk I mean you guys aren't seem to like
not be a fan of third parties and but I
just I'm a local level I'm local level
like that Oh totally employees we
strongly support
I think we've interviewed her on this
program I think we interviewed her and
not only I mean I remember us talking
about her candidacy frankly before
socialist politics and that type of
thing was trendy frankly I and I've
spoken many times at the benefit of
potential third parties on a local level
I'm still not gonna give you you know a
dumb read of in general it's better to
engage inside the Democratic Party
strategically but Kshama Sawant
excellent and and I also supported by
the way I i supported we supported
Jabari Bridgeport in his run for City
Council and I actively don't like the
Green Party appreciate the call ballot
line as well as well that's why I
supported you as a socialist I think if
you're gonna go third party I would much
rather see people run on a socialist
ballot line than one that's got so much
dumb baggage but I didn't let that
little disagreement stop me from backing
a great candidacy in Jabari for City
Council
folks we do not have any more time for
calls I really appreciate your hanging
on the line we have 15 people I'm sorry
we just we've run out of time today call
back tomorrow or Friday just got to do a
couple Iams and we got to get out of
here in four minutes Ryan in LA I don't
think he understands the concept of
utopian his entire system falls apart
when the first psychopath shows up we
all have to agree with his concept of
property rights but what if I don't I
have no problem using violence to get
what I want and I'm stronger than him
and also please the second each state is
its own country Alabama and Mississippi
are gonna lower the age of consent and
reinstate slavery liberated green cut
scarf
for Jamie which side of today's debate
were you mostly on it seems like you
have more in common with the atom than
Sam you know getting rid of the
government and all oh I think I'm more
on Sam's side than that guy's side
seeing as he sits on the opposite end of
the political spectrum from me but yeah
I think if we're going to do away with
the bourgeois state we want to build
something better and more democratic
instead of this like Mad Max right-wing
libertarian hell world where private
tyranny is still totally okay but
they'll be a general consent about it I
love Sarah Palin Sam why are you so
scared in my libertarian world property
rights start when we do a supermarket
sweep style distribution of property
that would be better than the current
system vegan Jellicle right-wing Mandela
voice now we have proof that Samantha
does not date women with huge tracts of
land what the hell is social consent
when everybody is an autonomous
individual choosing for themselves
whether they consent when white settlers
laid eyes in America they saw an unused
land trees weren't productive unless
they were cut down when natives
disagreed and in the absence of
third-party protector of everybody's
rights came down to forest dude that but
that moment is when property rights
started for libertarians secret identity
politics Skype the official
communications system of libertarians
Winnipeg Craig I'm glad that libertarian
thought your debate was fun politics is
all about having fun after all
Teddy read bonds the cotton gin invented
in the late 18th century increased the
demand for slave labor you know I should
have caught that with the cotton gin I
think he was talking he was talking
about I think he was talking about farm
equipment but cotton gin didn't pick
cotton it processed it lazy taco I'm a
libertarian and I agree with 99% of what
Adam says but I seem to be different
from Adam and a very important way that
you finally Illustrated khopesh style
libertarianism might work for some
of time in a sparsely populated world
but libertarians always seem to ignore
our context we live in a world with more
people than resources can support in a
libertarian fashion in this context
private property ownership is
necessarily an act of violence yeah well
you ignore ethical principles Gabe from
Chicago hey Sam when you're putting
together your best of clip don't forget
to include some RIT clips of racist old
man owning himself glass Sehgal Jamie's
attitude on display si toward the
disintegration of government essays a
boneheaded dangerous okay we get it
people will come together in support of
each other I promise never to explain a
joke again they're usually not when I'm
working on tract about my principles and
they're all jumbled around in my head
brother from Brooklyn I don't get how
libertarians honestly think paid
maternity leave and minimum wage
increases are bad for society based on
some econ 101 book it's violence Rob
Kali damn I thought you were setting him
up with the lead regulations when you
said and sent him down the reduction in
violence statement line
Sam's tinder profile hey babe swipe
right to enter only consensual
relationship outside of libertarianism
class who is creative I think you and
Adam dialed into something important by
identifying the radical contrast between
philosophy of ethics certain types of
libertarian and moral absolutes the
categorical imperative model of Immanuel
Kant this difference from the
progressive ideals that a broadly
situational ethics has described by
Martin Heidegger or Reinhold Niebuhr
might be worth having someone on to
discuss this conflict as a plague but
that's that is exactly what I wouldn't
want to do don't like it yeah it's like
ideas no it's not that I don't like
ideas and I'm not it's not that I don't
think that is innards I've asked you I
don't think no it's not I I actually
would listen to that conversation more
than I would want to engage in it on
this program because I don't think any
of that should be determinate it doesn't
matter this is in my mind a pitch to
what your common sense is gonna be and
are you going to allow some first-order
principles to dictate everything
regardless of what you come
in society that to me is fundamentalism
yep some people decide those principles
come from the Torah some from the Koran
some from that new document that came
after the Torah which ones right some
people say this you know build a
freedman forum people said whatever it
is I said SPO Duggar boys but that's
fundamentalism to me all right three
more
JJ called the ultimate libertarian book
encapsulates everything one word freedom
bang Bart hello comrads even though
we're not in the offseason for Olympic
news no Olympics 2028 coalition led by
the LA chapter of DSA is doing amazing
work it's now confirmed our neoliberal
puppet merit Mayor Eric Garcetti is
seriously exploring a player's an intial
run he's using the 2028 Olympic bid as
an attribute for that ambition to the
chakra can't read all that but we'll
check it out a square say I'm good for
Pelosi yesterday what a clown show
certainly want a real progressive
running the house but real politics
she's the one who can be effective white
men like Ohio Ryan challenged her are
unimpressive in so many ways my hope is
that between Barbara Lee and new
progressive like aoc Pelosi will need to
give more than an inch my pick for best
of the genius of Janeane playing that
new crazy racist senator we've gotten
two votes that all right folks see you
tomorrow
to get to where I want
no sir
I'm gonna get
I was when I just got cut
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
teacher takes you
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
