[Music]
here is john bolton for sixty-five
seventy years I think it was now fifty
nine I can't do the math maybe fifty
years let's call it just some fifty odd
years we had a an embargo with Cuba we
had travel restrictions to Cuba I
traveled in about nineteen years ago
eighteen years ago 2001 I think it was
maybe 2002 under a special oh fak
license office of some office in the
Treasury where you could go if there was
a clear educational purpose or something
like that was down there shooting a
documentary and with my ex-wife and I
think that's available online somewhere
but and but since that time during the
Obama administration these travel
restrictions were lifted people were
able to see relatives that they hadn't
seen in ages Americans were able to go
down there and you know tourism
increased obviously there's a lot of
European tourism already but over the
course of those 50 years the embargo did
not work the inability to allow for
direct travel to Cuba did not work the
the theory behind it was we are going to
try and put such stress on the
government that it collapses and when it
collapses in chaos rather than any type
of orderly unwinding as it were or
anything like that those people who had
been dispossessed of their property that
they had garnered during the Batista
regime would get that property back
and not all that property was garnered
through corruption but there was a
tremendous amount of corruption in that
society prior to that and that was
basically the hope that is why there
were a lot of members expats in queue in
the Cuban community who were hoping that
the way the Cuban government would end
would be in an implosion in a
catastrophic event because that was the
way that they would get back in in there
and it simply did not happen when the
Soviet Union fell Cuba suffered
significantly a lot of their economy was
propped up by the Soviet Union they
worked their way out of it there
certainly was a healthy dose of
political repression in Cuba and and
certainly human rights violations I
think you could argue there was also and
it was certainly a dictatorship people
were afraid of what they could say
publicly in many respects I experienced
that firsthand there was also a lot of
you know social services and support and
certainly like Castro would bring in
from rural areas it was fascinating
because there was a lot of parallels
along with what the Bush administration
was but he would bring in policemen from
the rural areas to be police in in
Havana and some of the other cities is
because they were naturally skeptical of
city dwellers there was a lot of a lot
of propaganda there were other
attributes of the society that were
envious literacy rates healthcare
respects so a mixed bag but certainly
the u.s. policy of embargo and travel
restrictions
only made Cuba suffer more Cuban people
and did not have the desired outcome so
what better reason do you need to
reinstate it instituted if that's the
case here is John Bolton trying to get
some votes in Florida for the president
in 2020 we are also announcing that the
Department of the Treasury will
implement further regulatory changes to
restrict non-family travel to Cuba for
in other words
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
so there he is in Coral Gables Florida
talking to a group of elderly Cubans I
don't need to see them to know that
they're a group of elderly Cubans
he responds like that's the first
applause he's ever gotten in his life
that's true really so travel
restrictions re-implemented in Cuba
families apparently still go there but
of course it'll be a little bit trickier
because you don't get the same amount of
flights that are going because only
families are there but and and who knows
how Cuba will respond to that and make
it difficult so what's old is new again
because it was so successful the first
time
