[Music]
in the conference rooms of any of these
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex dama chard a report with sam
cedar
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
it is Monday November 12 2008 een my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Yohai
benkler harvard law professor author of
network propaganda manipulation
disinformation and radicalization in
American politics also on the program
today it's Veterans Day observed and on
the actual Veterans Day Trump reminds us
that nothing means anything anymore
meanwhile Rick Scott and the Republicans
pretend something nefarious happening in
Florida and in Arizona as recounts
begins in Florida in earnest in Georgia
Stacey Abrams sues looking to count
provisional ballots of all things
meanwhile 31 dead in raging California
wildfires and in Brazil the army chief
cops to threatening the Supreme Court to
jus jail Lula meanwhile ice
imprisonments hit an all-time high while
5,200 US military personnel at border
are doing 200 million dollars worth of
nothing us to stop Saudi refueling above
Yemen in a completely meaningless
gesture
[Music]
gems meanwhile prepare for
investigations of the Trump
administration and the besieged and
apparently highly investigated Matt
Whitaker says he won't cut Muller
funding and lastly we have our first
candidate for 2020 folks Richard Oh
Jetta former West Virginia congressional
candidate throws his hat in for the
Democratic nomination in 2020 all this
and more on today's program I'm
fidgeting around in my seat I just got a
little bit of my sciatica acting up
maybe that's because maybe that's
because I really don't want to talk
about 2020 yet and so we're going to
attempt to we have a new rule both this
yes well I mean it's it's a new rule
only because we're stating it now but
it's a long-standing rule which course
is you always wait until the lame-duck
session is over before you talk about
the upcoming the upcoming so via
Cummings 2020 election yeah Brendan just
party's over soon advil and he brought
me 12 what's fine I mean I can take you
all giggle we don't want to hear you
bitching today I really does
look Brendan Brendan's the muscle guy
friends like oh my god he's gonna whine
and and moan oh a day give
him as many pills as possible so he
doesn't do the frigate take off for a
day so that is that the rule around here
ladies and gentlemen in regards to the
the twenty20 elections but I'm sure that
we will end up breaking that rule but we
will attempt to to not so folks today is
the day when Veterans Day is celebrated
yesterday was veteran I guess the
actual Veterans Day Veterans Day if my
if I'm not mistaken started in this
country many other countries known as
Armistice Day and I believe that we used
to also call it Armistice Day here and
then we realized like oh okay we've got
too many Wars
so we're just going to include all
veterans all military veterans but
Donald Trump flew to France outside of
Paris I guess at the beginning of the
weekend ostensibly to celebrate or
commemorate I guess Armistice Day
what most of Europe calls Armistice Day
we call Veterans Day I guess we switched
that in 54 it is supposed to commemorate
the anniversary of the end of World War
one and we're now I guess at a hundred
years and Donald Trump flew to France
and then apparently it was raining so he
didn't go to the cemetery for the
ceremony he ultimately came out of his
shell nobody's quite clear on why that
is I mean aside from him being Donald
Trump and our completely disrespectful
and I have to tell you that like you
know to to a certain extent I have a
little bit of ambivalence about Veterans
Day we should not be creating more
veterans at any point with that said you
have people who gave up their lives gave
up their health families who lost loved
ones and that should be recognized
because that's a crappy situation to be
and to say the least
so the
people deserve our respect and certainly
you know when the president is going to
a cemetery that represents the death
essentially of millions of people you'd
expect maybe some measure of sacrifice
on his part if he was even remotely a
normal human being but the president is
not and here's an example of it even as
he's reading off some of the vets who
are with them of course not World War
one vets but World War two vets he can't
help but think about his situation at
that very moment we have a number of
amazing veterans with us today including
six veterans of World War two James
Blaine James where's James James thank
you thank you James Frank
Davida thank you Frank
thank you very much you look so
comfortable up there under shelter as
we're getting drenched you're very smart
people Pete
Duprey there you go I can't help but
look at you think of all the suffering
and the millions of people who died and
then remember it's about me getting wet
and look I'm not a huge fan of McCrone
politics but it's I can appreciate the
fact that he took the time to at the
very least subtweet and humiliate Donald
Trump in some fashion as subtle as it
was McCrone got up gave a speech I'm not
sure if this was at the same location I
don't know that it was but there was a
couple of events obviously around around
Paris and here he is McCrone speaking
about the difference between nationalism
and patriotism
I imagine he was quite aware of Donald
Trump's now proclivity to call himself a
nationalist sets vision Dada false come
nationalist politics should probably
read the we should probably do the put
the volume down right right and I have
to tell you I you know Papa francais
I am reading the translation that's
their fellow people of France
I'm just gonna make it up here it is all
right so it's this vision of France
continue as a generous nation with a
vision which carries universal values
has been in those dark times exactly the
opposite of the selfishness of a people
which looks only at its own interests
because patriotism is the exact opposite
of nationalism nationalism is the
betrayal of patriotism by saying our
interests first
and never mind the others you erase what
is the most precious to a nation what
makes it exist what makes it great what
is the most important its moral values
and then Trump has a little bit of a
scowl on his face I don't know if that's
coming up right at that moment but it's
quite clear who macron is speaking to at
that moment d primetime MSNBC line up
right right sure creates all of them
they like me very much
my people loathe me I have no proven
rating I'm destroying the unions but
MSNBC very much right but MSNBC is not
gonna help him
I mean I think on some level there is
listed help him in his domestic path it
could very well and you know it is it is
a problem for the United States long
term that in France you can help
yourself domestically by attacking the
president the United States I mean that
is gonna have long-term implications you
know regardless of what it is there was
you know we didn't talk too much about
the cost Jim Acosta Donald Trump you
know circus but the bottom line is you
see things like on Friday do tear tase
government is going to charge a veteran
journalists and our online new startup
with tax evasion they're going to
basically try and indict maria reza a
reporter and it's clear that they're
doing it because she's critical of the
government and so when donald trump sets
these markers down where it's okay for
him to attack reporters in the way that
he does he's sending a message to these
other worse regimes that like look your
knock i'm certainly not going to be the
one to hold you to account for this when
saudi arabia chops up a journalist in an
embassy they do so because they think
they have the latitude to do that and
frankly if it was up to trump they would
have remember and we remember his first
reactions and you're not going to see
these reactions in this country to what
happens in the philippines and you're
not gonna see it in countries all around
the world i mean this is what the State
Department would have done and they
would have registered something that
would have been and there would have
been a sense of like we have a certain
amount of latitude when the United
States walks away from maintaining
certain principles at least even like
projecting that publicly and of course
they don't you know and this is not to
say that the United States doesn't
support oppressive regimes of course we
have we do but even when the most basic
of standards are washed away even when
the norms even when the pretense even if
that's all it is in many instances the
pretense it has back it's washed away it
has bad implications so we should keep
that in mind
for a while meanwhile folks big
corporations are getting rich from
selling your data
Congress has completely failed to save
net neutrality or protect your privacy
online now internet providers and mobile
carriers like Comcast and Verizon are
free to restrict websites spy on your
online activity sell your browsing
history to advertisers but with
one-click Express VPN shield your online
activity from Internet and mobile
providers expressvpn is easy to use apps
that run seamlessly in the background of
your computer phone and tablet Express
VNL secures and anonymizes your internet
browsing by encrypting your data and
hiding your public IP address that has
all sorts of uses folks including a
tremendous amount of security get
expressvpn protection for less than
seven dollars a month it's rated number
one VPN service by TechRadar and comes
with a 30-day money-back guarantee if
you ever use public Wi-Fi and want to
keep hackers and spies from seeing your
data expressvpn is the solution i mean
look there was a time I think back in
the day where if you use the VPN I mean
people would do it for like business
quite a bit but if you were a personal
you know like an individual and you use
VPN people you know people in the note
would be like a little bit paranoid
these days based upon how much data is
settled I was talking to Kyle Kyle has
basically taken all apps off his phone
the guy who develops our app you know
what William s burrow said what's that
he said a paranoid is someone with all
the facts right well the bottom line is
all your apps are following you they're
selling your data whether you have them
on or off at any given time oh my god I
had such a creepy experience with that
over the weekend well was it your phone
is totally listening to you I bought a
robe a fuzzy robe with a hood with ears
on it
a rift store in the middle of nowhere
and I said something about how I liked
it at some point in time next day my
Instagram feed serves me an ad for a
fuzzy robe with a hood with ears on it
that's when I'm constantly fed I had no
idea where these anti-semitic ads were
coming from right I realized wait I
guess they're my phones assume my Sam
Shirley Chablis ads and yoga I do get a
lot of yoga yoga cheb Lee and protocols
of the Elders take back your internet
privacy today find out how you can get
three months free go to expressvpn
dot-com / majority that's Express expr
ESS VPN dot-com / majority for 3 months
free with a one-year package visit
Express VPN dot-com / majority to learn
more and remember ok yeah folks you know
that there are job sites that send it's
tons of the wrong resumes to sort
through and make you wait for all the
right candidates to apply to your job
that's not smart you know what is smart
going to zip recruiter dot-com /
majority to hire the right person zip
recruiter doesn't depend on candidates
finding you it finds them for you
Brendan knows this brendan is we putz
there some days we just make Brendan
just we just refer to him as the zip
recruiter hire ha Brendan I'm here from
sip recruiter you mean Joe Cups it's
profound
it's powerful matching technology scans
thousands of resumes identifies people
with the right skills education and
experience for your job and actively
invites them to apply so you get more
qualified candidates fast we use dip
recruiter when we hired Brendan and it
was a wealth of riches no more starting
through the wrong resumes no more
waiting for the right candidates to
apply that so a zip recruiters rated
number one by employers in the US and
folks it was I am I am not the most
organized person this made it so easy
this made it so easy and now my
listeners can try zip recruiter for free
at this exclusive web address zip
recruiter dot-com / majority that zip
recruiter dot-com / majority zip
recruiter dot-com / majority zip
recruiter this
modder smartest way to hire and ladies
and gentlemen as you can see today I am
almost fully shaven I shaved
when did I shave me was Saturday over
yeah I think was Saturday well you know
how I shaved folks listen we're getting
close to Hanukkah Christmas Kwanzaa gift
shopping for him can seem impossible
thankfully Harry's makes long-lasting
quality products at a super reasonable
price with sets just starting at 10
bucks and if he doesn't love it
returns are quick and hassle-free for
years now going on years I have told you
my favorite things about Harry's the
razor handle sent to my door when they
narrowed the blade head that was very
important to me to get it up into the
nostril area I don't need to give you
too much information but the little
people see my face all the time as a
special offer for fans of the show we've
partnered with Harry's to give you five
bucks off any shave set including our
limited edition holiday sets when you go
to harrys.com slash majority port plus
you'll get free shipping the offer is
for new and returning customers usually
it's if you're a new customer this is
for new and returning customers only
available for the holidays each Harry
shaving set comes with the ergonomic
weighted handle with an option to
engrave german-engineered five blade
cartridges that provide a close
comfortable shave foaming shave gel for
rich lather a travel cover to protect
your blades a handsome holiday gift box
or get something for yourself Ridhima
Harry's trial offer to experience the
quality of shave before committing get
your holiday shopping done early
free shipping ends on December 12 so act
now go to harrys.com slash majority
report gets five dollars off a shave set
while supplies last
that's harrys.com slash majority report
all right quick break when we come back
you'll hi Ben Clare
you
[Music]
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program a yokai benkler
he is a professor from Harvard Law the
Berkman professor of entrepreneurial
legal studies their author of multiple
books including his most recent with
with co-authors Network propaganda
manipulation disinformation and
radicalization in American politics
welcome to the program thank you very
much happy to be with you
so let I want to start I guess let's
start with just the the the methodology
of the research that that offers the
that provides the foundation for the
book and then I want to start with the
history before we get to what your
research found but but just give us a
sense of what kind of research you were
doing that that had formed the basis of
this book so we the burthen Klein Center
at Harvard with our colleagues at the
Center for civic media at MIT have been
developing a platform to analyze media
ecosystems generally using very large
data analysis essentially we scrape and
collect millions of stories about a
million stories a day from around the
world and we build it into a system that
then allows us to search for more
stories on a given topic put them in a
database and allow us to analyze
millions of stories how they link to
each other
what texts they use on which they how
they are tweeted how they are shared on
facebook or at least how often they're
shared on Facebook and with these
materials we then also add case studies
where we do a deep dive into a
particular topic
look at how television covered it using
the Internet Archive of TV web archive
and this particular study
this particular book is based on
analyzing four million stories from
April of 2015 until the first
anniversary of the trump presidency had
very heavy focus on the presidential
election a cup until the election and
then more broadly on national politics
since then and this this dynamic is not
well all right let's let's go to let's
cut to the quick in terms of the the
broad strokes in the course of your
research you essentially found that
there are two large subsets of media
consumers within politics the right and
the and essentially the the center and
the left as the second one tell us what
the distinctions are between those two
subsets so what we found is even more
than just that the consumers are in two
separate group but that the producers to
learn to separate groups so when you
look at how media producers link to each
other
that's to say this has nothing to do
with Facebook nothing there with Twitter
it's only I'm writing a story I'm
publishing it online I'm linking to
other stories this is something about
how I is the producer and deciding who I
give authority to like a credit to and
write down and we also used how often
sites were tweeted together so for
example if I'm somebody who tweeted a
story from the New York Times and we did
a story from the Washington Post on the
same day our network analysis would make
the New York Post The New York Times and
The Washington Post close to each other
if I tweet Breitbart and Fox News on the
same day than Fox News and break part
will be on the same day and that shows
us the consumer side what they're paying
attention to what we saw both when we
analyzed open Internet web-based linking
and when we looked at Twitter and when
we looked at Facebook
and even when we focused on text and how
to use a similar text what we saw was a
repeated pattern the right-wing going
from Fox and the New York Post all the
way to Alex Jones an info Waller and
Gateway pundit and cruise feed and true
pundit and the craziest conspiracy sites
all have a single network there are
single insular networks where the
producers link mostly to each other and
the consumers read mostly that by
contrast we didn't see anything parallel
on the left instead what we saw was all
the way from relatively historically
conservative center-right at least
editorially publications like The Wall
Street Journal all the way to mobilize
methods publication like daily kos or
historical left-leaning publications
like Mother Jones are all actually part
of the same media ecosystem they're all
anchored in traditional media they all
link primarily to traditional media
including New York Times Washington
policy and then etc they all their
audiences also have a much more diverse
media diet and they read much more
broadly across from left to Center so we
don't really see a symmetric
polarization where the left and right
are each going off in its own way what
we see is that the light has spun off
into its own insular system and the West
has essentially become a single media
ecosystem and there's almost no
center-right there are almost no
complications that you were today
historically were right but today would
you consider center-right National
Review leaking standard basically get no
attention Alex Jones so they had the
bigger audience than any of these
historically conservative publications
there is no center right there just a
right and the left and so what what are
I mean let's let's talk about the
implication
of the the narrowness of the the media I
guess diet and network so both from a
consumer and a production side the
narrowness of the right let's talk about
the implications of that first before we
get in or maybe it's easier to talk
about it the implications relative to
the diversity on the center center-left
essentially what we saw both in general
in the structure and when we dug into
specific case studies was that the right
operator Don what we came to call a
propaganda feedback loop that is to say
each of the outlets on the right has to
compete on ideological purity and being
and feeding its audience more identity
and bias confirming news whereas nobody
on the right has any incentive and in
fact is strongly incentivized against
saying no that's false
actually that's going too far let's be a
little moderate so what you don't see it
all on the right is competition that is
moderated by fact-checking and reality
checking the only way to differentiate
yourself is to continue to be loyal to
the identity confirming narratives and
to criticize others who step out of line
what we saw in the rest of the media
ecosystem including on the left is that
even when crazy conspiracy theory did
take root for a little while because the
audience pays attention to such a
diverse set of media because the media
that get the most attention operate on a
journalistic model that is fact-checking
constraint because even many of the
outlets that are less oriented operate
in that journalistic model the
conspiracies don't survive long and
instead there's
tension between on one hand trying to
get audiences by confirming their biases
which happens on the left as well and on
the other hand not going too far out of
line from what's reality because then
you get criticized from other sites that
the left pays attention to so the right
operates purely on a propaganda feedback
loop where they only repeat the same
bias confirm includes and nobody tries
to constrain the other whereas on the
left you see a tension between effort to
confirm people biases and make them feel
good about the news and at the same time
being constrained by the fact that
everybody still focuses on a reality
check dynamic and we should say that
this not only applies I mean to the the
media outlets themselves but also to
theoretically to the politicians right I
mean because they end up being you know
in the the the all of the I guess the
actors within what you could consider
sort of the conservative world or the
center center-left world so when I'm you
know even if I'm Speaker of the House
I've got to deal with essentially Fox
News and everything that's around it so
I also have to all of my incentives are
to at the very least either be quiet or
to actively confirm and support these
sort of other narratives that's
absolutely right and and again we see
this in the data essentially think of it
as a three-way interaction media outlets
want audiences and the audience gets
attention brings attention by enjoying
the stories that confirm their beliefs
politicians want audiences and they want
to confirm their beliefs because they
also attract it now if the media outlets
will always support and amplify what a
politician who only says what audiences
- here does is that that politician gets
airtime politician that says you know
what that's going too far
that's not true well at the best lose
attention and lose their audience and
their media outlets and at worse be
vilified and actually have the news
outlets attack them for being too soft
as it were and so essentially you have
this three-way network of audiences
police media outlets media outlets
police each other and police politicians
- all toe the party line instead what
you have with the rest of the media
ecosystem that covers the center center
left and left is that the outlets
identify politicians who are lying and
criticize them as well the politicians
who want to compete on being reality
based actually have an audience that can
tell the difference between truth and
fiction rather than just in what fits
and doesn't fit the party line so the
politicians face completely different
media and audience incentives on the
left one on the right the outlet face
completely different incentives and
sources of discipline and the audience
is there for face completely different
media ecosystem and on the right there's
simply reinforcement of toeing the party
line and competing on one can do it in a
more pure and extreme way whereas on the
left you get this balance between trying
to appeal to your voters preferences but
at the same time being constrained by a
media ecosystem that will hold you to
the facts of what you say so what what
what accounts for this difference I mean
this is because and I think I mean I'm a
boy is it is it simply I mean what
accounts from to the extent that you
have a sense what accounts for this
difference so the first thing that we
need
to learn from this difference is that
most of current debates about what's
happened to American political media has
focused on technology whether it's the
Facebook algorithm or fake news
clickbait spammers or whether it's
Russian BOTS or or most of the stories
which ever they were had a strong
technological component because both of
these populations are actually at the
same technological frontier and in fact
if you look at use surveys people on the
Left are younger generally and therefore
use the technology more whereas people
on the right depend more heavily on
traditional media like television and
radio you can't keep blaming the
technology that's not where most of the
action is instead you need to look at a
story that you can't find from our data
and in the book what we do is we step
away from the data and we start looking
at the history of the last 50 years of
media policy of political culture of
Technology and the story we tell
actually has very little to do with
Facebook's algorithm and a lot to do
with walk allowed rush limbaugh right to
invent the outrage industry as a major
new business model that makes millions
and so I mean let's let's let's talk
about that because you know having been
a I guess an am talk radio that that
entered into this in many respects to
specifically deal with Rush Limbaugh at
a time you know when YouTube did not
exist when Facebook was something that
just like college kids maybe you know
vaguely knew Twitter did not exist at
that time this was the dynamic the the
in some respects to the extent that we
had a precursor to social media radio
talk radio was it in many respects so I
mean I think people are familiar with
what happened with the Fairness Doctrine
being rolled back it allowed for
or rush limbaugh to go on three hours a
day but what else was it why why did the
Wright adopt that model and the left
never really pursued it or was it I mean
how conscious of an activity was it by
the right to pursue this so I think
there are several elements that we
explained in the chapter on the origins
of asymmetry in the book and first of
all there's a component that has to do
with the political realignment of the
Republican Party essentially after 68
with the adoption of the Southern
Strategy you see a shift of a strong
component of the Republican coalition
becoming a white identity audience that
is captured within the republican party
because it's rejecting the civil rights
then in the seventies you see
evangelical christians who were present
but not politically mobilized being
mobilized by the success of the women's
movement to predict a traditional
patriarchal family and resulting in the
rise of the moral majority these two
audiences Christian evangelicals who got
into it through televangelism
and Christian Broadcasting Network that
was the third most watched radio network
in the 1980s and Christian Broadcasting
alongside Rush Limbaugh and talk radio
created a base of within the audience
that was a large coherent group that
provided a commercial audience for this
model the second thing that happened is
in 1996 in addition to the repeal in
1987 of the Fairness Doctrine that you
mentioned in 1996 there was also repeal
of group ownership rules that allowed
Clear Channel to emerge as a major
player in radio
that allowed Sinclair to emerge as a
major player in broadcasting companies
whose names you don't really know but
then actually in the case of Clear
Channel owned stations from
coast-to-coast including buying the
producer of rush limbaugh glenn beck
hannity on radio so now you essentially
have a seamless network of radio
stations coast-to-coast practically 24
hours a day selling this outrage and
hatred as a form of candy essentially it
makes you feel good about your identity
if you agree with it and you tune into
it and it draws you in and it may gives
you a sense of community in this base
anchor so the right moves early the
right relied on deregulation and the
emergence of technologies of abundance
baam baam radio first then increased
channel capacity and later on the
internet to harvest the benefits from
this new audience on the left you had
first of all the fact that the light
moves first
meant that traditional journalistic
outlets also gave political
confirmations to people on the left the
more that the light was stuck in its
propaganda feedback loop the more just
telling things how they are already
reinforces you as somebody who is left
in your beliefs because now you're
getting all of the benefit of mainstream
journalism turning toward the right and
saying that's false so that was one
element the fact that the right was a
first mover it's entirely possible at
least in theory that had the left moved
first
it would have been reversed the other
thing is that the coalition on the Left
is much more diverse and doesn't have
this very large coherent center of white
identity and Christian voters and
instead has so if you look at radio
black communities are largely considered
a market
of their own Latinas communities are
largely considered their own NPR is
largely a highly journalistic
organization but with an editorial tilt
or a feel that serves and reinforces
left beliefs in that regard more like
The Wall Street Journal obviously than
my folks so for somebody like air
America to come along for MSNBC to
suddenly read change its practices in
2006 they're already competing with for
an audience that is getting some of its
partisan kicks simply from truth-seeking
journalism they're aiming for a much
more broad and diverse audience without
the same core of what provides the bread
and butter of the right-wing media and
by the time the internet sites come
along on the right the outrage industry
has been around for 20 years the
audience knows what to expect you can't
compete anywhere else on the left it
becomes much harder to compete
completely separate from reality and
instead we see this more constrained
partisanship even from outlets that try
to be more partisan let me just bounce
this this theory that pet theory of mine
that I've had for some time in terms of
like explaining the development of this
and I wonder if any of your research or
just your thoughts just in general that
on the right there is a aside from the
structure that they have built just
broadly speaking there's a lot more
money available for this type of stuff I
mean you know rush limbaugh and in all
of right-wing talk radio on some level
is subsidized by ideological money I
mean maybe we could you know whether
it's the Heritage Foundation or through
Hillsdale College or etc etc etc and in
broadly speaking I think we see that on
the on the right online as well is
there a difference in the incentive
structure of just the the the audiences
and the producers is it you know on the
left it seems to me much of the material
of the center Center left is you know
generated from academia where the where
the incentive structure where the reward
system is slightly different than on the
right on the right it seems to be how
effective can you be at entering certain
things into the the society's media
bloodstream on the exceed on the right
and on the left it is how sound is your
reporting or how sound you know it does
it withstand scrutiny and that those
fundamental differences in the the way
that one as a producer gets compensated
just by you know peer respect versus
actual dollars in you know adds to this
dynamic that's already existing so I
think it's important to separate two
very distinct phenomenal for me based on
our research the major transition point
on the belief structure on the right had
to do with the fact that rush limbaugh
found a new business model because big
money supported right-wing publications
from right after world war ii on
essentially if you look at the national
review nicole hammer has a beautiful
book called messengers of the light that
looks at that first generation of post
war likely media and what she shows
there is that they essentially never
became a business model they sold some
they had relatively low circulation and
they were allied partly on reader or
listener contributions and parkland
contributions form rich benefactors
exactly the model that you're describing
what was new
about rush limbaugh what was new about
Fox News is that they no longer
dependent on that kind of politically
mobilized money but instead actually
found a business model but groom
audiences that were loyal enough and
large enough to actually make it big
advertising business so they're on the
media side I'm not persuaded by the
story that it's about big money paying
for them to do it rather than the just
that they were able because of all the
reasons I described to turn right-wing
mobilized media from a partisan narrow
and money a big money funded enterprise
into mass media big business and now
online click they and and online
advertising business what is I think
correct about what you say is the flow
of shall we call it higher status or
research not status so much as as
research type work we're essentially
from right after the war with the World
War Two any with the heritage foundation
with the foundation for economic freedom
and going through Cato and and but
particularly heritage American
Enterprise Institute
you saw a strategy on the right of
creating a whole set of research
organizations whose role was to produce
right-wing viewpoint confirmation
throughout this part now some of them
are very very politically mobilized and
specific like Judicial Watch or or or
like the Mercer funded ban and
co-founded government accountability
initiative and some of them are much
more serious thinking think thanking
tight seats
with those we need to operate in a way
that's very different from academia and
again there's this imbalance where when
you're inside a framework would depend
on politically aligned donors and you
don't have institutional constraints of
academia you certainly do see much more
motivated research it's not that you
don't do see academically mobilized
research in the academia as well in
university as well but here you get
institutional constraints that at least
for the more serious research impose a
much more serious constraint so on that
level of high high quality data informed
narratives that come into the media I
think your your dynamic of money making
a difference is important on the media
culture itself I really do think it was
a transformation of the business model
to allow for advertising based hate
stoking outrage industry to emerge one
of the things that I feel like that that
that technology has changed in some way
I mean I'm looking back at 2004 was
there was a there was a meme in 2000
2004 which was Drudge rules their world
and that was that was to articulate the
efficacy of the sort of the way that
these the the right-wing narratives sort
of entered into the Society's
bloodstream in some way that it would it
would go from Fox News or you know some
of these you know sort of like quasi
think-tank institutions through Drudge
and then every producer at you know ABC
News NBC News CBS News at CNN would read
Rudge and they in Drudge would basically
provide them the the the their editorial
decisions of the day and on some to some
degree it seems like that social media
in particular but
even starting with the blogs started to
push back on that in some way and the
dynamic changed to where that the it was
almost if there was a realization
amongst the right that like we don't
even need to have the ABCs CBS's and
NBC's buy this story anymore largely we
can just sort of maintain this narrative
in our own bubble we don't even need it
to be validated anymore by the broader
society and yet we still saw an example
of like Steve Bannon going out and
laundering Clinton cash through the
organization that you just you decided
what can you tell me about that dynamic
about about how on one hand the right
seems to be now sort of self sufficient
in terms of the narrative and in other
instances we still have these this sort
of like mainstreaming of of what
essentially function as right-wing
conspiracies so this is actually a
really important point but before I even
start that you mentioned Drudge Drudge
is still critically important if you
look at similar web traffic at one of
the web traffic analysis firms it looks
like something like half of Alex Jones's
Infowars traffic comes from Vincent
Drudge much more important than Facebook
or Twitter or any other source work for
Informer so Drudge is still important
within that ecosystem you know in a
really quirky way but you asked I think
a more important question which is the
role of mainstream traditional media in
disseminating the crazy on the right and
I think it's our book we have a chapter
dedicated to fairness mainstream media
we have a chapter specifically around
the ways in which as you describe
Breitbart and Bannon use the New York
Times the thing that's important to
remember is that even though we don't
now exactly how many people live fully
inside the feedback loop that's not the
entire Republican electorate so if you
look for example at surveys and the
question of is the press the enemy of
the people it's shocking that 51% of
Republicans in August of 2018 tell the
Quinnipiac poll that they think that the
press is the enemy of the people but at
the same time that's only hostile it's
shocking that 48% of Trump voters
telling you Gulf Paul in December of
2016 that they think that emails show
that someone was running the pedophilia
now the Clinton campaign but it's 48%
there's that roughly half ish of
Republican voters could be as few it
could be as much as 25% of that
population of the population generally
could be as little as 15 we're not quite
sure whether a quarter or a third of a
population lives squarely inside the Fox
News Breitbart universe but it's
certainly not all Republican voters and
this is the critical role that
mainstream media played in taking those
stories and generalizing to the public
because that's where the people who
spend some of their time on Fox News but
much of their time on ABC CBS NBC those
are the people who really got confounded
by mainstream media so the story that
you know the story of all Clinton cash
was just a brilliant piece of
information operation from banner
literally two years before the election
it was clear that you already knew that
the product that that the primary
contact contenders would be Clinton and
Bush and Jeb Bush and he had the
government accountability initiative and
wrote a couple of books one was called
Clinton cash the other was called bush
bucks and they were both basically
concocted conspiracies about how
horrible terrible no-good each one of
these true families were in terms of of
selling the store of America
politics for donors in the case of
Clinton is primarily Clinton Foundation
the trick with Clinton with the Clinton
Foundation was to then come and give the
New York Times and exclusive 18 months
before the election an exclusive so that
times when they read the book they
followed up and they came out with a big
story and the story had a blaring
headline cash flows the Clinton
Foundation amid transfer of uranium to
two Russian firms sounds terrible
somewhere in paragraph 15 or 17 there's
barely there was no evidence wrongdoing
but still abrasive issues that story
became the third most linked to storing
the entire campaign stories a story from
April of 2015 became the most needed a
third most linked to story of all the
time stories throughout the entire
election period because it was used by
the right to reinforce and confirm and
get a sense of validation for this story
so again we document over and over again
how right-wing outlets are essentially
teasing and putting things into the
stream of mainstream media the mother
email releases had the same effect and
it's the inability of editors to keep
the headlines consistent with the fact
and the wish to sort of draw people in
that ends up amplifying and validating
this conspiracy stories that come from
the right so what is if you have it what
is the solution to this or what or what
is what is there anything out there that
can mitigate this dynamic I mean how do
you pierce a bubble like that so first
of all we start ruefully the chapter on
solutions with if our diagnosis had been
simpler and more technical we would have
been able to give you better
technocratic solutions
the structural problems of political
culture and media culture there are no
easy solutions I would say that the
single most important thing that can
happen and we don't have this in the
book yet because the data started to
begin in 2018 but impressionistic it
seems like this is getting through to
editors and newsrooms
the most important thing is that
traditional professional journalists and
editors need to understand that they're
in a deeply asymmetric propaganda system
and that when they are propagating the
stories from the work they are
essentially complicit so the old model
of playing objectivity in traditional
media was to be neutral I'd says that
side that said the other thing and I'm
just telling you how about what both
sides when you have such dramatic
asymmetry to be objective by being
neutral systematically makes you someone
who validates falsehood from the light
and so you need to change the culture
and you're seeing already media willing
to call out lies from the president in
particular from from Trump in a way that
would have been inconceivable five years
ago also we have levels of lying that
would have been inconceivable five years
ago so that's that's obviously pushing
it but so you need a change in
professional media culture that's the
most important thing ultimately it will
require sustained glosses by the
Republicans so that they realize that
it's a losing strategy and begin to work
things back on their own but that's
obviously out of the hands of anybody
trying to create solutions there are
discrete things we can do I think
there's no doubt that we need immediate
substantial reform to introduce
transparency into political advertising
but one thing we don't know is how
effective the Facebook targeted
advertising laws or the Trump campaign
in particular and in particular how much
dark as
he adds that only very very marrow
people sets of people see so there are
proposals like the honest ads act that
are on the table
those won't solve the whole problem but
they're an important basic
infrastructure for us to know what's
going on we need some accountability for
the platform's greater transparency to
what's going on and there's some
initiatives primarily in Europe now
around creating those I doubt that those
will come out in the u.s. soon so we
need to focus on the platforms because
within 5 10 15 years they will be the
dominant source but because so much of
what central now is happening still on
cable TV and on radio it's very hard to
come up with solutions that are
consistent with the First Amendment
other than this main shift in the
practices of journalists and editors you
know what I'll tell you what scares me
is that I think it I think that the
changes that we've seen in those
journalists has been a function of Trump
but when we see like just for this you
know this weekend where we see things
like rick scott saying you know starting
to talk about fraud in Florida and in
fact you know this is getting repeated
and they're allowing Republican
politicians and others to repeat this
even though rick Scott himself has not
called the police he's the governor he
has the ability to investigate these
things I get a little worried that Trump
allows the media to sort of say like hey
look we're being we're doing that we're
being skeptical but then just sort of
like leave it to just as if it was a
Trump phenomena rather than the the
entire structure of a machine that
brought Trump really to where he was
right like the Machine preceded Trump
right I mean that's you you had to have
a machinery that that would that where
that was telling it's both its producers
in its consumers hey Barack Obama may
not be an American for Trump to sort of
ride that wave into office in some way
I think that's exactly right I think
although Trump is both a symptom of a
much longer out rage industry and the
catalyst
you can't ignore and we show it in the
data particularly in the chapter on
immigration he he has this callin
response relationship with right-wing
media ecosystem as well as with the
mainstream media and he is a real
catalyst he's not the sort of a problem
he is definitely a symptom of years of
the propaganda feedback loop on the
light operating as we describe it but he
has certainly learned how to not only be
a consequence but be a real catalyst and
he and and he you can't ignore the fact
that he's made things much worse and
he's essentially made it in the official
policy of the United States to call the
media the enemy of the people
um but I I agree with you that that he
makes it too easy but in some sense
professional journalists have not quite
focused on how pervasive this phenomenon
is in the Republican Party and look the
more Trump succeeds with it the more
politicians on the right will follow him
people follow success it'll have to show
itself as a failure and even the debate
over whether or not the midterm was a
blue wave or not it's precisely a debate
on whether the trance Trat adji was a
success or failure and I think the sense
that somehow the scent that emerged in
the first day and it slowly we're
learning was false that there was no
blue wave has allowed him to continue to
project this persona of a success and as
long as he's success people on the right
will try to follow and copy him just why
I appreciate your hanging with me for
some light a couple more questions I
just found this really fascinating how
do we know you know like how do we know
the power of cable news and
these narratives in terms of like I mean
I think it's it's easier to understand
how they impact our politics in terms of
like almost legislatively because many
of the politicians themselves they're
they're bathed in this but when we talk
about cable news for instance you know
we're talking about I don't know a whole
universe of five or ten million people
maybe who watch all this stuff and you
know it shows like this one I mean
there's not you but how how do we know
that that actually has that it makes a
difference like you know when we rail on
somebody for for trafficking and in some
type of conspiracy how do we know from
the data that this makes any type of
difference or how does that manifest
itself so there are two ways one is not
stuff that we do we just survey it from
others and that serving so pew goes out
and ask voters what is your primary
source of news or what news source do
you most trust and there you get very
clearly that when pew right after the
election a score like you're asked Trump
voters what news sources do what is your
most important news source
forty percent said Fox only about seven
percent said Facebook so you know that
Fox is much more important on the Left
just as we found with our own data in
the same survey you see a much longer
and smoother distribution of attention
with with with other sites similarly in
our own data if you work at attention
so take the sister rich conspiracy
conspiracy that that DNC staffer rather
than the leaked the DNC memos rather
than that the Russians acted like after
set which was murdered in Washington DC
as part of a robbery
there was a bubbling on the net of
various fringe sites maybe Russian
inspired sites that
trying to say now it was Selfridge it
wasn't anybody else there was a moment
where expect a little bit around
WikiLeaks releasing a prize for whoever
killed and therefore implying that in
fact he was the source when you plot the
amount of attention it's got overall
online during that early period when
more online extreme and WikiLeaks only
propagation happened to a period on the
week in which Comey was fired when
Hannity and Fox and Friends and Fox DC
even propagated the same conspiracy
theory that later time Dwarfs several
times over the amount of coverage and
attention online there was to the fringe
and we see this again with the uranium
one story that was part of what we
talked about with regard to the ban and
Breitbart that happened the same thing
it was big but it was overwhelmed in
November of 2017 when things were going
badly in the Muller investigation to
Trump when suddenly Fox News morning
noon and night for a month took on this
uranium one story completely recoded it
as a story about how Muller and rod
Rosenstein and Andrew McCabe had helped
Obama give the Russians 20% of American
nuclear capabilities I can't do not not
that crazy I know I know that story
hello it's sad to say so can you look so
when you look at at our measures of
attention online it's very clear that
when it makes it in a big way to Fox it
dominates what happens when it stays
only online yeah that gives us a real
level of confidence when you combine
both the surveys of what people say they
care about and the measures of what they
search Google Trends or whatever it is
that we're using that that cable is
really driving these beliefs I mean I
would imagine me certainly we saw that
with the caravan too and I would imagine
that there is and I'm sure it's been
done in the past and maybe we'll see it
with this there would be data that
so shi'ites fox will explain why there
were sort of disparate types of people
reacting to one message or another in
the context of these midterms alright so
lastly let me just ask you this because
when I when I talked about what can be
done you know much of it relied on the
producers to to responsibly you know
assess you know the what they were going
after and like I say with the caravan we
saw that completely breakdown right like
there nobody's covering the caravan
anymore because there really is not a a
terribly relevant story to the American
public about never was there never was I
mean to the extent that there was any it
was just like these guys are saying the
caravan is important we're not going to
go down to the caravan because the
caravan itself is not important we're
just covering how these guys are saying
you know a ghost is important and they
didn't even they weren't even able to
act to provide that type of restraint so
aside from relying on those on the
producers what can like the consumer or
let's say citizens can do is there
anything that they can do or is it just
like let's hope for better editors so it
depends on what problem you're trying to
solve
in the universe where do you think that
everybody is confused and doesn't know
what the truth is you say teach yourself
lead a more diverse diet and all of that
in a universe that's consistent with our
results people don't not know they know
what they're getting that people who
consume conspiracy theories are not or
particularly not so much conspiracy
theories at the extreme but which is the
mainstream FoxNews driven outrage the
people who consume and enjoy it it's
entertainment it makes you feel good
about yourself to come to somebody and
say know the thing you believe remember
in a Pew report when you aren't
consistently liberal
consistently conservative people what
they're most trusted news outlets were
they said Fox News Hannity Limbaugh and
Glenn Beck they trust them they pay
attention to them it makes them feel
good about themselves to listen to them
what are you going to tell them you're
wrong you should change you should let
go of everything that gives you meaning
and makes you happy because it's
inconsistent with reality as I
understand it I don't know that there's
a solution based on on own users on
readers and viewers I think people are
stuck in the system they're stuck in the
structure that they're stuck and if you
can identify levers where you can change
the structure then people might slowly
start to climb down off the line'
they're on and in that regard the most
important people are the people who are
not yet fully in the grip of the Fox
News Breitbart universe but are only one
foot in those are the people who in some
sense can still be brought back to
something like reality and that means to
be the initial focus in my view the book
is network propaganda manipulation
disinformation and radicalization in
American politics authored by yokai
benkler and co-authors Robert Ferris Hal
Roberts we will put a link to that at
majority dot F M professor thank you so
much I really appreciate the time today
thank you all right folks
so there you have it
see you in a year what well I mean I
think you know it one of the things I
think that we try and do here is you
know grab those people before they just
fall down that rabbit hole I still
contend that you know if anybody wants
to give me ten million dollars I will do
some leases on some low powered FM
station
in some in half a dozen states and we'll
get this we'll get this thing going yeah
AM stations - that's been saying
low-powered did I say FM yeah oh I meant
yes low-powered a.m. station I will you
go before the FM I would go a.m. first I
don't know why I said FM I was I was
taking notes because I feel like the
left should be radicalizing people -
with our media but we care a little more
about the truth so that's a problem that
is the problem I mean that is the
problem we you do not see and here is a
solution did you hear that new Ted Cruz
story I'll get to in the phone half well
well there you go
baseless speculation innuendo it would
be you that at one point it was a meme
back in the day even premium it would be
irresponsible not to speculate as what
we used to say that is such a dick it
actually came from a a right-wing outlet
or I can't remember if it was the Bush
administration somebody said that that
it would be a response to a Bobby
Garfield of on the media and I don't
think it was folks we're gonna head into
the fun half just a reminder this
program relies on on you on you who is
listening
maybe not you today maybe you yesterday
or maybe you tomorrow but maybe you
today it is our members who make this
show possible you can become a member by
going to join the majority report
dot-com join the majority report calm
when you go there spend a couple of
couple bucks a week supporting this
program we say thank you by giving you
extra content every day and we're able
to to push this show along I'm working
I'm looking into technology right now
now we were just speaking to you hi
benkler in he was in Spain and so we you
know we talked to him on the cell phone
and it was
the the sound was not optimal there's
only so much we can do
I can't arrange to have your high
benkler go to a you know an NPR studio
in in Spain but there are our
technologies we're looking at that might
might help with that and so when you
become a member that's what we do we
pour it into it into trying to to make
the show better in some fashion for you
so again join the majority report calm
tomorrow on this program we'll have a
special announcement about a way in
which you could see us in the flesh as
you know Michael's doing a show TMDs in
in Brooklyn in February and I because of
a court order I can't go anywhere near
that building for for like a couple days
before and like a like literally there's
a whole circumference that I'm like a
radius that I'm not too bad I was
actually hoping or for you I probably
like a half-price ticket I thought this
but we're researching who filed that
restraining order so with that said who
sorry I thought of actually a funny line
but I I'm impressed with how I
restrained myself from saying it well
there you go but we will have an
irresponsible it's not speculate as to
who that joke might have been about but
we'll have an announcement tomorrow on
this program
join the majority report calm also just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get 10% off
speaking of tea MBS you're actually
gonna do some work this week indeed two
different shows this week and tomorrow
Malaika Jabalia is joining us she is a
really good piece in current affairs
called the color of economic anxiety
which deals with a New York Times
profile on african-american voters that
didn't go out and to vote in 2016 and
rebranding what we mean when we talk
about the working class it follows up
with a Bill Fletcher jr. Commerce
very well plus a mini primer which will
lead to a listed history on what
happened in Florida in 2000 and then on
Friday crew Cory pine is back along with
contra Point she'll be joining us and so
and I'll talk about this more as the
week goes on and definitely get your
tickets to the show for February 1st at
the Bell House can't wait to see there
the tickets our link is available in the
home page of majority data family
Jamie yeah so out now on the anti Fattah
we have an interview with Jay Firestone
who wrote an amazing piece for kommune
magazine that's going a bit viral called
three months inside all right New York
about his secret mission infiltrating
various all right and all light groups
like the proud boys gathering
information on them we talked about what
the experience was like for him who
these people are how the groups interact
with each other how they view Trump as
well as various kinds of anti-fascist
tactics and why only communism can fight
fascism in the long run Matt hope Lesley
finally did the episode on hope Lesley a
book by Katherine Maria Sedgwick 1827
check it out it's on youtube patreon.com
slash literary hangover alright folks
are gonna take quick break headed to the
fun half six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty is the number see you
in the fun hat
you
we're vac Sam cedar on the majority
report uh-huh
excuse me pardon me ladies and gentlemen
this is speaking of no speaking of the
right-wing creating conspiracies and the
that this comes not only in this
relationship between the producers and
the audience and these like sort of
smaller producers and Fox here you have
a politician promoting this garbage and
then also being allowed to present it on
non bat-crap crazy station simply bought
because of their status right like oh
he's a senator so we're gonna let him
say whatever he wants we saw this on
MSNBC to Chuck Todd had this guy on he
said the same bullcrap and was not
essentially laughed off the the this is
this is the functional equivalent was
that guy's name Jeffrey Lord like this
is you know this is you know if Jeffrey
Lord said this you you would see some
pushback there is zero evidence for what
we're about to hear Cory Gardner say I
mean this guy's already trying to I
don't know protect his real act or I
don't know when is this guy up for did
he just win election Cory Gardner he did
not that sounds like a guy who's afraid
of a primary challenge that's what it
sounds like the pay pace here is Cory
Gardner senator from Colorado correct on
CNN's State of the Union because you
know a vote that's cast in in Yuma it
shouldn't be disqualified under the same
provision that qualifies a vote in
Maricopa illegally cast a vote wherever
as legally caste should count the same
not with differing standards amongst the
offices I know but your organization
accused an election official of cooking
the books and I don't see any evidence
of any illegality there are questions
about their if you want to get technical
here about what emergency voting is in
Maricopa County the law is very vague
Maricopa County setup for emergency
voting stations before Election Day two
of them by the way in Republican areas
Mesa and Scottsdale and different
counties interpret that vague law
different ways that's not cooking the
books and I just I keep hearing the
organization you dare accuse people of
breaking the law and I don't see
evidence of it yeah if you're a voter in
Arizona and you're you cast a vote in
Yuma and you cast a vote in Phoenix
legally you did it the same and your
vote in Yuma is disqualified your vote
in Maricopa is not disqualified is that
fair I heard to the zetas better I'd
prefer to the governor and the Secretary
of State of Arizona
they're both Republicans and they say
everything is going according to how it
should be going now if you have issues
with county by county election processes
whether it's in Florida or Arizona then
you know I don't want to stand in the
way of you introducing legislation
saying every state has to do it the
exact same way but if the Republican
governors I'm not talking about
federalizing elections I'm talking about
the state of Arizona oh I bet
unionization I think federalizing the
elections would be a bad idea
I think making sure that as if you're in
Arizona that the posit let's be clear on
what's going on here and this is the
same thing that they argued in Florida
in 2002 which was you can't recount
these ballots that got screwed up in
this in West Palm Beach because what
about the guys in the Panhandle how come
they don't get a recount
this is sheer BS and good for Jake
Tapper of calling him out sheer BS we're
gonna keep playing it but but but the
idea of of not of of avoiding the
solution to this if you really think
it's a problem remember the elections
controlled by Republicans in Florida
and in Arizona and if you really think
it's a problem why not federalizing you
just made a good case if it's true with
someone in Zuma and Maricopa why
shouldn't it be true with someone in
Maricopa and Albany or in I don't know
Chattanooga continue they should I think
federalizing the elections would be a
bad idea I think making sure that as if
you're in Arizona that the vote you cast
legally counts I think that's what we're
trying to do that's what was reached
that's the agreement that was reached in
Arizona and I think that's a good
outcome but where's the evidence that
anybody was cooking the books well we
had evidence that people were treating
ballots differently and again this is
about the integrity of when you go and
cast a ballot you don't expect to yours
to be disqualified under a provision
that would allow a ballot to be counted
somewhere else that's that's exactly
what we're trying to do whose balance
were being disqualified my understanding
of the situation is that what happened
was in Maricopa County they had for
emergency voting stations set up in the
county by the way it's a County that Joe
Arpaio won I mean it's a it's a mixed
County and Republicans and Democrats
both can win in that County and that's
what happened it's not like people in
Yuma County were not allowed to vote
it's just that that this elections
official set up for emergency voting
stations throughout the county including
in Scottsdale and Mesa which are
republican-leaning
well I think I've answered the question
we just want to make sure that every
vote counts and that every vote the
legally cast is counted what cooking the
books exactly if that's exactly what I'm
saying
cooking the books is another way of
saying count all the ballots make sure
everybody's vote is fail make sure
everybody's votes fairly counted in a
sense that's fraud against people who
lose elections if all votes are counted
so if you think about it it's basically
doubly unfair
WOWO WOWO federalizing she's making it
right I mean core Gardner's making a
great argument as to why we need to
federalize elections and I'll tell you
why he doesn't want to do that you just
want to do that for the same reason why
the Republicans were adamant about
destroying the Voting Rights Act because
once you actually federalize elections
once you say that we're going to
maintain a certain bottom of standards
as to what what practical ways that
people can vote what are the laws so
that they're not confusing you do not
you do not you basically disallow all of
the suppression tactics that Republicans
use in states by States by States and so
of course they don't want to federalize
this because if they federalize it I
mean can anybody come up with any reason
from a practical standpoint even from a
theoretical standpoint if you believe
that somebody in Zuma or Yuma or
wherever in Arizona or in any given
state has the same right to vote as
somebody else within that state why
wouldn't you say that from state to
state competition would start kicking in
competition would start yeah because
then there would be an incentive to
produce the best voting systems possible
and then the states would compete
against each other and then weed out the
most efficient system and people have
you locked it down with the federal
bureaucracy then innovation would be
stifled boom suck it right Wow and also
I mean friggin you see be a libertarian
pundit yeah but it's so easy to get
efficiencies from scale right like you
have to recreate this I don't know
things just get big and stuff and that
just concerns me see you in reason oh my
god Michael where'd you get that new
those new leather shoes exactly where
did you get those Italian loafers you
get that our money suit all right well
those even shipped to these states now
that we're talking about the vote you
know what's really annoying to people
like I don't know old man Lou Dobbs and
and whatnot is when they can't go on air
and give a definitive answer as to who
won an election if it's super close now
we didn't see them complain about this
in in in past elections just this one
because it turns out that we just had a
midterm that had 49 percent of voters
it's not enough should
should be closer to like 95% but it is
the highest turnout rate for a midterm
in a hundred and four years in this
country by far the highest number of
voters hundred fifteen million voters
but in terms of percentage the highest
percentage in a hundred and four years
this is where the libertarian pundit
comes in and goes that's why we need to
control our population to get it back
down to where it was 100 five years ago
so we can get midterm participation up
but with that said many people voted
absentee many people voted early because
of course of Republican shenanigans that
want to make sure they were eligible to
vote they wanted people we're excited to
vote that's a problem what I'll explain
listen to Lou Dobbs this is a bit of a
departure but not too much iid of early
voting right that has overtaken much of
the country extends election day across
weeks and weeks and pods are left it
does not extend election day over weeks
and weeks because that would mean you
would start on Election Day and it would
go much further no election day ends at
the exact same time that it has always
ended folks it's not a Tuesday that
lasts three weeks now no it's not a
Tuesday that lasts until December like
if you love democracy wouldn't you want
it to last as long as possible well you
need a result at one point but you
should count all the ballots that's all
we're talking if somebody said it's a
republic not a democracy but boy that
was a great plate and and we're left for
this situation where Election Day is no
longer election day and it sounds like
and looks like and feels like a recipe
for immense fraud on the part of the
that's it's it's coming I mean I think
there's a lot of fraud that goes on
already and I think more and more are
coming as time goes on there comes in
the counterfeit canal for this this
makes no sense either have a vote or
don't have a vote well why not have
voter ID for crying out loud I
wait what wait a second voter ID now
it's going to affect absentee balloting
it's gonna slow it down actually it's
when was don't have a vote on the table
this is apparently this is like this is
like you know you're about four or five
days out from Thanksgiving you just have
like a real smattering a leftover so
you're just gonna throw it all into a
pot and cook it let's answer the
question I'm all for that you know I
also think to a certain extent in these
national elections the federal
government has a role not to take over
the name or a whoa what just just in the
sense of the law enforcement side of it
what have you posit wait a second
the federal government has a role in
elections just on the law enforcement
side like a little calmed down I mean by
not letting black people vote there is a
way to ensure federal law enforcement to
get involved that means you passed a
standard a standard on a federal level
you're gonna have the federal election
police force come in and have to learn
the rules from 50 different states is
that the idea and you know you you the
Civil Rights Act has always had people
in there making sure that people's
rights aren't being violated but there's
a lot of other people who don't fall on
the civil rights that's a great point
yeah that's a great point we need a
white we need a white can vote act well
you know what let's uh let's reach
across the aisle and have federal
standards for the vote so that we don't
see any of this mish-mosh that being
said I'd like to take us a little trip
to down memory lane which Sam I'm I'm
assuming you probably know about this I
don't forget this is from the New York
Times report June 15 1994 Edie Rollins
who we just saw on that clip who also
looked pretty crusty and said at that
point as well offers an apology to black
ministers in person like a sinner to the
altar at Rollins returned New Jersey to
taste seeking forgiveness from black
ministers he once boasted that he bought
the Republican campaign consultant stood
before the black ministers council
church basement here and apologized
proclaiming last November that he helped
governor christine Todd Whitman win
election
suppressing black voter turnout mf'er I
want more I state at the time Ross Perot
or something no this was 94 at the this
is just a governor's race at the time
mr. Rollins told reporters that wit hand
on pain had paid black ministers doing
not to encourage their Congress to vote
for governor Jim Florio he quickly
recanted and a federal inquiry found no
evidence of sudden whoops payments my
behavior was inexcusable and I do come
here with a dream sense of remorse he
said his voice his voice steady his
hands slightly trembling I regret what I
said it wasn't true how did it go today
well I did the whole hand trembling
thing that worked uh call from a 702
area code who's this were you calling
from hey thank you hear me yeah who's
this hey it's broke it's broke from
Engel from Las Vegas bro flamingo from
Las Vegas what's on your mind but hey uh
I just want to say a great Election Day
show I thoroughly enjoyed it I just have
some things on my mind um I just feel
like I just feel like nowadays you know
if it ever was racism is not
disqualifying for the right wing or the
white right I mean it is not
disqualifying in fact the Donald Trump
lifted veneer off even my lucid bona
fides in some places yep I think that's
how you know anyway right and um
understand secretaries it's like waiting
to your uh to your guests that you had
on today he's very good show by the way
because I really like that guess but um
I just feel like you know cuz roots like
you talked about cable news and you know
the Breitling networking stuff one thing
I kind of see as a black person one day
I kind of sees whether it's Fox News or
MSNBC or CNN whatever you know when it
comes to I guess black people in the
news there's always a continuity of you
know black on black crime statistics and
all this other garbage that they kind of
push you know and whether it's like you
know again the suppose we quote unquote
liberal MSNBC to Fox News is always a
continuity of you know I don't say
overtly racist is you know oh now it's
already based on Fox I mean
let's be clear but you know they've
always pushed this up when it comes to
black people you know like you know
they're always talking about you know
they're always talking about you know
again black on black crime you know
poverty and stuff like that and it's and
I feel like you know this really
remember Breitbart before really
exploded right Bart became barbar was
pretty much a black crime blotter no
right-wing conspiracy stuff but also a
black on black crime bother and I just
think you know cuz I by the way I
completely agree with your guests but at
the backwards I just see a continuity
among discussion of you know black news
and I guess you know black public
discourse and also when you bring a lot
of you know black people on in the media
it's always just discussing racism it's
never about power or you know any real
tangible things cuz of course you know
you might rock the boat too much you
know and the one thing I'll say and then
you could comment the one thing I kind
of see you know is that any attempt
because you're pathologically don't have
like you know I get to make black
behavior pathological or they try to
make it seem that way right right
any attempt any attempt to apologize you
know white criminal behavior I should
say like your mass shootings and stuff
like that but now that's the best of the
most you know in-your-face one you know
white males in particular are very hyper
sensitive to that and they'll push back
and you know cry and do all these and do
all these phony agree decision stuff and
you know and and and and for me that
plays white until white supremacist
hands because if you've never criticized
these people if you've never really take
into account you know you let them
practice on reality and that goes back
in there in that feed in a feedback loop
that the gentleman was talking about
right you know if you gave or criticizes
guys you just feed into the into the
group so when you so much about this
upstanding I guess I'm gonna hear your
points but when you when you you know
push all this black there's also
Hispanic and Jews you know the globalist
or stuff like that to lesser extent but
you know a lot of the bigotries based on
blackness that's what extends from in
the country but it goes other races but
then you never criticize you never
criticize me or criminal behavior and
stuff like that you know if it's feed
directly right into that loop when you
don't prosecute these guys and you don't
prosecute you know the criminal behavior
and the racism you know it just gives
carte blanche
that's it you know okay it's okay
you know it's almost like white is a
tabula rasa in the society
absolutely I appreciate the phone call
no I think that's true and a I mean we
see this it's its most stark at least in
terms of like these shootings right
someone with a Muslim name shoots it
becomes a Muslim problem someone goes in
and shoots ten people if a white guy
goes in and shoots it's an individual
problem there's no doubt about that my
only slight pushback is my impulse would
be to try to not talk about crimes like
that generally one way or another
I just I guess an example I think we
need to be shrinking with specifically
with terrorism I want to shrink the
usage of that word as much as possible
yeah outside of like very specifically
like great Ku Klux Klan that Bal Qaeda
that horse is out of the barn
I mean sadly I agree with you if we had
the ability if I could program
everything I would like in program
myself you know I mean that's at least
what I do when I cuz I'm not gonna jump
on that like every atrocity is terrorism
bandwagon I well I at least want to try
to use it in a fairly narrow way to
denote like as I say the Ku Klux Klan
okay like what happened Charlottesville
is terrorism that was politically
motivated you know ideological violence
I don't think every mass shooting I was
right right no there atrocities mass
murders I wouldn't I don't want well
broadening notice I put aside the
terrorism the thing the idea is less
about what they call it and more about
what what a function of it is in other
words look the vast majority of our mass
our mass incident shooters are white
guys within a certain age and nobody
talks about there's something intrinsic
to whiteness at that age and maleness at
that certain age that creates these
things whereas if it is a Muslim person
or immediately gets that's that's my
point
I know that's undoubtedly true I just
don't I just did general
specifically with crime things I just I
see the danger of playing that game one
way or not I know what you're saying cuz
even like with mass shooting incidents
it's so the guy in other words you're
saying the guy in California was not a
terrorist no right no I agree I agree I
would also like to shrink the carceral
State and I caution against any
suggestions or prescriptions that
involve growing it because the way our
society is right now that is primarily
going to affect people of color and poor
people still but if we're gonna have
jails we might as well put racists and
murderer cops in them I do agree with
that all right let's go to the phones
come from a five five nine area code
who's this where you come from Marco
from Fresno California Marco what's in
your mind yeah to address this racist
issue that you guys white liberals are
always dealing with and not to put you
in that category I'm sorry but you know
education education is what actually
stops racism I mean the more educated
people are the more they are lack to be
racist you know that's what with you
know history Marco : with you know real
history mark about the contributions
about african-americans and you know the
contributions of it I'll bring this
conversation back to what we're talking
about and what you're talking about
the politics of today but you but a few
weeks ago you guys were having this
conversation about racism and why people
are ray I don't know that's just what I
took from it but you know I published a
black newspaper here in Fresno and I
listened to different media outlets and
stuff and I really respect you guys but
you guys are way off on certain things
one thing is
education takes away racism when you're
educated you know the facts about the
contributions of different people and
different cultures that is what really
stems the racism thing let me ask you
this do you have do you have data that
that that that that suggests that I mean
I do I mean I would have my brother I
would imagine well I would imagine that
there's some there's some correlation
although I don't know and I mean it's it
is I liked I think I mean I think like
what is clear is that the more time you
spend with people who you have racist
thoughts of that those diminished may I
there's actually at least when I looked
at this the research actually indicated
at least that I saw was it wasn't just
time it was actually specifically time
when you're either in a peer to peer or
actually like they're your boss
relationship so in other words if it's
like dependent a lot of times with right
so it's like maybe every day you're
seeing people that you have racist
attitudes for and they're I don't know
at like working at the coffee shop you
go do that didn't have as much of an a
million of effect is like actual
interaction but market but let's just
assume that your your your assessment
that racism is a function of lack of
education ignorant of ignorance yeah
okay and actually you know what racism
is that you know what I'm I'm trying to
get a book together right now and talk
about racism as a mental illness because
it's a paranoia it's actually a paranoia
well listen mental illness we describe
it as a mental illness then we can
function it we can treat people we can
educate them what the problem is not
like being scared of aliens but here's
the problem
it marks a non-existent mark oh here's
the problem alright and through
tomorrow on on the program we're gonna
have a guy on who has written a book
that with with two other people that
that has data that it's really
fascinating about but well okay that
this mental illness was enhanced under
by the election of Barack Obama and
here's the problem okay wait a second
let me think in this country has grown
up under the expectations and the
assumptions that we are three-fifths a
human we are monkeys to all y'all that's
how black folks see it we see it and I'm
just giving you how black folks see you
guys and CNN and thoughts and all you
guys we put you all in the same category
we you guys see us as monkeys that's how
we think you see us now and I I would go
back to Plessy vs. Ferguson I'm willing
to be separate and equal just make us
equal I don't want to live next to you
guys I'm at a point now listen in this
society right now yeah I met up I'm so
frustrated
as a black man and as a black publisher
of a newspaper that's been here for over
50 years in Fresno California
yeah me I'm so frustrated to the point
where I'm about to run for office myself
and and you know just make me separate
but equal I don't I don't trust y'all
none of y'all because you are all y'all
have grown up in this institutional
thing we're monkeys now it's it it
demonstrates itself more substantially
with with races and and right-wing
people or whatever but even white
liberals I mean right women voted for
Donald Trump
I don't think I don't think they would
identify themselves as white liberals
that voted but let me tell you what
Marco are you gonna let me say anything
okay tomorrow on the program we have a
guy on I don't know what color is I
think he's white but he is going to talk
about race well listen I don't know
Marco if he thinks that are you gonna
take over the show because if you are I
gotta go I gotta move forward if you
want to do the show because I got a
break I can record something later so
you could do the show so tomorrow I know
I get it I get it
I don't blame you just gotta let me
speak the guys coming on and his the
data that they have done and it includes
also you know self-identified white
liberals I don't know what they use the
terminology maybe they use Democrats in
this context yeah that the election of
Obama drove some people crazier and it
and it and it in it it basically made
that that mental disease that you talk
about it enhanced it for some for others
it made them it had the weird effect of
like well I know it's weird but made
more ambivalent White's actually more
sensitive to the questions of race now
you can debate that but you I this is
what I'm suggesting listen to the
program tomorrow white women have never
been in support of the black community
that was rich it was white women that
claimed no no no no just here rule our
black communities come from I'm telling
you to man journey we cannot trust white
folk spirit free
for y'all to sit there and even
discussed the issue of if Donald Trump
is lying or not or whatever to just do
that on seeing the other where it's
insulting I don't think I just don't I
just don't think that we're debating it
and and and you know i mean i don't
think we're debating it i think you're
you know I mean I can understand your
perspective on this but I don't think
your assessment of what we're doing is
is accurate and so I mean but I can tell
you listen tomorrow you have to
understand you have grown up as a white
liberal man in the society you still
retain it by institutional reasons can't
accept the fact that you don't quite get
it you have to get black guests on to
help you get it hello I'm saying you
guys get it better than anybody I've
ever heard yeah well and we we I think
we do a decent job of having black ass
on you do a great job but you still have
grown up in the institution I'm Marco I
don't think there's I don't think
there's anything I don't think there is
any time you have heard you still day
white woman to Sam I did you look I
think I get it nobody's defending white
woman we're going to nobody nobody is
Marco this program we have said multiple
times that we are fully owned the fact
that we all practice white supremacy on
some level Marco I'm gonna have to let
you go but I appreciate the call listen
to tomorrow's program okay I thought he
definitely had you on the white woman
except he almost got me in a corner
don't even yeah Jody you've got to keep
your mouth shut we've already heard
enough about the devilish nature of the
white woman from one day enough enough
with your yuck we'll be in ways at what
level you know I know not all Ben are
bad just because we live under
patriarchy I'm married to a man on
another level sometimes I'm like
men men are trash so in any system any
system of living in got away with hey
we're not as bad as when navigating and
bobbing and getting away with it and we
see it and in any system white women are
the worst I'm with you Marco a host UNT
of BS much love so what's your
patriotism yes then I don't know escaped
your conditioning I don't know how
anybody could ever accuse anyone of
running on racism in this country except
for if they just watched you know maybe
a day's worth of news in this country
here is this is Cindy hyde-smith she is
a a Senate would be or I should say she
is a Senate incumbent from Mississippi
she's going to be running off there's
gonna be a runoff election in I want is
this in did mid-december midsummer you
against uh Mike SB what's in heat like a
he was a AG I think under crazy
yeah Clinton administration every highly
moderate to contrive it's a conservative
Democrat running in in Tennessee he is a
black man and here is Cindy hyde-smith
she's not trying to activate any of this
stuff at all
and we should say again tomorrow on this
program really interesting interview
hopefully you'll be interesting about
data that shows that you know that
people's racism certain people was
activated under truck under Obama and
that Trump brings it out and this is the
same methodology just want to remind you
my candidate is black man
[Music]
all right so this is and you could hear
because of the the train a little bit
but she is with who is she standing with
who is it
her husband no she was standing with
another politician I think and she was
basically saying that if I got invited
I would I would go if he invited me to a
public hanging I'd be in the front row
oh she was with just : Hutchinson a
cattle rancher yeah okay yeah it's just
a you know a big you know a VIP in town
a lot of ways you can take that and
she's saying to a crowd small people if
he invited me to a public hanging I'd be
in front in the front row now and all
the public hangings they had in
Mississippi well I do I mean I think we
all know and I guess you know she's just
saying it's just a saying it's just the
same as the common phrase it's just
saying that even if I had to go to
something distasteful that wasn't in you
wanted to be in the front row I would go
there and was she trying to say that she
likes him with that yeah
that's saying that I would follow this
guy anywhere but still with you know a
huge - of racial race right hinting
right I just wanted to let you know that
no maybe it's never her occurred to her
in all the years that she's been saying
that that idiom right that's what it is
that it refers to the public hanging of
a black man I want you below meant that
yeah idioms are pretty up that's
true and maybe given the opportunity she
would say you know what I'm sorry now
that I say it and I think about it I
mean certainly look I I've said this
before I was on cable news a couple
years ago and I said off the reservation
never occurred to me what the
implications of that saying were a just
something you grow up you saying it
right
and and and so there it is
but when people pointed out to me I said
you know what I'm sorry I'm not gonna
use that anymore because yeah it is it
is offensive so let's play her apology
after she is told that this is highly
offensive oh I guess she never
apologized nice there it is I don't know
she seems like a nice lady I would show
up for her hanging yeah I don't think
you said that right
Jonathan Armistead could everyone in
their office share their SAT scores for
the life of me I don't know if I took
mercy to I I'm gonna take 132 oh really
Bates don't require one talks my way
into college people there you go
I know mine but I'm not the kind of
person who wants to tell everyone try to
act like it sounds like somebody's like
oh no one today what is it what is it
was a very healthy number
what's a hundred percent what was it
1600 I'm not saying yeah mmm total
prep school suburb score lotta SAT prep
going on in the peck horse show prep oh
I went to I think this is because
apparently Chuck Schumer likes to tell
people about his perfect desk I think
those Kaplan stuff apparently have no
effect horseshoe horseshoe hey horseshoe
here oh hey Sam have you seen the video
I did giving my thoughts on corporate
Hill 69 talking about Rick Scott winning
in Florida if it wasn't for DWS working
against him Canova and selling nuclear
weapons under the table North Korea
general Sookie the election would be
settled by now Canova's going nuts down
there Tucker's under mageddon door has
anyone else noticed that Ed Rollins
looks like never Trumper all right look
whoever this one person is it keeps spam
you can't do that
ice black coffee just reminder that cory
gardner john cornyn susan collins john
kyle david perdue lindsey graham thom
tillis Shelley Moore Capito are running
faithfully election 2020 there's more
yes glass Eagle thoughts on governor's
race losses in New Hampshire
Massachusetts Vermont Maryland and
almost Connecticut Dems aren't even
getting their core voters fully on board
and away from Republicans there seems to
be a serious underreported problem well
first off you're talking three of those
states four of them are New England
states where there is a Massachusetts
add plenty of Republican governors at
least in modern times and they're Mitt
Romney bill weld that's you know what's
the deal there it's because they they
don't function like the rest of the
Republican Party in many respects
there's there's some you know sort of
like strains in you know sort of weird
conservatism but they won't go at least
the guys in Massachusetts and Vermont
were you know they oppose Trump enough
to satisfy people they're pro-choice
they fund the environment they don't
dismantle like they they are a type of
Republican which is obviously not our
politics but truly doesn't exist on the
national level and people like voting
that contrast and well that's the thing
is that you know there is you know there
is there's also some evidence there
which I don't necessarily appreciate is
you know what people want is not
necessarily something you know further
to the left then like I'll keep your
taxes low well that's another and that's
I think another thing that's still I
mean Connecticut was a function of
Malloy being AB at a very very unpopular
and in Maryland I think you know it's
just a guy's popular he did the same
thing though I mean his campaign ads
that I saw for Larry Hogan were about
how he increased money for education
spending that was his main thing but
also wouldn't you say it's also just
that while Democrats are getting more
partisan they just still are not at that
level like they just don't vote the way
Republicans do yet that's right and I
think part of that came from what we
heard you know in the interview today so
you could identity politics terrifically
depressing interview today though
perhaps consider renaming it why you
can't save your family as an aside if
racism is cured by education then we
might as well say high property taxes
make you less racist holy I need to
read that guy's newspaper boy that is a
real public hanging an honourary of an
honorary Harvard Law degree net Ferdie
can I get a shofar please I just passed
my thesis defense yes congratulations Oh
congratulations it's awesome
DX full hello Paul chariots and happy
belated 3rd anniversary of the weekend
of the end of the weekday edition of
Ring of Fire that attempt to fill in the
void caused by ed Schultz and Randy
Rhoads leaving over-the-air radio Oh
Thank You Dean I didn't realize that was
do you know why ring a fire lost at
Chicago affiliate earlier this month
yeah I think the owner of that place had
an issue with uh with the some of my
critiques I think so I mean I think they
also wanted money for the weekend I'm
not sure also why don't you claim the
victim nah why don't you plan the victim
thanks mommy it's so many other things I
got going on that so many ways you might
think exactly exactly
just like the way that my kids treated
me last night Yuma is closer to the
border the Maricopa County and has a
huge detention center podcaster Brad
Friedman has repeatedly called out
Maricopa for voter obstruction by
closing polling sites and non-white
precincts peaches self commissioned
officer I bet Donald look really
comfortable back in America when Agent
Orange was raining on the soldiers in
Vietnam when a peg Craig Michael I love
the beard blacks Marxist Oh Jenna was a
nice story in West Virginia we can't
have a trump guy like him on stage in
the debates Sanders bado Gilliam Warren
and sherrod are my top choices I don't
want to talk 2020 d'souza Palooza voter
turnout was 93% my former stomping
grounds of Madison Wisconsin but by
Scott Walker really cool the NRA needs
to be labeled as a terrorism promoter if
we could restore the Fairness Doctrine
and the VRA how should they be
structured how should they be structured
uh-oh the fair well the the Voting
Rights Act I III think you'd need legal
experts to sort of divine from the
Supreme Court what would constitute a
preclearance need I think maybe you come
up with some type of formula but that
that it deals with you know voter
representation I'm not sure in terms of
the Fairness Doctrine I say let it rip
and you know let's destroy the the
medium on
talk radio it'll destroy it and I love
it do it
I called for it even when they got like
the first week that I was on air and it
was the first week of Hebrew school
though I was one of a few people Louise
slaughter who has passed away I please
congressman from upstate she held she
passed away no I don't know if she has
Jose Serrano work on that too I don't
know Louise slaughter was the big
promoter of it I went down to DC and I
was the only talk radio host who would
come down there cuz it would destroy the
the medium and I didn't I'm happy every
day yeah she passed away in March him
speaking of Dennis the Stan Lee died
Stan Lee died huh
no more cameos call from a 602 area code
who's this where you come from 602 does
that mean yep oh hi first time caller
I'm actually very surprised I got to I'm
Danny from Arizona so I've actually been
paying close attention to what you guys
I've been saying about the elections
here and I've been trying to spec every
day just to see you know then I'm not a
cinema fan but I'm glad that she took
the lead um and it's just funny you know
to hear the dum-dum side of things
talking about you know voting not voting
out of fear just because uh you know
we're we're an immigrant family yeah and
my wife is the only one in my family
that can vote I'm a I'm a resident she's
actually a citizen and the reason there
is oh she voted is the first cinema and
not the the Green Party candidate who
even though she dropped out she still
got two percent of the vote because she
dropped out when it was already too late
take her off the pallet so it
you know with everything going on on the
on the national stage and the stories
you hear about people being stripped of
presidencies and even citizenships
you know people not being allowed to
come back into the country when I hear
you know just brain dead people talking
about you know voting not voting out of
here voting your you know your
conscience whatever you know it's just
obsessing to me that there isn't enough
solidarity for you know minority issues
in this country and you know it's just
things where it's it's notable I mean a
one-on-one level it is an incredible
exhibit of privilege right like because
they don't have the same amount of fear
and they don't have the same amount of
justification for that fear that someone
in your position does in addition
they're also ignorant to you know all
the reasons why you vote and and and
what they should be fearful of but the
bottom line is there are real people who
have real material concerns that are
more or less life-and-death about why
they should be afraid for certain people
to get elected and I'm with you
kristan cinema is pretty close to the
last person I would want elected in that
out of that state except for the
Republican who is such trash right even
when she was left she was trash right
but he's trash whenever the farther the
mix a Latino yeah without a doubt and
there are two people on the ballot who
could win one person who certainly you
know I don't know what percentage of
those green voters would vote for would
vote for cinema maybe all of those
people would not come out and vote what
so a that's a question I have for you do
you think we could start maybe with some
of those greens
it might be fair to get just getting to
the point where like oh these people are
just not up for grabs but but even even
if those 50,000 even if she doesn't take
those percentage points right that would
increase the percent that cinema would
have so even if they didn't show up at
the polls she would be further away
outside of like a recount outside of any
doubt about her vote because she would
be winning by by a higher percentage so
you know yeah well I you know I think
it's looking good for cinema there and
you know hang in there Danny that's all
I can tell you is that it's you know
hopefully you know the things will
improve for folks in your situation but
yeah I understand I appreciate why you
would be nervous it's a very bad time in
this country for immigrants for for
folks who have various status of
immigrants for what family etc I mean
it's bad it's bad for all minorities I
feel like right now and one thing I
appreciate and you know I started
listening to you guys I think it's been
like probably a year now ever since the
mic service thing happened you know I
luckily it made a big enough splash and
then I'd like Google didn't decided to
listen um one of the things I appreciate
that you guys do and I wish more people
on the left would do it is to talk about
voting as not you know like a
self-expression thing but you know as a
civic duty and as a civic duty you got
to think about the benefit of the whole
not individuals yeah so I appreciate
that you guys talk about it in that
sense well I appreciate the call Danny
thanks so much sounds like you're
motivated by thanking fear off
thanks for the car
so I'd say both you guys are wet no
matter where you are I don't sound
robbed if somebody's getting deported
it's not I mean you don't have to
believe that it's a civic duty although
I think it is for you to vote but it's
also just like it is it is a tool to
build something or to you know prevent
the onslaught of something it is not a
mode of self-expression nobody knows how
you voted unless you tell them and guess
what you don't have to tell the literate
yeah but dating white woman is awesome
when I when I go and vote against Cuomo
in the primary in the general that's
kind of so about self a little
self-expression going on in my house
Hawkins vote I mean that it is great to
have your you'd be able to stroke your
ego and make yourself feel good about
yourself and to actually have that align
with what's best for society and for the
goals that you supposedly espouse that's
nice when that happens but that's just a
that's just nice when that happens well
no that was actually it was fun voting
for Holly Hawkins it's it's like cuz
even the other side if it is easy when
it's like the type of people who like
yeah Cuomo leads by 50 points but you
just need to because you know like the
sort of like neuroses of like you need
to vote for Democrats at all times no
matter what because that's the only
choice and it's like well no actually
that's the only choice if you live in
the presidential election you were
naturally election Republican and in
fact if I thought it was actually in
question then I would have to submit to
voting for Andrew Cuomo but luckily I've
never been put in that position so I was
able to vote for a nice labor guy
upstate
alright wasting his talents to the Green
Party one more one more phone call and
then we're gonna have to just take some
IMS and go cuz I got to do a pre-taped
column from a 2:06 area code who's this
where you come from
hey Justin for Maine Justin from Maine
what's on your mind got to be quick
all right that way um okay this
questions for Jimmy okay
I'll be quick so I've been thinking
about it and I've been trying to figure
out where I fall on the spectrum
he's kind of always been a social
democrat but everybody's a Democratic
Socialist these days I don't know if I'm
a socialist I'm not sold on it so Jamie
I pulled two questions from Sam's deadly
interviews from back in the day with the
libertarian nut jobs and I want to know
how you fare with them being at you're
an inner Co communist so I Jamie yeah
how do you establish and defend property
rights and who built the roads is this a
trick question because you're you're an
artist and property so nobody how do we
build the roads we self organize in
workers councils and we get it done
gulag slave labor sir for that sounds
like I'm not you can't ask me Sam how
[Laughter]
being a right-wing libertarian you are a
white woman I wasn't did you evade the
Edward our borough of this whole fraud
no property rights and workers councils
on the roads yeah I don't think I'm
getting across the logic of it and you
know I'm uh I say I have an inner calm
oh my god I should not try to be serious
right now about this I mean but the the
workers councils obviously would have to
communicate to themselves yo cat
centrally-planned freedom job
all about process I mean I don't claim
to have all the answers either for how
we're gonna organize society after
capitalism because a lot of its gonna be
contingent on the time the place the
conditions all that
Marx said it's not up to me to write out
receipts for the cook shops of the
future said mom I do think that humans
have the capability to organize society
without being told what to do by the
ruling class so there we go and you
can't have political freedom without
economic freedom and that is the
difference because indeed indeed that's
right so suck it really cool I did that
dr. chaos could we radicalize people and
maybe convert some conservatives by
using the same language they do
disingenuous hyperbole well we tried but
look are you - yeah yeah that's that's a
little hurtful I'm ganna work I didn't
know you took calls from howtechs I
don't know it ho chats aw I just want my
white woman to be left alone
Marco you gonna let me defend beautiful
white woman or you gonna talk you don't
call it insult those beautiful fair
flowers well I vote big bar go take your
Nation of Islam Italian somewhere else
okay attorney Andrew a dissipation of
tomorrow's teaser I have a possible wild
goose chase for M our listeners I recall
listening to either an episode on on the
media or best of left from 2010 where
they discussed a study finding that by
the 1950s the term public when used to
discuss policy had become synonymous
with black or african americans such
that policies described as benefiting
the public voters heard that it would
help african-americans you know who did
this I think Martin gilens
did some of this research - or his I
think it was Guillen's same study a
segment discussed that the how an equal
percentage of Americans in the early
1900's at the
opinions on affirmative action for
african-americans was necessary because
slavery was a long time ago I think it
was Martin gilens who did that research
in regards to welfare I turn your show
off because of Marco says Denver Dave
okay and Bernard this collar is equal
turns frustrating and fascinating isn't
it possible that a bunch of the voters
who voted green in the Arizona race are
just people who had no idea who to vote
for in pick green just because it sounds
good and different maybe doe as for gjt
going to a cemetery in France I was
praying you wouldn't be visiting a
cemetery where my father's buried there
are 11 military cemeteries in France
they kept in there kept in pristine
condition with French staff and other
citizens American visitors treating them
without most respect I did not want his
presence there and that sacred place all
right I got three more here sorry Colin
Powell George W but Colin POWs the judge
know he Bush did the coin toss at the
Veterans Day night NFL game of the
Eagles versus the Cowboys watching that
piece of who created a generation
of disabled veterans normalized on
national TV reminds me how he ended up
with Donald Trump as our president if
Trump gets out of office and not held to
account for his criminal activity in
support of the 2016 election fraud who
will end up being our next Republican
president Ted Nugent look I will
definitely say I mean I don't know about
his election fraud as much as all the
other things that he's doing that are
fraudulent I think in office I mean the
emoluments just being one of them in
terms of corruptness but there is
without a doubt both the lack of account
that that George Bush and other of his
ilk who were held to under the Obama
administration's a problem and also the
media when they allowed Paul Ryan 5 10
years ago to lie about the deficit or
lie about his his dumb tax plans or the
Laffer curve or whatever this stuff is
stuff that was demonstrably untrue when
they allowed for this stuff because well
he's congressman and he's the we need to
show him some respect there he's a
leader of the party when he saw some
fact they're made the the publican the
publican figured out about the Laffer
curve when when they used all these
justifications that it's not my job to
truth
check these politicians when they
allowed for that that's why they were so
ill equipped to deal with Donald Trump
in the Republican Party that exists now
they just they had the the muscle never
developed or atrophied in terms of
questioning these people European
brochure list if Georgia goes to a
runoff I call upon my fellow Europeans
to write or call their MEP s to push to
send to EU observers indeed and the
final I am of the day can't go phone
minute truce race I can't what the hell
what the hell has been going on in
Fresno for the last 50 years it's deep
in the Republican part of California see
you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know sir
I was late I just got caught
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I just somewhere the choice is made so
the option when you don't get paid
rubber bands
break
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
