[Music]
all right let's uh let's hear Donald
Trump he's very happy that as far as
he's concerned he's completely
exonerated no there's no money
laundering nothing got a look at it but
the inauguration or the emoluments or
the payoffs or anything like that I'm
completely clean that's what Robert
Muller said he's a genius now
[Music]
investigation
[Music]
after so many people have been so badly
hurt
after not looking at the other side
where a lot of bad things happened a lot
of horrible things happen a lot of very
bad things happen for our country
it was just announced there was no
collusion with Russia the most
ridiculous thing I've ever heard
there was no collusion with Russia there
was no obstruction and none whatsoever
and it was a complete and total
exoneration it's a shame that our
country had to go through this to be
honest it's a shame that your president
has had to go through this for elected
it began and it began it illegally and
hopefully somebody's going to look at
the other side this was an illegal
takedown that's the channel and
hopefully somebody's going to be looking
at the other side so it's complete
exoneration no collusion no obstruction
thank you very much he sounds like he's
the spokesman for himself and he's been
briefed but can't remember everything he
was supposed to say it's not right
exactly it's real shame what happened to
happen to your president that's the
creepiest like most sort of
authoritarian aspect of it and of course
he's lying about the total exoneration
there wasn't any of that
and he's also the report itself did not
find that about obstruction that was his
hand-picked attorney general who applied
for the job by writing a 19 page brief
on why there would be no obstruction I
mean that worked out quite well because
it he called it he that's why I hired
him because he could see into the future
Babe Ruth really stunning pointed to
that field really stunning and but
that's it he seems to be happy will it
remains to be seen with that happiness
but I'm still just completely hung up on
the idea of was Kushner and Ivanka and
jr. how could you not interview those
guys two of them were
in the room with that meeting with the
Russians I imagine that they must have
been they must have been interviewed
right and it was just kept quiet which
is also sort of stunning like how well
the we have another rich kid nepotism
scandal we mean the structures aren't
let me give you the cracks good level
drug court they'll hear a lot more
indictments now the only thing I can
tell you is that obviously there has
been there have been some things that
came up in the course of these cases
that have been fir referred to other
agencies now as far as I can tell we
have evidence that Manafort was
contacted back door through associates
of Giuliani's about pardons right or
Cohen I should say was contacted about
pardons here is a bill bar he's
testifying with in front of the Senate
Judiciary Committee saying that that
would be a criminal act so baby this is
still live out there I mean who knows
among other things Bush to pardon all
six individuals who are targeted
iran-contra independent prosecutor
investigated matter label that he he
cover up now you and I talked about this
my office and I appreciate you coming by
I found the conversation the two of us
had be one with Wow
to believe a president could lawfully
issue a pardon in exchange for the
recipients promised to not incriminate
him no that would be a crime so now
Cohen apparently did not have anything
to do with
the the meetings with the Russians at
all obviously mana fort probably did but
nothing in terms of coordinating the
hacking and the leaking of the server
the emails on the server and nothing to
do with the setting up of dummy accounts
to influence on social media for you
know to the extent that it was
influential but that doesn't they maybe
they had other dealings or there were
other things obviously that man afford
got in trouble for that would have been
outside of the scope of of Muller's
investigation to talk about obstruction
or talk about a pardon for I guess right
I mean if it's one thing to say you
can't have obstruction for if there was
no underlying crime I don't see how
that's makes any sense whatsoever the
whole point of outlawing obstruction is
that it makes it hard for you to prove
the crime has been committed but I would
understand why if you haven't
established a crime the idea of a pardon
being floated for for change in
testimony in regards to something that
they're not involved in why you wouldn't
pursue that if you were Muller but maybe
if you're the Southern District of New
York you might pursue it
who knows I guess we'll find out
