[Music]
all right here is Dennis Prager
and of course Dennis Prager a highly
very supportive of of Dave Rubin right
hello
Prager University and old people are not
interested in ideas oh hello
that was Dennis Prager speaking to Dave
Reubens face doing that voice and
longtime listeners will remember Indy
Mike this is Indy Mike's a favorite
program of the Dennis Prager show and
because he listens to both sides he
listened to Prager and to Ann Coulter
and here is Prager and just a gosh boy
living the life I mean right-wing talk
radio what a talk about being on the
dole like he doesn't even do any he's
just started just rambling here and but
the point is he's trying to make is
folks is that racism at least the notion
of racism that we would have some type
of white supremacy in this country or
that black people are there are that
black people are subjected to racism in
anyway that's a myth I mean if this
sounds familiar to you you've probably
heard dave rubin talking to what's her
name southern lauren southern you know
nodding an agreement that jewish groups
in canada basically created the Nazi
groups up there so that they'd have
something to rail against because you
know funding opportunity right just
going to uh maybe this is going to
synagogue and going and celebrating the
holidays gets a little boring for Jews
and so everybody wants to fight some
Nazis passive is so sleepy we have such
good anyways but here is Dennis Prager
and then sort of like you know pulling
out of God knows where they got this
story I'm imagine it's true because
statistically speaking how could it not
be true that there isn't a someone
giving a lecture somewhere in which you
disagree with the premise but here is
Dennis Prager stylings
and that is what the left does hysteria
crisis after crisis crisis black and is
America the black American is elected
president in the country is declared
more racist than ever a crisis of racism
in America but there's so little racism
in America except anti-white racism that
it's all made up to the extent that
there's a professor going around from
the Washington State closet I just want
to point out now one of the things that
I've been told by nd Mike about what's
so great about this guy's all logic and
so just to follow here despite the fact
that we elected a black president in
this country which actually all the data
shows ended up creating a lot of racial
polarization because it turns out there
was a lot of white people who
surprisingly did not realize like that
the Democratic Party was to the left on
race than the Republican Party and they
felt that this was in many respects a
metaphor for everything that they were
losing in life whether some of that was
real and as a function of of our the
structure of our economy or imagined or
real in terms of like loss of social
status they began to more intensely
blame the existence of black people but
as you heard the only real racism that
we still have in this country according
to Dennis Prager is of course white
racism which is shocking despite the
fact that we now have a white president
hello and I proved right racism
anti-white racism is done and I proved
it I was elected president it's great
backlash to the white president that's
true but we've had so many white
presidents and now white racism is
finally catching up with all those white
presidents I mean it's really it's sort
of amazing how many white presidents
we've had but yet the durability in
dennis prager z' mind of white racism
that's pretty impressive anyways
continuing it's all made up to the
extent that there's a professor going
around from Washington State I reported
a her name and everything but I've just
another one of these hysterics making
good money lecturing on campuses about
how anyone who says I treat everyone the
same or I try to treat everyone the same
is a racist get it because there is no
racism they have to manufacture me there
is racism
there's so little racism they have to
manufacture but racism where it doesn't
exist well given this he does not sound
like a hysteric know how to say that my
brain is still in recovery mode from
taking in so many high-level important
ideas on this show right and at least at
the end of it maybe I'm saying some he's
just going it's a good series that would
be funny and of course the only races
extensively oh my god well that's why we
started doing Ken Kenny can because it's
just so easy to be a right-wing talker
so easy so easy and welcome back I think
I can't believe how much white racism I
ran into today everywhere I went people
were you know maligning me because I was
a white other professor hysterically but
he was a man of course of course he was
a white man
so oh he gets in trouble when are the
white people gonna get a break around
here god
