[Music]
you're calling from an 847 area code who
are you where you calling from hey
Michael this is Steph from Chicago amen
hey Steph what's he all right
yep can hear you well what's odd
originally I wanted to tell a story
about some personal interactions I've
had with some Trump supporters but none
of this worn thing has come up again
with the Native American the whole
Native American thing I had some pretty
strong opinions on it I think are
probably contrary to yours okay so when
that first came out she did the DNA test
and there was a small percentage here
like this small percentage of Native
America and not a percentage and I what
was that there it was less than a
percentage it was less than a percentage
yes right whatever that number was I I'm
forgetting the exact numbers now I did
the math to try and figure out when was
this ancestor alive and it came out to
somewhere in the 1700s and it's very
impressive to me that she can have an
ancestor that far back and still
identify as a Native American so what is
it disagree with in every bout I guess
the overall tone from people and I
haven't are you native do you have
Native American ancestry just curious
okay so I'll just say this yeah this is
a very common phenomenon in like
colonial populations where they get one
drop of blood in it and then they
mythologized this and it's basically a
way to you know solve colonial guilt and
it's weird that Warren's family did that
like and that's the conversation she
should have and she should acknowledge
that but most Native Americans actually
do find that weird enough pudding they
don't think it's like I mean it's it's a
Dances with Wolves Dances with Wolves
sort of scenario you're I are you trying
to say that you think this is fine
would that what aleatory I don't I don't
you think that this is okay that's okay
what I I didn't I don't like the tone
it's like you're not Native American
enough
all right you clean up well alright
Native American to claim that you are
she is not because it's not a DNA thing
it's a cultural and right of tribal
affiliation thing and that's much more
complicated than what a DNA tests can we
stepped in there with the DNA yeah let
me look let me just say this yeah and
it's also a question of you know frankly
and I you know I I can't stand this
phrase at this point but like it is it's
lived experience right like I was
talking to Julian brave noise cat about
this right I mean it's it's the
affiliation and recognition that Matt
said it's also like you know because
this is all made up anyways right like I
don't I don't think that race is an
actual thing I think it's a constructive
thing and a major part of how that's
constructed is the racism and
discrimination that you might have
experienced as an example of Native
American so you know no that's not a
characteristic of her life but my point
so no I don't it's not it yeah this is
not I don't know that it's not a
characteristic of her life I don't know
what kind of stories are being told in
her family about this how she knows that
these are Native American I don't know
okay
let me just read a few articles I would
say I would point to I mean yeah I mean
this complication is I think a wide one
and this is why a lot of Native American
activists as I follow are upset with war
and and how she's handled it like they
have and they have maintained that you
know the level of upset even through her
you know attempts to try to make it
right I would follow Rebecca Nagle
she's a Cherokee writer on Twitter at
Rebecca Nagel she's pretty good on this
stuff and by the and you know that I'm
like not you know I'm not I'm not you
know I I'm into how people can be
redeemed and evolved but I will say that
unlike some other scandals this actually
has some like substantive implications
in terms of jobs and placement but also
beyond that the point I'm making is
those of us in a Democratic Party who
chose to be nice about this and not
making an issue and let it be a mess-up
that is not something that's going to
get replicated in a general election and
that's another discourse that I find
very weird in the Democratic primary
where it's like it's one thing to say
obviously slightly you know it's more
evolved than what you'll have in a
general election in some respects but
you also have like if somebody showed me
a poll that said you know what the fact
that Bernie's Jewish is actually a real
problem for him in key geographies I
would be morally emotionally distraught
and disgusted and I would need to think
about how to work around that because
that's that would be a real thing so
this is gonna be a real thing in a
general election all the stuff that
people say it's like oh that's unfair
take it off the table I also like you
know I want to know a Venn diagram of
people who think that you know this
Native American thing is okay and then
also have a you know an opinion on every
comedy special that I do find a bit
suspect but even beyond that but even
beyond that there this is going to be a
issue and how it was handled initially
was disastrous and the reason that it
hasn't been made an issue is because
there's not an appetite for it in the
Democratic electorate was pretty clumsy
it was the fact that Trump even is using
these I mean so that's gonna be an issue
the focus of it and then she's like no
I'm gonna prove to you I really you know
that's gonna be the entity and that was
disastrous and this will be an issue and
so people need to also you know there's
there's some polls that now I'll say
they're biased some polls say oh the
word socialist doesn't look good in a
general election and I would say yes
that could be a problem but I also if
you're gonna do a poll like that I also
want you to put lifelong Washington
insider and Harvard Law Professor and a
bunch of other adjectives that
Republicans might be able to use right I
will put
that pushback sure but I also am able to
say you know there's some people on my
side of it OB no problem it might cause
a problem in certain areas I don't know
we got to be real about these things and
that's something that people need to be
real about that again in the context of
this primary there's just an absolute
unwillingness to assess all the
candidates equally and that's a problem
bowls from my perspective I'm gonna cut
you off because I actually have to go
well good that was a great ball I
appreciate here and your yeah I'll call
back in with my story about duty Trump
supporters some other time
all right thanks
