[Music]
yesterday we spoke about Chris Coons
getting out in front of his skis in
terms of like heading on Fox and Friends
to talk about how Iran was a real
problem somebody got to Chris Coons now
it's quite possible he's watching the
majority report and took some of this
criticism to heart I find that unlikely
but it's not yeah it's totally
inconceivable but nevertheless somebody
got to Chris Coons because that beeping
sound of you're hearing that is Chris
Coons backing up if the intelligence
suggested it Ron was behind it that you
thought that military action could be
warranted do you still feel that way now
well notice the two conditions in that
statement you know first we in Congress
need to be briefed on the intelligence
well it is important what's reported on
the news we need a detailed briefing on
the Mozilla Jensen dive now this guy
goes on Fox and Friends yesterday at the
slightest whiff and then all of a sudden
someone said to him hey dude it's the
Trump administration it wasn't even the
Trump it was Brian Kilmeade well I'm no
but my point being that like he's going
off of the story that he had heard he
was so desperate to carry this forward
and apparently someone said you might
want to take a second look at this we
need a detailed briefing on the
intelligence and I've asked for that and
I'm hoping to get that what you've just
reported would certainly strengthen the
evidence if confirmed by intelligence to
members of Congress that this was a
direct attack by Iran on Saudi Arabia
second we need to have a conversation as
a country and as a Congress about
whether or not this is an attack so
directly relevant to America's interest
as to justify military action diplomatic
action is what's called for first and
our president should come to Congress
and make that case if he is determined
that this is what calls for military
action my concern here Allison is that
Iran is an aggressive power is a
agent Lee to stabilizing power that is
clearly willing to use additional
resources if that's what this
intelligence bears out to carry out more
direct attacks that are more
destabilizing against its regional
opponent Saudi Arabia Iran has projected
force into Syria into Lebanon into Iraq
into Yemen and this latest incident
could well be the next step in the
escalation of challenges
I appreciate that president Trump's most
recent statement on this was that he is
not seeking war with Iran yeah and it's
my hope that after an intelligence
briefing those of us here in the Senate
who serve on Foreign Relations
intelligence and Armed Services will
have the opportunity for a meaningful
debate about what is the best course of
action going for well I you know the I
mean this is this is a pretty severe
reversal by Chris Coons
I mean he's backing off this big time I
imagine III don't know
maybe it's some notion of like you
really don't want to be on this side of
a war that Donald Trump was gonna wage
right now I mean he's still doing the
Iran fear-mongering and I thought his
margins are all it's much more generic
I mean Senate well yes but he must have
told him something because yeah I I
haven't seen a reversal like that in
other I guess actually Amla Harris I
didn't hear that you love to see it
me love to see it you love to see the
reversals
