[Music]
you have Joe Biden out there now who is
he had three fundraisers yesterday he
needs to do this because he's not going
to raise money from voters and that
should be a tell to people I mean that
should be a tell to people we're not
living this is not 1999 this is not 1990
there are ways to raise money from
voters that are very efficient if they
are there you can raise money for them
if they're not there you can't and a lot
of people made it like that Hillary
Clinton basically swore off you know
getting mass amounts of volunteers and
whatnot because they didn't need it
because they had algorithms but I
suspect part of the story is also we
don't have them and so we'll lean a
little bit more on algorithms than we
wanted to like in other words we're I'm
not gonna look at this as lemonade as
lemons I mean look at this is lemonade
and lemon pie well but part of the
problem is I think that like because
they are so adept at shifting to like
well we can compensate for this but they
do not address what what is the
underlying problem of the you know that
that is symptomatic and so they can't
address
Joe Biden is not raising money from
Democratic voters but instead getting it
almost exclusively from big donors terms
of actually shared dollars that's a
problem that's a problem
putting aside ideal ideology and the
implications of that
it's just indicative of a problem I
should say and it's indicative of a very
shallow support where everybody is like
well I think he's gonna win and I'll
leave it to other people to to make sure
that happen
I don't know if that sounds familiar at
all so he's at a fundraiser at the
Carlyle Hotel in New York City mr. Biden
stressed the need to be able to reach
out to reach consensus under our system
now I I just like this is gonna make you
want to vomit because you have been
following politics for a while for
people who haven't followed politics I'm
sure maybe it sounds okay
but I don't know that they're reading
this stuff right now frankly maybe he's
just practicing maybe this is just good
for but he went on to say I know the new
left tells me that I'm this old
fashioned well guess what if we can't
reach a consensus in our system what
happens it encourages and demands the
abuse of power by a president that's
what it does you have to be able to
reach consensus under our system our
constitutional system of separation of
powers I just don't remember this
happening in the arts either
never mind during his vice presidency
mr. Biden then recalled his time serving
in the Senate incidentally he was in the
Senate in the aughts I was in a caucus
with James O Eastland mr. Biden said
briefly channeling the leaves little
feathers southern drawl mr. Biden said
he missed Eason he never called me boy
he always called me son now I don't
think he would call you boy
well I think I don't know if you have
the markers of what a gentleman like
that would use the word boy for Joe it's
pretty impressive now don't get me wrong
the Irishman ain't actually wide but she
ain't a boy neither why we didn't quite
pick up on why that might that dynamic
might be there no incidentally I should
tell you that he's doing this on the day
before June
Juneteenth good timing Jimmy you've
never called mr. figures boring I might
have to say it's a little old-fashioned
of Joe uh slightly Juneteenth of course
is the day when the final
slavery's slate is a state abolish
slavery that would be Texas in 65 1865
obviously he never called me boy he
always called me son I'm doing Biden's
fake drawl and then he brought up
deceased Georgia senator a guy like
Herman Talmadge one of the meanest guys
I ever knew you go down the list with
all these guys and guess what
at least there was some civility we got
things done we didn't agree on much of
anything we got things done we got it
finished but today you look at the other
side and you're the enemy not the
opposition the enemy we don't talk to
each other anymore as I'm sure he was
wagging his finger at somebody this is a
guy who's never talked anything other
than at a people but Biden clearly
doesn't appreciate the fact that maybe
part of the reason why he was not called
boy was because he was a white senator
maybe he should you know I wish like
though it's like I know his aides have
to be like can you talk about working
with like Richard Lugar on arms control
or something like does every example
have to be the most obscene people I
don't I think that's a actually disagree
I think his aides are saying this is
exactly what you have to do you own and
zoom out to those people who are racist
oh and incidentally oh they're racist
you didn't March for civil rights either
who don't know that they're racist and
convinced them that they're not racist
that what we have here is not a problem
of like someone's racist and someone's
maybe a victim of that racism or finds
racism to be inherently problematic but
rather it's just that people are just
not tolerant of your racism oh that's
odd cause Social Security with you son
not the other boy not the other boy well
we're good for Bill DeBlasio reminding
Joe Biden that it's not such a feat to
be a white senator and overlook
someone's abject racism bill de blasio
writes it's 2019 and Joe Biden's longing
for the good old days of civility
typifies by James Eastland Eastland
thought my multiracial family should be
illegal and that whites were entitled to
quote the pursuit of dead end words it's
past time for apologies or evolution
from Joe Biden he repeatedly
demonstrates that he's out of step with
the values of the modern Democratic
Party I would argue that that's even too
limited he's out of step with the values
of the majority of Americans even those
who don't call themselves Democrats I
also just have to say I mean I just
caught this this is Ella
Jeff suddenly working for is the New
York Times sellin E I'd seen it I mean
this is a quote and I have no doubt that
some that I think clearly some of the
dynamic you're talking about is at play
but apparently no his aides are saying
he needs to use a less problematic
example one person close to Biden says
referring to the segregationist senator
more than once aides have gently
reminded mr. Biden of the problem with
the formulation this was if with regards
this other habit he has on the flip side
of saying that he marched for civil
rights when in fact he did not I wonder
I still wonder to be honest with you I
wonder about it seems like he's leaning
into all this including all the little
comments he makes about touches listen
he's leaning into it but he's also never
been that good at running for president
he's never been good at running for
president but when aides do that type of
stuff they're signaling to another block
that we get it the Kissinger yeah yeah
that's also totally possibly exactly I'm
sorry
cuz they don't want to talk to reporters
as if they represent a racist Dixiecrat
yeah I'm sorry well and it's not just
that it's that
want to assure the people who care about
this stuff that you know just Joe
because Joe being Joe we get it as
opposed to Joe specifically knowing that
I've got to appeal to you not full-on um
active racist but just more like passive
racists and we were just talking about
this earlier like you know Donald Trump
is out there and there's always been
this sort of I don't know if is that
much of a debate but yeah well Donald
Trump is not he's not racist
he's just exploiting racism or Donald
Trump doesn't care about whether there
are immigrants in this country or not
it's just that it helps his project get
reelected by misery a ting these people
which is different from my project is to
emitter eight these people and if it
means I lose the election but I'm able
to really cause pain and suffering with
brown people then so be it
well Donald Trump wouldn't say that and
the problem is is that in the English
language we don't have a way of
differentiating between that both are
horrible and both in my estimation are
racist but they're different types of
racism right like you can be an a-hole
and you can be a d-bag and you're
slightly different but at the end of the
day the implications are the same and
I'm not convinced that we don't have a
word for the type of racism which is
like I just don't think your life is
worth any value enough that it should in
any way impose upon my objectives versus
like I my objective is to make your
white life worthless and I don't think
we developed that because for the better
part of the history of this country at
least
the the former has not been in any way
problematic like it's one thing to say
okay we're not going to go out of our
way to burn a cross on your that that is
going a little far but honestly do we
have to really care about where you know
what's going on with you if it in any
way inhibits my ability to do X Y or Z
