[Music]
you
[Music]
with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in their hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Thursday December 6 2018 my
name is Michael Brooks on a Michael
Thursday and this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on today's program daniel
bessner
professor of International Studies at
the scoop Jackson School at the
University of Washington in the flight
of the launch of the progressive
international in Vermont last week with
Bernie Sanders Yanis varoufakis and
others what does a global foreign policy
look like we're gonna do a continental
tour for a left foreign policy vision
from the Caribbean to Europe to Africa
to the Middle East with the great Daniel
bessner
Donald Trump not concerned about the
deficit because he doesn't think he'll
be around for it I guess that could
probably apply to show me the whole lot
of things that he's not concerned about
extremely boomer mind sent make sure I'm
extremely Boomer Saudi funded lobbyist
paid 500 rooms at Trump's hotel after
the 2016 election what a surprise there
we create hotel it is a great hotel and
I'm sure that I mean I guess if people
from Saudi were staying in it that's the
one country I could see the actual
excuse that they genuinely liked how
tacky the decorations are at the
trumpets the United States bipartisan
group of US senators introduced a
resolution saying that the Crown Prince
Mohammed bin Salman was complete
in the murder of Jamaal khashoggi over a
thousand absentee ballots were possibly
destroyed in the North Carolina House
race as a major newspaper there calls
for a V Reva revote a redo Scott Walker
racing through Republican appointments
to state agencies as the Wisconsin cou
continues and Republicans are cou minded
in Michigan as well attempting to lock
in austerity and regressive policies as
other efforts including an Idaho to
fight back against the expansion of
Medicaid when Republicans lose they
mount coos it's the fascist mindset VA
officials were blocked from
contamination ilysm and Charlottesville
email shows Milo in Annapolis
yabba-dabba-do ski off of patreon after
one day mark Lamont Hill is another
victim of a long-standing imperial
attack on black internationalist
intellectuals as he loses his CNN job
for speaking on Palestinian rights and
the trustees at Temple University target
him there as well
Lula da Silva over seven months as a
political prisoner pens a letter to the
new incoming Mexican president as this
Brazilian Supreme Court puts off a
release for him indefinitely even as
over twenty other people convicted of
much more serious charges in lava jato
have been released from prison what a
surprise Andres Manuel Lopez abidor
takes aim at neoliberalism in his
opening address the Saudis are losing
their way in Yemen but new information
is being revealed on the death squads
and paramilitaries that they are
employing their and trillions of dollars
lost at the Pentagon all that and more
on today's majority report here with me
amigos Matt and Brendon hola how is
everybody
hey que pasa good
doing well did you guys know any Spanish
mmm I can survive in a spanish-speaking
country that's cool um but I would not
have any meaningful personal growth yeah
I could read things like on a menu but I
couldn't be able to converse yeah
I took four years in high school and
they're basically the problem is unless
you travel to a place where that's the
language and you immerse yourself in it
it's not gonna right language is just
theoretical at that point big regret of
mine that I never took learn Spanish and
it's a big regret of mine I'm a bad
language student maybe I don't know
maybe was the pedagogy maybe I could
blame it on them but I wasn't good it's
a bummer now something happened that was
kind of surprising not expect to see
this Dave Rubin is known for say a
docile interview-style obsequious
obsequiously quiesce and of course he's
extremely far-right and no matter what
his latest spin on what his politics are
he you know he just follows the herd
basic the classical liberal term that
game is pretty much over yeah I think
the game is over and he's a follow the
herd guy in the herd he's hanging out
with our extreme far-right people I
haven't even gotten to the I think it's
bridge-ep Gabrielle interview which
supposedly was a absolute train wreck
with Dave Rubin so I was really
surprised to see this and I don't want
to over promise any fireworks here but
tucker carlson was on with dave rubin
and you're gonna see a little bit of a
pushback from dave or is it a pushback
is it a pushback or a really really
funny mistake that we're gonna integrate
into our long-standing tradition of
mocking dave rubin for being a
profoundly stupid man yeah so what is
Trump then you've interviewed the guy a
bunch of time well yeah what actually in
the scheme of what your book is about
and sort of where America's ad at the
moment is he just the Great wrecker that
we sort of needed
so that this ship of fools wasn't gonna
sink and take everybody he's certainly a
record look here's what Trump is not
Trump is not the guy who comes to
Washington and transforms the system
because he's not capable of that he's
not interested in that Washington is a
very specific town okay so like the
legislative process is highly complex he
doesn't understand it doesn't seek to
he's not gonna be the guy who runs on
these nine policies and then affects
them once elected gets them through the
Congress get some to the agencies he
can't
that's not his role it's very
frustrating actually if you're from do
you see like me to watch it you're like
wow you know what a second get the
Energy Department under control you're
not gonna have it it's 3 million
executive branch employees versus Trump
okay Trump's role is that right that's
that right there kid there's three
billion million three million executive
I think there's only a secular branch
should play that right but I'm just
saying all right look we're being super
petty but he did actually say it was a
question mark like he pushed back like
no it can't possibly be true and you're
right it literally could not possibly be
true that there are 3 billion employees
of the United States federal government
that would be a literal impossibility I
guess unless they started subcontracting
people I can China I think China so much
money yeah let's we're hurting them it's
back back paid off our Chinese federal
employees we're hiring Chinese people to
the EPA by a hundred thousand I want to
open up a new Department of Energy plant
at Genoa
India this is why I think Tucker's like
a this guy ultimately will never be able
to be on my level cuz right right this
is just too dumb tucker tucker's like
alright let's play this again and then
we'll explain why would being so petty
about it is 3 million executive branch
employees versus Trump okay
Trump's role is that right that's that
right okay there's a three billion
million three million executive I think
it's fun being uncharitable to
libertarians yeah and you should never
be charitable libertarians but it's like
okay so Dave Rubin is of course the guy
said that Jesus would be nice to Muslims
and is the what did this post office
ever do for you guy it's just that you
know he's just a dim-witted cynic and I
remember Republicans years ago they
tried to make a huge amount of hay
because Barack Obama misspoke one time
when he was campaigning and I think he
said that he had been campaigning across
like all 54 states and I don't know
maybe he was being woke and he was
trying to actually inject like Guam and
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands in
Washington DC she get statehood status
or maybe he was just exhausted from
campaigning and he misspoke and this
goes back actually I think since 2008
and and the Republicans were always like
this is ridiculous like Sarah Palin gets
dinged for everything and everybody
ignores that Barack Obama doesn't even
know how many states there are in the
country and the and it was like well the
reason it didn't take off is because
he's a smart guy obviously who misspoke
once whereas Sarah Palin is saying
literal just just nonsense every day
because she's an idiot and so we should
be more charitable in general including
I think with way bigger things than miss
speaking I think we need to figure out a
way to have a much more empathetic and
compassionate society and I mean that
sincerely and sometimes I even question
my own role in not pointing to those
qualities more now that being said Dave
Reubens a dunsky and somebody else might
have gotten away with a misspeak but he
really is dumb enough and cynical enough
to actually probably not be entirely
sure that that's a wrong stat look we're
just playing our role in the marketplace
of ideas we have to keep the other side
honest right this is this is how this
works so check across a three billion
man you guys were supposed to be smart
[Laughter]
it's just it's true you're absolutely
right though cuz they got this little
buddy thing going on but there's just
those moments where it's like I mean I
really wonder like I don't I don't know
if he's had on like Steve Pinker who I
don't I do i do not overvalue Steve
Pinker's intellect there's plenty of
problems major problems in his secular
theology which is really what his work
is but there are people who you just
have to like acknowledge some just sort
of like basic firing power they have the
idea of sitting down them sitting out
with Dave Rubin okay so what was those
receipts thing it was just a case well
you're interested yeah I used a night
Racine happened upon Dave Rubin
impression where you make him sort of
like a South Park kind of a South Park
area and there it really does work well
guys so good good that you had opposed
to you know what split racism but you're
interested in ideas
totally works
he could be bouncing like some type of
like like like the sock like there's
some sort of like inanimate object it
just pops it to say sort of like bigoted
nonsense coated in stupidity
folks today sponsor is Skillshare and
the first 500 people who go to SK l dot
s h / majority are going to get two
whole months of totally free access to
skill shares entire library of super
quality online courses and tutorials
Skillshare is a vibrant online learning
community that offers courses on
everything from design to video editing
photography business technology cooking
meditation and everything in between
I really miss I took photography I
didn't my essentially didn't have the
finances when I was younger to really
pursue it it's a little bit of a you
know it takes a little bit of investment
in order to do it right it wasn't what
was available to my family at the time
but I I loved it and I look at a site
like this that would be awesome to learn
how to take a photography course also a
video editing course there are
Skillshare courses
for everyone you'll have no problem
finding courses that will be useful to
you and both your personal and
professional life whether you want to
sharpen your skills with something you
already love doing or you want to learn
to do something totally new Skillshare
has you covered they have courses for
entrepreneurs courses on computer coding
web development personal nutrition
learning new languages we were just
talking about that
maybe I'll cop Skillshare and see if I
can finally you know get a little bit of
Spanish new languages Photoshop you name
it I've been checking and I as I said
I've been I will about to check out
their language and photography courses
those are the ones that I'm gonna seek
out I've looked at it a little bit and I
can tell you it looks incredibly
user-friendly and easy you can get two
entire months of free access to every
single course offered by Skillshare by
going to SK l dot s h slash majority
just think of everything you'll have at
your fingertips for a whole two months
again that's sk l dot s h slash majority
and we've put a link underneath to this
video if you're watching on youtube
we're going to take a brief break and
we're gonna be right back with daniel
bessner
you
welcome back to the majority report
joining us now is Daniel bessner he's
author of democracy and exile han Speier
and the rise of the defense
intellectuals check out our conversation
on it in our majority report archives
he's a professor payal professor of
American foreign policy at the scoop
Jackson school at the University of
Washington and a regular contributor on
the Michael Brooks show part of our core
crew
Daniel Buster how you doing thanks for
being here I'm good man thank you're
having me
last week in Vermont the Sanders
Institute hosted a sort of a big
progressive confab and there was a lot
of focus on Medicare for all on
environment labor racial justice the you
know core defining issues of a leftward
agenda but there was also an
international component to it Fernando
Haddad who of course leader for the
Workers Party was there in Brazil
Yanis varoufakis the celebrity former
Greek finance minister and they
announced this idea of a progressive
International which is really just the
idea of having much more kind of
communication and coordination between
left movements and politicians and
protected to potentially government's
like we have at least one down with the
inauguration of Andres Manuel Lopez
Amador in Mexico I would for it I mean
first I just want to get your kind of
basic take on that move and and what the
agenda looks like as far as reforming
international particularly their focus
is on reforming international financial
institutions democratizing the EU and
things like that so let me just start
with your kind of broad take on that
initiative I think it I think it's great
and I think it's finally a breath of
fresh air after the post Cold War era of
essentially a dedication to u.s. primacy
it's really heartening to see a
mainstream American politician come out
on behalf of actually organizing and
developing ideas with people who are not
that you'd paste primarily in the United
States or amongst United States's
traditional allies so the questions that
remain I think are really what does this
mean in actual practice should for
example Bernie when the presidency what
would mean and and particularly what
does it mean in terms of using the state
apparatus for transnational solidarity
building or whether this is more
something that would occur at a sub
state transnational level of
organization and going forward I just
think that highlights the importance of
the left distinguishing between what
might be considered the foreign policy
of the state using state apparatus is
like the military the State Department
etc and the foreign policy of civil
society using the grassroots
organizations that really transcend
national boundaries and how a political
leader like Bernie could could work
between those but otherwise it's
fantastic first step towards making a
better world in the world that we'd like
to actually live in
we're gonna go basically kind of region
by region and continent by continent but
before we get there I mean speaking
directly to your point you have actually
said you have a you of a critique of
left-wing foreign policy thinking that
we grew up with and sort of predominated
since the you know people of course
rightfully dissenting about what I would
deem to be a frankly essentially
American genocide in Vietnam and in
allows Odia but you have a critique of
what has defined the left foreign policy
tradition of the past of since Vietnam
what's that critique and what's the
alternative you're proposing sure so I
think the critique is essentially not
actually on the substance of a lot of
the criticisms of American imperialism
and the awful American actions in
Vietnam and and of course elsewhere
throughout the world as you just
discussed a couple of days ago with what
George HW Bush did as head of the CIA
and then Nicaragua regards the Contras
and pardoning everyone so there's a lot
of horror to go around and I think that
the critiques of that were very good my
problem is only that the generation of
leftists that were politicized during
and after the Vietnam War oftentimes
have had more of a critiquing function
than an actual any actual pretensions to
governance so looking back
course hindsight's 20/20 but looking
back I think it would have been useful
for what might call that the Chomsky
generation to have developed counter
institutions of American foreign policy
that would have developed plans and
ideas and really almost ideologies for
what the United States could do to
actually make the world less organized
around American hegemony and to make the
world a more just place I think for a
variety of reasons particularly
Watergate and the Watergate scandal led
many leftists understandably again to be
very skeptical of using state power for
any positive ends and particularly the
horrors of the Soviet Union and as it
continued to wind down also made people
skeptical of state power and therefore
many lessons just disassociated
themselves from governance and it but I
think what we see now in 2018 is that
this actually isn't the most effective
way to enact the policies and create the
world that you want to see so what we
need to do is develop mechanisms in
which people who are ensconced in
institutions what might be left wing
institutions are actually connected to
the grassroots as well so we're able to
have the recirculation process where the
elites are able to channel grassroots
ideas and desires into into policy
programs that are able to be implemented
at the state level and I think it's
really interesting because you're
actually creating I think in my mind
it's kind of a hybrid because you you're
critiquing the sort of exiting of the
potential of harnessing those
institutions for a radically different
way of doing global policy and one that
you know centers civil society one
that's built around sharing you know
solving collective problems of the
environmental crisis global inequality
you know rampant corporate abuse and
power the tradition and well is breaking
up us hegemony and foreign policy the
traditional concerns of anybody with a
conscience on the left and that and so
you're saying like we could use and take
over these state institutions to harness
and empower civil society in those
networks and what's interesting to me is
that you know those networks were built
in things like solidarity with Latin
America and the 80s against Reagan's
support of death squads and
dictatorships it was built in
you know the way the ANC had a global
strategy to harness civil society
particularly in Europe and the United
States to apply sanctions to the South
African regime so the there's some of
what you're talking about and building
on already exists but you're saying what
if the positionality wasn't just always
on the outside yes that's exactly right
and I do also want to emphasize that I
and the business is just the short-term
goal the medium-term goal would be to
really reform these institutions
fundamentally to make them substantially
more authentic erratic like the National
Security Council the Department of
Defense the CIA and the military are all
really fundamental institutions and it's
more about recognizing you know in the
classic Marxian sense one moment in
history are actually living in and you
put your history and actually living
you're actually living in to your
advantage and this is not I'm not saying
that these are great institutions by any
means in an ideal world I think they
would probably mostly be taken down and
maximally and at the very least I mean
significantly reformed so that they
would be unrecognizable but it's just
the question of what do we do you know
today had the way the way that I phrased
it is how do we stop a drone strike
tomorrow that's a different question and
requires a different answer then how do
we totally reform on the national
security state and I think both are
worthy goals and just we as lefties need
to really have different time horizons
and change our strategies accordingly to
those different horizons 100% so let's
start going region by region let's focus
first here with US policy towards its
neighbors primarily Carib the Caribbean
in Latin America but we could also talk
on the trade issue by including you know
Canada and this these supposed
renegotiations of NAFTA that we saw so
I'll break it into two parts one part is
you know today there's obviously a
resurgent far-right taking power across
most of Latin America with the obvious
major exception of Mexico and a couple
of people hanging on in Bolivia and
Uruguay but Argentina
chill a and now of course with balsan
arrow coming in Brazil there's this
extreme far-right axis and then
obviously Venezuela is not in that far
right axis either although I went at
this point exactly call it I mean we
need to defend Venezuela from US
intervention but I would not exactly
call it really a member of the left in
some ways right now but that might be
another conversation this and John
Bolton is embracing these governments
there is a very serious danger of as an
example US military intervention or coup
and Venezuela and there's also you know
the sort of reorientation back towards
another kind of mass unmitigated you
know US corporate plunder of its
neighbors so actually let's get to NAFTA
second what what's the step right now
from this you know --left foreign policy
perspective of reorienting the Caribbean
and Latin America sure well I think it's
probably many of the listeners will know
I think a lot of the problems in the US
and Latin American relationship just
stem from the fact of colonialism 500
year old colonialism in woods and
nations of the North Atlantic and it
what's commonly considered the West is
rapaciously essentially demolished these
societies through a variety of measures
and means so first of all it's not just
important to recognize that history as a
moral issue which is important in some
sense but also to recognize it as sort
of the deep historical structures that
we're dealing with so this is a region
of the world that the United States has
increasingly and forever really it
perverted in a in a variety of ways so
the question that I see it is how does
one develop a non-hierarchical
relationship where these the Caribbean
and Latin America is not just
essentially used for u.s. purposes both
both economic purposes and sort of the
extraction of resources and also
political purposes as it was during the
Cold War in the war on terror when the
United States variously supported
right-wing Virgie regimes and demonized
the lack so the question is what what is
a left-wing in power left-wing movement
and power do with that reality so I
think with the fund them
the thing that you have to do is
reorganize the the hierarchical material
economic relationships that exist
between the reasons the regions
developed some means I'm not rapaciously
extracting resources and and this would
I think have a lot of problems like many
of our farm problem policy problems also
has a lot to do with changing domestic
culture at home so I think if we have a
consumer capitalism centered on the
individualist consumer it's going to be
very difficult to rearrange these
hierarchical relationships so what we
have to do is really Rican sieve about
how Americans view the very act of
consumption from which they had for
which they have taken so much from Latin
America so that would really be a first
step I think a second step would be
doing and doing things like building
solidarity or at least being vocally
against something like the imprisonment
of Lula which I know you've talked a lot
about and that's it to be very vocal
that the United States is not going to
allow the the imprisonment are not going
to allow see this is difficult because
then you get into these imperial
relationships right at least allows not
the right term right but that the United
States it will come out publicly and
strongly against actions like that and
that really I think what's important
here is that like you said you don't
want the American state to really do
things what you do want and on leftist
movements within the United States to
build transnational solidarity so I
think in this instance you'd really want
to obviously renegotiate trade deals and
things along those lines to make them
less awful for Latin America but also to
focus at the sub state level about
working with leftist on the ground in
places like Brazil who really know the
territory and terrain and helping them
with with the privileged position that
American and find themselves in the met
American leftist find themselves and
just by virtue of living in the
Metropole of the empire and so using the
resources we have on a grassroots level
in Latin America and really at a sub
state level because you don't want in my
opinion at least the American state to
get deeply involved in the region
because in the future when there's a
right-wing president that will allow for
a lot of very awful things to happen so
you also need to be aware of the limits
the state to do what it wants in this in
this particular area of the world what
about the nafta question specifically
well I basically because this is this
also relates to the whole Angela Nagel
controversy about open borders right now
and I think it's a really difficult
question because you don't want to limit
the American leftist imagination
due to some basically capitulated into
the borders created by capital so how do
you adapt a dual-pronged program where
you on one hand help American workers
and then don't turn your back which I
think we absolutely shouldn't do on the
migrants who are often migrating care
because the United States has totally
disabled eyes their region of the world
for literally centuries and and
continues to do so so I think that's the
sort of policy that you want to focus on
have-your-cake- and-eat-it-too policy
because I think in the world in which we
live it there are in fact enough
resources to believe that politically
distributes and not to both American
workers and the refugees who are who are
coming here for just and important
reasons and I'm personally more of an
open borders person then it's the
elastic of United States to come so so I
think you'd want to reduce are you just
I'm sorry are you cut out for saying can
you restate that because I think it's
really interesting you work sort of a
proponent as I would be in sort of like
almost like a social EU model in Latin
America the Caribbean Canada and the
United States which would mean along
with all of these other dynamics we're
addressing with labor the environment
and breaking down the hierarchy of much
more sort of open borders oriented kind
of transnational stance if I understand
you correctly I yeah I think that's
absolutely right the way that's my
biggest long-term foreign policy goals
is creating like a true EU but
democratic organization at least in
North America is not including central
in South America and the question for us
is how do we do that without reimposing
us us hierarchy on it right where that
it's not like the dollar is the reserve
currency and then everything has to be
pegged to what the United States does
and I think that's a really important
question that our generation of less
to examine going forward definitely all
right so then we're gonna keep going
here Europe yeah and so this is this is
really an interesting one because this
is the one that all the people who
promote the liberal international order
always point to and I think it's
important for leftist to understand that
the end of great power war in Europe is
probably the greatest accomplishment of
the order that the the world order that
the United States set up after 1945 so I
think the question we have to ask is how
do do we as leftists both is should we
again win power and just at the sub
state level help contribute to the
ending of a great power war in Europe
and I I think what's important to do is
to recognize that first this is probably
unlikely giving the culture that's
developed over the seventy of the last
seventy years but we also need to think
about ways in which unless that's both
in and out of state could encourage the
democratization of the EU both in terms
of its policies and also in terms of it
economics I think what the European
Union has demonstrated beyond the shadow
of the doubt is that an anti-democratic
political structure will never receive
this type of mass public support it
needs to survive so I think that's the
big lesson of the EU since the early
1990s so the question is how do we
reform that institution to make it more
democratic how do we encourage the
acceptance of even more refugees in
Europe as currently accepted now and of
course the United States could be much
better about that and how do we ensure
that great power war doesn't continue
into the future so what's happening now
is France and Germany are trying to sort
of create a central European power bloc
to balance against the United Kingdom on
one side and Russia on the other so what
does the United States do right and
particularly what does the United States
do with regards to NATO I tend to think
it and you may very well disagree
reasonable people could disagree that
the United fee probably no longer
continue to have a serious military
presence in Europe and should basically
stop funding
NATO and leave it up to the local people
there to decide while all the same
trying to encourage Europe through a
variety of diplomatic measures to make
the EU more democratic and to accept
more refugees yeah and this is actually
where as an example like you know things
that I wouldn't normally be particularly
excited about but I also again we
are a specific historical moment I think
there is I think there should be a real
radical transformation winding down of
what NATO is but then on the other hand
that actually makes certain things like
when a guy like McCrone who I really
could not have more contempt for talks
about like a common European defense
policy that's the type of actually
intermediary step that's gonna be
necessary to unwind these sort of larger
imperial alliances you're talking about
so that actually is important there in
my opinion right I think it no III agree
completely and so the way is how do you
do this sort of technical thing in the
short term without losing term losing
side of the medium and long term goals
which is really you know dismantle
borders dismantle the military and
writings along those lines and and just
to put a final button on it the United
States should obviously not encroach on
Russia's territory basically south into
sovereign territory of interest and then
there's larger questions about what you
do with the country like Ukraine but
that might be for another discussion
okay well actually then okay well table
some of the Russian maybe we'll have a
specific Russia East European
conversation soon because I do think
that that does sort of create a whole
other set of interesting challenges and
and that that plane to all these other
dynamics but let's let's go to the
Middle East and let's include
in it even though obviously they're not
relegated to the Middle East these are
highly used in certainly in South Asia
and also in a place like Somalia but
let's include this sort of like drone
global warfare component in this sort of
broader umbrella because as you know I
mean Middle East policy has been reduced
to in addition to obviously supporting
vicious monarchies dictatorships and so
on also this very kind of
one-dimensional note of terrorism which
has had major global consequences and
sort of organized modern u.s. foreign
policy that's absolutely right so so
stuff wanted to end the drone war today
I think it has absolutely no strategic
purpose and just serves to inflict
violence on people who are already
oppressed step two it's a totally invest
an alternative energy at home and I
think you're never going to have
just American policy in the Middle East
unless United it actually seriously
works to get off fossil fuels and of
course it's not like a lot of this oils
necessarily flowing to the United States
but its flowing to America's allies and
there's a gin that the United States
essentially needs to extract the oil
from the Persian Gulf and the various
reasons so that's what I think really
keeps us there so I think the first
steps of really changing America's
policy towards Saudi Arabia is to you
know for example filled New Mexico with
solar panels or something or on all the
government-owned land for so that would
be a first that really reform energy
policy and once you do that then a lot
of your opportunity and if your
imagination really opens up so you could
totally reform the study of Ray Biehn
relationship really essentially ended
stopped providing Saudi military with
and also of course the Israeli
government with millions of dollars in
arms I think you would stop supporting a
liquid Israeli government that totally
expands that constantly abuses Gaza to
really what a terrible and almost an
unimaginable degree what the Israeli
government does they're the guards the
gods and the gods of blockades so use
America's an enormous overweening
influence on Israeli politics to really
change as railey policy with regard Gaza
and also with with regard from the West
Bank developed some sort of reparations
policy at the very least for for those
Palestinians who were who were who were
expelled during the Napa and all of the
all of those really terrible crimes that
the United States didn't stop or at
least and in some sense implicitly
supported and then the question is what
you do with Iran I I think people don't
quite appreciate how actually
destructive sanctions are they're sort
of used as a soft tool but they're
actually truly destroyed lies and just
for the kinds of ordinary people upon
whom you'd theoretically want to build a
more progressive future so really you
also need to stop sanctions in a serious
way and really reformulate how the
United States deals with with countries
that are essentially a liberal or are
following a different way of life and I
think that involves a total complete
transformation of how the United States
understands Islam and
farm's role in foreign societies and
Islam's role in the world and I think
leftists are also going to have to
really consider what values and they
want to promote and what the role of the
United States is in promoting the
liberal values that that we hear take
for granted but that might have that
might not have particular valence --is
and societies that the United States has
long didn't implicate it in so it raises
a lot of really interesting questions
about transnational solidarity that will
essentially need to be worked out in my
opinion in practice yeah I want to
briefly follow up on that before we get
to Asia because I think it raises a
really interesting point particularly
the you know the themes around is Lama
daredi rights liberalism liberalism but
also just a much broader sense of sort
of the different foundations upon which
people want to build their politics and
their societies and at least for me I
think actually people like a Martius Sen
are really helpful for this because you
know who was a very prominent Indian
economist and philosopher I think he's
at Harvard now and his sort of argument
going back to the 90s in specifically he
was actually answering autocrats
in Singapore and Malaysia who were
putting across this thing called Asian
values which in contrast to the sort of
anti-muslim bias of American and
European elites they were kind of drawn
to some of these Asian values debates
because Asian values ideas because
places like Singapore and Malaysia were
certainly posted you know incredible
gains and accomplishments in terms of
market development but also were very
very socially repressive like the idea
of you know getting caned in Singapore
for spitting on the street is actually
like not an urban myth like that
actually has happened right and so right
these guys said look we have a different
way of organizing our society we're
building it on Confucian values and so
on and so forth and basically to just
make it really simple I mean Sens
intervention was look the Western idea
that the only place in the world that
came up with an idea of individual of a
sense of individual rights group
well-being
and power accountability being just
specifically from the Western
enlightenment tradition is false and you
can actually trace ideas of holding
power accountable and expanding or
certainly the intellectual roots that
you could build Democratic models on
literally exists in every single social
and intellectual tradition on the planet
and what you might find and so and also
these Asian values guys are wrong too
because they're distorting Confucianism
to justify their own autocratic
tendencies and so the answer is is
you've got to sort of build these global
sort of you know these these
cross-border recognition where you're
you're not throwing the baby out with
the bathwater and being a total
relativist like oh yes Saudi Arabia can
have gender apartheid because you know
that's how they do Islam and we're super
open-minded that's wrong and we oppose
it but then conversely maybe we also
recognize that somebody wants to build a
rights oriented flourishing society that
also you know they might be rooted in
different Islamic traditions as an
example I don't know if that makes sense
but know that that makes total sense and
I think you see a lot of these
discussions come up and a lot of these
issues come up in debate over the veil
which was such a hot topic about 20
years ago because I'm from from what was
then the American or really the French
depends at the time it was viewed as it
and the precedent piece of clothing but
when you actually see how it
historically operated you know for it
for example in Cairo and various moments
of all for at various moments it's
actually a symbol of women asserting
their space in the public sphere right
so it's actually a symbol of liberation
when it was totally interpreted here by
many people by many liberals and those
on the right as a symbol of oppression
right so we also need to be very
important not to impose our own
frameworks onto these other spaces in
which the United States Empire is is is
involved and I think it's just
highlights the importance of that there
is no one solution to any to any of
those issues about cultural differences
and cultural relativism that you really
have to get on the ground and have a
deep knowledge of the area and really
always the cynic kondañña this is always
listen to local peoples you know if
you're a member of American NGO that
happens to have a lot of resources you
should never
or left-wing NGO or whatever maybe a
good organization there's a lot of
problems with NGOs we get to that
different okay so let's say you're a
good person trying to do good things
which you really needs to do is listen
to people on the ground and really build
networks of solidarity across borders
where you're not just imposing your own
view and it's a very difficult thing to
do because we're all prisoners of our
own identities but it's something that I
think we need to really work toward as
long as the United States and planful
this overwhelming power right I think we
can't retreat from these questions
because this is the pure material fact
that so much capitalists enter here in
the military the world's military is
really the United States's military so
we have to think about these questions
even if we'd prefer you know to leave
them aside because they're really quite
difficult and oftentimes won't have a
good answer 100 percent all right Asia
which I know that's huge but I mean I
don't know so what do I mean obviously
there's the North Korea dimension
there's China the re-emergence of sort
of power politics you know TR aap India
whatever way you want to take it but
what's the what's the progressive
orientation towards Asia so that I think
this is really important because I think
this will be a big division between
progressives like myself and realists
like Stephen Walton John Merce timer so
realists like who otherwise you unless
this should should build coalitions with
particularly with regards US policy in
Europe and the Middle East where there's
a lack so a lot of agreements but we're
the biggest disagreement between people
like me and multimers timers at Walton
murmur think that the rise of China as a
serious great power competitor there
necessitates the United States to
maintain some sort of serious presence
in East Asia in the South China Sea so I
would disagree with that because I think
that assumption is based on the idea
that the United States should never face
any peer competitor and that Unipol that
some sort of privacy and unipolarity is
actually really necessary to maintain
world peace and I think this is a very
mid 20th century idea understandably
emerging from World War two but in some
sense and in my opinion the rise of
another great power could actually good
be good for world peace and good for us
stability one because it'll actually
allow the United States to exit from the
reason the region and have some sort of
ideally peaceful secure
really transition to where China
essentially assumes responsibility for a
lot of the security concerns the region
and which will bring a lot of capital
home and will also prevent the American
perversion of an area of the world in
which it hasn't been involved
particularly long and about which it
doesn't know very much now the other
problem though is that China is
certainly authoritarian and it's not
only authoritarian but it's
authoritarian capitalist so this also
creates again difficult questions about
what do you do as you know as a leftist
who has a particular position on the
world when you're essentially ceding an
enormous part of the world to an
authoritarian capitalist power and of
course I should underline the United
States and of course an enormous amount
of damage to the region so I'm not
saying that the US would be better or
has been better but I'm just saying
these are difficult ethical questions
for a for a leftist to actually pursue
right do you want for example Chinese
authoritarianism to now govern the
entire eastern hemisphere of the world I
mean ideally no because that limits
freedom and limits liberation and really
important ways that I think less is
should be concerned with but then again
there's also the reality of that the
United States shouldn't and doesn't have
the political will to maintain permanent
presence in a region that's so far from
its shores so I think the first step to
do is get beyond this idea that a great
power competitor is always necessarily
negative for the United States but then
we really have to think through what we
as left us do to help combat the
authoritarian impulses of the Chinese
Communist Party and it's not an easy
question now I think some of these
things will be regionally worked out on
their own particularly the sino-indian
conflict which is kind of always at a
low ebb but I think with the rise of
Modi it's getting even more powerful you
know another member of this
authoritarian axis that Bernie had
pointed out in a recent speech so I
think in some sense it's up to the
peoples of this part of the world to
work out their own history for them
without the perversions of the United
States but we in the United States could
also take some sort of at least sort of
ethical position about what is the
proper way to resist authoritarian
assort or the transform it in a
democratic and Liberatore direction yeah
and without military aid without
military aid but and included in that
right already you know
shoes that I don't want to leave you
know that that of course I mean I
understand why people crit it I think
there's like three steps right there's
the sort of recognition that human
rights are proxy and have absolutely
including you know literally like a
proxy for us militarism and invasions
and and also but even in a more soft
variety of proxy to formalize a Western
dominated order okay that's a very value
valuable and correct critique and
there's a a certain intelligence and
corrective in you know don't get your
own house in order you know particularly
I mean the United States focus on what
you're doing in Yemen or you know and so
on hundred-percent but I think the third
step is there is this if you really have
this left perspective there is a real
concept of global solidarity and so
therefore like the Yuga the youger
population can't be eliminated in that I
would occasionally you they want to have
of you know Tibetan society and I would
recognize you know sure there's some
romanticism I think there's also that's
another area where there's been an over
corrected critique of that society as
well all of that being as in may it's
it's occupied and it's being you know
culturally cleansed and environmentally
destroyed you know these are real issues
of anybody who is concerned about these
issues wherever they may take place yeah
and I think that's right and
particularly what's going on now with
the Uighur from my limited layman's
understanding there seems to be a lot of
there did being organizing concentration
camps and the less shouldn't shrinks and
criticizing that I don't think the left
does shrink from criticizing that and
could be frank but the question is and
then what do you do when you don't want
the American military to do anything
essentially and you don't want sanctions
which will destroy the lives of ordinary
people so I think you could essentially
adopt on one hand the ethical position
that living in the imperial Metropole
that you do have more voice than than
many of the voiceless who are affected
by these policies and on the other hand
I think like you said build true global
solidarity
whether they be working-class
solidarities whether they be cultural
solidarities or whatever it may be build
these sorts of solidarity so that at
least you could give a DIN assistance to
those living within these societies who
want to transform it in ideally a
peaceful way both mostly because I think
any other non peaceful way will be
immediately crushed by the awesome power
of the Chinese military let's go to
Africa where now I mean one of the it
does continue on a China theme because
one way of understanding Africa that a
guy like a brilliant analysts like
Milton al-ahmadi would say is that you
know there's actually basically just
another version of a sort of multi-party
colonial game there primarily between
the United States and China but
certainly also France with a huge amount
of sort of residual power and influence
there and colonial relationships I mean
you know even a guy like McCrone is
quite willing to fly there and sort of
lecture Africans on their sexual habits
mr. right you know sort of glow global
woke answer to Trump and at the same
time Africa also is experiencing its own
sort of you know boom in some in some
areas because it's an untapped area of
the global economy and you have you know
governments like the African National
Congress in South Africa who have these
amazing incredible you know sort of
iconic histories struggling with the
contradictions of liberation national
liberation and then being unfolded into
this global capitalist order what's the
play in Africa it's a really great great
way of framing the whole issue and so I
think what we need to admit from the
from the first is that that a lot of the
US policy toward Africa and African
relations is really raises more
questions and provides fewer answers
because again like Latin America this is
a region that's been so destroyed by
hundreds of years of colonial oppression
that it's really difficult to take
anything from day one so as I see the
question is how do you give people in
Africa sovereignty over their own
resources while at the same time not
give sovereignty but allow them to
maintain sovereignty in the global
marketplace and seriously enact their
sovereignty without at the same time
reinforcing domestic oppressions that
that Elvis that exists in many African
countries and I think it's really
difficult because the previous answer
that many leftist had had given is sort
of developments politics but as many
historians have shown is that
development politics are actually
extremely problematic in many ways they
shore up all the leads they should mark
traditional hierarchies and they
actually make societies worse with all
that capital flowing in and that's
really the way that the United States
and China today are really trying to
track African politics so again I think
it's mostly at this point I don't have a
good answer for what policy should be I
think we need to rethink how Africa fits
into the place of the American
imagination is sort of something always
down there something for from which they
either a place of violence or a place
where things are seized from and really
start to build connections with African
people on the ground in order to
understand what their own goals and
visions and dreams are and without that
that sort of hard knowledge it'll be
difficult to actually develop an
American policy on so how unique how do
you help again I'm using the language of
make but how do you really helped foster
African democracy from a grassroots
perspective from the United States it
should it be the concern of the American
state to do that should be the concern
of sub-state transnational organizations
to do that I'm more likely to say that
it should be the role of sub state
organizations but these are really open
questions and I think the first thing to
do is actually listen to people in
Africa on the ground absolutely and I
would also just add to that - very clear
especially specifically with the United
States I mean the United States is an
African country in so and in in addition
of course it's a European country of
course it's also I mean but it is and
it's and it is a true I mean it is a
global country and it is the seat of
American Empire but I would say that
very specifically historically I mean
obviously first and foremost as a
country of the Native Americans who were
genocided and had their homes stolen and
that is the foundation of this country
of course and then it is a European
project for both great evil and also
revolutionary good in some respects as
the tradition that could be built off of
and then it's also
through the other you know the other
founding historical crime and sin of
this country obviously slavery its it is
a African country so that not only right
should it not be relegated there is this
direct foundational relationship built
obviously on mass murder theft
exploitation and abuse but people came
here from Africa and the worst of
conditions and helped not only I mean
that not only just the sort of like yes
literally physically build this country
through you know slave labor but also
the entire political intellectual
artistic infrastructure of this country
is a essentially African as much it as
it is European and I know this is will
trigger a lot of people but facts don't
care about your feelings yeah did a
great point yeah you know absolutely
true I mean African history is central
to to American history as European
history is central to American history
and III think there's a deep
relationship between these two world
reasons i deep and complicated and often
for patience on behalf of the United
States's relationship that really raises
a lot of really difficult questions that
centered on development security and
what the United States could do as
having I I think at least literally a
moral responsibility to help the people
of the continent to who have been so
destroyed by Western and American
colonialism over the past 120 years and
and it's really difficult and I think
one thing that we could do at least in
places like the majority report in the
Michael Brooks show is at least raise
awareness because I think most Americans
have no sense of what's going on in
Africa so I think at least raise
awareness about what the left could
possibly do to help people on the ground
is you cut out a bit but I do have a
final question for you Daniel are you
there yeah okay okay so this is great
and and obviously there's a lot of other
theme I mean there's plenty more content
we're gonna do but the final question I
have one of the things emerging out of
this as a compliment to the idea that
Acacio Cortes is doing so much great
work with entering at the Congress of a
green No Deal in America
- you know green the economy create a
bunch of new jobs there's some
interesting arguments about that already
coming out of the gate on would the sort
of level of consumption that came out of
that sort of still pose long term
problems in terms of greenhouse gas
emissions and so on but being that as it
may I mean do you think that there's now
the talk of a global green new deal do
you think that dealing with the ecology
crisis and all of its manifestations
because let's not just climb it but also
you know deforestation acidification of
oceans and all of the just primary human
concerns that are implicated in that do
you think that that's a solid sort of
organizing principle to build this nexus
around of a global leftward governance
and movements that's a great question I
think ethically and morally yes and I
actually think also that it will be
something around which we'll be able to
build solidarity particularly
generationally and so I think there's a
big difference between people who are
let's say older than 65 and people who
are younger than 65 due to a variety of
historical experiences but also because
the people over 65 are not really going
to be personally dealing with the
after-effects of climate change so I I
ideally what will happen is we'll see in
the next twenty thirty years as
leadership cadres begin to be replaced
by younger generational cohorts later
recognition of the damage wrought by
climate now of course this really
remains an open question and I think the
first thing you said about consumer
capitalism is actually really critical
so a good way to think about capitalism
is like who's considered the heroic
subject right at some point it used to
be the capitalist and then on some level
it used to be the labourer but now I
think it's really fair to say in the
North Atlantic and particularly in the
United States to the consumer so we have
to really point to this as one of the
problems of not only capitalism which
has a ton of problems identified by Marx
but also consumer capitals and
specifically which is plate placing
consumption as at the center of economic
exchange and
and economic activity so I think that's
really a really important place that we
can start now because I don't think
honestly and somewhat rascally we're
going to get much movement on climate
for at least the next five years but
what we could do is let this start
really questioning the very model of
consumer capitalism and that maybe it's
not the most important thing to be able
to get a prime package in two days but
rather to have it so that people are
able to work UMaine hours and that maybe
we shouldn't always think about it's
consuming more and more but the ways in
which other values need to over overcome
consumption as a sensor now I'm not
saying that we should sort of fetishize
or terrorize austerity not at all but
I'm just saying that there might be
tensions between rampant consumption and
then the ability to do good in the world
that we need to explore and theorize
more fully at Laura I think a lot of
people have done this but discussed more
explicitly it in forms like this one
Daniel Bester this is great I really
appreciate your time as always and just
once again everybody the book is
democracy and exiled on spire and the
rise of the defense intellectuals a
really important book for understanding
our world today
Daniel best nur thanks a million as
always I appreciate your time thanks
Michael you later talk to you later
buh-bye alright folks I think I've got
our marching orders that about covers it
that about that with like the major
exception of things like are we gonna
have another like arms race with Russia
it does cover it but covered a good
amount I'm gonna just do a brief
editorial here I mean Bernie if you
start to think properly globally which
you have to not in the sense of like oh
I'm someone who's informed about what's
you know the crisis in Indonesia you
know so you can sort of like look smart
at a dinner party but just the fact that
whether you're talking ecologically
whether you're talking the ability to
establish the type of great goals that
as an example Jeremy Corbyn has in the
UK
you are always gonna be under danger I
look at me my god on just Manuel Lopez
abidor kind of pushback he's gonna get
from the United States from Anglo
capital from traditional power
hierarchies and corruption inside
Mexican politics is gonna be inspiring
if he actually attempts to do the agenda
that he outlined in his inaugural speech
which was totally clear and
uncompromising about the rampant theft
of neoliberalism and also his solutions
which really are basically you know
Roosevelt in social democracy but that's
considered to be incredibly radical for
people in a developing country and
anywhere in our modern context and of
course would be a huge improvement for
most people's lives in Mexico so you've
got to think in those terms because even
if you're just primarily concerned with
the United States both there's the
ethical obligation from what we project
through Empire and also the reality that
it's gonna be profoundly hard to sustain
progressive domestic accomplishments in
a world governed by capital and so you
need to be thinking in those terms and
Bernie Sanders is the only one I'll
always give credit Chris Murphy's great
in terms of his focus on the rampant
crimes and abuses that the United States
is supporting and participating in
everyday in Yemen anybody most Democrats
have renewed their support for the Iran
deal which is the great accomplishment
of the Obama administration and most
have talked about you know various
concerns of global ecology and this and
that and that's great but the only one
with a diagnosis of the world let alone
global solidarity is Bernie Sanders
period and I hope that changes but you
got to be real about that
okay um become a member of the majority
reported a majority dot F M slash become
a member
pennies a day makes this show possible
and us accountable to you first and
foremost
the Bell house show for the majority
report is almost sold out get your
tickets quickly those tickets are in the
double digits folks yeah
quickly quickly remaining Lee yes Wow
yes last day yeah this is probably the
last day to do it
I'd go do that immediately there's a
link on the majority out of him home
page yeah
the Michael Brooks show also at a very
steady clip so that if you hold off and
wait till the last couple of weeks
they're opened it's looking like it'll
be the same situation so I would just go
get those tickets quickly as well for
the February first Michael Brooks show
Michael Brooks show on patreon patreon
comm slash TPMS just did an illicit
history of neoliberalism with Quinn
Slobodan Mike Racine was a huge amount
of fun next Tuesday Matt Taibbi is back
you can also really start to really
regularly watch clips we've been really
ramping up Michael Brooke show YouTube
channel and there's the unlocked post
game with Richard Wolff you could of
course subscribe to that on iTunes and
YouTube is suppressing on a free speech
and it's not monetized your videos yet
for a variety of gist there um for some
for whatever reason I think it might be
the size of the majority report clip we
don't run into nearly as much copyright
issues as we are running into with the
microbrew yeah we actually kind of but I
wonder if it does I'm being facetious
when I say the free speech stuff to make
fun of dave rubin but it is actually
really weird I think it's just
algorithmic like mr is bringing in money
yeah so they're not gonna eff with us
but we got dinged for playing a trump
clip from The Associated Press the other
day which by any reasonable standard
would be obviously be fair use otherwise
what purposes Associated Press literally
what purpose is this exactly and so now
there is an ad on that video and because
it's gotten a lot of views but we don't
as going to the AP yeah and we don't
want to change exactly how we're doing
the show so ultimately if we have to
choose between playing clips like that
that are gonna give context or
completely you know expunging that sort
of stuff and having a completely like
media les show where I do the former and
we're probably gonna run into copyright
issues so that's why things like patreon
our and nice useful end around Iran that
sort of the exact
um so yeah that's that's the situation
Matt what's going on with literary
hangover and happy birthday thank you
very much
yeah tomorrow night recording on
democracy and chains have been getting
deep into that controversy it's be very
interesting the basically to give you a
little preview it's sort of the question
is is James Buchanan libertarians
Machiavelli or libertarian isms Forrest
Gump that's a good frame check out the
anti-fraud patreon.com slash the anti
Fattah the wu-tang universe of left-wing
podcast we will see you in the fun all
right folks
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you in the
[Music]
[Music]
the alpha males are just wanna degrade
the white man alpha male I almost has
one
I am a total can we bring back the
eg banner Kisa yeah or a couple of you
put them in rotation
DJ den well the problem with those is
they're like 45 seconds long so I don't
know if they're enough little break
that's Hawkins's and the alpha males Oh
psyche
Oh
[Music]
back
a lot of back
back
[Music]
Oh have you tried doing an impression on
a college campus I think that there's no
reason why it reasonable people across
the divide can't all agree with this
psych
there doesn't a little party you think
that America deserves to be taken over
by jihadists keeping it 100
[Music]
that's birthday to meet you boy I have a
topics benefit for you the alpha males
to pay the price of Class B around here
the great DJ Danner key we are back on
the fun half with three amigos is uh I
guess Jamie's not here cuz she's not a
she's a little under look all right
let's take a call out of the gate this
is your calling from a 301 area code who
are you where you calling from
Michael look at you aha this is me hey
Pluto from Maryland maybe you know
what's going on what's on your minds hey
so um I was wondering if any of you have
had a chance to read book by Jason
Stanley I think know what's all about
how how fascism works did we have him on
the show we had him on the show I think
oh you did yeah he was on the show yeah
because I when I was reading that it was
just the thing that was really sort of
startling to me and that was I mean not
the basic precepts or the basic you know
things about fascism but how how native
it is to the United States and yeah he
had pointed pointed out though it ain't
an import the Confederacy has no passion
yeah a lot of it is like a European
thing and it's not it no I got some
ideas from you guys yeah in fact I think
I think they're jealous about the whole
lot resting to like the Jim Crow and
well we had another I wanna let you
finish your thought but just have been
destroyed 20th century we had another
guest on it's a Yale professors wrote a
book called I think was like Hitler's
Confederacy his American model history
Hitler's American model Hitler's
Confederacy would have been a better
title but Hitler's American model was
all about how the Nazis drew from and
Bill
their model off of the Jim Crow South
and also of course South Africa the
apartheid South African regime built off
the American South so yes fascism is
absolutely America it's as American as
slavery yeah and he even made a um the
Nazis at the time when they were looking
at this sort of a you know the Jim Crow
South and you know how the whole you
know one drop of blood makes you you
know they were like wow but then I was
like wow that's like really fascist
we're not taking a bit father really
like I forever I forget what they came
up with like whatever the ratio was to
make to consider to be a Jew or whatever
they like well Jim Crow South and I just
thought that was just um you know that's
that's the part to me it sort of took
took me aback a little bit but um yeah I
mean this is sort of the fundamental
critique of like Upton Singh
Sinclair Lewis's it can't happen here or
it can't happen here book cuz I get the
problem is like it kind of did before it
did happen here since Davis didn't have
the industrial capacity of all right
Lincoln otherwise he would have
liquidated as well I don't know what
they would have done because he needed
the slaves to function yeah they would
have just had they would have killed it
would have this Tetrick it would have
been mass murder and techno industrial
apartheid yeah in slavery yeah all right
thank you later all right thanks for you
know appreciate the call
that's an American exceptionalism thing
right like we can't can't accept that
like the bad thing happens here and I
think it's like and I'm cuz I'm one hand
I mean I'm I'm actually totally I think
Harvey Ches mission to show that America
also has these incredible social
democratic traditions and back to the
founding people like Thomas Paine were
not only abolitionists and supported
women's rights they were also actually
even prototyping things like universal
benefits and labor unions through the
guild system lane was very driven by a
commons enclosure and existence
yes which actually has obviously it's
like very least socialistic karl polanyi
style themes but exactly but so so you
gotta be I don't know what that is
there's no one
the line so yeah but that that it's so
so we there is this American tradition
of radicalism and progress and you know
everything for and of course dr. King I
mean there's all of these models that we
need to build off of and talk about and
not let the right claim the images of
American history 100% and then
conversely there there's actually even
among some people that are very critical
of the United States both domestically
and internationally still have not fully
absorbed how fascist that's been here
either right like this like yeah we do
all this bad stuff and there was the
racism there was the sexism and there
was the distant think they mean well I
think they don't that I just even feel
like I mean way I like specifically
absorbing like fascism here is still
pretty unusual and that is a form of
American exceptionalism even amongst
people who are I think are quite astute
about America agenda well and that I
mean the distinction is sort of what is
popular and what is sort of elite right
like Thomas Paine is interesting because
he sort of he's the poppies why the
American Revolution had a popular
backing I cut Yuri common sense and
there's not a whole lot you can disagree
with and what it says about monarchy and
and that sort of thing that wasn't
obviously what like George Washington
was exclusively fighting for or any of
those guys right like they had a whole
bunch of cynical like a almost real
estate motives right that they wanted to
but they liked those obviously weren't
gonna like win them support so they
frankly like probably agreed with some
of what Thomas Paine was using but I
also saw what use that could be in terms
of propaganda and but that that's the
message so what use they could be for a
revolution yes also the other lesson but
the like the lesson I take from it is
that popular like in already the people
on your side like this leftism sort of
communal approach is what actually like
and it's what happens throughout the
world wars too right like we have these
sort of racial barriers get broken down
and like look at these black people can
fight for his in World War one they're
gonna come back and expect their
freedoms well didn't really quite work
out like that but like the that quote
like the times that try men's
men like obviously right but like that
when it comes to the crunch and you
actually need popular buy-in from the
mass of people that are here you it ends
up pushing things I think often in the
right direction that's what I think is
redemptive about like what Harvey Kay is
talking about totally I agree with that
completely you're calling from a
seven-one-seven area code who are you
where you calling from right this is
Danny from PA hey Danny what's going on
ah two things the first is about the
thing the topic about consumption
patterns in the first world and what
impact that could have on you
you know last foreign policy and broadly
gender a sustainable development and the
thing I wanted to bring up about that is
there's a big example in the Western
Hemisphere of a country that they think
the only country in the world that has
achieved sustainable development they
have a high human high ranking the Human
Development Index and a very high a very
low ecological footprint that being Cuba
Cuba since the Revolution has pursued a
path of very sustainable development and
I think that that example could be you
know maybe not a perfect blueprint but
definitely something worth taking into
account of how countries can go from you
know what I think what was the UN agency
if she'd non-stop your heads that I'm
called you a golden standard yeah yeah
called it like the gold standard for
sustainable development because they
don't consume as much fossil fuels they
have a good development program for
themselves I I'm a big you know I think
in like the mass conversation
Cuba's been so demonized
and there has been obviously going back
to the early city I'm gonna let you go
Danny I'm gonna respond to you but it's
just a lot of static all right but I'm
gonna answer I think that Cuba is
basically yes I mean look the United
States tried to assassinate Castro
literally dozens of times there's a
blockade
there was a fitting into the Cold War
and there was certainly if we're being
real uh the Cuban government of Castro
did a lot of things that probably if
anybody's being intellectually honest
would like even again actually let it
just like make it really we're real if
you're a modern bourgeois person in
Brooklyn you would not feel comfortable
with the types of restrictions that you
get in a Cuban context and I think it's
delusional too and and certainly some
Cubans are not happy with those
restrictions either and be delusional
and not acknowledge that and be real
about it and have a and but on the other
hand you know it's a critical support
from me
frankly the Cuban Revolution was just
and right they have accomplished
incredible things in health care
education literacy local sustainable
agriculture initiatives Castro's
incredibly complex uh in in some ways
very brilliant figure and other ways
totally flawed autocratic one and others
like many but the way they're talked
about here especially in a context where
you know people like Lee Kuan Yew the
founder of Singapore is uncritically
worshipped in the United States his
human rights abuses almost certainly
exceeded Castro's or were comparable in
my opinion I'm sure some would think
they were less but he was certainly
extremely autocratic but you know he
built a free-market autocracy so that
was acceptable here and then not to
mention the real monsters you know the
Savimbi's the House of Saud the Bibi
Netanyahu's and the you know just
endless parade of dictators and military
dictatorships that we supported across
the Caribbean and Latin America never
did a goddamn thing for their people so
there's a lot to learn from cube
and it's an incredible accomplishment
that they're still standing and there's
definitely things to learn from Cuba I
agree a lot to learn from Cuba on
development issues you're calling from
an eight one seven area code who are you
where you're calling from hey Pete
my name's Matt I'm calling I'm in North
Dakota but I'm from Texas and uh no
offense to Matt but I hate the coast
well what are you doing there if I hated
what are you in college
oil steel in our oil whaling there
Texans usually do yeah mind your P's I'm
mad yes serving our clam bastard
well what's on your mind
ah thanks for calling sorry you're in
North Dakota
oh yeah no worries so I've been reading
more and more into like economic
theories about like how the state is
involved in in our economy and are you
guys familiar with the Mariano Mott
ceccato yeah a little bit she's good
okay yeah I was gonna see if you guys
should have her as a guest one day
because I've been reading her book and
the entrepreneurial state it's a really
good book her and also Linda Weiss
she wrote America Inc innovation and
enterprise in the national security
state but I've been getting more and
more interview and that bitch's second
books the one more time Brendan do you
mind getting that down what was the
second book question mark or America Inc
question mark innovation and enterprise
in the national security state it
actually that one focuses more on it
deals more into how the national
security apparatus is uh involved in
these economic ventures and right where
as motsek Otto's more about like
changing the narrative about our how we
take risks in our economy
you know and a method of tackling you
know a Green Revolution as far as state
intervention which I mean she's not
really a socialist by any means you know
she's a cheese capitalist they're both
capitalists but I think it's interesting
that they're you know so focused on the
the changing of the narrative yet still
holding to these these ideas of like
profit motives and whatnot and I'm like
well if you like it you know a hundred
percent all right I'm not I mean I'm a
socialist but I I think everybody should
read and take ideas from every source
possible no I know Maria matzo Coto is
is really interesting I think actually
be asked we did a couple years try to
get her on the show and it couldn't it
just logistically didn't quite work out
but that's somebody definitely put back
on the list and also I would look up on
um related to this there's just about a
three minute clip on YouTube where Mark
life who's great you know the economists
at Brown he explains what Brazil under
Lula and Dilma did in the matzah kouto
model actually in terms of using state
investment to spur innovation and then
put the you know redistribute the
rewards actually maybe we could find
that it's only like a two minute clip we
could play it maybe you got anything
else Matt oh hell yeah yeah yeah I just
wanted to like I missed the the
libertarian colors I wish I wish we
could get more libertarian always been
for the loves of hearing l debate with
them I actually got a chance to talk to
my local representatives his name is
Jonathan Strickland this was like a
couple years ago I wanted to talk to him
about climate change and kind of like
how we could tackle it with this
particular method and one example I used
that I thought was kind of effective
kind of got him thinking a little bit
was the whole like cars how cars work in
our society and how the government
invests in in highways as opposed to you
know public transit
there's a lot of data that goes into how
public transit could definitely be a lot
better in that regard but I wanted to
really get him on that on the
libertarian front from his from that
perspective and I told him like you know
the when we invest in highways and stuff
like that I mean we're really making a
commitment to you know less choice in
our in our in our economy as far as what
type of transportation you're going to
take you're you're basically telling
people you're going to increase the
amount of state security like more
highway patrols more seatbelt laws more
just more laws in general that have to
regulate this type of transportation and
then also I kind of throw it through and
they're like there's a lot of propaganda
that has to convince people you need a
car you really need a car like luxury
and you know all this stuff and and in
school we learned a lot about how
advertisements are basically the perfect
example of logical fallacies though but
I don't want to get too nerdy on I don't
think you could I've worked in the brand
strategy space buddy under what I don't
think you could have worked in brand
strategy no I think you're totally right
I mean that there's good not only the
logical fallacies there's a good there's
interesting literature on like I think
they call it the manufacturing of desire
and and when advertising shifted from
just sort of like saying what a product
did to selling emotional experiences and
yeah I mean I I think there's definitely
I don't want to do I don't want to turn
it into like a lifestyle thing that you
know obviously to deal with big problems
there needs to be major changes in
policy and institutions but there's no
doubt that I mean there's just patterns
of consumption that we have that I'm not
I'm not a hairshirt
person and I think if you've ever lived
with any type of even mild serious
material deprivation you want people to
you know have nice things and live a
comfortable life 100% but I think Daniel
best neurs right like I don't know that
you know does the this everybody
constantly ordering everything on Amazon
that compatible with this sustainable
world is that compatible with you know
not totally grinding workers I don't
think so I really don't I think there
doesn't need to be some real changes in
how we consume and I think definitely if
we I mean that's a one of the remaining
four all of the huge problems of New
York in terms of gentrification and
expensiveness and all of this not having
to have a car here it's massive it's
huge and hugely positive benefit on
everything from ecology to social life
to your personal health so no doubt
about it and I think one thing I I get
from you you listening to you guys is uh
more about the social cultural aspects
of these issues and I really you know
appreciate that because if I just
focused on this whole like will view
economics of it all you know that then I
don't think I would have a very very
good grasp on these concepts so I
appreciate you guys the show appreciate
you man thanks a lot hopefully get on
North Dakota soon have a good one do you
get did you find that Blythe clip it's
kind of interesting if you just put in
mark Blythe Brazil it kind of speaks to
what he's talking about it's like a
two-minute clip it cuz I can't explain
the matzah kudou thing as well as he
does in that clip yeah that's it this is
this is sort of what she's getting what
needs to be doing there's only used to
do what Brazil's been doing which is
awesome so this is like when Brazil was
doing awesome this is several years ago
so quick primer on Brazilian political
economy for years and years and years
they had one of the highest Gini
coefficients in the world or incredibly
unequal and it a problem because wealth
being so concentrated meant that the
people who make effective investment
decisions decided that their own economy
was too risky because it would either be
run by the military or run by the
Communists or run out its own so they
would take their money and they would
put it in steady bank which is nice and
secure and you get a lesser rate at a
ton but you don't Mar because you own
everything anyway so that's the way it
went on for years and years until it got
to a point where basically you had to
spend so much money on private kidnap
insurance and mining your house against
the people who would try and kill you
that they did a deal with a guy called
Lula Lula you stood on the Workers Party
so the guy running the Workers Party the
the guy comes and and basically does
exactly as I said at the bottom of that
slide democracy is our second students
for the reps stop skimping on the
payments so they did a strategy whereby
they got BNDES the Brazilian National
Development Bank to bunt their lending
portfolio by the way is twice the size
of the World Bank to subsidize domestic
corporations so that they could
multinational so you got companies like
Embraer look at the aircraft company is
a big cement company others there are no
globally successful corporations because
of that expansion bankrolled by the
Development Bank what they do is they
tax the companies on the roundings
abroad bring that back in and they sell
something called bolsa família which is
the welfare state the brazil never had
this is squeeze the income distribution
like this at the same time as it's gone
up which enables the Brazilians to
finally build a middle class it empowers
the middle class in a disempowers
additional handle on loaning Elysee so
what you end up but this is a blow
affects you do with domestically high
interest rates to keep these guys happy
but what you've actually done is to
engineer a kind of new development or
welfare state which is actually being
great for brazilian growth and has
actually brought down a Gini coefficient
because of this everybody wants to buy
Brazilian assets which is why the reals
going up and their export dependence or
the freaking out so what they've done is
they've put in what capital controls on
inward investment and usually the big
fear is you know you put your money and
they put up capital controls you can't
get out oh it's sex procreation they're
doing it totally different they're like
you want to come here dead easy pier
transactions tax on a deposit because if
you're not coming in for the long term
forget about sitting here rounding high
interest rates just because you can't so
they make it difficult for that money to
come in but as a growth node in a big
country it is happening on the left so
the reals going up the economy slowing
down but what they've done over the past
ten years I think it's not unsure or
remarkable so yeah that's and you know
that's I mean and and some of the stuff
that they investigated and tried to
leverage there was there was for sure
corruption in some of those enterprises
but that's the model they built and it's
very analogous to how she talks about
using the state for innovation they had
that also had big implications for a
public health expansion as well in
brazil and that was probably like in
2012 and 2013 when everybody's
recognizing the immense success of this
model and unfortunately instead of
democracy being asset protection for the
rich the rich and oligarchs in brazil
decided
go back into a commode because they
could not deal with this this sort of
arrangement because I think for probably
for some legitimate concerns about
things like crime but mostly because of
just pure class hatred and resentment of
having like afro-brazilians and
governance as an example that was
another major thing that the Workers
Party government put in place okay um
let's see uh Louie Gohmert was talking
with Stuart Varney and uh well this
won't surprise any of you but this
happened Orwell's mentioned George
Orwell's big brother I've been saying
for a long time now the only thing
Orwell got wrong was the year otherwise
it was right on track but but look
Google has repeatedly sold their souls
and that's your your editorial is
dead-on like they want the 1.2 billion
or so folks in China part of their
system and there they've been willing to
to literally sell their so in you
mentioned oh well it also reminds me of
another George George Soros you know
because Google is born and it's in a
free country and then they go over and
oppress others help oppress in another
country
george'll George Soros was supposed to
be Jewish but you wouldn't know it from
the damage he's inflicted on Israel and
the fact that he turned on fellow Jews
and helped take the property that they
own this same kind of thing Google
coming from a free country and helping a
press but China has been oppressing for
a while I mean I look at email with
people over there well what can you do I
mean you're on the Judiciary Committee
you're interviewing us on the pitch ah I
mean what can you do well for one thing
okay so fascism is American that is I
mean the George Soros jokes are funny
but the reality is is that this guy's
work is getting shut down and hungry
is run by a absolutely neo-fascist
government part of this far right
right-wing bloc and deeply connected
with steve bannon's attempt to
internationalize these efforts of
repression we had that guy it's already
off of the news who was sending pipe
bombs to the Obamas to the Clintons it
started with George Soros and you have
an elected member of Congress who
everybody gets if you're watching the
show that he's a joke and a and a
jackass and an idiot and he's funny and
easy to make fun of and all the rest of
it but that's a member of the United
States Congress on the largest cable
news channel spreading not only lies
about George Soros like things like
George Soros was a essentially a child
or a very least a teenager escaping
Nazism going back to an old chalkboard
anti-semitic conspiracy theory from the
Glenn Beck days to smear this guy as a
Nazi collaborator it's actually really
dangerous and disgusting it's in the
genre of the protocols of Elders of Zion
first 100% on the heels of Facebook
paying a Republican firm to do a
anti-semitic strategy because George
Soros actually sometimes and they're
billionaires shouldn't exist as a
category no one should have that amount
of assets it's fundamentally
antithetical to democracy period if
there's one billionaire maybe Tom Steyer
and I know I have different politics
than these people but they occasionally
put their money to some actual
civic-minded things not just Democratic
candidates George Soros good for him has
helped fund groups that are concerned
about the fact that essentially Facebook
is a engine of fascism and a global
stalker economy Facebook under the
obscene immoral grotesque and disgusting
leadership of Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl
Sandberg hired a Republican sleazebag
agency who's one of the principals you
could formally could find on pot save
America to do sort of you know
Jew baiting material for far-right sites
about George Soros and it gets recycled
and washed with again this guy sure he's
like Elmer Fudd wily coyotes a jackass a
 an idiot
well he's a jackass an idiot who's
in Congress and on fox news Fox Business
to Fox Fox Business I mean I know this
from you know relative so I go yeah I
don't watch Fox News but I do watch Fox
Business right not a single bit better
like my bartiromo I would say it's worse
yeah that's where they like farm them
right and it's and it's because it's
under this veneer of this is the
business news right like people are
complete marks for that thing yet the
idea of the business channel getting
news to the business channel is an
interesting sort of like 21st century
idea do you have any on what you want to
expand on that well just that it's like
you're too busy with your business to
get all the news so we're just giving
you the most important stuff which is
going to allow you to continue to run
your business well and it it also like
makes markets seem like something
everybody can be a part of that's right
look at my I know what the Dow Jones I
per second by second update of that and
it's like who gives a what the Dow
is I was thinking yeah it's funny like
when you get your phone how that's like
a pre-programmed app in it yeah ridicul
I don't have any money there yeah this
is nothing to do it's like I hope it
goes down right such I know that's I
know there's people I probably like
that's it that's very I mean come on
let's not say that but I don't care like
I don't know well it's just it just
shouldn't like even if you did have a
modest investment in like a safe stock
right like it just isn't like you're not
part of it like that accuse you to think
you're part of something that you are
not a part of unless you're an
incredibly small fraction of people and
that's a huge thing for our generation
like I don't because I don't have I'm
not even remotely even close to
investing in the markets the idea that
you can invest in the markets and just
get money out of it is ridiculous to me
insane like I don't care about it I
don't care about preserving it I don't
care about the good it does like I I
think we need to deal with other things
and I
if it gets and you care about the bad it
does well yeah exactly that's the thing
it's all downside to me speaking of all
downside Dan what do you call this guy
Dan bongos Dan bongos was on Laura
Ingram to be horrible years ago Laura we
didn't have the Airbus or the 747 okay
um there wasn't a way to transport
millions of people into a sovereign
nation at any given time listen with all
due respect I'm a practicing Catholic I
love my faith I my wife is an immigrant
to this country
I'm not if the immigrant I'm anti
law-breaking you have to come here
legally like my wife did this isn't a
complicated argument one more thing to
the Liberals do you have to be a
blowtorch on everything do you have to
blow I mean they've destroyed Halloween
probably now every costume every parent
has to worry if it's cultural
appropriation if you couldn't bear the
Black Panther costume apparently if your
kid wasn't black this was an actual
controversy they blew up Thanksgiving
for a colonialism or whatever liberal
victimhood of the day can we just leave
there the NZ salon they're not getting
started mess with baby Jesus just leave
baby Jesus alone let us enjoy Christmas
I'm begging you just give us one holiday
Dan
there's no room Oh in for baby Jesus and
there's no room in America for the
thousands and thousands of people in
Tijuana okay it's a mirror image as this
priest said no wonder fewer people are
going to church stick with the gospel
and leave the leave the theatrics and
the props to other people dan thank you
so much what a couple of fun people that
is the gospel you morons
that's quite literally the gospel look
I'm gonna stipulate my one they always
find one thing that they pull I would
say if I was ruling on it I think black
I think part of the point of black
panther is actually to create basically
like a global pop culture product with a
black superhero so as long as you're I
don't know what they're referring to if
part of your black panther costume is
blackface know if your black panther
costume was wearing the suit yes that
should be a globally available costume
everything else that they said
is this amazing combination of like
projection whining delirious nonsense
with like a complete disregard for their
own
like the reason that is like a
one-to-one like Jesus poor family no
rent in need for refuge outside the
leader and Savior of the outcasts over
Turner of the moneychangers like I don't
know where you guys were in church maybe
you were at some like you know III have
no clue but like that is Catholicism
like that is Christianity I mean look
you can be you could make religion
whatever you want it but it's just
hilarious and then it all of course all
ends with Laura Ingraham actually
co-signing unlike yeah Jesus no
room for him and no room for the
immigrants which is a tell there is uh
there's a the the the thing I says about
being I'm I'm Pro immigrant I'm just
anti law breaker oh really
well let's let's how much do you want to
increase you know immigration info how
much you and why you breaking every form
of international conventions on law by
criminalizing those illegally seeking
refugee status yeah like let's let's if
you if your so prou immigrant Len let's
you raise the budget for border workers
help process them to get them in here
fast yeah I agree let's do it fast let's
make the fast an egg or efficient yeah
fast legal and easy so pro-immigrant
safe legal and fast yeah I wonder how
I'm not I'm gonna go there with those
jokes as soon as I hear a guy like that
talking about having a wife his name
adrenalin hmm wonder if he uses that
over her in any kind of subconscious way
but I'm always just like what kind of
immigrant is this guy's wife
when if where did Dan Bongbong find his
wife because it could be that they met
at like you know 21 like a New York City
New York sports club stuck-up struck up
the rapport over the treadmill that
would be cool or Columbia all right all
right fair enough that's interesting I
still don't know how they met it doesn't
logically follow about what he's saying
I've been using her as a shield for the
know like you don't like immigrants you
like your wife yeah you like your wife
but yeah
must you get a divorce you might not be
supportive of future you know my well I
have taken in more people from Central
America alright let's finish this Fox
tour with a little bit of a respite
because our friends no Mickey Const who
is of course candidate for New York City
public advocate is on with Tucker
Carlson and this is actually she she's
doing what I said this is exactly what
you need to do with Tucker
yeah Tucker you're talking about some
things that are real so what about
reclaiming money from the oligarchs and
creating a green new deal check
individual choices are not going to
solve the disaster that we are facing we
already have a migration issue we
already have flooding we already have
her news like that have hit Puerto Rico
have hit have hit New Orleans have hit
Florida and have displaced so many
working people this is an industry
change we have to cap emissions globally
one of the daughter of emissions the key
industries and policy then those
individual choices mean nothing
hold on individual choices always mean
something I'm not a libertarian I'm not
living in a fantasy world in real life
individual choices matter or else what's
the point of any of this okay so it does
start with liberals used to say it
starts with one person I guess they
don't anymore because they don't want to
be held to their own standards but the
solutions are always like what
is that a thing it starts with one
person I don't remember that it's I
don't know I don't remember that I must
have been I probably Tucker was that a
ring that Adam Smith Jerry Garcia
looking people ought to pay higher gas
tax not at all and actually we are
against that progressives versus the
neoliberals and neo-cons progressives
understand that this needs to be a huge
policy change with a place where we are
right now if we increase the temperature
one degree you and I won't be living in
DC and New York anymore okay I want to
talk about the public policy solutions
that will flow from the predictions that
you're making is there any solution
you've ever heard of that doesn't
increase the price of energy I've never
heard of one well okay so if you're
gonna be focused on the price of energy
we're not gonna have the solutions the
solution would be a green new deal
moving to 100% renewable energy forcing
the companies that are jacking up the
prices on working people to actually
reduce their emissions so that working
people aren't displaced so working
people that have committed responsible
she need an industry that's Raeleen
water and the water is not being
practiced volume is not the same as an
argument
okay so just really simple question you
know my your want to do he does the
same bungee know thing I live with all
right
I live with broads I hear there were big
uns all day but about all about
yeah the in terms of the price of energy
I think accurately accounting for fossil
fuels externalities is why fossil like
energy prices are going to go a hundred
percent and also secondly we're know and
this is a huge division macron just
folded on his regressive attack on
working people because of mass protests
no we are not going to tackle the global
environmental and energy crisis by
austerity it won't solve the problem
anyways and a little crease human
suffering what we're going to do is
nationalize four
fuel companies what we're going to do is
build incredible public transportation
networks what we're going to do is
reclaim and redistribute the money
that's still being generated to invest
in those new projects like as an example
if you did you know a cap-and-trade
system but instead of privatizing it you
realize that in fact you're extracting
from the Commons to pollute the Commons
so while that is happening is we rapidly
transition off of it the money that is
being generated from it should be taxed
into a Commons fund to be invested in
regrowing forests cleaning up oceans
rapidly deploying renewable energies and
building sustainable transportation
networks those are the actual solutions
that no Miki and real people are talking
about I also to say like I think we all
know like I have a black friend doesn't
work and I'm gonna say like I have a
wife is even weaker you know most people
including like almost all misogynists at
least aspire to have a wife so I don't
know what point you're proving here the
 out of here all right
also women can have internalized
misogyny ideas too
this is how ideas work yeah anybody can
hold racist ideas even people who are
sort of that racist Reuther idea to
raise these are ideas ideas have
consequences and on a much different
note a obscure white nationalist who
I've never heard of named Mark Collett
is a BNP guy who is a BNP British
National Party which is a thug fascist
heirs to the brown shirts in the UK you
know loathesome group yeah let's do a
little background he was in a a Channel
4 documentary about Nazis in the UK and
he was one of the quotes let's see
honestly now would you prefer basically
said like if you look at inner cities
you would say that the Nazis actually
had a good idea
so that's this guy so that's this guy
and unlike know Mickey he does not
confuse volume with argument
and that of course makes him appreciate
Tucker Carlson's work and I've seen took
a course and use the term white genocide
and when I first started using it I
remember some of the people closest to
me say you can't use that you can't use
that and so there's actually truth it's
what's actually happening and I you know
readily the UN document and you know
they were forced into agreeing but this
list I think you're gonna scare people
off I think you're going too far but I
disagree I disagreed then and I'm very
proud that myself and others who have
used that term have managed to influence
the mainstream media and people like
took a Carlson into using that term but
that's what sets people like took her
apart from people like Nigel so I don't
know you have it here are in that read
the quote that he's referring to or we
have a tuck we have the Tucker video
that he's referring to of course Tucker
is regularly praised by websites like
storm front for act owing and
disseminating Nazi talking points but
usually he's very savvy about kind of
broader plausible deniability but here
he is stepping over like it's from
October first overtly into that
territory Kirk's former Bush campaign
strategist an ABC News political analyst
Matthew dad went further than that he
published an op-ed demanding that quote
white male Christians vacate their
positions of power for other people he's
not doing that himself but he did not
notably advocate for genocide a
Georgetown professor called Christina
fair did do already recently tweeted
this quote look at this chorus of
entitled white men justifying a serial
rapists irrigated entitlement all of
them deserve miserable deaths while
feminists laugh as they take their last
gasps bonus we castrate their corpses
and feed them to swine yes Georgetown
has issued a statement defending fair
source they have Marjorie Clifton as the
founder of clip okay so I mean look you
know that's
I would say he's still in the realm of
plausible deniability there in some ways
this guy's using he's using what
Tucker's pointing to and taking across
the finish line a little bit Colette oh
well that's how it works that's how
that's how the whole thing works I mean
that's that's what Tucker's doing
literally every night message received
yeah on daily stormer Tucker is
absolutely lapping everyone else on Fox
News he has been featured in 265 daily
stormer articles between November 26 or
November 2016 in November 2018 and far
behind him Hannity with 27 Ingram with
four include jobs it would expect to
damned Ingram Cyrus T for it - yeah yeah
come on guys don't be ya ain't so
misogynist harrassing its misogyny is a
ceiling on Ingram's career we have
another Ingram clip by the way it's her
talking about enemies of history if we
were okay yeah let's do that
oh no we did this yesterday yeah okay
all right I want to talk about this
briefly um Mark Lamont Hill he's been
around for a while he's an academic he's
a commentator he's an activist and he
like those of us who share universal
principles is an advocate for democracy
for the Palestinian people who suffer in
a siege in Gaza an occupation and
apartheid in the West Bank and are not
it is definitely a different situation
inside 67 borders in Israel but they're
certainly not fully equal citizens
inside what is an ethnos state now the
justifications as far for ethno States
as far as they go
Israel is the best justification
imaginable the Jews are one of the most
highly repressed groups in human history
and coming out of World War two has
literally just had millions of people
murdered in the Holocaust by Nazi
Germany so there's an origin here
there's a history here and there is of
course still an incredible potency in
global anti-semitism but the reality is
is that the Israeli state not only is
profoundly repressive of Palestinians
it's also been increasingly aligning
because it's a far-right ethno state
with those same far-right
traditionally anti-semitic forces
particularly in Europe in countries like
Hungary so Marc Lamont Hill addressed
the conference at the UN and he called
for Palestinians to have full and
complete democracy and he actually
called specifically for a bi-national
state of democracy and openness for all
those in Israel Palestine I think that
this is where frankly this is the most
idealistic position to have this is the
position that someone like Tony Jett had
who was a great social democrat and
Jewish intellectual read his stuff very
good very good
and it's the recognition that if you
believe in an anti essentialist
cosmopolitan politics you don't believe
in an ethnos state of any kind you don't
believe in leadership you know built on
identity frankly of course you believe
in anti colonization a national
self-determination but fundamentally you
don't want to build build a country on
any exclusivist identity whether it's in
Iran Pakistan or Israel and no matter
how fundamentally even you know the one
might sympathize with a group like the
Jewish people who have been on the
receiving end of enormous repression and
abuse we oppose that and I would say I
noticed that in the Tucker clip where
Tucker's in my opinion a crypto Nazi
who's drawing obscene false
equivalencies but I think he's gonna get
a lot of mileage out of an essentialist
turn in politics which I totally oppose
and I partially oppose it actually
because for a long time inside my own
Jewish context I've been an advocate for
full democracy for Palestinians so Marc
Lamont Hill said that basically there
was needed to be a full dismantlement of
the situation there and democracy from
quote the river to the sea
and that triggered people because they
said it echo to the Hamas talking point
he was fired from CNN and in reality
what he was actually calling for was not
terrorism not the harming of anybody but
a global solidarity and a full democracy
for everyone and this was a piece but in
Washington Post by Noura Erakat
who's a Palestinian American human
rights attorney an assistant professor
at George Mason University and the peace
is Marc Lamont Hill and the legacy of
punishing black internationalists she
said Hills address and the motivations
of his detractors require us to move
beyond the immediate question of
Palestine and issues of academic freedom
of speech his speech forms an important
part of a renewed manifestation of black
Palestinian solidarity itself a
component of a longer legacy of black
internationalism and third world ism in
this sense his speech echo to discourse
and vibrancy once emblematic of the
diplomatic revolutionary efforts at the
United Nations that receded in the folds
of collapsed internationalism the UN
General Assembly established the
International Day of solidarity with the
Palestinian people in 1977 in the wake
of systemic US efforts to enderman and
undermine international resolution on
the question of Palestine this US and
transitions formed part of its Imperial
global role ranging from military
interventions in Vietnam to its
diplomatic protection of apartheid South
Africa and the UN Security Council and
she goes on to talk about some very
powerful specific cases first of all
correctly note that Malcolm X Angela
Davis Robert F Williams and Howard Cruz
and other vital leaders were
fundamentally internationalists and
global in their outlook by the time
Malcolm X's assassination he was touring
Africa and the Middle East and
connecting the struggle and liberation
of African Americans to decolonization
modes across the country and again had
pivoted from sort of a religious
essentialist ideology to one
I still oriented in islamic spirituality
but much more in a sort of socialistic
global liberation
which saw connections to Ghana and Cuba
and so on she also talked about Paul
Robeson being targeted by the McCarthy
era as well as others including on James
Baldwin as well so mark Lamont Hill is
not only being targeted because speaking
out on behalf of the rights of
Palestinians is actually one of the only
things that can actually get you fired
and have you D platform from a college
campus in an actual way not like god
forbid some students protested me but
like you lose your job because you
express an opinion which I'll be
completely clear with you I don't I
don't support that even really obscene
opinions I actually for both strategic
and moral opinion reasons I'm very
strongly supportive of the First
Amendment in any kind of public space
and the only time it really does not
apply is when you're doing any type of
forthright criticism of Israel that is
clearly the case that's how even Board
of Trustees is attempting to remove him
as a professor from Temple University
and to be clear here there's no
anti-semitic comments there's no comment
about Jewish people there's no Holocaust
denial there's no advocacy of violence
against Israelis it was an affirmative
call for Palestinian rights if you have
a problem with how it echoes or might be
read as similar to Hamas comment great
you should take that up with Mark Lamont
Hill and in fact the open space of ideas
and debate totally valid thing to talk
with him about here his response to but
the firing of him is an obscene assault
on rights and a echo of the double
standard that still exists here with
regards to Palestinian people and of
course let's just button it with the
obvious that just like they had nothing
to say about kianga Taylor having to
have speeches cancelled across the
country because of death threats people
who have disingenuously built a whole
brand off of free speech and open
exchanges
of ideas is merely a proxy for
right-wing reactionary politics have no
sincere commitments across the board
period we actually do will support free
speech for everyone and starting with
people actually speaking using their
free speech to advocate things that we
should all support like rights democracy
and justice for everybody you're calling
from a to six seven area code who are
you where you're calling from hi yes
yeah hey I just want to say I'm a big
fan of yours and Sam and I yeah I never
miss like a broadcast of the like a book
show now because are you guys really
been killing it so far
thanks man um yeah no problem so what I
was going to say was um make a comment
about your interview and Daniel burstner
yeah uh so I agree with like ninety five
percent would you guys say the US has
had a disastrous relationship military
relationship with countries all over the
world Latin America you know Africa
Middle East I get that however I did
take issue with the thought of the u.s.
pulling back from the South East Asian
front because I feel like we asked the
head of China is really underestimated
within American circles at this point
right right of China Obama tribe the
threat of China to what's right the
threat of China to what oh yes i elite
to the people there right
so for instance right like what does an
invasion of Taiwan look like because the
Chinese party has dedicated themselves
they said they will absolutely invade
Taiwan as soon as they get the chance
right the Taiwanese military right they
have this like their entire military
defense relies on I think it's a
17-minute defense don't quote me on that
number but the point is is that their
entire response
to hold out for American backup if China
ever makes a move on them right and what
does it look like with China invading
them and crushing their democratic
society right I mean we have examples of
that because China has been doing this
or the CCP very long as it has existed
right and we and your guest mentioned it
but like yeah they had concentration
camps right I feel like just feeding
that territory to Chinese I mean III
again I understand that the US has been
terrible in terms of like for instance
our um history in the Philippines right
like that's an example of us being
terrible um but I failed the Sisi yeah
exactly I I completely believe you there
I think we can rework our strategy there
there's definitely room for adjustment
here but the idea that we just see this
territory of China
I think it's disastrous on just a
pragmatic level like so I just want you
wanted to hear your thoughts on that
well that's a really fair point I think
that we got to disaggregate a couple of
things here so I'm with Daniel in the
main in the fact that just any will any
larger picture of the whole world and
what the United States role is and how
we actually transition to a world if we
can that isn't dominated by any imperial
hegemonic project whether it's the
United States whether it's China um and
you know that's a tall order the world's
always been sort of variously controlled
by various hegemonic projects right it's
gonna require a huge amount of work and
part of that work is not having a
military contestation in Asia right and
I think that and also setting aside like
just setting aside the nature of China
of the Chinese government the broader
point that like
you know let's just take it let's just
take it totally out of it and just say
like the broader principle that the
Asian neighborhood should be sort of
more in the hands of Asian leadership no
one who isn't you know either bigoted or
Imperial would object to so of course I
know you do
so okay so there's so a couple of really
important premises there now the third
point is I and I actually I completely
agree with you and I've even made the
point myself that you know that the
utter obscenity of US hypocrisy which is
the fact that we go around lecturing
about rights that's changing on the
Trump a lot while we are the prime
violator of Rights in the world just be
a nature of our size but the fact that
there are these other countervailing
forces in the US system allows there as
an example to be like an anti-apartheid
activist and the 80s could come and
travel the United States and talk about
how the United States is backing
apartheid Palestinian activists can live
in the United States right and are
totally not given enough platforms and
so on and so forth but they can live in
the United States they can speak they
can they can take advantage of a
relatively open civil society here to
highlight the fact that the United
States as a prime enabler of apartheid
in the Middle East then in the supply
you know of course we talk about any of
the number of air there areas whether
it's in Latin America Africa Asia or
Middle East or Eastern Europe or
wherever that the United States is
abusive and corrosive through its
imperial role now in China there's
absolutely no corollary if the Chinese
government is supporting a dam project
in sub-saharan Africa that's gonna flood
out a village and they're using
paramilitaries to clear up the village a
citizen activist in sub-saharan Africa
it's not gonna be able to fly into
Beijing and go to the local university
and give a lecture about the obscenity
of the Chinese foreign policy so again
and some people don't like when I point
this out because for whatever
ideological fixations they have but
that's just an objective reality and
it's a difference and it
means that there's more room for a
maneuver at least in terms of public
exposure in the United States and that's
just that's just objective reality so I
agree with you and and I think
specifically I think Taiwan I mean I've
sympathy for Taiwan I think Taiwan you
know it's not some great progressive
Mecca but no they do have a fairly
democratic society they have you know a
woman president as an example they have
a pretty strong labor union movement
they've done some good things they've
managed to actually overcome their own
military dictatorship which is a remnant
of the Shanghai shek regime I have a lot
of respect and I know people from Taiwan
now what that looks like in practicality
because I don't think Daniel best nerd
would say that we should just bail on
Taiwan
I don't know that Taiwan is worth having
a global war over I also don't know
frankly that China as it is currently
constituted you know just as I would say
don't take all American rhetoric at face
value or all Iranian rhetoric at face
value I don't know that I would take the
Chinese rhetoric at face value I think
China actually has a very successful
trading relationship and there's
connections with Taiwan that work in
China's favor even without you know
militarily reclaiming it but they're
always gonna release nationalist
speeches about it because that's the
nature of their own sort of national
narrative so I guess the bottom line is
I don't have a good answer to that I
think generally Daniels totally right
about pulling back from a conflict and
actually the desirability of a
multipolar world as part of a transition
to a post polar world but I do think
that yeah I mean I don't under no
illusions about yeah it's an
authoritarian capitalist country and
it's and yeah I mean it's a fair point
so yeah so I I just yeah I totally agree
with you
and I just I just want to really put the
point out there that you know that III
think we should um definitely look for a
leftist foreign policy especially since
like we don't at this point no one
really knows that is because we've never
given to try like once in American
history so it'll take time to develop
that and
that like simply but I didn't formally
across the world like we should have
just recognized that different territory
different areas of an area of a conflict
require a different stance right that we
don't want to do what the other side
does it have the have a blanket answer
to very complicate a question right
right now like which is usually military
intervention ISM on their side you're
not right um so just to think I mean
like they're like Daniel Bessey was
saying that you know we should listen to
the people on the ground about what we
should do and and and in terms of Taiwan
specifically there's one I'm just using
but I don't think like I'm gonna guess
but I don't think they would consent to
like the us completely withdrawing from
from there there is no doubt I need to
learn a lot more about Taiwan but I know
enough to tell you there is no doubt
that in a Taiwanese context including
people that are very much on the left
want the United States to pull their
security umbrella 100% you're totally
right about that that's that is a very
specific and interesting challenge I
appreciate the call man thank you okay
uh Nate from Kansas City what we're
seeing in North Carolina Wisconsin other
places are also definitely Michigan if
you think the Republican Party is going
to just respect lower case of dim the
lowercase democratic institutions then
you might be mistaken the ship has
sailed if you're pro-democracy then
you're taking a partisan stance I mean
yeah I agree
bronze plan Michael you should include a
date when you plug your live show I keep
missing it
February 1st 2019 February 1st 2019 bail
house in Brooklyn also Sam has been
turning down your mic to suppress your
free speech it sounds quieter lately I
heard that's actually from a couple of
other people I think that Mike doesn't
need to be turned up when I'm over there
I don't know if that makes sense but
that's I now it's like three people
who've told me that okay
Lag listen today
and got the date Thanks okay majority
report thought roses are red lemons are
yellow Michael Brooks one handsome
fellow thank you I like how we do these
like majority report thought this is a
lot of names human Brian if you want to
learn a language I recommend checking
out the book fluent forever by Gabriel
whiner have you guys ever heard of this
book also using grated readers in your
target language side note have you heard
from hunter mots their podcast I missed
hearing his input on things the Facebook
group is toxically overrun with
libertarians oh that's a bummer no I
haven't talked to him for a while I
should touch base with him he's a really
nice guy smart guy wonder what happened
to that that was that was I thought they
were doing really interesting stuff on
that podcast can't let any libertarians
in yeah it's not a single one they'll
spoil the bunch they're bad one rotten
apple pretty soon the whole thing
non-aggression principle obscene you
can't tax Warren Buffett all of a sudden
you can't tax Warren Buffett anymore
eighty a minimum a say a OC is incorrect
when she says the green new deal will be
an economic stimulus simply because
people's electricity bills will go
through the roof California pays forty
percent higher than the national
averages more storage is needed the
price will expects potentially increase
MIT Technology Review put see a cost for
100% renewable at 1600 megawatt an hour
from 49 at 50 okay look I am NOT gonna
pretend that I know about enough about
this stuff I do know the way they've
designed it in Germany and Jeremy Rifkin
with his new Industrial Revolution stuff
which is much more being implemented in
the EU and actually to some extent China
they've created a model of basically
like if you have a solar panel on your
house you're almost like a small
electric company power company yourself
and there's even been cases of people
actually getting rebated money for
having renewables our utilities do not
want that model to happen here well a
hundred percent but my only point I'm
making is that as though as is literally
always the case these are not technical
questions their political and economic
questions subsidize the energy we need
subsidized energy we need reclaim and
publicize these companies and if
California is doing this in a regressive
way that in no way surprises me
there's things I like about Jerry Brown
I think he's a very interesting
political leader he's not on the left
he's a centrist highly centrist in some
ways very center-right leader and he's
doing some very good things but he's not
doing it in a way that Orient's
addressing inequality or justice so we
already know that so the left answer is
how do you do it in a proper way that
delivers for people and that's a
political and social question the the
broader technical question there's the
question of limits that daniel race
that's real I don't I'm not I don't have
anybody on there must be the skype issue
that's the broader issue that that
Daniel raised and it's an serious one
but just a question of like she's wrong
about those numbers because XYZ in
California wrong way to look at it look
at what they're doing in Europe and
always look at the political and
economic reasons why yeah you can't talk
about climate change in the cost of it
without talking about without factoring
in the externalities of what we're doing
to our planet and what that means even
in dollar terms if you're gonna talk in
these ways and if it hurt if it hurts
people's bottom line well perhaps like
the the amount of energy usage we've
been used to with fossil fuels we're not
gonna be able to match that immediately
right away right as long as you make the
wealthy squeal a lot harder than the
middle class for instance like people it
won't be as politically bad as you think
it is it tell you something you
nationalized those companies
redistribute them you put public
distribution of like a decentralized
energy grids in people's hands like they
are doing to some extent in Europe and
people like Jeremy Rifkin advocate for
you have a massive increase on wealth
taxes in the wealthy and you also create
public transportation system I mean look
look New York subway is a huge amount of
problems in New York and of course if we
weren't doing this ridiculous Amazon
scam
you could put billions of dollars into
just upgrading the subways which is what
they should do period but that being
said I mean I don't you know we the cost
of gas does not matter to us in the same
immediate and visceral way that it does
to like II like my mom as an example in
Massachusetts like drives to work has to
do this or that thing it matters and we
would never advocate a policy that hits
people like that without a much larger
policy shift so but and the first
resources that larger policy shift
Isaac's keep saying would be a rapid
deployment of train systems and
upgrading bus fleets and you know bike
lanes and all of the other ways in which
you get people on public transit systems
I mean I mean public transit systems if
you're looking for an area to be wonky
and nerd out on I would say public
transit systems that is one of the most
that is an area where no matter what the
solution is no matter what we do if you
want to have any type of like decent
society and survive into the future
there's gonna need to be mass and it
should be free mass public transit
that's incredibly well done and
ecologically sustainable Sam tenders
Sam's Tinder's profile hey girl don't
swipe right that's a zero-sum game
skull and bones I agree with your caller
from North Dakota not only do you give
me a baseline for intelligent cultural
and sociological outlook but you guys
also provide a guideline for acceptable
cuckoldry practices NiO progress I also
want the DOW to go down I don't know
what that is
without oh the doubt that's embarrassing
did you ever see how news voice is
totally infested with far-right trolls
and I haven't noticed that PD peek a day
Tom Hartman likes to talk about when he
was young and major Detroit newspapers
had labor sections in addition to
business pages we need a labor team
labored TV news network yeah when you
look at how print media has gone
downhill since like the 70s it's so
depressing especially as somebody who I
went to school if the
I might go into journalism yeah that
just does exist anymore like I was
watching Fletch with that is it Chevy
Chase yeah it's not Chevy Chase it's a
little split I don't know I don't know I
forget those 80s SNL guys or whatever
there but anyway very funny movie but
the it revolves around a guy working on
an undercover story as a reporter for
like six months where he doesn't have to
show his editor anything like that is
not modern media yeah it's it's hack out
five articles in the morning right and
hope one of them gets viral and no
matter how like whatever
nonsense Megan McArdle tells you about
that trust your instinct and know that
that's really bad yes yeah yeah that's
not a good thing that there's five blog
posts instead of a six-month
investigative report that's bad that's
helping the wrong that's the same time
there's plenty of useful out there
in terms of reading against the grain
like anything in the New York style near
Times Style section is basically an
indictment of the age we live in there's
a new piece out right now that I I'm
sure everyone on Twitter is seeing but
it's about the new Bleecker Street and
it is an awful indictment of what New
York City has become in terms of wealth
gap and the lack of affordable housing
are they self-aware about it or not at
all right but it's written in a way that
it lets you a smart reader know that
these people are insane but that there's
a lot of people who need these things
who don't like their New York exactly
that's it so yeah it's fast it will rust
out that's we need another wasp
president yeah I mean that is insane
that was a little on the nose we've had
two that aren't yeah black eye and
Catholic that was assassinated right
I'll say yeah but that was also the
other part like in addition to
everything that's a that's what I mean I
was gonna say it's like in addition to
every like that piece is so up in
ways that he clearly doesn't even know
because he's basically certainly like
well of course trumps not really a wasp
he's really like an ethnic and we can
tell that because he's like corrupt and
sexually promiscuous like I don't know
what else you'd be implying because
there's no
trick by which Trump isn't I mean I
guess unless you're saying like back to
the Mayflower the youngest to New York
Times columnist of all time Jesus Christ
what a storied institution hell yet
cancel cancel cancel cancel have you
ever seen them support independent
meaning unless you're writing it off
because you can use as a business
expense you should not be giving the New
York Times your Monday a hundred percent
I feel like Ross Douthat in his mind
when he was writing that piece was
thinking of the movie quiz show have you
ever seen that
it's wit it's about Charles Van Doren
cheating in quiz show in the 50s and
there's a scene where they go upstate to
his family's home and they're all just
sitting there and Hudson like having
this big meal sitting in you know in
sailing and stuff and I think that's
what Ross tout that's like you know just
get back to the days of cheating on TV
Angell hell yeah to mad about the stock
market who needs it
doctor chaos MD Congress needs to
immediately pass legislation and limit
people's exposure to Louie Gohmert he's
a public health hazard much like let
explosion listening to Gohmert makes
people less intelligent more aggressive
and more predisposed to violence at
least he has that affected me every time
I see that piece of human refuse on TV
alright we're gonna take a final call
and then a few more Iams and then we're
out of here you're calling from a six
one nine area code who are you where
you're calling from six one nine are you
there yeah more Michael well Kelly
Lauren Michael from Callie did you say
that no no I was saying morning Michael
and then this is a will from California
oh okay hey will how you doing minute
what's on your mind bro hey know all
kind of stuff like you guys I'm sure
everybody else in here um one of um
wanted to mention I don't know if any of
you come across there's the lawyers
Committee for 9/11 truth um in that case
is just getting taken up in the
Manhattan district so something to
definitely keep an eye on
you know the whole thing though I don't
know in the Kirk do the investigation of
themselves but you can definitely keep
tabs on and then like yeah I don't know
like I don't know what kind of platform
or anything I mean it's whole it's
totally cool the information sharing you
know like we do in the podcast and stuff
and shows but it's like the other
Reliance same thing like you're talking
about energy and stuff is like the same
way you know via this package it's like
all they got to do
flip the switch you know agreed goes
down this that it's like I don't know
it'd be cool to kind of for me I'd like
to just start linking in you know to for
people to like problem solution kind of
stuff um yeah like what do we do about
this exactly you guys talked about here
and there and just like oh no um yeah
just like you talked about you
centralized everything it's like
freaking town man right now you know the
police's itself is like ultimately
that's that's the best way I think your
III actually I got vibe with some what
you're saying I think you should look up
the peer to peer foundation and the
global Commons movement you'll find that
stuff interesting appreciate the call
man alright final call of the day the
Dan bong Dan Bongo with the classic my
wife argument brother from Brooklyn
check out the asan interview with
sherrod Brown I hope he's the next
president given the knives that will
come from Bernie that will come for
Bernie from Ohio you can clearly
accommodate an articulation of race and
class politics better than anyone that's
cool
I still need the global dimension and
Bernie's still my number one but also I
got to say like I'm not too thrilled
about Bern sherrod Brown risking that
Senate seat like I want him there I do
think unless he might lose it anyway but
I I well he just crushed it all right
well yeah yeah I suppose who else can
wind up with him but the other thing I
was thinking about is everyone's well
noticed like donut centrist Twitter so
you throw up a gif of like these are the
people that are acceptable for
our president right and it's like not
Democrat Bernie Sanders and Bernie will
be xed out but sherrod Brown goes right
past them so I don't know you've got
that I think that's true but I think
like I just think like like much like
Isis those people cannot be appeased and
the reality is is that I like I guess
like part of it is just an irrational
bizarre fixation on Bernie Sanders and I
have to like hating Bernie Sanders is
just like own gulling yourself
oh yeah an old Jewish guy who wants me
to have health care what an like
just bizarre
I'm not saying isn't per I'm not saying
you know whatever all the usual
stipulations everybody can be criticized
of course but he's good and if you're
left he's the most left it's not really
not complicated but I think that part of
it's an irrational fixation on him but I
also think that like some of it is that
there really is especially on Twitter
like there really are like pseudo woke
neo liberals I don't think that's like a
huge market but there really are people
who you know they don't care that Kamala
Harris was a punitive sentencer they
don't care that beta O'Rourke you know
took the second most money from the
fossil fuel industry they don't care
right so I think like that saying
whatever that weird bizarre political
configuration is that has actually just
turned into like outright hostility to
working people of all backgrounds that
same insanity will get charted will get
targeted at sherrod Brown if he were to
emerge as a contender okay final I am of
the day
Oh supposed to be fanfare whatever Mork
Maron
the more of the centrist stems run the
easier it's going to be for Bernie to
win like Trump a field of 17 made it
much easier to win I think that's true
so maybe we should be encouraging beta
to run alright everybody thanks see you
tomorrow
[Music]
[Music]
feel any better yeah
[Music]
take it
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
