well here is Steve Schmidt on Nicole
Wallace Nicole Wallace is interesting in
this clip and just in fairness to the
critics of an independent run the the
the 2016 election was decided by a
razor-thin margin and the third-party
candidates could have done just what
they're afraid they did so I stopped
enough both to tip the election well
let's let's look at what Howard Schultz
has said that has set off this frenzy he
said that I'm seriously considering
running for president it's the right of
every American cause it for one second I
want to go back but Steve Schmidt I'll
uh he's guiding so much money that he
feels completely comfortable like
totally dressing down now you know like
every like every time he's been on MSNBC
for the pet he's worn a tie and now he's
going out there like he's got a hit look
he was the type of guy who gone Bill
Maher and where some type of poor fit
this is that to me is a sign of how much
money he's making off of this that has
set off this frenzy he said that I'm
seriously considering running for
president it's the right of every
American should they choose to do so and
if I do so I'll do it as a centrist
independent candidate he also has said
he will not be a spoiler in the race he
has also said he views it as an urgent
national imperative to remove this
morally unfit president from office he
believes that he's not Jill Stein he's
not Ross Perot he's not Ralph Nader what
he said is he wants to have a
conversation with the American people to
see if perhaps the hour of disruption
may be at hand are we broken a political
system and make no mistake about it the
brokenness of that political system is
what resulted in the election of Donald
John Trump posit for one second wasn't
Trump that thing
precisely wasn't Trump victory the
disruption of the political moment was
disruptive yeah in and
many respects innovative and it
reflected the actual center more which
is socially more to the right and
economically populist if you pull it but
he wants to say that the disruption was
the victory of Trump who was the as
opposed to the disruption that allowed
Trump to okay Blackson of Donald John
Trump are we faded in perpetuity to be
in this cycle of revenge politics of
self-interest where the American people
are not represented their future is not
represented or can we do something
better and so 600 days before the
election he's asked a question and so we
decry rightly the illiberal ism of
Donald Trump his attacks on the press
his attacks on the rule of law but what
about the illiberal ISM of people who
claim to oppose Trump who shout down
people from the public square it seems
that for some the progressive utopia
that is on the horizon is one that will
not come about by persuasion but by
imposition because you better dare not
speak out of line out of turn no
deviation or you were shouted down and
by the way the people are doing the
shouting almost universally are the same
people who said that's impossible I want
to go back some he's just some
 who the are you to show up
and say oh you know I'm just asking the
question of should I run for president I
don't care I don't have to answer that
you know but it's also sort of the idea
that this guy's been shouted off the
national stage there if you were to take
the total sum of the airtime or the
public exposure that ninety-nine percent
of the country who are even remotely
interested in the idea of politics and
somehow quantify that he would have
blown that figure away in the first 24
hours that he decided he's thinking
about this as the IDW principle exactly
if you criticize me that is the
suppression the deep platforming is any
response to anything I've said that's
negative
on all of the endless platforms I've
been given so I mean and it was also fun
he's like the person who literally
shouted and down was a citizen who went
to Barnes & Noble in Union Square to beg
this to not help get Trump get
reelected but here is the the best part
of this it seems to me who they're
villainizing and this is what I find
like even the most despicable thing that
they're doing because we now know from a
story I guess it was in Politico
Washington Post that the advisers have
admitted well what we realized we really
have to do is knock whoever the
Democratic candidate is out of the box
and make Howard sure I can't even say it
without laughing Howard Schultz more
palatable to 51% of the country than any
Democratic candidate but look at the
they're getting a little scorched too
earthy here or at least attempting to by
who they're blaming they like theirs
listen to this Oh's Trump who shout down
people from the public square it seems
that for some the progressive utopia
that is on the horizon is one that will
not come about by persuasion but by
imposition because you better dare not
speak out of line out of turn no
deviation or you were shouted down and
by the way the people are doing the
shouting almost universally are the same
people who said Joe Biden shouldn't run
because it was Hillary Clinton's turn
and the same people who put their thumb
on the scale for Hillary Clinton against
Bernie Sanders because he couldn't win
and they guaranteed us Donald Trump
would never be elected you're on TV you
can't complain about being shouted down
when you're shouting at me from
television but can you believe that he's
bringing up the rigging the that Bernie
was raised in Sciences that's Hoffman
people generalized pseudo
populism which so it makes it actually
even more like Trump so right now we
have I'm a billionaire who knows nothing
and you should vote for me because I'm
rich and we
it's capitalism so I'll just do stuff
good yeah and then the rest of it is um
and then there's this generalized thing
you should never concentrate on anything
to do with the economic elites obviously
or the actual system that's screwing you
but there is this sort of broad richness
that I'm opposed to vote me now well but
their goal is the same that he's
specifically saying here it was the
Clinton people who delivered Trump
I mean it's fascinating that he's those
are the people that he's isolating like
as corruption powers Nemo's float
everywhere if you don't hook it to an
analysis but it's almost like either
either Steve Schmidt is purposely
tanking it or they're that deluded where
they think like the Sanders folk are
gonna be the ones who turn you know who
or they don't gather around cos yeah III
think it's safe to say they really don't
care
this is mumait 'king that both Burton
and Schmidt could have made like
you money with this oh right thanks
we're signing a payer play contract you
can fire us in a month but you gotta
pants for the next you know 12 months
and it's million each or something and
for him I mean IIIi I'd buy that I'm
just picturing meetings where Burton and
Schmidt are like looking at their
iPhones like coordinating like
babysitting plans or something and
occasionally looking absolutely bring
America back yep that's exactly it
it's a moment of disruption innovation I
can't remember Burroughs line words
about the risk of the imagination of a
new kind of possibility that's actually
how they open the Chapo book
it really is a win-win for these schools
right because if Trump wins again
they're not gonna be the ones who suffer
they're actually gonna be better off
financially under Trump than under a
left-wing president like Bernie and if
he doesn't win they'll still pocket all
the money so good for them ultimately I
think we're all kind of everyone's been
hyperventilating about this Schultz
thing and exaggerating the actual impact
of this I mean you want to use this as
an opportunity like a OC did to point
out the the basic inequality in society
that just because you're very very
wealthy you get to change the discussion
and you get to have everyone talk about
you being president and you just seem
like someone who could be President as
opposed to say one of the baristas who
works it is one of his coffee shops when
the election is 21 months away the
filing deadlines are like 17 16 months
away we mean there could be five other
adventurous billionaires running for
office I'm sure a lot of them are
thinking about it I know for at least
several years now
people been talking about like Mark
Cuban or the rocker right thing or
either one of these silly sees humans in
shake on Trump in a Republican primary
the country needs it go do it mark yeah
and don't spend a lot of money on them
and the thing is everyone is obsessed
and and and and nauseated by the Schultz
thing because there are that is just be
lingering anxiety from 2016 of a spoiler
you know preventing a democratic victory
allowing Trump to be elected on a
national scale which says to me that
okay these people just didn't turn eliza
the lessons of 2016 or they have they
don't have a heuristic to explain why
that happened so they're still just kind
of you know that tank is pretty much
empty and they're just making up at
this point the III do think that there
is value to someone like maybe a Warren
and certainly a Sanders in making the
idea of a third party billionaire
candidate super super toxic right now
right because now it is making it a
generically toxic
as opposed to the the not the greater
than zero chance that if Bernie Sanders
as opposed to really any other possible
Democratic nominee is the nominee that a
Howard Schultz comes in and there is
enough people in the Democratic Party
who are you know scared of a of a
socialist and you know you get Bill
Kristol and Anna Navarro and then all of
a sudden you you think maybe we could
win a couple of states
he's a very classic guy I mean I don't I
mean again this is all so far away so
this is I playing fantasy football and I
I would rather I mean I I don't really
care that much about Schultz's
presidential ambitions I would rather he
as a person with his position side he
just not exist right he a bill should be
abolished playing the Starbucks you
should freakin be abolished having the
name Howard if that's where the
discussion goes that I would say that's
a productive discussion of that if this
if this leads to you know millions of
people questioning who is this
and why does he want every night and
frankly if he decides to run and I think
the on I agree I mean the only chance he
will actually do it is if Sanders are
Warren or potentially sherrod Brown
nominee and if he decides to run I think
he'll spend an unbelievable amount of
money and I think look I don't want to
put another variable in the race I want
Trump out of there but I think he'll get
I think I think you could do a very fun
graph where you compare the amount of
spending he spends to the amount Jill
Stein spent and then their national vote
basically coming to about the same total
he's gonna have no resonance with the
broader public this grid of far-right
economics and sort of not even
liberalism just like basic social
tolerance is only popular in the morning
Joe green room so and if he does run and
in that scenario it will solidify the
lesson Virgil's talking about which is
like these people are a menace the other
thing you want a mentally narcissistic
the other the other thing is yeah he
only plays in green rooms and op-ed
pages and I've seen just so much blather
in the past few days of people say you
know well thank you Howard Schultz for
injecting ideas into this discussion you
know cuz we've been we've all those
crazy
pie in the sky about a green new
deal in Medicare for all and thanks for
giving us serious stuff in it's like
what what's a single policy or idea
you've heard from Howard show we're
gonna disrupt the possibility of
imagination yeah it's all I see I swear
I I seen it with my own two eyes I see
somebody saying that okay so this is fit
some done Witter
some done okay we're all gonna get it
we're all gonna harass the hell out Oh
AJ you're gonna make him afraid I think
we found the dunce here is a this is a
clip from your behind me no well it's
right here - okay it's it's you can look
over here is gonna be for the know who
is a Mike Slater do we know who this is
a Fox radio host okay and he's on the
he's a fox radio from the course the
Mike Slater show I would call he he is
on what is this the yeah this is the
well let's see what they're saying on
Fox - writer Robert Heinlein said the
natural state of man is poverty and it's
only for the makers not the moochers the
makers like mr. Howard Schultz that we
have jobs that we have industries that
we have growth that we have prosperity
and when you start attacking those
people then you were gonna fall back
into a state of poverty as cat was
talking about as we see him positive as
well I love the fact that you have to
you have to cite a sci-fi writer and
that's the other thing about shelters
your utter lack of Appeals because yeah
he can pay for these expensive
consultants who are gonna tell them to
run a campaign like the losing campaign
since they run in the past it says you
know you just want to say some
about you know rolling up your sleeves
that kind of crap and the vast majority
people at this point know that they're
being it everyone bullshit's
them and if you're the kind of person
who thinks you know oh gosh roll up your
sleeves that's a great message your
votes pretty much irrelevant at that
point anyway
no one is actively alienating you
because you can't be alienate because
you don't actually have political views
so all right so give me yours do you
think I think this whole event is well
I'm not suggesting that most Americans
are like excited about defending the
Bolivarian revolution but I think that
like do you always talk about how like
cago politics like what does that mean I
get that people generally probably think
like oh that's a bad situation in
Venezuela but I think that the average
person in voter is very able to
distinguish between a country and Latin
America that they know they don't
understand versus like oh you know
Bernie Sanders aoc are on television
saying that rich people shouldn't be
able to just like bequeath their kids
like castles and we don't have health
care I don't think that this vast
majority of Americans knows we're
Venezuela it right frankly but I think
if they're setting the table that if
there's I mean this is what the right
does I think very well they they plant a
lot of flowers and they see what's going
to bloom and if we start having images
on our TV of you know of riots in
Venezuela it doesn't even really matter
what they are the idea that they have
built this sort of association with AOC
and Bernie with Venezuela is going to
pay some dividends for them even if
people have no idea what any of it means
mmm I think back to that ridiculous
tweet for a second where he says the
natural state of man is poverty and the
only reason anyone has any money is
because billionaires gave it to them
like how a historical is that well it's
it's like a everything a coracle like
it's that there's no there like the idea
that if it were not for billionaires we
would not have food is just absurd like
how does he think things are produced
and how does he think things were
produced before capitalism he say they
weren't it's a sci-fi writer maybe you
know maybe in the future maybe in the
future that's what he's saying well
maybe this is a warning
well Jimmy all right you're right that
that's their line because that's a thing
that a lot of I hear a lot of dumb
people say that's a dumb guy thing to
say you know you don't like this
billionaire well what do you have a job
and I think that's you know part of it
is just that's how we've been raised and
socialized in this country to think in
those rigid terms we don't think about
the actual components of wealth and the
actual
position of labour in society is
creating wealth and the critique of that
is the anxiety that's driving Howard
Schultz to run for pret like there's the
narcissism but there's also the primal
anxiety of some of these things being
called into question yes and he and
those guys freaking at Davos so when you
see the the the media class you know put
up guys like Schultz and increasingly
Mike Bloomberg who's planning to run for
president and frequently being quoted as
as attacking Liz Warren or Bernie
Sanders or AOC I think that's that's
like you said you know we're working put
some stuff up and see what hits and yeah
maybe these billionaires these these
deeply uncharismatic bullshitting
billionaires who are just lecturing you
will convince people to tamp down on
their their populist urges I mean if I'm
Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders I
think I am pretty psyched about maybe
these guys getting in the Democratic
primary even just being on the scene oh
yes it is like you know now I don't have
to sort of like talk theoretically or
you know conceptually I can just say
like look at that guy look at him he's
five foot five and he's screeching at
you in this Reedy voice about big gulps
exactly yeah I won't pay taxes but you
can't drink a soda but here's the thing
I think that guys like Bloomberg joining
the race and expanding the the rightward
bound of the field also benefits of
people like Paula Harrison and Cory
Booker and helps them kind of escape
some of the criticism they're going to
be receiving from yeah I think that's
absolutely right
and
