Oh should we talk about uh Ilan Omar
yeah I was gonna say if you're concerned
about you know the prospect of
politicians being spied on generally
what about a mass incitement against one
of them who's facing unprecedented death
threats most likely from entirely made
up of people that watch your network
here is well here's an image of the New
York Post that really smears Ilan Omar I
mean this is and when what is it exactly
like some people did something it was
they're they're criticizing her for
that's what they're doing and as she
pointed out by the way she said that you
know in his iconic like call to arms and
it might be embarrassing but like I
think it was literally when George W
Bush went and did the bullhorn thing and
at Ground Zero when he had like a 90%
approval rating was taking us it's like
global Wars he said those people that
knock down the buildings I'm
paraphrasing so Ilan tweeted out and was
like right like it's essentially yeah
that's the same formulation in a way you
don't want to give them added respect
it's very clear like there's two I guess
sub positions before it for what she
means by that one I think in what we all
think is that she's trying to distance
that community of Muslims that she's
talking to from terrorists the whole
that each is about exactly that's what
she's doing and the the very
transparently the transparent smear
suggestion is that she's expressing some
sort of sympathy or something up with
nice minimize yeah she's like being
flippant about it whatever like the
thing that's hilarious to me though is
if the New York Post is so offended by
this flippant retraumatization to New
Yorkers their answer to that is to show
New Yorkers a picture of it like that's
always been the
that's always been the formula but of
course it's hypocritical what the the
interesting thing here to me is just how
relentlessly they have decided to go
after her and demonize her and how
easily they can go away and this is what
the problem was with the Democratic
Party and they didn't go through with it
essentially because most of the caucus I
think you know there was blowback within
the caucus
but when you start to take the
right-wing frame and go after one of
your own
what happens is you give them the green
light they see a huge opening because
you have already positioned yourself
rhetorically in in such a manner that
it's gonna be hard for you to to defend
her and so here she is on on Colbert
show the other night basically you know
making it clear that she knows she's
being demonized because she's an
immigrant because she's Muslim because
she's a woman of color and she's not
gonna have it and so in in this process
I'm learning that everything is not as
simple as we might think we might want
to state it and as I've said to you know
my constituents to my colleagues when
you tell me that you are pained by
something that I say I will always
listen and I will acknowledge your pain
it's the same that I expect so when you
have people on Fox News that question
whether I am actually American or I put
America first
I expect my colleagues to also say
that's not okay like that they should go
and call that out it on the on the on
the frame right or when people call me a
terrorist or when people say you know
that because I
I'm a Muslim and when immigrants I'm a
refugee that I can't have any loyalty to
our country I took an oath I took an
oath to uphold the Constitution I am as
American as everyone else's
and this kind of double standard really
is is quite you know offensive and it's
very much embedded in a lot of our
culture these days where you will have
people get come after minorities for
things that they say they might
insinuate it but no one goes after
people like the folks on Fox & Friends
that actually say those words not about
insinuation right they actually said
that I might not be an American my
loyalties might not be to this country
but I get called out they don't they get
to keep this show I would say that goes
as far as me to I was one night when I
heard that you had been you had said
that you believed that Stephen Miller is
a white nationalist and you got a lot of
heat for that I thought I said that yep
and I actually don't we make jokes about
that all the time on the show you get
attacked okay because of some of the
history already have in terms of being a
cudgel in the area of anti-semitism
people accusations regardless of your of
your apology but also I think because
you're Muslim because you're a woman
because you're a person of color you're
given less latitude than somebody like
me I mean congressman mark Pocan
actually said that but last year he
called this Stephen Miller white
supremacist and no one has better than I
and you see this outrage when I speak
the truth everyone else's truth is
allowed but my truth can never be and
let me just add okay hey you know so
Omar's analogy with Pocan is far better
obviously then colbert saying like i
don't get called out cuz he's a comedian
he's a late-night comedian there should
be a higher standard in terms of what is
appropriate for you to say if you are a
public official if you're an elected
official you should be held to a higher
standard
a late night TV talk show host but the
the real analogy is that Pocan says this
and frankly I think they're both right
but they can't demonize a middle-aged
white guy he is away but yeah if not
isn't it
they can't demonize a middle-aged white
guy in the way that they can demonize a
woman of color a young woman of color I
mean it's like it
it is completely there's a reason for
this it's because their party is 90%
white and dominated by white males I
mean and so they feel much more
comfortable and the subsection of white
males and white people in this country
who are much more comfortable in
demonizing people of color black people
brown people women I mean that's just
Muslims I mean that is just that is just
the truth there is there couldn't be
more data on this and that's just the
reality and one of the guys who's been
out there
slamming Ilan Omar is Dan Crenshaw the
the guy who gained you know some measure
of of cultural authority because a
comedian on Saturday Night Live made fun
of him because of his eye patch and then
because the comedian apologized suddenly
Dan Crenshaw has been elevated to some
type of national figure and he was
leading the charge about slamming Ilan
Omar for saying some people did
something in New York and meanwhile
Daily News reports today that a retired
firefighter from New York City was
trying to introduce himself to Crenshaw
while lobbying members of Congress about
renewing the 9/11 victim compensation
fund
this is Earl is about three weeks ago
and there's a lot of people who are
suffering to this day from 9/11 a lot of
particularly first responders who were
down on the pile they called it and
broadly in that area and the air quality
was horrible
the Bush EPA did not want a report on
what was going on with the air because
they didn't want people to panic too
many of the first responders were down
there without masks and whatnot because
there was no official reason to believe
that it was dangerous and inhaled all
sorts of things like you know small
particulate asbestos and whatnot and are
suffering from cancers and respiratory
problems and so this firefighter Rob
Sarah who is wheelchair-bound may have
lost that may have been an injury may
have been a function he lost obviously a
bunch of colleagues on September 11th
you can still there's plenty of fire
houses in New York City you can walk by
and see the memorials to people but this
damn crash I was so concerned about the
idea that she would say something
happened would buy some people blew off
this firefighter said he was too busy to
talk to him somebody in his office would
get back to him never heard back it's
weird
Dan Crenshaw also if you search Dan
Crenshaw Facebook administrator
administrated a tea party Facebook group
that was really really racist with like
Corey Stewart and a few other like sort
of tea party Republicans and when asked
about he's like I don't even know how
this is news I barely went on that
website I'm sure he just liked it he
didn't really engage with it but no I
mean like all Republicans Dan Crenshaw
and many Democrats you
that he's more concerned he's interested
in a firefighter as a prop not as a
person that needs funding he doesn't
care of course this is what that kind of
respectability politics and politeness
policing always does is it distracts
from the real issue at hand and the
thing that people were talking about in
the first place
