[Music]
okay let's get into this first let's
start with this though this is a
fascinating stuff apparently over the
week
AOC made a decision about the way she
was gonna staff and you know they're
attacking her from all different sides
now and the New York Post is upset
because they don't have she doesn't have
set up her local office yet or something
to that effect but she decided that she
did not want there to be such a steep
hierarchy in her office in her
congressional office so instead of like
hiring some old you know old hand or at
being chief of staff probably she went
with someone maybe less senior I think
and was going to basically raise the pay
of the entry-level people I mean a nice
a nice gesture it's a different approach
it's not controversial right I mean who
could find issue with this Oh Fox and
Friends it's get a load of this write a
tweet went out yesterday she said she is
leadership begins at home or whatever
however she put in she's basically
announcing that she is going to
redistribute the money appropriated to
her congressional office to make sure
that the entry-level staffers get a fair
share of money now let me show you the
numbers here right oh she puts this she
wants fifty two thousand dollars for the
entry-level staff salary for anyone in
her office here's the problem you've got
to find a way to get money to pay the
entry-level people so you're taking
deposits so is she gonna rob from a bank
how are you gonna get this money this is
a problem let's go people so you're
taking she's plans to take that from the
chief of staff
it's beautiful senior staffers who would
normally make 80,000
or normally make $154,000 the chief of
staff probably only gonna make about 85
every every capitol hill office has a
limited amount of money to pay their
staff right so you have to decide how to
allocate it she said everyone in my
office will pay a living wage so I'm
gonna pay $15 an hour which means your
entry level intern is making 52 grand
while your chief adviser for one second
I don't know if this guy's ever worked
anywhere else maybe they have a weird
way of doing things at Fox but your
entry level intern that there's no such
thing as an entry level intern all
interns are not even an entry level
entry level is a term that means sort of
first level in terms of within an
organization or sometimes it can mean
like entry level like across the board
first level jobs that people get now an
internship is not a job because you
don't get paid for it or you get paid
sub entry level wages so she's not
paying an intern uh the entry-level
wages she's paying either the entry
level people or maybe she's hiring
people who are not entry-level I don't
know but but he's got that wrong but
that's a minor point a living wage so
I'm gonna pay $15 an hour which means
your entry level intern is making 52
grand while you're chief of staff who is
a very important role in a congressional
office now is capped at 80 as opposed to
the the actual market rate at Capitol
Hill which is closer to 150,000 so
everyone's between 52 and 80 it's
actually socialism and communism on
dispatch you see that it's socialism and
communism and we have actually we've
actually done some research and we found
a graph that shows this the chief of
staff pay as you can see 150 for K
that's capitalism 120 when you get down
to 125 K that's socialism under 125 K
that's that's communism mm-hmm start
check it out and then you can't see
because it goes off the paper but if you
get further below its socialism and
communism socialism times communism is
that's the way that you get there yep
communism it's like Karl Marx said
communism is when you pay your interns
more and the more you pay your interns
the more communist it is that's it there
you go
we're taking on the people's policy
project hi I grabbed Jack Lee I would
love to like have a focus group of Fox
and Friends viewers and just sort of
like yet like what do they take away
from that like does that this is at work
I suspect it does right like you know it
doesn't have to work on a hundred
percent of the people even if it works
on like 10 or 15 percent the rest of
them are just like yeah she's socialist
communist anyways so I don't know if
that's exactly it like they don't even
think that much about it right that's
the way it worked well maybe like with
every time they try to make her look bad
a small handful of people are like hey
actually that looks pretty good yeah I
feel like it's safer for them just to do
what Glenn Beck doesn't like paint
pictures of her and don't actually do
respond to anything she actually does
but color like Alexandria occasional
cortex right exactly
o crazy o Cortes
