a big story obviously over the weekend
came from footage of there was a big
right to life anti-abortion anti choice
rally this weekend in Washington DC and
apparently one of the things that the
the folks who want to tell women what to
do with their bodies do and and look you
know that's what this comes down to
there is no there is no middle ground
here and I understand that for some
people the idea of abortion is icky
frankly the idea of any medical
procedure - Dickie okay well I just the
idea of anything that involves almost
the human body I think I find difficult
but aside from that but the reality is
this
you are either placing the creating
rights for a fetus that necessarily
infringe upon the freedom of and the
rights of women or you're not that's it
there's no other equation and you have
to make that choice so one of the things
that these anti-abortionists do is they
send down and I don't wanna play this
one I don't wanna play this one first
what they do is they send bus loads of
kids from Catholic schools to juice
their numbers and I'm sure that the
majority of them you know are are happy
to restrict a woman's right to have
sovereignty over her own body that's
what they are told in their parochial
schools
do I have a problem with religious
schools not not necessarily although I
think look when we talk about all the
problems of religion a lot of it is
because they are it comes from
fundamentalists of all stripes who are
who are educated in no I want to see the
other one first the educated in these
schools whether it's you know madrasahs
or yeshivas or these Catholic parochial
schools these are where the fundamentals
versions of religion are taught and a
lot of secular ideas are excluded now
so apparently and I've watched the
entire two-hour video I skipped through
I went every 15 seconds to get to the
parts where there was confrontations but
basically what happened is this on the
at the Lincoln Memorial there's these
guys called the black Israelites and
they basically get on a soapbox and I
imagine they do this every Sunday they
do this all over I mean well they do it
right here on dude right here at Fulton
they do it I remember 25 years ago
seeing them in Central Square and in
Cambridge they have been doing this for
a long time and they dress in sort of a
combination of like there's there's a
little bit of Halle Selassie involved
and there's they consider themselves the
real Jews and our Hebrews or Israelites
Israelites coming to Seder they they
often like carry a big staff goddamn
right by that I mean a stick and they
suit looking brothers I don't know if
they still do it this way but it used to
be one guy would read scripture and then
the other guy would repeat the Scripture
and then give commentary and it is the
gist of what they have to say is that
they are the true Israelites white
people are bad and
but they are largely harmless now I
imagine if you have never seen them
before you might be somewhat intimidated
there were four of these guys
I would also imagine though if you're
with a hundred other guys even if
they're younger the intimidation is less
so so what happened is these these black
Israelites were doing their thing for
like an hour because the video I saw was
actually shot by one of them they always
used to shoot the video tape of
themselves and then these kids started
to amass and they started to trade barbs
and at one point also at the Lincoln
Memorial were these indigenous Americans
who were who were basically doing a
ceremony and they tried to intercede by
walking in between this was about 20
feet 30 feet the kids were on the on the
steps and the the black Israelites and
they would tried to intercede by just
simply going through and continuing to
play their drums and prior to this the
kids had already started to do like some
of their I would imagine were there
sports Cheers at their sports games
which are all about them being hulk ish
one guy took his shirt off and led to
all of them I mean it's it's a little
bit scary to see you know a hundred
because I think there's about a hundred
students there right at least all guys
cheering in unison as if there's some
type of paramilitary we shouldn't do it
yeah no kidding but and so the the
native elders came through started
playing the drums and the kids who
apparently were not so brave and
boisterous that they would get up in the
face
of the black Israelites had no problem
doing this with an elderly Vietnam War
of that native and here is here's clips
now the one that everybody's seen is the
one with the with the guy who's got the
smirk on its face staring at the but
this is this is a little bit more
telling about what went on there based
upon my going through those two hours of
video
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
[Music]
so basically yeah like literally a
hundred kids standing right in front of
these guys
admonishing each other not to touch them
mocking them and look 15 year old boys
in any context can be huge a-holes and
what they're doing is despicable there I
I don't believe I've even heard an
interpretation that they were somehow
trying to join in and thought that they
were involved in this you know in what
the elders were doing it's despicable
but what's really despicable is that
theoretically they have chaperones that
around there who are allowing this to
happen they have come from a culture
where even their teachers at this school
have no problem with them sitting there
mocking this guy no problem with it
whatsoever and that's that's the issue
here I've seen 15 year old boys do all
sorts of effed up things but when you've
got a hundred of them there who are on a
school trip and this behavior
incidentally was not confined to this
moment here is apparently this is before
somebody on Twitter the Covington
Catholic boys harassed my friends and I
before the incident with Nathan felts
even happened I'm tired of reading
things thing they were provoked by
anyone else other than their own egos
and incident there's just about 20
seconds of video it is three girls
walking by and like a dozen of these
guys yelling at them yeah they're
yelling Mogga and build the wall at the
right-to-life think now look I would
imagine if you're gonna bring your
students down that is to a protest
based on your religious principles that
maybe maybe if this was sort of a legit
exercise in anyway you'd say gotta be
respectful guys incidentally don't leer
in her ass women walking by and don't
mock natives elderly people who are
engaging in a drum session I mean the
idea that these guys were either allowed
to just wander around without chaperones
which I doubt is the case or that the
chaperones just sat back and watch this
and you and anybody wants to make an
argument that they don't come from a a
sick culture it's one thing for kids to
do this but this is what happens when
kids do this they get punished or
they're they're reprimanded by their
teachers or by their parents and that's
how they learn not to do this
rights where were the fathers well I
mean listen honestly let's just imagine
that this was a Catholic priest an
elderly Catholic priest who was there
you know saying you know Jesus says to
dah dah dah dah dah and a hundred black
kids or Latino kids from a local school
were sitting there going dancing around
I mean I'm gonna take oakley's G I mean
can you imagine first of all the cops
would be there in about 30 seconds 30
seconds and right now every news media
outlet in the country would be
interviewing the parents of all those
kids how could you let this happen and I
can assure you that none of those
parents would have the funds to get a
high price PR firm to justify what their
kids were doing so I think it's wrong to
go out and single out these kids because
the ire should not be on the kids it
should be on the context the parents and
the school
that encourages this behavior by never
reprimanding them for it and by not
putting again the the idea that you
allow these fifteen-year-old kids to go
out and do this suggests that this is
nothing new in terms of like the
hands-off nature of the chaperones well
they're wearing literal symbols of
misogyny and white supremacy I mean from
their perspective it's not but so I mean
I don't really do I understand but from
their perspective it's not but from
their perspective there's no way they
can justify that behavior like they can
justify we have a right to wear make
America great hats and they do but
there's no way they can justify the
behavior their actions and it's I would
suggest it's not a coincidence that they
were wearing those things and it
certainly makes the argument and it
strengthens the argument that those
things stand for racism and stand for
misogyny but from their perspective they
have no defense they have no defense it
also implicates you know the type of
person maybe who right-to-lifers to
definitely yeah when you shall build a
wall at a Native American it really lays
bare the real meaning of that phrase I
don't know that they they yelled that to
the I didn't I haven't seen evidence of
that
I saw evidence of them yelling it at
those girls those young women who were
walking by and I don't know if that
means maybe they showed more restraint I
listen I'm just saying in terms of the
evidence of what I've seen
I've watched two hours of tape and but
what they were clearly doing is mocking
these guys they're doing tomahawk yeah
exactly
this is one where you don't need to add
the extra like we've got it right chop
is sufficient I mean it's just simply uh
you know it's appalling in this day and
age that you don't have teachers out
there like there's no video of the
teachers going guys get back over there
back on the bus get back on the bus walk
over there walk away
none of that how could that possibly be
how could that possibly be and then you
have to backfill that answer here is a
clip of Phillips Nathan Phillips
speaking about his experience there it's
conceivable I guess no it's not
conceivable after you hear the guys
speak or you see the guy but the idea
that he and two other guys his age were
attacking and challenging these they
were there to raise awareness for
missing and murdered indigenous women I
think it's what the protest is
specifically about so they weren't there
to like even really protest they're
there to just I guess raise the word
raise aware issue but the idea that that
their intent was in some way challenging
look the boys to the extent that they
were challenged by anybody whereby those
blockades or lights and they're bullying
nature comes out when it's clear that
they don't start getting aggressive and
in anybody's face until the the elderly
man comes up I had put myself in a
really dangerous situation you know
there's like here's a group of people
who were angry at somebody else and I
put myself in front of that and all of a
sudden I'm the one who's all that anger
and all that wanting to have the freedom
to just rip me apart you know that was
scary
now and and I I'm a Vietnam Times
veteran and and I know that mentality of
there's enough of us we can do this then
Phillips describes the tense moments now
being replayed over and over again
online when a young man got right in his
face watch when I started going forward
and that mass of groups of people
started separating in
and separating and moving aside to allow
me to move out of the way or proceed
this young feller put himself in front
of me and wouldn't move and so I could
if I took another step I would be
putting my my person into his presence
into his space and I would have touched
him and that would have been the the
thing that the group of people would
have needed to spring on me I mean you
know the the idea that there is even you
know that that it's what's what's weird
is that you don't even hear any of these
people's like teachers or parents or
without saying like our kids acted
poorly and we're going to punish them
and explain to them exactly what they
did
right like that's all it would have
taken that's all it would have taken but
yeah this is this is this those
Wisconsin school kids who were given the
Z Kyle and I don't know people are
digging up stuff on these other kids
about the practices at the school you
don't need to there's no way these kids
show up in that situation act that way
and all you need to do is see their
parents reaction all you need to do is
know the fact that there was no teachers
or chaperones there told them not to do
this you don't need to see anything else
because that they don't they don't pop
out of the womb like that they get grown
they get raised like that and again if
these 15 year old kids were black or
brown the entire country right now would
be having a moment at like what's wrong
with the culture of black and brown
people that their parents don't care
about the way these kids act I mean
that's what we would be hearing no I see
a hundred little brick Cavanaugh's when
I look at them and it's horrifying
that's the that was one of the things
when Brett cabin I was just like I'm
allowed to get away with that at that
