[Music]
CEDA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any Elise
they are unanimous in their hate for me
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday March 20th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Trump
to Ohio as his trade policy threatens to
slaughter the Rust Belt meanwhile the
electoral college is not going away but
it is on the table and in Florida Andrew
Gilliam starts a massive voter drive
while Florida Republicans trying to
undermine the voter enfranchising
constitutional amendment passed there
meanwhile Trump's North Korea
negotiation team is falling apart and
the White House now admits that the
Republican tax cuts failed but for the
make the moment millionaires richer part
Europe finds Google 1.5 billion dollars
and white collar prosecutions hit
historic lows good news means that they
finally learned their lesson and they're
not committing any more crime we're just
gonna take our money and just go away
Joe Biden ready to jump into the race as
the front-runner
see how long that lasts and the Trump
administration repeated law-breaking
stymied by their sheer incompetence and
the courts for now at least all that and
more on today's program ladies and
gentlemen welcome it is Wednesday thank
you for joining us going over some some
news stories the the 2020 race is
heating up it has some pretty big
implications not the least of which I
want to start with just a piece that
Matt Iglesias wrote actually that
discusses these sort of the
demobilization that seems to have taken
place with the resistance as it were and
it can be seen in the context of this
emergency order to build the wall no
calls for phone calls no protests
nothing like what we saw with the
Cavanaugh hearings nothing like what we
saw with any number of fights leading up
to the 2018 election part of this is a
function of just leading up to the 2018
elections in the close proximity of
elections gets people's heart rate going
a little bit and then of course winning
in such a grand fashion in 2018 although
you know you've won a battle not
necessarily war also tends to demobilize
people there's multiple theories as to
what's going on you didn't see Democrats
attempt to mobilize people around HR 1
maybe part of the theory is is that
you're not going to pass it in the
Senate but the idea of getting people
and this you know this will tie into
Elizabeth Warren's
call to get rid of the electoral college
as well there is value in raising issues
and in fighting for issues that you know
are not going to win any time in the
near future or maybe ever and attempting
to generate grassroots action around a
political reform bill I mean you talk
about restoring the Voting Rights Act
you talk about motor voter registration
when you talk about giving a federal
holiday for federal workers on election
day and you talk about providing some
measure of uniformity to the voting
process across state to state to state
you talk about adding the disclose a
bill to try and get some measure of
accountability when it comes to
political contributions matching funds I
think it was six to one matching funds
for running for a Congress and then
ethics reforms stuff that you would
think should be illegal already like you
can't sit on a committee that didn't
have holdings in the company that is
affected by that or but yeah you know in
settings about the company right you
know better so-called business acumen
called acumen the idea I mean and it's
you know at first
certainly in retrospect I acknowledge
that this was happening of course there
was a lot more attention paid to alon
omar and within even the democratic
circles then trying to generate some
type of grassroots action even if it is
to promote a bill that can never pass
and won't even be brought up in the
senate you put pressure on Mitch
McConnell why are you not doing that and
there's a couple of different theories
as to why this demobilization has taken
place one is that there's a fear amongst
the leadership of the Democratic Party
that this type of mobilization will lead
to relentless calls for impeachment
which they fear from a political
standpoint I guess which again I have
there's a reason to not impeach and just
sort of practical grounds but that
should not in any way dampen the the
generator the the I guess the impetus
behind it from a political standpoint
there's also the fact that there is it's
not as clear once you've won the house
there's not you don't have the same
dynamic to generate people and then all
of this energy now where you had the
candidates the would be candidates who
all knew they were running a year ago
were running on and were promoting
issues and we're trying to get out in
front of issues they're doing that now
to a certain extent but they're also
basically trying to run for president
and so you've got what are we at 12 now
people people fighting Trump in
Washington he says aren't asking for
grassroots help there's a small army of
Democrats roaming Iowa and the early
primary states who are asking for
grassroots helps to fight each other
which is true I mean that all these
dynamics are at play right now and it is
somewhat problematic I'm not sure what
the solution is but it is an interesting
phenomenon to Maine to watch and see if
that changes now of course this is early
in the
in the new Congress and we're just
starting to ramp up hearings but you've
already seen the Democrats seem to sort
of back off a little bit off of getting
taxes Don Trump's taxes maybe they're
waiting to do this next year I don't
know they're all waiting for the Muller
report to drop we get new notices every
couple of days that it's gonna drop
within days and then there's a punt
so there's a sort of like state of
stasis and you know we're going to be
talking more you know at the same time
like I feel the same pull we're gonna
talk about Elizabeth Warren and then
better o'rourke today and because that's
out there that's what people are
thinking about and probably should be so
it's sort of it's a bit of a dilemma but
we'll keep an eye on it and and and see
if we see Democrats or affiliated groups
we should say on the Left more
institutional groups attempt to
reinvigorate this sense of at least
activism and getting people mobilized in
some fashion it's also really hard to do
for four years straight without a break
particularly after everybody you know
it's coming out of the last November but
there is a point where it's like the art
still we're still we haven't won the
championship as it were we're still
still the playoffs your all-star break
right yeah but the breaks get a little
long and we're still icing up
anecdotally speaking that's absolutely
true I didn't even think about it until
just now but I think the last big action
that the DSA did that we saw a lot of
other people and groups out as well was
the Cavanaugh protests but we're still
doing stuff and everyone is as always
welcome to join you don't have to be a
socialist to demonstrate against the
Trump administration I mean early on we
saw you know some protesting around the
green new deal but it wasn't it wasn't
necessarily a full-on mobilization
but we'll see folks as you know you
spend a third of your life in in sheets
and it's about time for a bedding
upgrade Brooklyn and named one of the
winner of the best online betting
category by Good Housekeeping Brooklyn
and has more than 35,000 five-star
reviews Wow that's because I mean these
I have now I think three four sets of
Brooklyn and sheets because by
eliminating the middleman and working
directly with manufacturers and
customers Brooklyn and offers luxury
sheets without the luxury markup and
with over twenty five colors and
patterns these sheets don't just feel
great they look great too you've heard
me you know what I didn't realize is
that Brooklyn and I mean maybe I did or
I just sort of I wasn't sure but there
her buckling company there in Brooklyn
is that obvious I didn't realize that
yeah I have I go for the they have
basically two types of sheets the the
more I guess luxurious feeling or the
cool crisp feeling hmm I go for the cool
crisp I think that's pretty obvious
people would know that increase exactly
and you know the thing I my in my
experience is someone who keeps things
for a long time and I don't want to
expand on that too much but I'm I'm not
someone like it's rare you can ever see
me wear something that I you can't go
back and look at a video eight years ago
and I have the same shirt but quality
sheets last for a long time and these
are quality sheets they they feel good
and they look good
and I know they're gonna last me the
I've had my Brooklyn and sheets at least
the ones I'm thinking about specifically
the stripes which I don't think they
make anymore the the type of stripes
sort of like this I'm sure like my shirt
actually almost identical to my shirt I
guess I don't really have a wide range
of genre
enjoy but they look as good as they did
when I got them over a year and a half
ago I think my Brooklyn and sheets are
the best and like I said the most
comfortable I've ever slept on now it's
time for your upgrade Brooklyn and
dot-com has an exclusive offer for just
my listeners get 10% off your first
order and free shipping when you use the
promo code majority at Brooklyn in comm
Brooklyn is so confident in their
product that all their sheets comforters
and towels come with a lifetime warranty
the only way to get 10% off your first
order and free shipping is to use the
promo code majority at Brooklyn n.com
that's Brooklyn and be Roo kli and en
dot-com promo code majority Brooklyn and
these really are the best sheets ever
and once again a today's episode of the
majority report is supported by
pitchfork economics with Nick Hanauer
it's a weekly podcast that explores why
everything you learned in econ 101 was
wrong and why if we don't get economics
right the pitchforks are coming every
week on pitchfork economics zillionaire
Investor Nick Hanauer is joined by some
of the world's most original economic
thinkers in a convention busting
exploration of who gets what and why in
the American economy pitchfork economics
explains why a $15 minimum wage is
actually good for business by taxing the
rich Spurs economic growth and why a
thriving middle class is the primary
cause of prosperity senator Cory Booker
explains why curbing corporate greed
would actually be good for corporations
in the economy historian Yuval Harari
explains how those empower you
storytelling to shrink your paycheck an
economist stephanie kelton scolds
democrats for wearing too much about how
we're gonna pay for things not enough
about what we need to do if you want to
learn how to make the economy work for
all Americans and not just the wealthy
few subscribe to pitchfork economics
pitchfork economics dot-com or wherever
you get your podcasts Nick Hanauer
been a guest on this program so has -
stephanie kelton
maybe we've had you've all you you've
all her Ari it sounds like we just say
penis I don't think we ever quite God I
don't think we
but he's a he's an interesting guy all
right so let's um let do we have the
Katie Pavlich video let's just put that
up as a little and then we I want to go
into some beta or Orkut stuff because
it's been a couple of good pieces about
beta work and of course he is coming off
of his big fundraising victory but we'll
talk about that a moment Katie Pavlich
apparently you know she'd out like on a
fox on a more regular basis now oh she a
five regular contributor now she's the
sixth of the five now wasn't she a
didn't she formally go out with that guy
Brandon Darby who was the FBI informant
in some protests and was running around
I think occupy as well if I remember
correctly
now we're getting way back here but it
looks like looks like you're right so
yeah there you go
I still got it folks here is Katie
Pavlich I didn't know Brooklyn was in
Brooklyn I'm a little tired and all of a
sudden they lock it so Katie Pavlich
coming on bringing the the completely
fact in historical free assessment
I mean fact and historical free
conclusions and what would you call this
assertions about facts and history they
keep blaming America for the sin of
slavery but the truth is the real
positive and let's go back she's talking
about reparations now it's my opinion
that reparations actually should not
just be first slavery but for the
continued racism practiced by the US
government through you know just like an
official policy through the the the
middle of the twentieth century in terms
of preventing the accumulation of wealth
within the black community but here's
Katie Pavlich with her her fact in
historical free historical and factual
assertion they keep blaming America for
the sin of slavery but the truth is
throughout human history slavery has
existed and America came along as the
first country to end it within a hundred
and fifty years and we get no credit for
that to move forward and try and be dead
have a very bloody civil war over the
racial imminence of the Civil War right
particularly blacks in the south right
yeah that was not hello is bloody and
violent and deadly and there were Native
Americans everybody showed that we all
of that a country that decided to end it
and we're still dealing with the issue
but if you want to start a problem and
to inflame racial tension even more
start blaming people who have nothing to
do with slavery for the sin of slavery
that is not fair that's not the American
Way
and we shouldn't be doing it oh you're
welcome also um I'm sorry being a little
bit pedantic here but maybe usefully
there was a place called Haiti what
happened or Britain or Britain or Spain
or Spain or Sweden and apparently the
Netherlands and Denmark and France
Portugal and we should also say that
when the United States apparently which
was founded on this notion of ending
slavery right like we at least came
along and decided to end it that's what
that's why we that's one of the reason
why we weren't gonna be named the United
States of slavery Enders exactly and
we're just like and we'll do that we
will get to that in a hundred or so
years we're by ending slavery what we
mean is ending slavery by non prison
folk because of course we still allow
for prison slavery and the this notion
that somehow reparations are our
punishment for people had nothing to do
with slavery know what it is it is the
fact is is that we all on some level as
a society
benefit from slavery continuing to
benefit today whether it's I mean across
the income spectrum on some level or
wealth spectrum but obviously far more
so for those who have had great success
we're all continuing to benefit all of
the great exceptionalism of the United
States was built on an enormous amount
of free labor and all of the wealth that
exists within the white society is at
least in part a function of having less
people to compete against who live in
society they will contribute to the
building of that wealth but they will
not share in the building of that wealth
things like redlining things like not
providing secondary mortgages these are
all governmental policies things like
not allowing them to have political
power for the greater part of our
history as a country so it's not a
question of punishing anybody it is a
question of trying to make up for that
deficit which of course also exists not
just as a function of cash but of just a
deficit that's been created in terms of
just a way of seeing the world I mean we
spoke to I guess we played that
interview over the break but it was deep
roots and I can't remember the Matthew
who one of the authors were Matthew
Blackwell but the research that they
have done shows that you can track to
this day the racism of white people on a
county-by-county level
and track it directly to the number of
slaves relative to white people who
lived in a given County hundreds of
years ago and so if you can track the
attitudes of white people based upon the
ratio of slaves to white people in a
given County hundreds of years ago and
you can see a play out there must have
been an impact that has equal resonance
amongst ancestors of of those slaves of
descendants of those slaves and upon the
community broadly speaking we can't
track it in the same way because they
were completely denied any type of
political power for much of those years
so you can't see how it plays out in the
context of society but that's just a
function of how little political power
they had so Katie Pavlich Oh for
everything she said in that segment she
said she goes try a fast food Sam she
was talking as if nothing she was saying
could be checked easily
I mean hooding by some former VJ
libertarian who managed to at least
retrieve the Civil War yeah exactly
this is lightly import I mean we went
really unfair we talked about Sweden and
Haiti and Portugal and Britain but you
could also even just go like you know
that thing in our country that there's
been a Spielberg movie about rights
called the Civil War and when you
contemplate how slavery was abolished
basically through the 1800s
all those countries we mentioned before
the United States
it wasn't even as if it was just those
countries we were like maybe we should
get on board with this it was also like
maybe we should get on board of this and
it's gonna cost hundreds of thousands of
lives to get it through well and also if
you read documents of
anyone in America at the time it's a
very like they're very conscious like
Britain makes fun of us for still having
slaves in like the 1820s and 30s like
it's a this is a known thing that we
were behind on this well you have your
facts Matt and Katie Pavlich has hers
all right so let's a dig into beto as
you know it
Beto has come out of the gate with he
tells reporters he had more than 128
thousand unique contributions in the
first 24 hours of the campaign the
average donation size was 47 dollars I
don't wanna get nitpicky about this
because I think it's sort of silly
anyways the fact is he raised 6 to 6
million dollars that's those are real
dollars it's just a little weird that
they're talking about unique
contributions as opposed to unique
contributors that only stands out for me
because I I look at data when I look at
the podcast we can have I mean if I was
to tell you how many unique listens we
have wow I could blow the doors off of
some people but the smart people who
want to know how many people that were
actually reaching say how many unique
listeners both numbers are pretty
impressive in my opinion but
nevertheless unique contributions are
always more I mean at 47 bucks if I
wanted to max out at 2500 I could do
what's that a one hundred and twenty
twelve hundred and fifty contributions
right no is that right 100 to 125
contributions somewhere around there
math the point is I could do more than
one but I'm not gonna get to math II
about this but the interesting thing
about bateau at this point is and you
know we're gonna have more time to see
if he comes out with with the
he's obviously gonna come out with a
platform he's obviously gonna get you
know to some degree more specific
he has a different problem than Carla
Harris has , Harris her policy her
platform to the extent that she has a
record has been in the minority in the
Senate not the same opportunity to vote
for or against things necessarily over
the years but has to a certain extent in
the in the Senate it has a fairly good
voting record nothing you know for what
it's worth has a fairly good voting
record not such a great record as a
prosecutor battle Roark does not have a
good voting record as a Democratic
lawmaker and in fact he has a bad one
from the perspective of a Democratic
voter I think from the perspective of a
Republican voter probably a pretty good
one if you were a rational person in a
Republican Party if that would even
makes any sense anymore and so he's
gonna be a little bit evasive and now
there are some people coming out there's
a there was a Facebook post and this
isn't you know I think this is the or
easin why I'm actually even reading this
to some extent is that this is stuff
that we were hearing during the race
against Ted Cruz early on when we were
talking about bateau his name would come
up and we'd say look he's not it's not
the kind of Democrat you would want if
you were running in you know anywhere
else the produce or not just the Bronx
though I'm not sure this is kind of
democrat you'd want a few were in
Pennsylvania or in hyoe or in Michigan
especially not California
that's George I mean I think like this
is the kind of Democrat you would want
if you were in Texas or North Dakota or
West Virginia it would start to make
some sense Virginia cuz he doesn't have
the kind of faux populism thing yeah I
mean he's probably a little bit more
woke than you want to be in West
Virginia tell you what Sam pretty
goddamn well El Paso Texas from a local
standpoint is is pretty liberal I mean
this is not you know Texas is a big
state there's a big difference between
the Bronx in New York and Elmira in New
York and El Paso is more like the Bronx
to who the rest of Texas and in many
respects here is a post and again I read
this only because we I heard this during
the primaries ever excuse me after the
primary in the general election against
Ted Cruz and it makes a lot of sense she
she says that she's a former bado
staffer I was reluctantly very
transparent about this I did not vote
for him in the 2018 primaries for a lot
of reasons I'm about to dissect here but
at the end of the day I stood behind him
in the primary when it was him against
Ted Cruz I pretty much hate every single
thing about Ted Cruz she wrote I worked
my ass off for Beto
I worked seven days a week 12 hour 12
plus hours a day along with hundreds of
other staff I gave it all in the
capacity I was in to see that his Senate
campaign was successful I fractured my
foot still knocked on doors for him on a
scooter I did all this while
acknowledging that he was a far from the
candidate I would have liked him to be
so and she's going on because she knows
she's gonna get hammered on there for
for being less than unified I guess I
mean I think look and she goes on to say
I disagree wholeheartedly that
discussion of Democratic candidates
strong points and weaknesses will hand
Trump another four years I
wholeheartedly believe it's putting up a
watered-down candidate devoid of a bold
platform substance and follow-through
that guarantees a Trump victory in 2020
I'm not convinced of that but certainly
I am convinced with the
that putting up a candidate strong
points and weaknesses is not only not
going to help Trump I think it's gonna
hurt Trump and then she goes into
another piece that I'm gonna skip for
the for the time being because I I'm not
sure how much I I'll come back to it but
she goes out to talk about bado he's not
progressive she says he's not a member
of the progressive caucus that's true
demonstrable true who he votes with
Republicans also demonstrably true and
he praises the centrist middle as if
it's some sort of virtue he had an
opportunity to back a great Democrat
running against a Republican will Hurd
we'll get to this later and he opted to
remain silent to use the bipartisanship
as a talking point to focus a lot of its
campaign strategy and rhetoric on
courting the white middle road voters
who were actually just Republicans that
were disillusioned with Ted Cruz he
rationalizes his vote for the blue lives
matters bill but voted against the
Harvey bill because he said it wasn't
good enough but the blue lives matter
bill was good enough she asks he goes on
to say he had an opportunity to prove he
could be a bold leader by being at the
forefront of the baby jail and Asylum
issue at the border of Texas he went he
toured the facilities but then he took
no positions he could have called to
abolish ice but he belittled it as a
bumper sticker slogan as if the rest of
his campaign is not merely a bumper
sticker slogans there was enormous
grassroots energy around the issue at
the time and had national spotlight by
many media outlets people would have
overwhelmingly had more respect for him
by taking a stand particularly in the
valley where his rhetoric didn't
resonate at all and people didn't turn
out for him now with that said maybe
he's just strategizing I can't go that
far I'm running in Texas that's my
editorial she goes on to say he and his
family are known gentle fires in El Paso
his wife has a long history of ushering
in charter schools in El Paso working
for them serving on school
choice dot org boards charter schools
and she goes on to talk about charter
schools I hope no one listening to the
sound of my voice who's been listening
this program for more than a couple
months needs me to explain the problem
of charter schools particularly in Texas
particularly in Texas campaigns as if
he's Pro Medicare for all but he's never
signed on to HR 676 despite being
confronted by voters about it seemingly
hundreds of times on the campaign trail
comes in only second to Ted Cruz in the
contributions he takes from oil and gas
industry and everybody's talking about
his performance in Texas as if he didn't
lose the fact is he over performed you
got to go if you look at Obama to
Clinton Texas is trending we're not
there yet and he outperformed Clinton at
three or four points but it's also it's
Ted Cruz who even some of the Trump
pieces we're not motivated about but so
that's from this Facebook poster a
former staffer take it for what it's
worth oh wait I want to just read this
one part that I don't necessarily agree
with and I'm a little bit nervous about
it she writes there are hard truths that
should be read in processed by quite a
few people defaulting to charisma and
cults of personality is the real losing
strategy I'm not convinced of that to be
honest with you
my argument is not that beto can't win
because he has no policies I think we
can find a lot of example in American
politics where charisma and cult of
personality can take you a long way
yeah politics are dumb as hell in this
country yeah I mean that's just go check
out my book thank you
she writes the culture of shaming people
for having a genuine discussion about
policy and voting history
we'll only cause us to uplift the
candidate devoid of substance to the
general in 2020 of which people will not
be inspired by turn out to vote for and
that'll be a rehash of 2016 with people
okay
blaming people who didn't vote I I just
don't think that actually is what
happened in 2016 I don't think that
Clinton lost because she was all
charisma and no policy I don't think
that was the issue
raha rasma and so I'm not convinced that
Beto is problematic insofar as there's a
trouble with him winning the general
election there may be but I'm just not
convinced that that's the reason is
because he's charismatic I do think that
having a president who does not address
the material concerns of Americans and
relies on his own charisma who will not
even campaign for the Democrat running
in his district against another
Republican okay could bring us a
president who protects himself in office
loses hundreds if not thousands of
Democratic seats across the country in
state houses and whatnot and I also AM
concerned about a politician who does
not seem to have any politics or to the
extent that he does like you know we've
talked on this program about there are
Democrats whose policies I don't agree
with who may be opportunistic in many
respects but they do seem tethered to a
I mean they they seem to have parameters
you can push those people my concern is
is that attempting to push Beto to a
certain position is like you know trying
to push an air hockey puck
you just don't know which direction it's
going to go in
and there's no indication from his
history that I mean it's possible he
could go who knows what direction he
could go in but there's no indication
that he has a tendency to move to the
left
and there's also no indication that he
did he that he's like you know rooted up
still my style white boy I mean people
want to compare him to Obama but Obama
did have some kind of left liberal
politics going in which he sold out in
many ways but at least he had it
starting out if you have anything going
in like what are you doing also
regardless I mean even when Obama made
quite centrist tepid arguments they were
actual arguments I mean I said this
before but the striking contrast of a
guy it's like it's almost like a Thomas
Paine book filtered through a corporate
management seminar like there's nothing
it's just word salad it's incredible
it's an insult to the electorate
well well we'll see or the insight an
insulted to some of the electric tom
idiots that I hate so helene oh and who
we've had on this program some time ago
she wrote a book about this sort of like
the scams of personal wealth Suze
Orman's yeah stalkers
yeah she's smart and she wrote a really
interesting piece about better or or
continuing to live his best generation
Generation X life now I know there are
people who get upset with the crapping
on Generation X that happens here I'm
obviously sympathetic to Generation X to
the extent that I am a member of that
generation and we grew up in a a pretty
sterile situation we had very little
ability to impact the the discourse both
culturally societally politically
because of the size of the baby boomers
who are now just starting to to die and
do and to you know leave the stage some
not so much I'm not necessarily I
there's
sir-sir Joe Biden sound drop well I mean
some I like have stick around but sure
and but she you know also I think a
member of Generation X looks at this and
points out a couple of particularly the
I don't know if I would call this
full-on misogyny but certainly the the
double standard that exists with Beto
and how a woman could never get away
with what Beto has done so far she
quotes Rebecca traced her saying the
idea that a woman could ever even in a
self-deprecating way a self-deprecating
conscious acknowledgement joke about how
she's helping to raise her kids is
inconceivable and of course this is the
the the the fact of course
never mind on the right on the right she
would be burned at the stake but even
frankly in the the center there would be
no room and the center left there would
be no room for not like looking side I'd
at a female candidate who says like yeah
I'll get to the kids I never see my kids
it's awesome let's Amy close Warren a
macabre Charlotte I beat my kids and
that's all deal with Putin at MSNBC
would do a segment on how empowering
that way that's possible and she writes
that generation X once so hip and so
cool grew up to be born again
traditionalist the group which ranges in
age of just shy of 40 to those in their
mid 50s was never as liberated as
advertised from early on many women of
Generation X refused to define
themselves as feminists even as they
supported feminist goals told pollsters
and demographers they would devote more
time to their families than their own
parents she goes on to talk about
generation I'm less interested in
Generation X then the the dual standard
that exists for for Beto
and I'm quite convinced part of that was
you know the Alex P Keaton's syndrome
where you're rebelling against your
parents who are to the left of you not
all of us did that but many did in that
era okay there are so many options to
repel against your baby boomer parents
just be a communist what's wrong with
you you could you could do that and so
she goes on to write you can compare a
Roark and this is a pretty apt
comparison with his fellow female
Generation X contender Kristen Jill
Brant who also formalized her
presidential run this weekend to see how
this plays out in our lives in our civic
life
Gillibrand who moved from conservative
positions to more liberal ones over the
years and she's done this over an
extended period of time
I mean she's now been a senator for I
think close to a decade if I'm not
mistaken and prior to that she was a
member of the House up in what was then
the 20th District of New York I'm quite
familiar with that district in fact I
voted for her at the time she was not
good on immigration she was not good on
guns
I can't remember all of our positions
but those are the two that stuck out for
me
and then she's appointed senator when
Hillary Clinton is appointed Secretary
of State she runs again she has moved
significantly to the left now mind you
her house district considerably more
conservative than beto O'Rourke's
considerably more like 20 20 % for at
least so uh Olin rights
she moved for
conservative position more liberal ones
over the years branded as an opportunist
Tracy Flick she's openly and repeatedly
discussed how she adjusts her schedule
so she can spend more time with her
children to within the little and no
credit despite the fact that she's been
outspoken for the better part of a
decade of what could come to be called
the me to issues when she demanded that
Al Franken resigned in the wake of
allegations he grew up to number of
women many portrayed it as an operator
looking to ace out a possible 2020 rival
meantime O'Rourke who spoke out against
the affordable care act before he voted
to defend it and enjoyed significant
financial support from Republicans when
he ran for Congress in 2012 is allowed
to present himself as a progressive
champion few seem to recall that a
Roarke declined to endorse Democrat Gina
Ortez Jones when she ran for election
this year against one of his friends
represented will heard Republican Texas
his action quite possibly cost Jones the
election she lost by fewer than 1000
votes you gotta be loyal to your friends
though yeah it's a little bit concerning
when those friends may not be
politically aligned with you yeah what
do the Bernie is not a Democrat folks
think about that so instead of getting
branded as a disloyal political
shapeshifter as some will call
Gillibrand O'Rourke is touted by many as
a charming unifier now the issue isn't
whether Gillibrand should be called a
political shapeshifter the issue to me
is why isn't better or orc being called
a political shapeshifter I get it here
an and again a much more liberal
district than Kristen Gillibrand but was
running statewide but it's not like his
voting patterns were formulated in his
Senate Ronnie style guide both of them
are exactly well she shaped shifts based
on what the voters want and while he
shaped shifts based on you know
whose dad he's a who's who he's married
to and who his friends are so you know
totally different I mean you could argue
that he was trying to appeal to the
state of Texas right not so much in his
house district and that's where you see
the divergence like you're saying like
she had a at the time I think it was a
two-to-one Republican to Democrat
probably on registration maybe a little
bit less but certainly Republicans had
the advantage in that district I think
it's changed I think it's closer to
50/50 now but so her votes may have
reflected that district whereas his
votes didn't necessarily reflect that
district but it is interesting the way
that the two are juxtaposed now granted
he is charismatic although I have to say
that it's weird how much he has to move
his arms to speak I mean honestly I just
stick you late I stutter I apparently I
was dubbed on the the 1000th episode of
WTF is like the king of all uh MERS and
but episode 600 or something it was 1000
really recent one yes no they were
there's not even more recent one oh yeah
but I don't know it is weird to
contemplate like what it's going to take
I mean what you know the the
disadvantage a woman has with the exact
center I don't say the exact same
profile but I mean it is a pretty close
approximation I mean if you want to make
an analogy between these two it's pretty
it's pretty accurate seems to me well
it's like someone said on Twitter why
would he stand for something when he
could stand on something can I make a
now the side point outside of this
essential point that you've broken down
and maybe it's actually not even a side
points appointed itself and and I and
thanks for I am president and I was
going to mention this that
there's also the like dimension that
herd has come out publicly and been like
I'm supporting the Republican nominee
period I don't care if my buddies
running right so there's also it's like
that perfect fusion that is represented
in all too many Democrats of well total
total personal and selfish you know
I will do literally anything for myself
that's bado
completely and also all be sort of weak
in a way because I will bend over
backwards for people who actually do you
know operate on pretty like intense
aggressive political principles as they
should and it also is another
interesting like look I will plug Bernie
for a second but I'm sure that this goes
for all the rest of them I mean but
Bernie's the one saying every speech I
will support the Democrat I was poor the
Democrat he's also spending more time
talking about Trump than anybody else
and I just think it's such a perfect
underlying though that it's like bado
will screw out screw over people who
will vote for him and his own party
happily but then he will kowtow to a guy
that he thinks is his buddy
and that guy's like sure but I'm voting
for Trump and and this is a good time to
just pivot for a moment to Elizabeth
Warren then we'll go to the fun half
we'll talk more about her and we'll play
that better club but let's talk about
Elizabeth Warren talking about the
electoral college because that tendency
of Democrats that Beto had in endorsing
the Republican candidate over heard over
the the Democrat who ends up going and
losing losing by a thousand votes and
then having that same Republican say
yeah and now this is not it's not
reciprocal well apparently there are
buddies apparently it's a guy didn't say
there buddy ship was cancelled he just
said he's not voting my love time is
unconditional right but Beto could have
had the same like he's a great guy is
one of my favorite members of Congress
Gina Ortiz I look forward to working
with her
endorser cause revolt them exactly this
will have a beer oh and I lose I won't
find my buddy up to up to DC and he can
check out my office now that he's gone
once Geno artis is in take him out for a
beer after this this dynamic of the
Democrats pushing some type of like I'm
looking for the good Republicans that
I'm gonna meet the Republicans halfway
this strategy has been a unequivocal
failure over the past couple of decades
this idea that Democrats are going to
show up at the knife fight with like you
know a spoon and you know what I'm gonna
try and do first I'm gonna feed them
some soup during this night fight no it
doesn't work and this is what I like
about Elizabeth Warren talking about the
electoral college let's play this clip
the next question comes from Rukia
Lumumba she's a legal advocate and
community organizer here in Jackson she
also happens to be the sister and former
campaign manager of Jackson's current
mayor show Quay antar Lumumba her late
father Chokwe Lumumba was also once the
mayor of the city as well a positive one
second side note we interviewed Chokwe
Lumumba at Netroots nation he is
considered the or self-proclaimed desire
to be the most radical mayor in the
country a really interesting guy go back
and look for that I think that was in
August early the first week of August of
2018 but good once the mayor of the city
as well Rukia thank you thank you thank
you for being here welcome to Jackson
Mississippi yeah so voter
disenfranchisement is real in
Mississippi they are 23 felonies that
once convicted ban a person from voting
for the rest of their lives literally
limiting their resit essentia pand right
to democracy
moreover residents access to voting is
limited by archaic voter registration
processes and limited voting formats how
we
expand voting rights to the formerly
incarcerated and Shore online voter
registration and non excuse early voting
all right
great question but can I go you one
bigger and that is I believe we need a
constitutional amendment that protects
the right to vote for every American
citizen and to make sure that vote gets
counted
we need to put some federal muscle
behind that and we need to repeal every
one of the voter suppression laws that
is out there right now
tell you one more we need to make sure
that every vote counts and you know I
want to push that right here in
Mississippi because I think this is an
important point you know come a general
election presidential candidates don't
come to places like Mississippi yeah
Bell shall come to places like
California and Massachusetts right
because we're not the battleground
states well my view is that every vote
matters and the way we can make that
happen is that we can have national
voting and that means get rid of the
electoral college okay so the the means
in which to to get rid of the electoral
college either be a constitutional
amendment there is also what is known
and we've talked about on this program
the National pote the national popular
vote compact which is essentially an
agreement amongst states that they will
alter their constitutions in such a way
that they will agree to award their
electors to the winner of the popular
vote and you need obviously enough
states that equal 270 electoral a des
was the most recent to vote this in and
sign it into law at the very least I
don't they men to their Constitution or
not but that brings the total to
somewhere I think around 200 there's a
couple of states that are looking to do
this before the 2020 election but we're
not gonna get to 270 anytime soon I
don't know that we'll ever get to 270
because I don't know that a Republican
dominated state is going to gonna sign
on to this for obvious reasons so we're
not going to get a constitutional
amendment we're not going to get this
national
popular vote compact is not gonna go
through anytime soon what is the value
of Elizabeth Warren in the context of a
presidential election in 2020 really a
Democratic primary but a presidential
election 2020 what is the value of her
saying this in addition to the fact that
obviously these type of reforms take
years years and years and years and
these are long-term movements the value
of it is also signifying to both the
Republican and the Democratic Party to
the American public that there is
something amiss here that we're no
longer going to just worship at the
altar of norms that are problematic the
Electoral College highly undemocratic
right it's not one person one vote that
just doesn't work out that way if it was
we would have President Clinton right
now if it was we would have President
Gore there may have been no Iraq war who
knows what the trajectory of history
there may have not been a 9/11 who knows
what the trajectory of the United States
would have been if we had actually
followed the will of the people as
expressed by the votes now that's not to
say that it's rigged or that it was a
technical victory although I think in
the case of at least George Bush I could
tell you it was um it was both EFT and
that was a function of the Supreme Court
as far as I'm concerned but this is a
problem it's it's anti-democratic and
every person in the country whether it
is the law of the land or not should be
aware that it's anti-democratic we
should be aware that the Senate is
fundamentally anti-democratic that the
number of people who control the the
policies of our government
of the lawmaking of our government is
less than the people who are at the whim
of those people in other words there are
millions of people more who voted for
Democratic senators than there are who
voted for Republican senators yet
Republicans have controlled the Senate
because of the way that senators are
voted each state gets to regardless of
population that's the way it's been set
up whether we like it or not that is the
Constitution we could change it but
we're not going to get to the point
where we can change it but we should
know that it's fundamentally
anti-democratic because that's going to
implicate other politics and Democratic
politicians are no longer afraid of
raising these issues and it is because
they have rightly so sort of you know
are able to begin to see the reality of
the situation which is many of these
anti-democratic features are are not
just a function of a of legacies but are
also enhanced and abused by the
Republican Party right I mean you still
have you have Democrats talking about
reinstituting the filibuster in other
words we will get back into power if we
take over the Senate and because we know
the Senate is an anti-democratic
institution at least in the context of
the Republicans when the Republicans
control just structurally it's almost
impossible for it to be anti-democratic
when Democrats control it because they
will get more votes we will never have
at least in our lifetimes an era where
Democrats will control the Senate where
the majority of Americans have not voted
for Democrats to be the Senate to
control the Senate and despite that
Democrats you still have Democrats
Democratic senators are saying we're
gonna give them even though that's the
Democratic the most democratic outcome
the Senate can exist we're gonna give
the minority the ability to filibuster
to stop us
whereas Republicans who sit and control
the Senate with far less people voting
for them they strip the filibuster and
the naive and absolutely horrifying
words of Richard Blumenthal and this was
about a year and a half ago so maybe
he's wizened up two wrongs don't make a
right right and and better or Roark on
one hand when he endorses the wrote
Republican or he'd refuses to endorse
the Democrat running against his
Republican buddy because he wants to
maintain some sense of of collegiality
when he gets up there and he says you
know I want to bring people together
which incidentally is what Glenn Beck
says it's what Glenn Beck says when he
was apologizing for supporting Trump and
it's what Glenn Beck said the other
night on Hannity when he said I'm
supporting Trump now I'm against Trump
we can eed to bring people together I'm
for Trump we need to bring people to get
us different groups of people who bring
in other words credence liberals being
white now gather in the context of
politics is meaningless claptrap
when Elizabeth Warren comes out and
calls for the abolition of the electoral
college at the very least even though
we're not gonna see that policy change
for a long time if ever she's putting
down a marker and saying I know and you
should know there's a fundamentally
undemocratic dynamic that is at work
here and it is highly problematic to
providing people with the material
benefits that they want out of their
government and when that is stymied when
the government is not working despite
the fact that the people have expressed
their will as to how they want it to
work and particularly when you do not
have the arc of justice in your favor
you start to get stuff like Donald Trump
and so that's why I love the fact that
Elizabeth Warren is making a campaign
issue of something that will never
happen as her as with her as president
but then her friends across the aisle
might not want to have a beer with her
later and that might make her sad that
may make her sad I don't think so I
don't think she I don't think she cares
that much about the beer it's not just
about a year it's also about friendship
and friendship is great and democracy is
great and I just believe if we can have
friendship plus democracy equals e
equals MC square and human lots of
moving around every thing he says with a
note and then if i rubbing a guitar mat
if we could bed a west wing a soundtrack
under this that would really be great
all right we gotta take a break I want
to get two more clips of Elizabeth
Warren Iraq
can we just mention I missed this is the
16 year anniversary of the invasion of
Iraq so oh yeah it's all I mean
everybody missed it in prep but that's
all around so we should just know that
we killed hundreds of thousands of
people we lied about it
Barry fletcher still lying about it our
flesh is still lying about it and the
country though was brought together
actually in a way through total lies
propaganda and Islamophobia not totally
together I can tell you 70 percent
absolute on the eve of the invasion with
the Honorable exceptions Noam Chomsky
Janeane Garofalo and Sam cedar there
were there was others but couldn't hear
about him that much actually all right
we're gonna take a break
I just realized - that would mean 11
days from the 15 year anniversary of me
doing radio just real are out all right
we're gonna take a quick break heading
to the fun app just to reminder folks it
is your support that makes this show
possible by becoming a member you
support The Daily Show
we bring you long-form interviews we
bring you some deep dives into the news
and then that's a way of saying thank
you we give you the fun half wherein we
make fun of different people and today I
know we're gonna blow the lid off this
whole David Pakman thing which is
blowing up
on the Internet and Mike Serna vich
apparently loses another one
this guy's completely retreating into a
sort of a like I think he's he's gonna
be a yoga a yoga guy soon would be like
there's nothing wrong with that no
nothing wrong with it great but no one's
know that's a change to get him out of
something get him out of politics fair
enough that's right um
namaste bro in the fun half namaste
we're gonna talk a little bit more about
talk about the Donald Trump's love
affair with a his his med tour maybe a
model
Moulson Bolson Sarna Rose definitely
handing it to those sjw's with Donald
Trump we will talk all about that in the
fun half his sons are so fit and they it
looks they're connected to gangs that
kill so unfair my sons are so stupid
hashtag me too boys
you could become a member of the
majority report by going to join the
majority report com join the majority
report dot-com also just coffee co-op
for a coffee tea or chocolate use the
coupon code majority get 10% off Michael
last night was Tuesday last night was a
incredible historical deep dive with
Harvey K and Daniel best nur you're
gonna have to watch it to find out
there's there's too much to even tease I
will say I was actually pretty proud of
myself with our opening commentary
connecting the history of imperialism
and Gramsci ins hegemony ideas with the
terrorism in Christchurch this sunday
elicit history of Joe Biden with Zack
Carter were releasing an illicit history
for everybody with Nelson Denny's on
Puerto Rico and colonialism patreon.com
slash T mb/s get the whole thing
become a also you can watch us on our
YouTube channel where things are now
very regularly clipped up and you'll get
a real sense of the show that way at
Michael Brooks show on YouTube patreon a
cop / TBS Jamie so out today on the anti
Fattah we talked with cartoonist writer
and all-around provocateur le valley
he's fresh off some altercations with
Jewish activists like Ben Shapiro and
Megan McCain at Chelsea Clinton he we
had a good conversation about his little
you know the conflicts he's having with
the Zionist establishment the idea of
Jewish identity um the the Zionist idea
versus the diaspora idea we talk about
his book diaspora boy and also what the
Zionist establishment might make of a
certain presidential candidate from
Vermont so check it out and that yeah
King Philip's War and the Mary
rowlandson captivity narrative we talk
about sort of the moment when the
Indians that they're Native Americans
that live in the Massachusetts New
England area realized that they were
going to need to fight keep their land
and yeah check it out alright see you
see you in a moment
oh just a reminder today's episode of
the majority report supported by
pitchfork economics with Nick Hanauer
weekly podcast that explores why rising
income inequality will lead to
pitchforks and what we can do about it
every week an hour is joined by some of
the world's most original economic
thinkers in a convention busting
exploration of who gets what and why in
the American economy if you want to
learn how to make the economy work for
all Americans
subscribe to pitchfork economics at
pitchfork economics dot-com or wherever
you get your podcasts see you in the fun
half
[Music]
you
what was that is that me Jesus
Gold Bond postural what's that Gold Bond
post-roll is that what it was I'm gonna
put up the items here I haven't done
that enough as of late forgive me folks
let's do this get rid of this get rid of
that get rid of this a lot of oh shoot
sorry may have a few variety I am me you
may want to I am me again because I just
eliminated one or two people secret
identity politics says beto is the human
resources guy who pulls out a guitar
during a job interview
Winnipeg Craig has there been any
retaliation since your latest hit on
David Pakman we got to check and see but
yo yeah there was a yeah there is a call
we'll get to that with water boat from
Kashmir I've recommended this book
before but it's so potent Monday and
Tuesday's interviews that I recommend it
again it's called cities of salt it's
written a novel written by a Saudi
novelist who had a citizenship revoked
in the book is banned in all of the GCC
countries Gulf Cooperation Council it is
a historical novel taking place in
Arabia right after World War one the
authors mind-boggling nuance really
shows how dictatorships function with
the support of the global North
solidarity with New Zealand for all
right let's go to this you know I've
been really struck at how Dave Rubin has
been so sportful as you know we spoke
yesterday about Devin Nunez a a member
really of the Republican leadership when
you are the chair of the House
Intelligence Committee as he was before
the Republicans lost the house and you
are suing obvious satire sites on
Twitter
satire handles which prior to the
lawsuit had virtually no followers but
that shouldn't even count
whether they have a million followers or
a hundred followers Devon Nunez is cow
and Devon Nunez his mom bridges satire
sites Nunez seems to claim that their
BOTS but they're clearly thoughtful in
their satire whether you think it's
funny or not and talk about your mom
that way now here's the thing as you
know it has been a pillar of everything
that Dave Rubin is about to protect free
speech to allow ideas to flourish to
allow criticism to not be a snowflake
this is what staring America apart is
the snowflake ISM so I want to
compliment Dave Rubin for his tweets and
his support for those people doing the
satire do we have that oh we don't have
that clip I'm sorry my apologies we do
have a clip of him with what's-his-face
Dennis Prager and where Dennis Prager
thanks him for pretending to be a
liberal so that they can use him as some
type of of Trojan horse Prager also has
some self assessment in this as well
about how him potentially he's used
right and now Dave Rubin also you know
to be fair says wait Dennis York you're
hurting my brand proposition by
reminding people of how I make my money
we're filming there is the new thing to
say this out loud I mean you do better
than me but as the confusing what's in
your cigar some type of wacky tabacky
good you because you're yeah you're a
great use to two good values well don't
way I'm not doing it for your
now wait a second
you're trying to say you're making money
off of me I'm making money off of it it
is gonna see I mean doing it I'm doing
you're saying that I'm doing it
cynically and I just want to say
actually I really am doing it cynically
for me but I want to make it clear that
I'm not I'm not doing it for your
benefit I'm a businessman it's like FUBU
you know for a spire 6 is 48 for D by
D's oh wait a second we should have done
it I'm gonna take a nice long puff on
this stogie well you continue and sell
me to my face you up to two good values
well don't worry I'm not doing it for
yours like Christians who say to me you
know all we would love you to come to
Christ but you are so valuable to us as
a Jew when you defend us Christians and
they're right you are valuable in the
best sense of the word because America
what is the valuable in the best sense
of the word you have value to me what
are the bad senses remember we can
leverage you in this other thing in the
sense that if you accept that cosmology
that you literally burning in a lake of
hellfire for eternity is worth it any
because tax cut so fortunate for
Christians in this country that Dennis
Prager is here or god knows what could
happen to the Christians here don't
choose to be Jewish right like you could
always find like some stupid trader
member of any group to be a conservative
but like you do choose to be a liberal
so I don't really know what that even
means is it just that he says he's a
liberal and that's what makes someone
exactly it's about ideas I'll tell you
where I get it certified but my bank
account yeah you when you defend those
Christians and they're right you are
valuable in the best sense of the word
because the America needs people who are
clearly a liberal and who and to be
honest and fall into the category of
kosher as gay yeah to say hey hello the
conservatives are not hate mongers hello
they shaza so another word gay
impression in other words it's great
that you're gay because even though
you're all against the idea of identity
you can leverage that identity of a
sudden in last couple years anal sex
became acceptable if it evolved banning
Muslims from the country
super-interesting these people are
interested in 90 is to say hey hello the
Conservatives are not hate mongers hello
they should be hello and maybe every so
often you should read National Review
write or watch a preview video oh wait a
second what about my videos also Ruben
report may be much liberal video
recommender Dave Rubin I don't know cuz
that ideas about you know I'm not
getting here Johnny big Dennis by the
way I see that as it as a gay person
there you go kid what is it up you dumb
little what's fascinating about
this too I mean aside from the fact that
Ruben realizes that it's not just
himself who's using his identity to let
to sell a bill of goods that others are
exploiting him to hello
but but the thing that's the thing
that's sort of fascinating about this
too is that they do this the
conservatives I've talked about this
many times I went down to that Glenn
Beck rally 10 years ago and there were
very few black people brown people there
I mean virtually none really and there
was I know that comes as a big shock but
there was a black eye I did see a black
guy and he was literally walking around
with another guy a white guy who was I
think his buddy
who had brought the black guy to the
rally and had a sign that says with an
arrow
do I look racist cuz he's with a black
there's a video of this you can find it
on our YouTube channel
hello and and I swear to you you can see
like a half a dozen people lined up
taking photos to prove that this was not
a racist rally and so they have they
this they have they they elevate so way
but anybody who is not a white male to
ostensibly prove that they are I don't
think this is it but quick question in
light of that should we change the
Britax in chyron well hold on the they
they do this to prove they think that it
proves that they're not racist but it's
really just for them
right cuz dave rubin is not convincing
any actual liberals that conservatives
are not hate mongers now he is i think
effectively probably steering some
misguided immature white males for a
while down a possible road that is
pretty ugly but the idea that he's
telling America that conservatives are
not hate mongers because he's married to
a man is just a self delusion and that's
all that they want I like to holes
though it's like Ben Shapiro is like I'm
okay I won't cut your anniversary that's
never gonna happen
and pretty soon you're like yours right
about you I mean let's face facts here
you're free what's your friggin gay and
you call yourself a liberal and that
might help with some of the analytics of
i Prager you videos you dumb little bit
your beautiful dumb little prick hello
less convincing to liberals than Candace
Owens is to black people
I don't think Arizona does convincing to
her own family
[Laughter]
this little bit of like mmm it doesn't
exactly sound right it sounds like you
saying I would complete empty vessels
whose only useful for my identity and
pretend to be something I'm not is that
it would be say that we'd go Reese
kirkegaard I'm sure that we would be
really open to having our views changed
on this and an opening ideas with you
you have to bait us it's important to be
able to have civil conversations you're
here it is Matt I found it it's you can
scroll through it you'll see it there I
don't know what's it's probably halfway
through it's keep going keep going it's
mad oh yeah yeah look at all the people
lining up to take photos what you
selling flags
what do they say do not turn don't cheat
on me and what's that mean what's old
Ben Franklin saying
just means don't let anybody them when
we keep going watch this probably know
[Laughter]
in other it's the that's the one of the
that videos from back in the
day so people can check that out but I
mean that's that that's what that Reuben
thing is all about sort of stunning item
a in other news I have signed up to be
Fox's token communist I'm going to go on
Tucker Carlson's show and agree with
everything he says and then maybe some
of my fellow communist will also sign up
for fascist and racist border policies
although I think that slot might have
already been felled by Angela you're
gonna be the conduit that's why they
liked you so much Jamie
oh speaking of of how conservatives are
not all hateful and whatnot here's some
here's some merch on the Jordan Peterson
site and we'll just there you go you can
check out the new lobster collection
merchandise this is the public
intellectual who's selling they lobster
shirts official merchandise lobster
collection let's see what else we got
well I wonder hope that transition off
patreon is going yeah I wonder it must
be going pretty good we're gonna sell a
lot of lobsters this is lobster t-shirt
this is Jay Cruz and let's see what else
we got here oh here looks set zoom in on
this one here we have Jordan Peterson
oh this is wonderful this is Jordan
Peterson taking a picture on his tour
was this in Australia or New Zealand New
Zealand in February so just a couple of
weeks ago before the mass killing of 49
Muslims at two different mosques and
there's Jordan Peterson posing for a
picture now look this happens you hear
about this all the time right people go
and they pose her picture and they pull
off a shirt or they open up their shirt
that says like you know whatever down
with Trump and I'm taking a picture with
Trump this is one where there is no
indication that there is another piece
of clothing around there there is a
shirt that says in very
big letters like look I wear glasses
it's conceivable to me that if I didn't
have my glasses on I don't know why I
wouldn't but if someone walked up to me
with the shirt that had small writing I
wouldn't be able to read it but I could
even read I am a proud Islamophobe and
then a long litany of things like
pedophilia rape wife-beating homophobia
misogyny it goes on and on and on now
maybe Jordan Peterson didn't even look
at that shirt but it's very hard to
believe isn't it
I think it's quite how amazing would it
be and there's no doubt he saw this
shirt in my mind unless he's maybe you
know Jordan Peterson might have drank
some cider or something before I tell
you what his perspective is like I'm not
going to you you be you you do you mean
you you do you man I'm not going to I'm
not going to in any way censor this but
the thing is is that what is
about that position is you are not
embracing free speech by putting your
arm around and taking a picture and
posing for a picture with someone like
this
you are literally embracing the notion
not being a proud Islam afford is
something to be proud about also Jordan
Peterson Jordan Peterson has a
thoroughgoing Ubu of perspective we
wouldn't know who he is because he would
have had thrown a tantrum about
transgender students and he would be
teaching at Canada and he wouldn't be on
our show of course it is I mean it
really is stunning that this guy's not
held to account for this I don't know is
he come out with any statement any any
statement ever shred or no pretending
like you didn't see it no he's proud of
me I think you know I would love as if
there is a montage of videos of actually
all of them like even like sam harris
being like you know take this the wrong
way but the fact Dave that you're a
complete and I'm able to sit here
and compare as reclines at the Ku Klux
Klan and I know that not only won't you
push back but you probably might not
even know what the Klan is
is really helpful and then like Jordy
Peters and just like you're gay so I get
to come here and rant about gender all
day and you know push back and that's
super helpful I like some of the
responses on on reddit this guy says
pretty sure when Peterson does events
like this people either pay for money
for a meet-and-greet pass in a picture
or if he's doing free pictures they wait
in a very long line so he says a either
jbp didn't see or notice a shirt as he
was probably rapid-fire and photos with
many people or he saw it probably
internally rolled his eyes but
understood that this dude just waited in
a long-ass line and it's easier just to
take the photo and move on to the next
person yeah I'm sure he had a problem
with the shirt in his mind it's just a
cringy meme shirt that's what this guy
says I don't know what actually happened
like you're you're doing the simplest
explanation is he saw it and didn't
register anything and took the photo
because that's what the available
evidence is the the the most factual and
obvious conclusion is I mean unless that
we can't find it for whatever reason is
that he knows this picture is out there
and doesn't feel in any way obligated to
say I regret that I took the picture
with that guy I was gonna say he got
Apple contamination and you couldn't see
for a while but also that probably all
right let's he says it's a word created
by fascists Islamophobia that is so how
he said previously so just say to see oh
that makes sense
I see what are you saying let's go to
the phones you call him from a 602 area
code who's this where you calling from
hey Sam it's our mom in Vietnam our mind
in Vietnam what's on your mind
hey uh III haven't been able to catch
the program too much since she's kind of
on pretty late here click I just
slightly late I want to do a bit of
reporting on what it was like during the
summit here and kind of like an opening
on my mind because most of the
tends to have a pretty negative opinion
of Trump but Vietnam is actually one of
the few countries whether it be at lack
of information or just total love and
ignorance for their own country
I think they seem to have a super huge
positive view of really any fluent
reader that comes here which which might
be traced back to sort of I guess
there's like a political ignorance here
either to just you know ignore all
political activities involving really
anything whether it's just not carrying
or also you know somewhat forced by the
government here but anywho so for the
first time in my life I never expected
this
not only Kim jong-un but also Trump were
seen as heroes here I would have never
imagined a world where I mean again I'm
right now but to see school children
waving North Korean flags as Kim jong-un
enters to seeing the whole city section
the whole entire sections of the city of
Hanoi shut down for just two
having a meeting is just like shocking
yeah well I mean you got it you got I
mean really that's not terribly
surprising that they shut down you know
the the city in that respect but so what
else do you have
my understand well I mean obviously we
all know that the the summit was a
failure and a dramatic failure to the
point now where the lead negotiator for
the North decree a Korean team from the
United States has been sidelined by a
Trump because he's mad because he right
he wants to blame somebody else and so
what else did you have anything else
yeah yeah yeah I did want to bring up
one other topic it's just um I mean
again I I understand that I'm not on the
West but it's just so weird see politics
be so I mean do
see these two leaders be so celebrated
in that way I was just kind of shocking
secondly I've never been a huge TYT fan
but I went on the TYT channel a couple
weeks ago and there's a huge presence of
accounts that I mean literally I would
go on some of them they would have
Russian videos uploaded of just total
hate for a TYT like there's absolutely
no positive comments to any of the
content E or are we worried enough about
this um it seems kind of it seems like
things are really stepping up and that's
you know that regard I'm not I'm not
worried about Russian videos complaining
about TYT if that's what you mean I mean
I know not Russian videos I mean some of
the profiles had Russian videos uploaded
but every PYT video I mean I just went
to one and I was pretty sure a lot of
I'm not I'm not quite what is what
there's a lot of Russian BOTS I mean I I
don't know I mean I I'm not I'm not I
don't know why you couldn't seal out I
don't know homepage will burn they
Bernstein I've got I think we have like
a lot more truth to worry about they are
sellouts key calm Jake is on a show it
is why the Russian story was total fake
Jimmy telling the truth flack call the
 sellout they barley they steal
 teeth color lucky calling there
was seven five seven area code who's
this were you calling from seven five
seven Corey from Indianapolis hello
Corey from Indianapolis what's on your
mind
they had a question about court packing
yep so uh quick background my fiance and
I are both progressives Bernie's
quarters she listens to NPR on the way
to and from work every
and they mentioned court packing but
they didn't really explain any bit so
she asked me about it when she got home
I told her what I knew and we did a
little research that she had some
concerns that I wanted to get your your
input on yeah so the the first one she
raised was like how is that not an abuse
of power or in violation of the idea of
checks and balances well I'm not sure
what you mean by a violation of the
checks and balances I mean the checks
and balances is is ensconced in the
Constitution and the Constitution says
nothing I mean the idea of it well I
mean I think that III think there it is
you know akin to things like we're not
going to hold a hearing for a nominee
right like what Mitch McConnell did it
certainly is a it is a an assault on
some level on some of the norms of the
institution I would agree with that
right and we should say and I should say
this look I interviewed somebody who had
done some research on this recently on
ring of fire and the attempt of court
packed the court at the time was not met
with the same type of the same type of I
guess questioning and scrutiny as it is
today when FDR brought it up because the
court had ossified largely because the
Republicans at the time had rolled back
the pensions for justices and they had
done this to maintain people on the
court right it's different era and and
right what about that yeah and what
ended up happening was that FDR was able
to the the threat of court packing
actually ended up returning the the
existence of those pensions I don't know
if those pensions have the same import
today that they did back then but I I
personally would prefer to see a term
limits on the justices and if the threat
of court packing brings about term
limits I'm all for it yeah that's that's
one thing that I told her that I'm in
favor of the term limits as well another
concern that she expressed was let's say
we do elect a progressive and that court
pecking does end up happening what is
going to stop the next Republican
president from doing the same I mean I
think that is why in my mind the the
best course of action is term limits
because I don't know what would prohibit
the next president from doing that short
of perhaps maybe some statute maybe some
maybe you could pass this you know a law
under a completely dominated Democratic
you know government that says that the
president doesn't have that power then
you would take it to the Supreme Court
presumably the Supreme Court would have
been but Corp act in your favor and they
could rule I mean you know that's the
we're gonna go through we're in the era
of this and we're gonna continue to go
through it I mean this is you know like
it's a different era that we're living
in and people on the Left can either
sort of gain that understanding or they
can you know just continue to lose and
have that era just ongoing just they're
not participate they're just bystanders
and it's not like we haven't contracted
this stuff before right I mean that's
I'm saying it's you know we've been down
this road there's been different eras
where institutions are more or less you
know sort of like sportsmanship and
comedy and it's more or less and we're
in a less period and sometimes you have
to rise to that reality appreciate the
call Corey record next time tell your a
girlfriend not to hide behind you and
come up and ask her own questions come
from a 6'5 one area code who's this
where he come from
hi I'm Eloise from well originally from
the Twin Cities but I'm calling from
Portland hi Eloise what's on your mind
uh recently I saw a documentary that was
of the defense team for Dilma Rousseff
during the impeachment proceedings
against her and it got me thinking or at
least one I'm sorry crying my
documentary about about who don't worry
Seth okay
demo okay okay well there was a
right-wing legislator that I'm loosely
paraphrasing this but they say you claim
it is an issue when we abolished labor
rights yet we have 11 million plus
unemployed and they use it to justify
the repeal of labor rights and like God
willing that we don't get to that point
I want to know what is the best way to
prevent this from happening in the US or
what is the ideal way to protect workers
rights what is the ideal way to protect
workers rights I mean wait yeah well I I
mean I think it's it's twofold it's
getting a president in who's going to
appoint people to National Labor
Relations Board who or I would say three
things National Labor Relations Board
who are going to empower unions and then
I think it's also getting a legislature
who is also going to empower unions and
then you let unions also you know
empower worker rights but I also say
like the best way is gonna be for
workers to take those rights Haley and I
add just like I think of course all of
that and and then oh yeah obviously
workers need to organize but III think
particularly in the in the Brazil
example and this has been like a
something I've focused on a lot because
I think you actually see it here like
with Trump campaigning on drain the
swamp and the next phase of the war on
labor in Brazil the same prosecutor that
put Lula in jail
without any evidence who was leading in
all the polls is the Justice Minister in
both scenarios government now and he
regularly talks about corruption inside
labor unions so people also need to not
have generic corrupt
discourse they need to recognize the way
this rhetoric of corruption has been
weaponized the target labor unions
actually historically and and presently
as well and I think that there's gonna
need to be a lot of work and cleaning up
even what we you know understanding what
labor is and the vital role plays in a
Democratic Society okay but the same
token that doesn't mean that unions have
not fallen victim to corruption problems
in the past they definitely have yeah
but there's a bigger point about how
average is always you know to empower
the workers from the bottom and for the
workers to empower themselves to really
take control of these worker
institutions as they are supposed to be
appreciate the phone call let's go to
the phones I got a weird echo on that
last call come from the 509 Erica what I
played the Praeger thing oh I got a
weird echo on that last call yeah it was
weird
come from a 509 error code who's this
where he come from 509 am dis with
Ronald Reagan Oh Ronald Reagan what's on
your mind I wanted to tell you a story
about Law School and repair oh sure
great I'm looking forward to it
yep it's a good one um so I think it was
my second or third year I took an
intellectual property class yeah and one
of the big like this or the big project
that you do throughout the semester and
it culminates and you know whatever
 that we had to do was
litigating in a ma that's right like
these sort of Maca claims we're divided
in New Jordans moot court oh is that
we're talking yeah but it was it was
more like the behind-the-scenes
negotiations that the lawyers would do
before I just go straight to court right
yeah
so anyhow so me and my group my group
and I should say we were representing
the da Vinci Italian soda syrup company
are you familiar I'm not but I believe
you you can imagine the product I'm
talking about right the big tall bottles
that they put in coffee drinks and these
sorts of things
sure so our competitors tour Ani which
is another Italian soda company they
were accusing us of violating their
copyright and their intellectual
property because our label is too
similar to their so you have to go
through and sort of assess all of the
circumstances right so are the products
direct competitors where they play sort
of in the grocery aisle is their intent
to deceive the the consumer and then you
want to look at the design elements you
know yeah - Ronnie's red white and green
but those are the you know that's the
Italian flag right so it's not like they
invented that color combination and and
you want to get into all of the facts
and in our defense was that our design
was sufficiently unique as to have
avoided any infringement on their
intellectual property but do you know
what would have been absolutely
devastating to our case is if the
Taurani council had approached us and
said you know what a week before you
change your label the head of your
marketing company called the head of our
marketing company and asked hey how did
you design the label for your bauble
okay suddenly we have literally no cases
so deep because they can show not only
that clearly we copied but that there
was intent right I mean this goes to the
heart of the matter
right and so David Pakman is out there
acting like this is
some big joke but I take the law
very seriously and yeah it's great that
you asked how to build the set that only
proves your culpability and you know I'm
ready to throw down for you Sam I don't
know anything about intellectual
property other than the course I took
ten years ago right but you seem but on
top of it though I gotta say you know
about Dennis don't sell yourself short
let's look at the facts he's not like a
guy on YouTube reviewing you know toys
for kids or whatever thing he's a direct
competitor right and somebody this is
another submission I would I would use
in a court of law
somebody and the YouTube comments said I
literally thought pac-man was filming
from your studio for a while lol but
it's not it's not oh well me okay so
he's he's acting like oh I changed
studios and don't worry put this screen
up on my left hand side but it's clear
what he's trying to do he's trying to
benefit directly or indirectly from your
branding which is unique to you and your
show and this is a serious thing so you
know everybody's laughing about it David
thinks it's all in good fun but we'll
see if he's laughing when he gets
subpoenaed or whatever they do and that
last part does give me full confidence
in your your skills as my attorney when
you say hey when he gets whatever they
do but we do have a clip where he he's
called out now what are the two clips
that we have here I'm glad you okay oh I
get these are just he's asked I think
followed up somebody follows up on
Reagan's what are they different
clips though I think they're consecutive
oh they just clipped him to it okay
everyone's alright let's well
let's let's dig into this here we go why
don't you stay on the phone Reagan
because I think you're implicated in it
yeah okay
hey David this is Brian from Seattle hey
Brian what's going on hey well first of
all it's an honor to get to talk to you
of been watching her show for a while
and I think you see what you do now Wow
I just want confirmation around Reagan
this Brian from Seattle that's not you
is it no okay I never heard of this guy
all right
good to be fair because we just it
sounded a little like a fake call but go
ahead um I want to do real briefly like
I don't want to get into this whole you
know majority report thing because I
mean the reality is the whole thing is
kind of a joke and hold on your your
rock your phone is breaking up a little
bit
all right good posit for one second okay
we did wrong Oh wrong okay okay good
now I'm also looking at this somebody
just somebody gave 50 bucks or is that
you can do different monetary
denomination Wow
all right that's yet Wow okay Wow puts
that super chat right up on top of that
board there as these just go ahead but
but real briefly like just to give you
some context the guy that that was
actually calling in and as a bunch of
people I saw in your chatter familiar is
a guy that goes by Ronald Reagan that
calls into the majority report all the
time and he's a smart guy he's an
immigration attorney so they keep at it
Rasen father that part is true right
that part is true which my idea that I'm
smart right immigration attorney so they
she discusses issues a lot of the time
about the border wall and that you know
I assume things like that and he's a
smart guy he has a lot of interesting
things to say I also think he is used to
getting straight through on the majority
report because they know
let me let me tell you a story all right
I'm going to call it in first of all the
next thing that happens on this video
better be that David Pakman shuts him
down for implying that the show is
somehow corrupted that our phone
processes he corrupted IO Pakman shuts
this guy down it's not like we're making
people pay to get through to us right
exactly
I mean this is this is akin to the John
McCain moment where that voter said that
Barack Obama was this is where David's
no no no no no sir I'm good all reports
a good show yeah we just happen to have
our disagreement I'm not and I stole a
corrupt phone system stolen is set they
may we may have different disagreements
on that but they run a good show and
there is not a corrupt phone line we
just happen to have a disagreement Hey
look Court because they know him and he
has a lot to say about topics and I kind
of feel like the issue comes down to
David Pakman doesn't let me immediately
get through and talk this is a personal
gripe he doesn't like tight always good
to get through he gets to get priority
on the air which you can you know in
that context of innovation attorney as
Barry yeah we sure of course know
whatever you say yeah Ron right yeah
whatever you say
you're completely and tightline and
apparently apparently you have run of
the show it's a pause clips now yeah
yeah I got a I got a story for Brian and
yellow Friday I call I'm gonna hold 44
minutes only to hear Sam say and one
more caller we're going to Mindy I can
Mindy with the last caller this is the
after an hour this is a special
treatment that I'm basking in over here
on your show listen listen listen right
now I'm looking at the I'm looking at my
my col thing we have 30 calls lined up
there are literally seven people who
have been on hold for 43 minutes seven
people then when I go it goes down from
there and so like I just go into the
pool of
three minute holders for the most part
occasionally I'll jump out of it you
know just to mix it up a little bit and
I'll take the you know I'll randomly
pick out of that 43 minute poll now if I
run out of 43 minutes I'll go down to
the 37 minute pool of people right et
cetera et cetera
but the idea that this is about hurt
feelings because I'm I've been trying to
get get the root of Pakman well I
believe is my favorite my favorite take
that I I believe that part there's no
doubt you're a vindictive person and if
Pakman doesn't let you on you're going
to get burn the house down I'm not gonna
deny it okay let's let it roll let's see
what I'm very good to get priority on
air which in you know in that context
that he's an immigration attorney and he
has very direct relevant things to say
that that makes sense but you're not the
majority reported you don't know him he
and my other issues well pause II for
one second now Ronald Reagan to be fair
to be fair hold on to be fair Ronald
Reagan you could be confused that it's
not the majority report because of the
background that's the whole point right
exactly so you could be calling it to
packwood show presume it's this show
because of Becca
you've got the robot voice she's using
the same phone thing alright continue
yeah I'll keep this brief because the
whole thing is kind of silly and I want
to give it too much weight my other
thing is do I it would be one thing if
you were saying I'm not gonna do my show
today unless I get you know 10 new
members and it's a live stream oh all
right I do it is part two more cookies
Martin Palin is not corrected the record
what is part two Oh
Brendan's gone alright well I don't know
that we need to part do part two all I
can tell you is that I you know we will
have a conference and we'll talk about
this how much do you think I could get
by suing them well you look at it okay
so obviously when you see someone you
got to look at who you're suing to see
you know what kind of money they got and
also what the actual damages are you
don't get to just sue a homeless guy
and get a bunch of money ready you know
this I'm not taking a look at a super
chat take a look at a super chat you
want an idea how much money we're gonna
get yeah
that money is yours Sam uh but I want to
say you know people are accusing me of
like trying to start some and
that's not what I'm about but I do want
to say something about the pod save set
right real quick these guys also have
panels but it's not inspired by your
design it's just a really shitty
painting and these guys from what I
understand are like making a lot of
money and they bought like an old
painting at Goodwill and chopped it into
three pieces and it's like of the
Capitol and a big flag and it's the
dumbest looking set I've ever seen they
would be better just doing like the
basement YouTube guy staying just in
front of a wall right then whatever it
is they've got going on and so I think
that the fact that you're being copied
is a sign that on the left there's a
real lack of creativity as evidence both
by David Pakman copying you and by these
pod save people who may be I got to
change my know what's going on over
there maybe I got to change my backdrop
again and then in the you know as my
attorney could I get Pakman to pay me to
do it because if I've got to change it
to you know yeah I think that's
definitely a thing appreciate it
according to the law yeah thank you
thank you there you go
all right you know appreciate the cost
it's just the total of humor illiteracy
it's terrifying and well okay caller
unless that was Reagan with a voice much
well I I'm sure all right this is no I
prefer to think it was a really dumb
college here is um Donald Trump having
who has welcomed to the White House a
full-on fascist
let's let's listen go to the Fox News
clip we're gonna have to get to some of
these other clips tomorrow but let's go
to the Fox News clip where Boston ro who
has had no bones of being Verint Li
anti-lgbt right I mean like I don't even
know everything but I mean if you want
to go on the list yes I'd prefer my son
be dead than gay is a sample right here
is him on fox news with shannon bream
and just imagine like the idea of any
other world leader well basically what
this is indicative of is Donald Trump
loves this guy and if Trump loves them
then Fox News folks are gonna love him
about something you retweeted during
Carnival that was sexual in nature
why did you retweet it and and the
comment that you made this video was
circulating on the web already and was
his sexual nature it was a guy urinating
on another guy right yeah I mean we
don't know but the the way that they're
introducing this is as if like we're
gonna give you we're gonna put up the
excuse for your for you know we're gonna
present this in such a way as we're not
going to talk about your virulent
homophobia over the years what we're
gonna talk about is a video of a guy
peeing on another guy at Carnivale as a
way of in some ways basically justifying
your homophobia as the other way
homophobia was not was a function of
just seeing this video and it isn't just
rhetoric one of his first moves along
with taking the Amazon out of protection
was removing protections for LGBTQ
people from the books and Brazil's
formally first gay member
the Congress fled the country under
death threats to mention the murdered
activist Mariela Franco was we're this
video was circulating on the web already
and we just shared it to try to showcase
how way off the track Carnival is going
in Brazil did you think it would
generate so much controversy well not
really I have always acted that way also
one of the things that got me like this
present was my sense of respect to
families principles traditions and
customs and of course respect towards
our culture as well as our religion I am
a Christian I cannot become president
totally change my way of living and
doing things which happens to be very
common in the political circles yes let
me nod my head I mean so this is the way
that the right is very good at
whitewashing this stuff they will bring
up a controversial topic and they will
just be so satisfied with the response
and so if you're a fox viewer you're
watching that clip it's like I don't
blame him for being just no wonder there
is a problem it's the look what you made
me do
exactly they've got too far exactly and
Fox News providing that and soft runner
politics that carnival I mean
historically of course but even just
literally the previous carnival had it
was won by a team that represented you
know afro indigenous people if I recall
correctly a lot of the teams were
organized around freeing Lula there was
Giant posters memorializing Mary Ellie
so it was a whole sight of resistance to
this regime here is which one which
which clip is which here okay here is
Boston arrow defending his anti-lgbt
administration and couching it in the
same terms that we've heard the
Republican Party couched in for years
Brazil and the United States stand
side-by-side in their efforts to ensure
liberties and respect to traditional
family lifestyles respect to God our
Creator against the gender
the politically correct attitudes and
against fake news excuse me the
announcer right you see that yeah so
when folks like Dave Rubin say he's
really good about the sjw's we now have
a full-on fascist sitting there next to
Donald Trump saying doing exactly what a
fascist like this wants I am just like
the United States here's the proof the
president I say I'm gonna say it in
front of the president United States and
he's gonna sit there and smile and be
okay with it we we play back again to
understand what Donald Trump has just
accepted from bolson ro as to what we as
a country stand for Brazil and the
United States stand side-by-side in
their efforts to ensure liberties and
respect to traditional family lifestyles
respect to God our Creator against the
gender ideology are they politically
correct and it suits and against fake
news the United States stands against
this gender ideology in God's eyes
I mean menacing and also just got it I
mean he also said fake news that got the
Trump smirk right cuz let's be clear
like Trump obviously is totally happy to
completely destroy transgender and you
know people queer people but he doesn't
care but his personal narcissism his
ears perk up at this fake news thing and
a major part of his campaign both snarl
escaped Ain was a slush fund that was
not investigated it was tabled by the
Supreme Court that spread aggressive
fake news through whatsapp groups until
basically Facebook actually pulled the
plug on it in the last couple weeks of
the campaign and this is one of the only
cases that we can look at and I'm not
saying I don't know I mean maybe the
fake news did have the roll in in 2016
but we can actually correlate the
numbers slightly tightening up with
these whatsapp groups getting shut down
so you know he's nodding along with that
and Bannon is their advising ball Starro
as well and in fact actual fake news was
a part of a broad scale you know and
let's be clear
broadly us-backed campaign to get this
guy elected because in addition to all
of these assaults on rights of LGBTQ
it's a complete assault on labor unions
and indigenous people on behalf of
Western companies
lastly we probably should play seven
right is that I don't want to play too
many more of these this is a Bolton ro
and look it's I don't think there's much
of a coincidence where we have the
United States policy shared by other
countries to be fair but certainly far
more aggressive on the United States
side to to undermine Maduro and to
promote the presidency of of guy doe
here is bolson ro addressing the
question on of military intervention in
Venezuela well there are a few issues
speak they're no longer strategic
therefore reserve issues may be
discussed if they have not you recall
this was Donald Trump's line during the
campaign right we can't tell you I can't
tell you what I'm gonna do because
that's we have a secret plan like Nixon
on some level we have a secret plan and
we can't tell you because then we will
be giving away our strategy I mean
there's there it's not a coincidence
we're seeing the the same construction
of these talking where fascists
rationalize keeping the Democratic
people in the dark and the and the
dynamic I mean I guess there's a few
more seconds left but the dynamic is
really disturbing because on one hand
bowl scenario has done everything like
there's new billet bases going up
there's even talk of Brazil joining NATO
which doesn't make any Geographic sense
but that was on their agenda and they're
on the North Atlantic I mean
and and so actually maybe I mean I'm
being facetious I was gonna say what
there is sorry oh yes so the the reason
though that the the Brazilian military
has actually been really cool on this
because they don't have the capacity to
take on Venezuela and they know that if
there's some catastrophe across the
hemisphere they'll actually deal with it
not us and so it's very revealing though
that the bolster I went to CIA
headquarters with his justice minister
the same guy who put Lula in jail that's
a very unusual meeting sequence and the
reporting that I've seen is definitely
like one of those kind of splits of the
military and you know the Vice President
and other horrible figures from a
domestic point-of-view who are mainly
willing to be totally servants the
United States they see the immense
logistical challenges of doing something
in Venezuela balsan ro who is an idiot
and has like an astrology fascist
adviser in Virginia look that guy up
he's interested in you know basically
doing whatever it takes to please Trump
specifically I don't think just the
United States continued well not be
evidently I remember on a debate here in
the United States when a candidate as
another candidate what he would do to
fight Islamic state he said if I say I
will no longer be able to defeat it so
it's a matter of strategy for everything
that we discussed here will be honored
but unfortunately there's there is such
a codependent relationship here between
these two and the we are not only did
was Donald Trump an invitation to the
Brazilian electorate to elect someone
like him and
and an invitation to the Brazilian of
lead to say well you know we can get
away with this but also his presence is
is his midwifing a lot of this in in
laundering a lot of this hardness all
right we're running out of time I'm not
going to have any time for any more
calls at the moment and I will get to
that sort of it's thing that's sort of
evergreen on some level we don't need
that today let's do one more Jamie Dimon
thing here this is there's nothing
better than listening to a banker who
was in part responsible for the massive
financial crisis that left millions
unemployed that cost millions of people
their homes that cost people untold
amounts and their pensions just the
sheer amount of human suffering that can
be tied back to some of these guys
decisions is is pretty impressive
not we're gonna start an invasion and an
occupation level but pretty significant
here is a one on one with JPMorgan Chase
CEO Jamie Dimon a lot of these folks
have to describe what they mean more
they're not gonna get away with just
saying social we have to say what that
means so here is Jamie Dimon claiming to
say that the real trouble that someone
who's just saying socialism is going to
have is that they're not enumerate the
reality is the people saying socialism
are the people who are responding to the
enumeration of the policies right yeah I
mean like Bernie Sanders is describing
himself as a Democratic Socialist a OC
describes herself as a Democratic
Socialist that comes only when people
demand to know what their identity is
after them laying out rather detailed
proposals Elizabeth Warren as well for
that matter rather detailed proposals
that other people characterize as
socialism as
opposed to say like Social Security or
Medicare which could also be
characterized as socialism at least in
the same manner so here's a Jamie Dimon
pretending that people are just coming
out saying we're present we're providing
you with a basket with with goodies but
they're not telling us what the goodies
actually are when in fact what's going
on is people are coming out specifically
addressing what the goodies are and then
they're being maligned as just being
well some type of like unicorn word but
here's Jamie Dimon who is pretending
that he knows what he's talking about
okay you're not gonna get away with just
saying social you have to say what that
means
how you gonna fetch you ate it how is it
good for the average American the green
new deal Larry Kudlow the president
chief economic adviser a few weeks ago
said it will literally destroy the
economy is he right I don't spend much
time worried about things that
ineffectually he closetful I Got News
for you folks
guess what Jamie Dimon can effectuate
destroying the economy I think if past
performance is any type of example are
of future performance not worried about
destroying the economy because he knows
he's gonna be fine he's bet the other
way good is he right I don't spend much
time worried about things that I can't
effectuate he can you focus on climate
change an intelligent way that doesn't
them of the economy yes you can
it's called co2 emission taxes or
training there too a couple ways to do
it
nothing there's nothing called co2
trading emissions taxes a couple ways to
do it I mean here he is making the case
that you can do something as if he is
some type of expert and can't even name
cap-and-trade I mean I don't have the
name of my for ecology idea that this
businessman who was a pillar of the
failure of the US economy that caused
all of this widespread suffering is now
his opinion is important on something
that he doesn't he can't even name there
are junior high students who know what
that word it with cap-and-trade is and
he's just like it's all just a jumble
mess I don't know you know the the the
the environment stuff he's too busy
remembering the word effectuate yeah
recycle folks recycle alright we gonna
take let's do some IMS and then we get
to get out here problematic norm when
Jenna Bush turned 18 the onion ran a
headline titled federally protected
wetlands now open for drilling I bring
that up to say this with all the talk of
Chelsea Don jr. and the original
tweeting cow Megan McCain let's give
credit where credit's due the bush
daughters keep the F quiet word boys but
super bowl prog anybody else have
conservative family of family sending
them info on Andrew yang no I let Sarah
Palin tell me about Tulsi I love Sarah
Palin my god Sam reparations for slavery
next you're gonna bring up Jim Crow the
rise of white identity organizations to
terrorize black people efforts to keep
black people out of certain universities
changing how we fund schools redlining
disparities and the GI Bill
discrimination they kept black people
from fully benefiting Social Security
COINTELPRO or things I'm certain we will
learn in the future about governments
full relationship with Nicaraguan
cocaine traffickers like Danielle o AB
Landon and Manuel Noriega during its war
on drugs dis fortunately a black people
since all real estate is the most
prominent investment people have that
generates things like generational
wealth the old rule of thumb was black
people moving in leads to home prices
dropping in subsequent white flight I
think it's important to mention every
time the subject of reparation is
brought up that the current president
itíd States was guilty of this exact
 also serious we've been talking
about antitrust for the past few days
could you have someone on to explain how
we got ideas like consider the most the
cost of regulation to implement and it's
not monopoly unless it hurts consumers
to my knowledge it started with justice
Powell in the 70s well we've had guests
on go back and look at Lena gosh I can't
remember her name but also shoot I can't
remember all the names I mean Stoller
and Haley Sweetland Edwards
yeah a little bit but it's we had a lot
of people on from the open markets was
it shoot out open markets I can't
remember I'm not really having trouble
with names these days I'm not exactly
sure what's going on some type of
episode but when we get a tag but yes
we'll have some antitrust people on soon
Colin from Nebraska for those who have
seen the photos of the devastation
affecting my home state and others who
want to should look up how to help those
affected by flooding in Nebraska and
Iowa in the Omaha world-herald
we're links to various organizations on
Lena Cohn also F pence and sass for the
hypocrisy of white state like Nebraska
and non-white state and non-state like
Puerto Rico in times of desperation
Trump changed Biden voice Barack Obama's
a friend of mine we served together in
the White House he's an articulate black
man congressman or Roarke you're no
Barack Obama Gregory from Oklahoma
shout-out to Jaime for being the most
amazing person on the majority report
and liking my tweets you're the best
Jimmy key Jimmy door should we build a
coalition with Devin Nunez to end
Twitter war at live 11 Lovato Gabbard
2020 angel I just watched the HBO de
baak documentary about Elizabeth Holmes
have you heard of her fraud case
involving mini lab machines for blood
tests yeah this Thera knows right yeah
we've talked about that in the past a
little bit train boy I have received
intelligence clinical that claims
Beddoes first-day fundraising Hall was
provided by a team of Russian oligarchs
west coast comrade I think better old
look pesky and all the rest of you to do
this work at grasp ROM I am so inspired
calm cool calculated political world
salad oh yeah egg McConnell Dave and
foodies port Arabs have taken over makes
me feel pretty good doc naps hey mr
crude is Bernie's loan forgiveness
policy apply to graduate students I
recently graduated med school just shy
of half a million dollars in loan oh I
don't know about that
Congressional baseball fan many liberals
confuse the difference between legal and
just actions can be legal but totally
unjust or conversely illegal but fully
justice to be clear throwing eggs at
Nazis is about as violent as a game of
baseball sure some people could get hurt
if they're hit by a pitcher too but
maybe they deserved it for standing in
the strike zone play ball
Homer 3do metaphor I can get behind Sam
you should know having young kids that
cows can't type you have to read them in
lives child biography click clack moo
cows that type all right three more I
must have bumped my head
why is Becky bond working with Beto
about a hundred percent sure about that
it's good question
contagious chameleon someone please go
off on the tech libertarian Andrew yang
maybe we will crazy liberal Gallup poll
shows around 2012 the Republican leaning
support for ending electoral college
started to decline could this be due to
voter suppression some states proposing
to make EC proportional after to 11 and
the final I am of the day BDX
dude the interview yesterday was stellar
I got a little weepy good stuff see you
tomorrow
[Music]
but I know some
I was
[Music]
feel any better
[Music]
where the choice option
[Music]
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
play
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
