but the fact of the matter is the reason
why impeachment happened it's it's hard
to make a counterfactual but even in the
absence of this Ukraine stuff we were
moving towards impeachment because these
frontline Democrats had heard when they
went back from their constituents you've
got to do this and they made the
calculation that if we don't do it we're
gonna I'm gonna lose these people
they're gonna be depressed essentially
and their morale is gonna be low and
they're not gonna come out they're not
gonna campaign for me you know because
the people who show up at the Town
Hall's those are the people you need the
the Democrats who show up at your Town
Hall if you're a Democrat you need those
people not just to say like I'm gonna
vote for you you need those people to
phonebank for you to get their friends
to vote for you to get their friends to
come out and vote to get their friends
to come out and vote you need those
people and when they show up at a town
hall and say not only am I not like I'm
mad at you it has an impact and so you
need to get out there this is why
primaries are effective even if you like
your congressperson this is why being
active is helpful this is one of those
moments where you contact your
congressperson and you tell them to
demand that Nancy Pelosi has a full and
thorough investigation hold Donald Trump
to account not only on Ukraine but on
everything else and not only hold Donald
Trump to account bill Barr Mike Pompeo
Rudy Giuliani and that's you know four
asks a thorough and complete
investigation one that it goes beyond
Ukraine and includes Giuliani Pompeo and
Bill bark because again you know like
it's gonna be bill Barr who the
newscasters on November 9th after Donald
Trump loses the election God willing
who comes out and says well there's been
discrepancies and we are filing a motion
to the Supreme Court to enjoin the
announcement of the I mean this is how
it's gonna go down definitely gonna
happen and this is also somebody who is
just you know I guess I shouldn't put
words in his mouth but I mean this is
the the famous Nixon line that everybody
grew up with is like this is not how
it's supposed to be where it's like if
the President does it it's not illegal
the frost/nixon interviews that's what
Bill Barr thinks clearly even beyond
Trump is is pure Dick Cheney unitary
executive combined with being a you know
a constantly airy for a lunatic criminal
and if bill bars involvement in things
like this is not described to the public
if the public does not have any
education on who bill Barr is and they
just think oh he's the Attorney General
not he's the attorney general who
quashed this whistleblower complaint not
he's the attorney general who
mischaracterized the the Muller report
if they don't see him as the partisan
hack that he is it's gonna be that much
harder to disregard what Bill Barr is
saying on the day that he decides like
well Donald Trump needs a lid that won
the election but exactly and I and I
mean I you know I part of the I want it
to be broader in scope for both
normative and strategic reasons but it's
just for all the reasons you're
outlining like you need to deal Ajith
Amaya them because they're all
legitimate yeah it's not like an extra
job you have to do you just literally
need to expose the guy who is clearly
willing to do anything it really is
inexplicable to me what the this is what
it I think it's problematic about the
the Democratic leadership in my
estimation that it's not that there is
it's not a disagreement in strategy it's
that they don't seem to have one
there's no articulation of a strategy
like there's this vague sort of attempt
to have a tactic well if you're gonna
force us to do impeachment then we've
got to we've got to make it as quick as
possible and I guess and I I do I do
you know for a fact that's I mean
honestly like let's game this out it's
gonna fail in the Senate so the first
argument which is just true is it's not
it's never may not even get it may not
even get to the Senate so why not you
take the whole months if you're gonna do
it you made the decisions you took the
decision dine out on it for months
Oh every day a new embarrassment every
day a new request every day new
humiliation every day a new fine every
day a new threat yep I mean I don't I
don't understand it's like I'm gonna I'm
gonna hit a forehand and approach the
net stop at midcourt right exactly
that is people who play tennis you're in
no-man's land
in other words folks that's the that's
the I mean that is like once you decide
once you decide to cross the street you
better have a little pep to your step
because you don't want to get hit by a
truck no half measures and mastani and
so they're gonna go on vacation if you
have the opportunity drop by and make
the make this a you know one of those
like learning education what are the
they're going vacation you make it one
of those like Learning Annex learning
learning vacations what we call those
educational trips I don't know I don't
know I maybe I'm thinking you bring the
vulva glove and you tell them to learn
honestly it's just I it's like there's
some type of competition between Pelosi
and Schumer we're like well let me see
if I can't do something that makes less
sense how about this you're doing at
beach but hearings I'm demanding an
investigation of the coupon industry
the irony is of course that Mitch
McConnell has been holding up this this
cannabis bill yeah I'll talk about it in
the context of this because the the
other argument is that like well we need
to show the American public that we're
getting their work done which of course
they passed all these bills in the first
six months of a democratic house and
nobody knows it I can tell you right now
I do this professionally and I can't
tell you more than four or five of the
bills I'm a question about that why
can't the DNC put out an expenditure and
lay out some consulting contracts which
they love to do to just do like PSAs
like this is what your Democratic
Congress has done last year we passed
this bill on voting rights we passed
this bill on this we passed this bill on
that and do some national or targeted
ads yeah buy some ads on wine on lefty
YouTube shows I mean like but yeah
actually did that - right that - why not
they don't do it because I think on some
level they realize like nobody really
cares and it I mean I imagine what it is
is it's an opportunity for all of the
incumbents to go to the into the
election saying I voted for
blankety-blank
I voted for blankety-blank my opponent
is it disagrees against it I mean
they're so afraid of nationalizing the
election that I think that's why they
don't even bring that up because they
want their members to be able to pick
and choose which ones they emphasize in
some guys they just look excuse me
there's some members of the caucus who
voted for more pathogens in the food so
on Wednesday yesterday and no excuse me
two days ago the House passed and I
think there was something like I don't
know 90 Democrats and the Republicans
even joined the Democrats to pass a bill
that would allow legalized marijuana
businesses to have access to banking
services I'm
people may not be aware of this but I
don't know how many states we now have
with legal marijuana a dozen half a
dozen it's become rather uncontroversial
except for in New York for some ungodly
reason it was 91 Republicans 229
Democrats up including now if you go to
a marijuana dispensary in a state where
it is totally legal to buy marijuana
they take your money and they only could
do it in one of two ways
one they can take it as cash and they
have massive stores of cash in these
facilities or what I understand they do
in a place like Las Vegas is they
actually sell gift cards and so when you
go up with your credit card you buy a
gift card and then they use the gift
card to redeem to get your to get your
pot and they do this because the banking
system will not take and allow for
credit or do any credit card
transactions if you are involved in
selling marijuana because of federal law
and so they have not had access to
banking so what it does it creates a
little bit of a problem right there's a
lot of cash there rather inefficient and
you have 229 Democrats 91 Republicans on
Wednesday voted for this cannabis
banking bill and it took months to get
Republican support months and I think
there's two things you can learn from
this one is that obviously this stuff
you know
pot is no longer like it's lost all of
its salience as a cultural issue for
conservatives in this country
and to that if impeachment is having any
impact on the ability of lawmakers to
make law it is helping because everybody
everybody I think it's scrambling to be
like I want to be doing something if I'm
a Republican
