[Music]
so there's 107 now Democrats who are
calling for impeachment we have members
of the House leadership team Katherine
Clark I think she's like number six in
the leadership team we have number three
in the Senate patty Murray now has
called for impeachment Senate's pretty
important because I'm starting to think
that part of the dynamic is that Nancy
Pelosi is not a hundred percent sure
that she can get even 90 percent of the
Democratic caucus in the Senate to vote
with them for impeachment the issue here
is not whether Donald Trump will leave
office there was only one way he will
leave office that is if he's elected he
is electoral he defeated the issue then
becomes what will enhance that well let
me start with this the first bar that
must be crossed is a a civic one is it
the civically ethical thing to do to
impeach Donald Trump and based upon
Muller's testimony but even without
Muller's testimony that the that the
president obstructed justice on multiple
occasions criminally obstructed justice
it's quite evident that he did aside
from that there's a whole host of other
things that I think from an emoluments
issues to the way that they have been
refusing to provide information on a
whole host of things including the
census documents and then I think just
general behavior you don't need to have
a criminal charge to impeach so there is
plenty of reason to impeach once you get
past that question and deem whether it
is practically does it make sense
knowing that the Senate will not vote to
convict the answer from my perspective
is yes one from an electoral standpoint
in terms of the president - from an
electoral standpoint in terms of taking
back the Senate
you make all these senators come out and
say I will not vote for impeachment
against Donald Trump in that instance
you got to make sure that you have the
Democrats in the Senate because you want
a forced Mitch McConnell to have a vote
and he'll only do so if he thinks he can
peel off some Democrats to give himself
some cover otherwise you won't have a
vote and then they pay for it and three
the other reason is because it's now
July and let's say it's August first we
still have thirteen fourteen months
before the election and if the Democrats
are done with their messaging bills what
it appears that they are they I don't
know what else they're gonna pass if
they're not willing to pass Medicare for
all they've passed 60 things many of
them very good hopefully they get
actually they'll vote for them when they
could actually get them signed but the
Democrats need to do something because
if they do not they are creating a
vacuum not just in terms of
legislatively in the house but in terms
of a narrative that the American public
and the press can chew on and if you
think they're only chew on the race then
I suggest you go back to 2015 and 2016
and Google the words email server and
you will see that they can do scandals
as well and so the reason why you have
impeachment or one of them is to fill
that vacuum because if you don't fill it
the Republicans will and what will they
fill it with Donald Trump's new chief of
the Directorate of National Intelligence
and I don't know is that a
senate-confirmed seat because people are
referring to him as the new one I don't
know if he's confirmed but of course
they don't have any you know they'll
have an acting person there for three or
four months is all you need this guy is
gonna be out there and he is already
related to a Donald Trump my number one
job to make sure that any of this stuff
that's rattling around in the
intelligence community
never gets out back now with Republican
congressman from Texas John Radcliffe
sits on the house in two
committee as well as Judiciary and
Homeland Security and Congressman let me
ask you about where the wrongdoing was
specifically you have John Durham
looking at this origins of the Russia
investigation you have William bar you
have Senator Lindsey Graham and you have
the IG report tell us what they're gonna
find where is the wrongdoing well if
things the first thing we need to do is
make sure we don't do what the Democrats
have done they excuse Donald Trump of a
crime and then they try and reverse
engineer a process to justify that
accusation so I'm not going to accuse
any specific person of any specific
crime I just want there to be a fair
process to get there what I do know is a
former federal prosecutors it does
appear that there were crimes committed
during the Obama administration you
talked earlier I just want to just show
you the genius of this way the guy's not
I'm not gonna accuse anybody of a crime
I'm not gonna say that there was a crime
committed but there was in fact a crime
committed and it was in the Obama
administration so it was definitely
Obama people as Democrats and I'm not
gonna say anything specific that can be
disproven but I'm gonna say stuff that
can be out there and sort of snowball I
don't know if the words Benghazi mean
anything to you
but could the Obama administration you
talked earlier about Michael Flynn his
phone call with the Russian ambassador
was a highly classified NSA intercept
someone in the Obama administration
leaked that call to the Washington Post
that's a felony
Glenn Simpson from fusion GPS in talking
about the steal dossier said under oath
that he and Bruce or did not meet until
after the election
Bruce or said under oath that they met
three months before the election one of
them is not telling the truth we need a
process to identify that where it all
started Jim Comey he admitted that he
leaked his confidential conversations
with the President to a reported did
that include classified information we
need a fair process to find out answers
to that I trust because bill Barr has
earned my trust already and the trust of
the American people that there'll be a
fair process with John Durham
with Michael Horowitz to get answers to
that and provide accountability where it
really belongs I just want to remind you
that Bill Bar blatantly unequivocally
lied about what was in the mauler
investigation before it was released
blatantly unequivocally we now know the
reason Muller did not bring obstruction
charges was because of the OLC memos
that prevented them
dobar blatantly lied about that he
blatantly lied about it
exonerating Trump he blatantly lied
about all of it and he he lied knowing
that the document was going to come out
at least the non redacted parts which
just shows you how bold of a liar he is
and how much he thinks he can get away
with because he got away with it for the
most part in terms of Muller's testimony
the reaction was there's not enough of a
smoking gun here it was all a function
of what Bill Barr did and maybe some
general sort of just cynicism that there
was nothing new here over ten percent of
the Democratic caucus changed their mind
in terms of impeachment within days
including one leadership member in the
house the number three Democrat in the
Senate came out what's quite obvious it
was quite obvious that that was an
impeachment referral around repeated
obstruction and that he's quite
convinced he could have gotten more but
for whatever reason was constrained by
his own sense of like what he should be
doing so bill Barr is a huge liar and
their willingness to do anything I think
is people should be prepared for it in
which is why you need to have the
Democrats so that that segment is not
hey rackleff here let's see your
portfolio can you please tell us
everywhere you're gonna go with your
investigative power and how you're gonna
back up bill bar instead of dealing the
directed of National Intelligence that
segment should be all be about how
horrible what kind of witch hunt they're
Democrats are on I want to put them on
the defensive that's just politics 101
Nancy Pelosi is blowing it Chuck Schumer
is blowing it way out of smithereens I
mean there's a good piece by Charlie
Pierce in Esquire about about Chuck
Schumer blowing it on this budget deal
where Chuck Schumer basically said hey
you know this thing that could be a huge
obstacle to getting your agenda cross
the the debt ceiling limit we're gonna
take that off your table for the next
two years so your presidency is going to
be debt ceiling controversy free
congratulation down to buy this but
Invisalign but instead instead of saying
will we will give you a debt ceiling
controversy free presidential run until
you're next to your next term but we're
gonna take it off the table forever you
get everybody to sign on to legislation
that we no longer have a vote on the
debt ceiling the vote on the debt
ceiling is is already embedded in our
are voting on the budget and instead of
saying that he said you're gonna get
this controversy free for the next two
years and the only person is going to
deal with it is either you in your first
year of your re-election or a Democrat
right like you're either an idiot or you
want to make sure that the next
Democratic president is constrained one
of those two things
is the only explanation for this you're
an idiot or you're specifically trying
to constrain the next Democratic
president both can be true but there is
no there's absolutely zero absolutely
zero reason why you would make the deal
that Chuck Schumer made unless you're an
idiot and or you're just trying to
constrain the next Democratic president
