the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of any of these
have they are unanimous in that hate for
me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Wednesday October 2nd 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today Bernie
Sanders suffers arterial blockage
hospitalized recovering nicely campaign
events canceled for the time being
meanwhile as rats scurry off the ship
and try to seem human Donald Trump
reportedly wanted to shoot migrants in
their legs and build an alligator filled
moat on the border me while support for
impeaching Trump hits an all-time high
but only four in 10 Republicans think he
mentioned Joe Biden on the call despite
the fact that he is admitted to
mentioning Joe Biden on the call that's
the whole point you idiots never said
anything once a did a meanwhile the
State Department ig2 briefed Congress on
an urgent matter could it be the
reclassification of the emails as part
of the massive Hillary Obama gait
Elizabeth Warren proposes a corporate
lobbying tax
DHHS finally begins to address white
supremacy terror threat all Trump
sinking more cuts for SNAP benefits
[Music]
activists push 100% of the banks
servicing private immigration detention
center companies to drop their financing
Johnson & Johnson was a twenty point
four million in an opium deal or twenty
point four billion I think it's a B
meanwhile federal judge rejects the
intentional discrimination claim against
Harvard University and lastly new
studies show expansion of Medicaid
shockingly made people healthier all
this correlation of causation
all this and more on today's program no
it was just a twenty point four million
dollar settlement of to Ohio counties so
the the point is though is that what
this does is it sets a baseline and we
will be talking about this I hope more
when I go to Vegas in a couple of weeks
for the tort conference I have heard
that apparently the judge does not want
people doing any media about it so we'll
see we will be talking about specific
cases or more broadly we shall see about
that when the time comes this statement
was released today by Jeff Weaver
regarding Bernie Sanders Sanders in in
Vegas senior advisor Jeff Weaver on
Wednesday issued the following statement
during the campaign event yesterday
evening Sanders senator Sanders
experienced some chest discomfort
following medical evaluation and testing
found to have blockage in one artery and
two stents were successfully inserted
senator Sanders is conversing in a good
spirits they'll be resting up over the
next few days we're canceling his events
and appearances until further notice and
we will continue to provide appropriate
updates look I don't know anything about
medical stuff I did take ap biology but
when it came time to do the blood test I
had to have my lab partner do it because
I cannot stand the idea of blood
oh no blood exactly but on Twitter Matt
bender referenced his dad who is a
listener of this program former producer
Matt bender said his dad had the exact
same procedure was up and back and
worked within a couple of days my
understanding is that generally the
recovery time for this is pretty quick
and but we'll see best wishes to Bernie
Sanders get him back on the campaign
trial as soon as possible because it's
important
nobody has been crisscrossing the
country more than Bernie Sanders really
I mean since 2015 in many respects I
mean he was running in 2015 and 16 he
obviously went all across the country
campaigning for Hillary Clinton and then
starting in January he was up at it
again you'll recall that it was Bernie
Sanders going around to rallies around
the country that was instrumental in
protecting the Affordable Care Act
people forget that little chapter of
history but there were rallies I mean
this sounds this feels like it was
decades ago but you'll recall there were
town halls where progressives Democrats
went to these town halls and read the
riot act to their representatives who
were talking about voting to destroy the
fort
Care Act and Bernie Sanders was going
around had organized I think it was our
revolution that was doing a lot of this
and and campaigned there so he's been
basically Criss crossing the country now
for five six five four or five years and
leading like the most aggressive
legislative agenda in Congress ending
the genocide in Yemen pushing for health
care getting Amazon to raise wages I'm
praying for him unapologetically well
maybe you should have been a little bit
afraid lest atheistic and maybe those
prayers work I'm not a theistic God
believer on though so I'm not really
slay me no of course not
god is great I'm not one of you think a
new beginning retching OH alright well
there you go
agnostic I am I am largely agnostic when
it comes to to God yeah yeah I mean at
the end of the day that's probably like
the only defensible position but I will
take the God is a great position I mean
I I'm sort of uh I guess it was a Boober
was a Boober who was just like yeah
what's the difference he might as well
believe in it Martin Buber
yep because he's just like I can't prove
it either way so what are you gonna do
it we won't pleasant to believe and that
way you can pray for Bernie said it'd be
nice
it'll be nice if there was a guy that
was how it was called it would be nice
it'll be network of Jewish theology by
martin ferrero we're gonna get into this
stuff with with the State Department I
mean an impeachment in just a moment
the importance of impeachment is being
borne out by what the Trump
administration is trying to do
ostensibly to stop the impeachment from
going forward but it also indicates what
they've been up to for an extended
period of time we will get to that in a
moment but first I should tell you there
is no need to suffer through another
sleepless night
why calm and comfort by sharper image
it's the luxurious
weighted blanket it helps you fall
asleep stay asleep naturally you don't
need to take your drugs you don't need
to take your CBD oil which you can get
you can develop a what do you call it a
tolerance to I have been a notoriously
bad sleeper since at a very young age
and I used to pile blankets on top of me
the best sleep I would get is when it's
cool in my room and I pile blankets on
top of me but you cannot do that
throughout the year and I didn't realize
it but it was not the idea of like the
warmth it was the weight now I don't
have to do that anymore
a calming comfort it's designed with
high density comfort fill it mimics the
soothing feeling of being hugged or
swaddled which is if you've had a child
you know that's the first thing you
learn we take him back from the hospital
you wrap them in like a swaddle I prefer
being swaddled thank you yes exactly
I provides the exact right amount of
weight to help you relax your body and
now they have a thermic um firt neck and
shoulder wrap which has clay Beebe's
that you can throw in the freezer or you
can throw in the microwave hot and cold
hot or cold and give some pressure on
your shoulders but for someone like
myself it doesn't want too much pressure
on my shoulders I don't like to be
touched that much so this is actually I
I've started to use this thing and it's
quite nice I come home give myself five
or ten minutes relax
these days the stress is just
unbelievable frankly with the work so
it's it's nice I'm sleeping better
because of my way to blanket and now I'm
trying to make it like a daily thing I
can't usually do that because you know
particularly when I'm with the kids as
soon as I walk through the door it's
like a five-alarm fire but the common
comfort weighted blanket comes with a
90-day anxiety free best sleep of your
life guarantee from sharper image right
now just for our listeners you can go to
call
comfort blanket calm that's calming
comfort blanket three words run together
dot-com use the promo code majority a
checkout receive 15% off the displayed
price that's calming comfort blanket
dot-com promo code majority you can't
put a price on a great night's sleep so
go to calming comfort blanket calm now
use promo code majority also a support
for today's show comes from third love
third love has more than its a broad
company has more than 80 sizes including
their their signature half cup sizes
third love designs bras with breast size
and shape in mind for a perfect fit in a
premium feel we sent out the a couple
bras to our official majority pour bra
tester this is what she had to say I
like they don't have a zillion options
so it's easy to choose something quickly
it's the fit is great I've usually have
to return most bras I order online even
though they're in my size I ordered two
and both fit that almost never happens
super comfortable for an everyday bra
but not as boring as most t-shirt bras
subtle cute details so I don't feel
basic my understanding is this is a good
hands-down the most comfortable bra
you're gonna own as straps that don't
slip tagless labels
not to mention lightweight super thin
memory foam cups to mold to your shape
best of all every customer has 60 days
to wear it wash it and put it to the
test
60 days that's two months if you don't
love it you can return it third love
will wash it and donate it to a woman in
need third love knows there's a perfect
bra for everyone so right now they're
offering my listeners 15% off your first
order go 2/3 love.com slash majority now
to find the perfect fitting bra get 15%
off your first purchase
that's third love.com slash majority now
and lastly support support from the for
this program it also comes from The New
Yorker when when the New Yorker first
began advertising on the show I
literally dropped it into a conversation
with my parents just to make them think
that what I was doing was real it's sad
that it's someone my age has to do that
but I feel you I know how it looks as if
you finally arrived a little bit there
you go you know they wouldn't advertise
in just any show what's true New Yorker
represents the best writing in America
today
just ahead over there right now you can
check out all sorts of amazing stories
some that are sometimes disturbing some
that are I'm they're always incredibly
informational and enlightening but also
just amazing writing and stuff that you
never thought about peace right now the
u.s. silent system is keeping migrants
at risk
what about how Isaac hates change soul
music and you've got Emily Nussbaum
rights there she's at elven the
television critic for The New Yorker in
2016
she of course won a Pulitzer Prize for
criticism John Cassady covers politics
and economics for The New Yorker
he's written articles on topics that
range from the the intelligence failures
before the Iraq war to the economics of
Keynes
shouts and murmurs which I always
constantly read there's one about
Instagram influences getting real all
sorts of stories that are just
fascinating I've read The New Yorker for
3035 years
there's a story oh that's the that's a
Borowitz thing Eric trump accuses Don
jr. being a whistleblower and a bid to
get him cut out of will that's actually
pretty good headline meanwhile you can
get 12 weeks for just six bucks plus a
New Yorker tote bag weekly home delivery
of the print edition unlimited access to
New Yorker calm which has 10 to 15
exclusive site only stories every day so
go to New Yorker comm slash majority
enter the code majority 12 weeks for
$6.50 a week you're gonna be able to
access the apps you get the online
archive you get the crossword puzzle and
more again that's New Yorker dot-com /
majority enter the code majority save
50% on a 12 week subscription and get
the exclusive tote so check out all
those offers that we have for you there
we will put links in our podcast
description and in our on the blog post
just a reminder this show relies on its
members for its support you can become a
member at join the majority of port calm
and not only do we give you extra
content every day we give you the free
show ad free also check out they am
quickie you can go to am quick e.com to
subscribe or you can just subscribe on
stitcher you can subscribe on itunes
however you normally subscribe but if
you want an easy place to go am quickie
dot-com you just go and there's like
three different ways in which you can
subscribe we are going to be taking it
off of the majority report feed as of
Friday will be the last day so head over
there we'll check it out be swaddled it
will not be swaddled it'll be headed out
to its bird and it's just out of the
nest
exactly exactly alright so let's go to
this let's start with what we know about
Mike Pompeo the more and more we're
starting to see here it is is quite
clear that we are headed to a a
full-blown impeachment
possibly not just against the president
they are stonewalling they are we now
have Pompeo subpoenaed for documents
Giuliani subpoenaed for documents the
failure to provide these documents now
and this is what the difference is with
impeachment as opposed to normal
proceedings they have written in the
context of this subpoena that failure to
produce under these circumstances will
be regarded as evidence of obstruction
and will constitute obstruction in the
context of impeachment
they are simply declaring it remarried
this is not this is a political a
political process not a criminal or
judicial one and Congress is simply
saying if you do not provide us this
material it will be a count of
obstruction and it will be obstruction
it they could launch impeachment
proceedings against Pompeo
they could do it against bill bar and it
feels like every day there's more and
more evidence to substantiate and
impeachment proceedings against both of
them here's Pompeo two weeks ago was it
two weeks ago now maybe this was it
wasn't this Sunday oh yeah wait it was
this Sunday wasn't it I'm sorry I'm
confused because today's Wednesday here
is on this week with Martha Raddatz on
Sunday right and this is with Martha
Raddatz
and here he is he's completely
bewildered about this whole call thing
did you say call I want to turn to this
whistleblower complaint mr. secretary
the complaint involving the president
and a phone call with a foreign leader
to the Director of National Intelligence
inspector general that's where the
complaint was launched by the
whistleblower the
Wall Street Journal is reporting that
President Trump pressed the president of
Ukraine eight times to work with Rudy
Giuliani to investigate Joe Biden's son
what do you know about those
conversations so you just gave me a
report about a IC whistleblower campaign
not none of which I've seen I can tell
you about this administration's policies
with Ukraine I remember the previous
administration was baked begged by the
Ukrainian people to deliver defensive
arms so that they could protect
themselves from Vladimir Putin in Russia
and they gave them blankets this
administration took seriously the
responsibility to Ukrainian people we've
provided now on multiple occasions
resources so that the Ukrainians can
defend themselves we've worked on that
we are we're working we'll see president
Solinsky this week we want a good
relationship with your freedom and
independence but let me let me ask you
this question the Ukrainian presidential
readout of the Contras conversation said
they discussed quote investigation of
corruption cases which inhibited the
interaction between Ukraine and the USA
the president tweeted Saturday it was a
perfectly fine and respectful
conversation do you think it's quote
perfectly fine to ask a foreign leader
to investigate a political opponent I
think I saw statement from the Ukrainian
foreign minister yesterday said there
was no pressure applied in the course of
the conversation I do think I do think
if Vice President Biden behaved
inappropriately he was protecting his
son and intervened with the Ukrainian
leadership in a way that was corrupt I
do think we need to get to the bottom of
that Martha and I I hope that we well I
hope that if Vice President Biden
engaged in behavior that was
inappropriate I hope the American people
will come to learn that we've seen
interfered with America cannot have our
elections interfered with and if that's
what it took place there if there was
that kind of activity engaged in by Vice
President Biden we need to know there's
no evidence of that yet but if the
conversation was perfectly fine as
president Trump said why not release the
transcript or a portion to the public
I'll have that White House will have to
explain this okay I mean I think we've
this was this was this must have been a
week a week from the last Sunday there's
two weeks ago
and there's Mike Pompeo with seemingly
no awareness of this call whatsoever he
didn't even have time to read the
whistleblower complaint he just heard a
report about the whistleblower complaint
he did though put a clue in there
because it wasn't just about Joe Biden
and hunter Biden's corruption this phone
call was not just about that we should
say and we'll we'll discuss the the the
the lack of corruption that exists there
I mean at least in terms of Joe Biden's
perspective but they are now pursuing
another theory that is Obama gait or
Hillary gait that the Ukrainians were
the ones who actually interfered with
the election but tried to frame the
Russians this is the stuff that's going
on now in the fevered swirl this is like
gateway pundit stuff and there's Mike
Pompeo trying to push that narrative on
ABC television last week this is what
they've been up to but we'll get back to
that and meantime here's Mike Pompeo
yesterday in Italy conceding that well
actually I was on that phone call as for
was I and the phone call was on the
phone call the phone call was in the
context of now I guess I've been the
Secretary of State for coming on a
year-and-a-half I know precisely what
the American policy is with respect to
Ukraine it's been remarkably consistent
and we will continue to try to drive
those set of outcomes it's what our team
included including ambassador Volker or
focused on was taking down the threat
that Russia poses there in Ukraine it
was about helping the Ukrainians to get
graft out and corruption outside of
their government and to help now this
new government in the Ukraine build a
successful thriving economy it's what
the State Department officials that I
know basically that was his way of I
mean he listened easy
is smart guy went to Harvard knows how
to filibuster knows how to bury the lead
I was on the phone call but that because
and then here's a bunch of filler
essentially that's basically the the
story they're going with now I imagine
most people by now know that the hunter
Biden situation the Joe Biden was over
there telling the Ukrainians get rid of
your prosecutor because the prosecutor
was not pursuing corruption and there
was a hideous amount of corruption there
and also I think happens to be the case
that hunter Biden is not exactly a you
know he's sort of the George Bush of the
family he's a felon can I write I just
add to this a little bit I mean so to be
really specific about what you're saying
the reason it is exculpatory I think
there's a broader critique here in two
ways but the reason it's specific that
can specific conspiracy theory does not
stand is that this energy company is a
Russian aligned oligarch who was gonna
who sort of represented the Russian
aligned order he got hunter Biden on
with the sort of clear desire to win
favor with the Obama administration and
what Biden did was basically fire a
prosecutor who was aligned with this guy
and not call for the firing right call
for the firing so basically the reason
that this specific thread of the story
is nonsense is that in that specific
action he's contradicting his son's
interest although frankly I mean it's
you know it's pretty irrelevant his son
makes a payday either way right but the
but the conspiracy theory is exactly
backwards he's going up against what the
son is hired to do however I mean it's
actually sort of an interesting drama
where the dad comes in and the wayward
son is there and he tries to undercut
the wayward sons interests or even it
doesn't matter like hey son you got your
payday we're still gonna do this anyways
you know either way we win and I would
say that serious you know I wouldn't
take I do think you know structurally
when the u.s. talks about corruption in
other countries even when they're right
that is a harbinger
our own interests and energy companies
we want to advocate for so there's a
broader critique as well as just even
hunter getting the job to begin with but
that specific conspiracy is contradicted
by all evidence of what like happened
right the hunter thing is more of like a
generic type of corruption that seems to
exist everywhere whether it's like you
know Chelsea Clinton getting hired by
NBC or Abby Huntsman for that matter or
you know Billy Carter going around and
trying to sell off access to yeah Billy
Carter was kinda cool though Billy
Carter I felt bad for him because he
didn't have family sign-off he's your
size just trying to meet with Qaddafi
man why do you always get all the credit
I don't get the sense that hunter
necessarily has family sign-off - I
think this guy you know they get family
sign-off from his brother - what's that
you don't know that story oh man hey but
the Trump people the Trump people are
always gonna be angrier at these coastal
elites and it's like normal corruption
and this kind of nepotism that's just
accepted as the way of things then they
are at Trump's open and craven
corruption guy I mean look because
they're like well you know at least he's
not pretending that he doesn't have mud
on him right but the bottom line is is
that this type of corruption exists in
every facet of society I'm not making
apologies for it but I mean you know you
grow up and you know we I I went to go
see concerts in high school because my
girlfriend's dad was on the Civic Center
Commission you know it's like well this
is oh whoa whoa I think you just showed
yourself here I might need to take the
rest of the week off Sam I got whoa
deep corruption but I mean of course
this is true and of course the stakes of
the Ukrainian energy business are you
know deeper things like basically hunter
gets the job promises them less yeah I
gotta get dad to well he had a lot of
shows up it does exactly bialy to the
lost I mean he also got an MBA in a
lobbying thing right at the same time
his dad was pushing through the
bankruptcy bill he was on the board of
some sort of Amtrak Amtrak which is a
base it's all the trade expert bro two
brothers wife's hot I just think that
like come to an Amtrak board there's
there's wayward family members
everywhere and some are you know
incentivized to do this stuff and helped
out more than others but nevertheless
meanwhile as Mike Pompeo heads to Rome
apparently Sepp Korca gets on the plane
with him because someone has to go now
understand here's the point one of the
reasons why impeachment was so necessary
in which I was saying for months was
that there you you can't just basically
run out the clock and assume that
there's just gonna be this vacuum that
remains there while all this is going on
it's quite clear the Trump
administration bill bar Mike Pompeo have
been actively involved in trying to not
only undercut the Muller investigation
remember the Muller investigations over
they are undercutting the entire
narrative they want to be able to come
out in the spring of 2020 maybe in the
summer of 2020 with a whole narrative
that maybe in snares Joe Biden because
he could be the nominee that involves
the Ukraine actually doing all of the
interfering in the 2020 election I mean
it excuse me the 2016 election that
Russia was not interfering at all with
our election and remember the Muller
report did say that the Russians
interfered in the election to what
extent they impacted the outcome nobody
will ever know
but they clearly did interfere in the
election and the same reasons why I
don't want us interfering in other
elections I don't want other companies
and countries interfering in our
election but the narrative they were
gonna come out was there was actually
Ukraine was actually driven by Joe Biden
and hunter Biden and they were involved
in this interference and they basically
framed Russia and you're starting to see
vestiges of this apparently when Trump
said do us a favor
that's what they were looking for they
weren't just looking for this narrative
about Biden they were looking for this
broader narrative on how there was this
deep state ploy coming out of Ukraine to
frame Russia and influence the election
and throw it presumably to a Hillary
Clinton you cannot assume that they're
not doing this type of stuff there's
just so much money and political gain to
be made from it they apparently had a
video already cut written produced four
months anticipating impeachment and they
raised like three or four or five
million dollars off it the first day
after the impeachment announcement fine
they're gonna raise money but this is
this is what they're up to and perfect
explanation as to why this guy said
Gorka would be on the flight with Mike
Pompeo because Sepp Korca is one of
those guys whose job it is to build this
basically this fictional narrative I
worked for him yes I was a political
commissioned officer there might be the
most accurate description the guys ever
used for himself and here he is I guess
apparently in Rome
so how interesting I land in Rome also
flying is my hump a on his Air Force
jets and I find out Twitter has exploded
why is the left so worried well I think
I know because the house of cards that
his Obama gate is collapsing the crimes
of the loss of ministration are being
uncovered and people are running scared
in the meantime I'm going to enjoy the
Eternal City time for my coffee
I forgot oh my Gary borders cigar
they posted with the latest up-to-date
info at set Volcom mega my friends you
can't boss it before it does the plug
man it's this is a huge business for
them it's a huge business that video got
a million views more this is a huge
business for them and this is what is
this is what they're up to there's too
many people incentivized to not have
this happen which is why impeachment was
so important which is also why you do
not do like a two weeks in out
impeachment because then you're
basically ceding months for them to
dominate we're gonna spend all our time
talking about their fictional stories
then in fact it's been reported that the
State Department's IG has requested an
urgent briefing with congressional
staffers that apparently is happening I
think today this is Steve linic now I
don't know anything about this State
Department inspector general I have
heard mixed things he has reportedly
asked for the meeting after his office
obtained documents from the State
Department's acting legal adviser of
course every single person in the
management of our government is acting
right now one congressional aide told
CNN the request was highly unusual and
cryptically worded as you may or may not
know the House Foreign Affairs
Intelligence and oversight committees
have scheduled five depositions and
related relation to the impeachment
inquiry you
is unclear whether the State Department
is going to allow those depositions to
go forward Volker is testifying tomorrow
Volker was the unpaid envoy to Ukraine
who's been there who was a sort of a
John McCain ight it's gonna be
interesting what he has to say I don't
think that pompeya wanted him to speak
but he's resigned and so now he could do
whatever he wants in addition the former
US ambassador to Ukraine Murray
Yanukovych was scheduled to testify
tomorrow she will now appear next Friday
instead now my guess this State
Department IG thing if it's coming from
an Acting State Department legal adviser
I would imagine that's a political
appointee I don't know though apparently
the Trump administration is
investigating the email records of
dozens of current and former senior
state Department officials who sent
messages to then Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton's private email so they
are now investigating things that have
not happened for at least three and a
half years four years right I mean how
long is she wish when she was when was
she
five five years right she was uh she
stepped down from state and like what
2014 was it 2013 so these are emails
that were sent six years ago what are
they looking for they're looking for
people who sent classified material to
Hillary Clinton's private email server
but apparently of the way that they're
going to do this is they're going to
they have been told that the emails they
sent years ago have been retroactively
lis classified and now constitute
potential security violations
this is of a hundred and thirty bit
officials have been contacted in recent
weeks by State Department investigators
so this proceeds the impeachment inquiry
in virtually all of the cases
potentially sensitive information
now recategorize Daz classified was sent
to Clinton's unsecured inbox so this is
if I was to tell you Michael do you
remember when I switched my email
address the emails you sent to my old
address that I had like six years ago
before we started our own thing those
are now classified so you're in trouble
for sending those to me you're in
trouble
you're in big trouble
plasticky this should really expose how
BS most the whole classification game is
in general by the way as a second-order
point according to the State Department
official this has nothing to do with the
White House this is about the time it
took to go through millions of emails
which is about three and a half years
the State Department has been going
through millions of emails for the past
three and a half years to determine
which one should be retroactive li
classified those that was I'm sure the
top priority right after inauguration
saying all right and now I wanted let's
get into we're team yes I mean this is
this is creepy stuff I'd like to think
this is just routine but something
strange is going on said Jeffrey Feltman
former Assistant Secretary of Near East
affairs in early 2018 Feldman received a
letter informing him that a half a dozen
of his messages included classified
information then a few weeks ago he was
found culpable for more than 50 emails
that contain classified information a
couple of
email cited by state as problems were
sent after my May 12th May 2012
retirement when I was already working
for the United Nations so this is an
incredible fishing expedition it's as if
the entire apparatus of the State
Department has basically been tasked
with writing a gateway pundit article
this is why impeachment is so I mean one
of the reasons why impeachment is so
important at this point because in
addition to the civic and moral and
ethical reasons to hold people to
account to the extent that we're able to
in addition to the political value in
making every Congress person and senator
take a vote for or against impeachment
of Donald Trump and nationalizing all
these races
it also takes up media space an oxygen
that is otherwise going to be used for
these fever dreams I mean just because
Clinton's not here anymore does not mean
that they can't still create these these
narratives about email servers and of
the Biden thing I mean it's like it's
it's precise and it's so similar because
you have actual a lot of real material
to work with and then you can mash it up
with conspiracy theories and they lock
her up reload it come in this father
show trial kami meanwhile um I should
have locked it up the first time Kevin
McCarthy was on was on 60 minutes on
Sunday night he ALC had a had a tweet
about this which was I thought pretty on
point she said do people remember how
much my interview on 60 minutes was was
covered with a fine tooth comb to find
out like wherever I slept up here is the
leader of the
publicans reduced to a babbling fool I
don't think she died don't them not
directly quoting her much props if she
actually tweeted that but it's pretty
close we can't play the video we're only
going to play the audio here because of
of the sensitivities of certain networks
but here's Kevin McCarthy apparently too
busy like I don't have to read the
whistleblower complaint because I know
my answer is gonna be regardless of what
it says well sometimes that strategy
dust doesn't work out for you here he is
with Scott Pelley Scott Pelley giving
him a quote that apparently Kevin
McCarthy was not aware of what do you
make of this exchange president Solinsky
says we are almost ready to buy more
javelins from the United States for
defense purposes and president Trump
replies I would like you to do us a
favor though you just added another word
no you do a favor though yes it's in the
it's when I really transfer when I read
the transcript president insky brings up
a javelin is a protection for anti-tank
something that President Obama would not
sell that president Trump did to protect
Ukraine how do you expect the
president's defense to roll out going
forward the defense of what well there's
an impeachment inquiry yeah there's an
impeach inquiry going forward impeach it
probably never would move forward have
the speaker waited 48 hours to have the
transcript we vote on important things
every day but there are certain votes
that are different than others sending
men and women off to war isn't the most
difficult day any member of Congress
would ever make I'll ask you again
how does the defense of the president in
your view roll out from here why would
we move forward with impeachment there's
not something that you have to defend
here you say the president has done
nothing wrong I take that to mean that
you find it appropriate that the
president asked mr. szalinski for an
investigation of his democratic
the question before the House of
Representatives is to impeach the
president based upon a phone call that
the speaker never even heard mr. leader
with great respect to you and I
apologize for interrupting but these are
the White House talking points that were
emailed to the Congress earlier this
week and I am obviously was it
appropriate for the president to ask for
investigations of his Democratic rivals
with another foreign leader I've never
seen one talking point from a White
House I'm talking to you based upon the
most important facts we have the
whistleblower wasn't on the call the IG
Inspector General didn't read the call
but you and I have all the information
we need the president did nothing in
this phone call that's impeachable we we
have all the information we need except
for I didn't even hear the part about
him saying a favor though honestly like
I had to watch that thing multiple times
and I'm not even sure right now to be
fair how they edited that but it feels
like honestly it feels like one of those
like what are those machines like this
where you where you load up someone's
phrases yes and you just press any
random button so the question has
nothing to do with the answer that was
an email the speaker hasn't read it what
the visual this was about to have a
McCarthy just show they totally confused
and flabbergasted by the whole thing
another benefit of this process is
interviews like that indeed and that's
not gonna be good for Kevin McCarthy all
right let's play one more clip and then
we're gonna go into the fun app all
right I guess should we do the Crowder
thing in doing the fun app right you got
a hair in it yeah okay here is tomorrow
Volker will be behind closed doors
talking to the intelligence community we
will get back to we'll see what comes
out of that probably nothing in the
short-term anyways here is Fox and four
and despite the fact that the latest
polls show for the first time
impeachment now has not only has gone up
precipitously in the polls but it has
reached a new high is now a majority of
people and and it's quite clear - from
the polling that it was the Democrats
coming out for impeachment that really
did the dude that made the big
difference and and it's fairly obvious
when you think about it right like this
is something I learned in the context of
directing the reaction shot will define
how the audience perceives what has just
taken place you can have someone say the
exact same words and if the reaction
shot is one where someone's just
completely unfazed then this is not
gonna land with anybody that's such a
postmodern way of thinking about
politics well but it's true but it's
also Field of Dreams
it's real then they will come but but
but but but that's the case but it's but
it's basically when the Democrats came
out and said this rises to the level of
impeachment impeachment at everybody
knows impeachments a big deal it signals
like hey there's a real problem here and
it is it's the reaction shot and the
Democrats gave a reaction that was
commensurate with what's going on in the
audience responded and that's basically
what's happening there's a large
significant portion of the population
that has been paying no attention to any
of this I meet people all the time I
meet people all the time who tell me
they have checked out I'm not paying
attention to the primary until there's
two or three candidates I'm not I'm just
waiting to vote against Trump I just
can't stand it anymore it's not good for
my mental health all this and this is
what impeachment is done but Ainsley
Earhardt she seems confused because
she's looking at the polling now and
there was a morning console poll that
came out I think today that shows
impeachment up now at around 46 47 % 43%
saying shouldn't and the 11% don't know
and it's been on that trajectory for the
past two or three weeks
here's Ainsley Earhardt as we're about
to discover and go over some of the
sensationalistic headline from yesterday
there's almost no there there there's a
big headline that'll get your attention
then you look at the story it's easily
explained I think it's too much in the
weeds
I think first they're going after the
president with the beach men then
they're going after Rudy Giuliani now
it's bill bar and America's saying what
Tower they all connected connect the
dots for us what are you talking about
it's just so much information and I
don't think that the country if you look
at the polls the recent Quinnipiac poll
says 47% of regular voters do one
impeachment 47% don't our country is
totally divided split right down the
middle they are gaining some momentum on
the twenty point net change in the
release of the conversation regarding
impeachment what they're trying to do is
they're trying to create the narrative
the Democrats are that this is a lawless
president that's what they want people
to think of course when it goes to the
Senate I don't know that many people who
think that he would actually be
convicted I love the fact that Ainsley
Earhardt is is basically complaining
that things are getting too complicated
for her having to read like how how is
possible is Rudy Giuliani and Bill bar
in any way connected to the president
don't worry I'll explain it here I'm a
country lawyer sweetheart anyways this
is jus named George Soros he don't want
your friend to have pizza pie shop
because he's a communist what do you
think about that do you even care if
anything I like this phase of
impeachment stuff better because I can't
follow it it's pretty this is a lot
clearer than the like the Russia stuff
oh my god my eyes would glaze over
anyone anytime anyone talked about it
this is the this is what is really
shocking to me well not shocking but
this tells you all you need to know
about our our media environment today
this was a poll that was released
yesterday new poll shows that only four
in 10 Republicans believe Donald Trump
talked to the Ukrainian president about
investigating investigating political
rival Joe Biden even though Trump has
acknowledged doing so now 661 percent of
independents know that that he talked to
it eighty-five percent of Democrats so
there's a certain percentage of people
who are just not paying attention but
only 40 percent of Republicans are even
aware of and accept the reality of
something that Trump himself has
acknowledged that's actually pretty high
I would say it does seem a little bit
high I would say probably the rest of
them don't think it's any big deal at
all
well they probably think he's right
about but to bring up Biden right well
of course of course he has to doesn't
it's the swamp folks before we take a
break
David our majority report fellow is
monitoring the chat and we'll be
monitoring majority reporters at GM and
he is going to be putting together a
basically a glossary of the inside memes
and jokes on this show so that for
instance I don't have to get emails
saying Sam keeps confusing confusing
pedantic with pedasus tree and pet
arrest pet or us yeah pedestal new meme
right exactly
there you go
so we're gonna have a full accounting so
if you have means that David should
compile put them in the chat today on
YouTube or email us at majority
reporters at gmail.com and what should
we put in the subject line
something easy what yeah I just put
memes M II M is in the subject line that
way we can we can find them pull them
out of the majority reporters at
gmail.com mailbox my mom's gonna be so
happy right there it is it's gonna be a
study guide basically it's gonna be like
a cheat sheet okay to Jane I don't want
to be a pederast here right exactly he's
Pelosi really thinking this through
that's not that's not the right usage
even of the wrong in the fun half yeah
in the fun half yes houses in the fun
half we will down glass houses in the
fun half we will go over this Crowder
thing I've been promising to drop this
we have both written and audio examples
of steven crowder apparently having a
problem debating me in any forum meeting
me in any forum because i guess i'm not
a college student who was not aware that
he was gonna be around and run into him
on a booth because that's that's what
apparently you can handle we will talk
about that in the fun half the meantime
join the majority of port comm you can
become members support this show you get
extra content and you get a commercial
free every day
sign up for the am quickie look on any
of your podcast apps AM quickie or go to
am quickie calm to sign up just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
use the coupon code majority get 10% off
today is wednesday so yesterday was
Tuesday Michael what were you doing on
Rosh Hashana Happy New Year Sam thank
you on last night's
that is actually what the shofar is for
right well I mean they did announces a
lot of different things but so far it
definitely brings in the new years to be
usually Rahm Emmanuel's face look up
that picture very funny have you seen
that picture I don't know someone
blowing up first
yeah shofar and Robin Manuel's face and
in flinching it's pretty funny last
night on t MBS there was a guide to all
of the political factions inside Israel
and Palestine how to power
how does power work inside both occupied
territories in Gaza but also inside
Israel itself and why basically there's
no political faction in Israel besides
the joint list that will do anything
about apartheid in Israel Ana Kasparian
made the case for impeachment we talked
about the need for no b.s single-payer
medicare-for-all and did a deep dive on
Haiti and you know a whole bunch of
other stuff patreon.com slash T mb/s
Michael Brooks show on YouTube and get
your tickets to the Philadelphia live
show World Cafe November 23rd crystal
ball Artesia ball drop and Emma biglan
no age cap on this show so it's not a 21
and over show so everybody can get your
tickets the World Cafe November 23rd
week before Thanksgiving don't worry no
logistical problems we're excited to see
you there Jamie this week on the
Intifada we speak with Naja Gullo an
organizer from no new jails NYC about
Bill de Blasio's horrible plan to
replace Rikers Island with these
supposedly more humane boroughs based
jails or I'm sorry justice hubs where
you can it's like a jail combined with a
shopping center and you can get an acai
bowl served to you by someone making ten
cents an hour like it's gonna be great
just kidding it's gonna be terrible so
we talked about that yeah it's nuts
right
and yeah I'm excited about this episode
it's out now also on Friday I have a new
vampire castle with Leslie Lee the third
from struggle session out for our
patrons wearing we talk about the crow
movies the crow the first one as well as
the sequel the the crow City of Angels
which
not as good as the first one but pretty
funny to talk about also we have our
live show coming up October 12th at
Littlefield NYC so get your tickets
we've got a Bianchi fada
we've got pot damn America we've got
Leslie Lee the third the aforementioned
king of pop culture
Virgil Texas and Matt Chrisman from
Chapel Trap House
Simone Norman a very funny comedian and
a live drag performance from comrade
Barbie man it's jam-packed mm-hmm it's
gonna be like a 20 hour show it's gonna
be too but I look forward to your drag
performance
I'm working people Sheila Tannenbaum
it's my alter ego be great people Sam's
drag before Sheila it's just like some
annoying secretary like you don't have
all your flux you get up sure you didn't
call UW didn't come with you double was
called you need to go back to the end of
the line
Sam's drag this ability of thee yes yeah
literary hangover I did a solo episode
on the 19th century feminist and
abolitionist lydia maria child she wrote
the first anti-slavery book work in book
form i talk about her book that she
wrote when she was in her early 20s that
illumina sort of illuminates the
connection between patriarchy and white
supremacy because Mary Conant is not
allowed to marry Episcopalian by her
period and father so she goes and native
goes and marries a Native American and
so it's very scandalous literature for
the 1823 so check that out
18:24 quick break fun half Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
they're buggy whipping like he's boss I
am NOT your employer you know I'm tired
of the negativity I'm sorry I didn't
mean to upset you
you're nervous a little bit upset you
riled up yeah maybe you should rethink
your defense of that you idiots
we're just going to get rid of you all
right
but dude dude dude dude dude dude you
want to smoke this joint yes do you feel
like you are a dinosaur exactly I'm
happy now we win it's win-win
oh yeah now listen to me five times
eight four seven nine oh six five oh one
four five six seven eight nine don't you
see dance dance dance
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first postal I'm
hoping that more moves to my repertoire
all I have is the dip in the scroll fine
we could double dip
yes this is a perfect moment no wait
what you make under a million dollars
just come here not they accuse me
you you alright take quick break
I want to take a moment to talk to some
ability Ria's out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
ride easy people Shitler what's such No
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
hey folks I'm sleeping better thanks to
calming comfort by sharper image it's
the luxurious weighted blanket
it's made with supersoft Velveteen
material it's got high density comfort
fill that mimics the feeling of being
hugged and it relaxes frankly my body
makes me sleep better calm and comfort
weighted blanket comes with a 90-day
anxiety-free guarantee from sharper
image right now our listeners can go to
calming comfort blanket calm use the
promo code majority a checkout receive
15% off the displayed price again that's
calming comfort blanket calm promo code
majority can't put a price on a great
night's sleep so go to calming comfort
blanket dot-com use the promo code
majority alright folks welcome to the
fun half let's take a quick phone call
before we get into the festivities
you're calling from a 2 a 1 area code
who's this where you come from two eight
one two eight one
I can line there let's try this again
you come from a 2:03 area code who's
this good
Joshua where you come from I'm calling
from Waterbury Connecticut what's on
your mind
and yeah there was a few things but one
of the things I wanted to talk about was
the whole issue of Warren and Sanders
and how they're similar together and
policy and how they're not in a theory
of change in power but the thing that
doesn't get mentioned is in the context
of we're not taking corporate PAC money
right a lot of the progresses are not
taking that and within that framework
corporate PAC money or bundled money
from Silicon Valley or Wall Street even
if you take that it's the same
difference and so on TYT senator Warren
said I'm going to do whatever it takes
to raise money you know legally dark
money super PAC and all that which is
normally wealthy interests and their
force was she admitted is that de facto
that that money will then cancel out for
the most part any sense that she's
really going to fight for most of the
programs that have to do with anything
reduce derivative in her so-called plan
well wait wait wait wait I you just took
a big vote hold on for one second hold
on you just took a big leap and the fact
is you're you're right that she has said
she's gonna take dark money and super
PAC money in the general election she
she was not doing it in the primary
although she did transfer some money
from her Senate run to her presidential
primary and that some of that Senate
money was raised through super PACs and
whatnot
all that is true Bernie Sanders is not
taking any super PAC money any dark
money
and you know quite clearly based upon
the the announcement they made yesterday
he doesn't need to that is all true the
next leap the de facto leap that you
took is not in fact de facto it is just
you're you're just you're just saying
that - she said she would take that
money in the general right so the reason
why you don't take corporate PAC money
or all that and I watch a lot of these
shows every day and I'm actually writing
some articles is that it gets corrupted
it's a corrupting influence and no one's
I rarely hear anyone saying it's not
corrupting so if you're going to take
money that's corrupting and there was no
pushback in the interview that which was
odd
there was no push but there hasn't been
a pushback yeah I would have been
waiting for there is a first thought
there is a push back I mean the push
back is is that it is it is a it is a
choice that she's making that I think
it's perfectly legitimate for people to
you know to assess and make it part of
their calculation as to who they're
gonna vote for I think if I were to ask
her she would say no I'm not going to do
their bidding I'm gonna take their money
and I'm going to do what I think is
right period it also may be that there
are people who think what she's doing is
right and they're gonna pay her because
maybe maybe maybe there are very wealthy
people out there who want more antitrust
because they perceive it's gonna be in
their best interests but no doubt I
think my feeling is is that our campaign
finance system is you know broadly
corruptive I don't I don't think she's
admitting that she's going to be you
know that she's gonna be blackmailed
or that she's being bribed I think that
it but I do think it's a perfectly
legitimate thing for people to say like
I want a candidate who's not going to
take that
there are a lot of people out there who
say that's unilateral disarmament if you
do that in the general election and I
don't know and maybe it depends on on
your ability to raise small donations I
was coming from the point of view that
when I was watching the interview and
and I've watched it it's been you know
it's been viral a few times when I've
been when I was watching it it's in the
context of the framework of we don't
take corporate PAC money just as
Democrats that's one of the policy
pieces you have to buy into and and not
just injustice Democrats but other type
of folks too that are running for
election so where I'm coming from is is
that's the framework that that's
corrupting from say Jo Jenks point of
view and he he has the Wolfpack thing
that he turns yeah yeah then if she
thinks she's going to take the money
that they regard as corrupting there was
no pushback from people who have that
position that's where I was more oh
you're criticizing yeah no actually to
be honest and I watched a lot of these
shows no one has mentioned that at all
not even a debate or even a mention and
I watched you know most of the
progressive independent stuff on YouTube
every day I mean that's what I'm
concerned about what I don't get that
well what part don't you get like I mean
I go no one's discussing that whole
defferent within the context of that
framework is court if we're not don't
say corporate tax money that's corrupt
and that's the framework okay so I get
that right most people believe that that
it's corrupting whether you could
disagree with it or not that's the
framework so there were so she saying
she could have her reasons but she
thinks she's going to take that type of
money in the gym open up hey Mary okay
right so so the point I'm making is is
that if she's going to say that or any
candidate you think there would be some
discussion of what that is what the
impact of that is really you're
Anna I just want to say and I've done
Anna's done early in my research and is
my research 2.3 yeah I'm like I watch
your show constantly but two point three
minutes the money she transferred came
from law firms and other type of
organizations connected to Wall Street
so so that also is in there and and so
those are all like red flags about does
mean is she gonna really fight for us
when if she gets into the white house I
think I think it's I think it's a
legitimate question I mean I think it's
you know I mean having skepticism about
this is I think is is it's perfectly
legitimate
my guess is those law firm donations are
probably coming from defense attorneys
because they may see that she may be
bringing in more money but you know in
terms of like their legal services being
needed but and that's only half a
seizures but no I think it's I think
it's a legitimate point yeah I think
it's I think you know and to the extent
that we can know which we can't I mean
that's all point of super PACs look I
think this is a brush I know I
appreciate the call I mean this is a big
issue with with Russ Feingold refused to
take any super PAC money he was really
the last big candidate and the Senate
races as far as I remember who refused
to take any and people were upset about
it on some level because the idea was
like you are and he was trying to
convince other people to do the same
Feingold was the guy who was really out
in front of this the same time there's
arguments by people are like well you're
unilaterally disarming like it's you
know you are you're trying to prove that
you're not corrupted but if it's gonna
make you lose in the context of a race
where you need more money then maybe
it's not working now that's the that's
one of the things that is I think
for people who support Bernie that is so
unique about Bernie and that is why
people feel so strongly about his
campaign is that he is he is not
beholden to them at all and he has
motivated millions of people to donate
and record-breaking number of donations
and the vast majority of them like
something like 98 percent have not maxed
out so they have more money to give
presumably as he goes down the the
campaign so I mean that's I don't think
it's fair to say that she's necessarily
corrupted but I do think it's fair to
say that like look this this is a this
is a you you have to give Bernie the you
know the the win in this category and
and and people can determine you know if
you have this principle that our money
is corrupted by politics it's a factor
there's a pretty clear choice there if
that's your view but um I just want to
say really briefly about Russ Feingold
because that whole debate about like you
know this stuff on you know economic
left positions and populism and how come
it didn't translate in Wisconsin with
him and I've dug into his record a
little bit more and I mean he's look I
wish he was in the Senate I'm sure he
would be a good member of the Senate but
in addition to voting for John Roberts
or not Roberts that's when he flipped he
voted for John Ashcroft and mostly held
like a very institutional view on voting
to confirm people which I think was a
kind of institutional worldview he also
voted for a really vicious you know well
for welfare reform package that Clinton
signed so there might have been some
crumbs in his his legacy that caused
problems for him for for progressive
voters I mean I don't think he was a you
know as populist as people may write
remember him right but he and he was
very much an institutionalist
I mean like it just as a as a principal
and he broke that principle in the end
when he was just like this I can
was it roberts that minim break the
principal or Alito do you remember I
feel like it was Alito but I can't
remember cuz I think Roberts too
actually but he yeah he just felt like
president should get their pick period
I'm like unless there's like criminal
activity involved president should get
their pick and I think he I think over
time he realized like okay this is a
problem but he just he said in 95 he
said the current welfare system is a
disaster
faced with eliminating the choice of
supporting this bill or maintaining the
current system I vote to change the
system and you know not only was that
vote a very bad vote and we could talk
about how the consensus at the time was
but I got to say like Bill Bradley voted
against it Daniel Moynihan voted against
it that's not why he lost I mean because
I he got elected after that no no I'm
talking about some of the institutional
memory around him maybe being less you
know not as firmly in that poverty
fighting progressive crisis but I was
talking about him in terms of campaign
finance he was no I he co-sponsored
McCain yes but I mean he also went went
went further than the campaign Feingold
McCain Feingold in terms of his own
campaigns and that's where there was you
know controversy around him like saying
all right big picture once someone gets
into office they're gonna be powerful
forces pulling them to the right so many
powerful forces and just trying to suck
them into the establishment Borg and you
know those forces are gonna be acting
upon Bernie to if he gets in there but I
would rather start out with the person
who's fought the hardest against it
because that stands the greatest chance
of succeeding okay so let's we got into
dessert now yes we're gonna start with
dessert now Matt got into a little
exchange with a man on Twitter or a
woman I don't know we don't know you
know Twitter's semi-anonymous always I
guess I don't know and replying to Matt
this individual on Twitter said Sam
cedar challenge steven crowder
to find the truth but you fail to
validate your claims for irrational
political vengeance I'm not sure I get
what what what was the first part of
this what this is just us wanting him
demanding a debate oh I see yeah if you
have some sort of evidence then put it
on the table otherwise what can be
asserted without evidence can be
dismissed without evidence fair enough
this was in November of of 2018 and I
waited part of the reason why I waited
because I had a feeling I'd get another
piece and that happened back in May and
I've waited because I was also hoping
for another opportunity but it's not
coming so what do we start with should
we do this chronologically or do we do
do we do we go reverse chronology I may
be a reverse Cronulla I think we'll save
the more media-friendly for a second so
back in May early early May I got an
email
oh no this must been the first one must
have come actually I think in April from
a guy named Jim and he wrote hello Sam
cedar team my name is Jim and I worked
for free speech TV this is a new network
being launched on June 1st we're
wondering if Sam would accept our invite
to be on the show the show is a panel
discussion that will have a conservative
and a liberal on every show to discuss
current events and politics for around
an hour the show is called free speech
and will be hosted by Gavin McGinnis we
can pay Sam's for Sam's travel and stay
plus pay him $5,000 to be on the show
you should go in the hotel in midtown
bro we have a lot of big names on both
sides of the aisle is Ellie that have
agreed to be on we're hoping Sam can to
Teo we will be filming two episodes a
month for 12 months so we can work
around scam Sam scheduled Jim now I have
to say when I get an email like this I
am suspicious because one
Gavan mcginnises wants me on his TV show
okay he's going to pay me $5,000 I don't
get $5,000 for anything I don't I don't
know if all the appearances I've made on
MSNBC over the past year I will get
$5,000 into aggregate for probably not
actually so I got very suspicious on
this now whenever I get suspicious what
I do is I send it off I say I'm not
gonna answer this I'm gonna have Patrick
answer it Patrick who works
you never hear me reference him because
he works in the basement here at the
jury before we just bring him out to
just look at it so
so Patrick responds and says oh yeah
Sam's uh you know could be interested
tell us more you might SPAC what nights
and this may 21st what nights in June
okay so we talked and this and that and
at one point he says oh yeah here he
goes okay hello Patrick thank you for
getting back to us the show is being
filmed in a professional studio downtown
Manhattan there will be makeup because
Patrick was very concerned that I needed
makeup Patrick's throws a lot of shade
at you yeah Patrick is know Patrick was
like would Sam wants to know if there's
gonna be makeup I mean I was just
curious like what the heck is going on
here and and so there will be makeup
about 30 guest is in the audience this
show will be shown on free speech TV but
we're putting up some interesting parts
of the show on YouTube show is all about
having conservative and liberal ideals
being represented in long-form hour-long
discussion I saw Sam's interview with
Glenn Greenwald the other day that was
awesome this is kind of the same idea
the guests that maybe not agree on some
of the current political topics
discussed but we do it in a fun and
respectable manner where both
perspectives are shared on any given
topic that was an ESL like they keep
using the wrong word for things well I
don't know but I have a feeling that Jim
is not really Jim you guys lay off Jim
Jim
to work advice I think Jim has a
drinking problem now we want the viewers
from right to left to be able to do both
sides not feel like they're watching
another Fox News or MSNBC echo-chamber
Gavin would be the host of the show the
two guests will be a liberal and
conservative show we are shooting two
episodes a month for a year so we can
work around Sam schedule is there a well
there yeah boy oh boy is there a
particular conservative guests Sam would
like to be on the panel with we could
make it work steven crowder might be a
good pairing for instance and he is
willing to do the show well I've noticed
a lot of Sanz fans want Sam to debate
Steven this could be perfect forum for
that we're getting a great response blah
blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah the psychos number
but-but-but-but pop-up we could do a
conference call with Gavin if you guys
wanted to now here's where I think like
oh this is real and I'm not gonna go do
a show where Gavin gets to pretend he's
Dick Cavett I'm not gonna go do a show
where Gavin pretends that he is like
some type of just neutral host because
Gavin is clearly trying to resuscitate
his career now I would go on with Gavin
on his show if it was live or I could
record my version of it and I would have
Gavin on my show if we were gonna debate
about something and I would do it for
free
the only way that I would agree to help
revive Gavin's career is for a minimum
of two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars but I would pay my way I would
get there on my own and you wouldn't
have to put me out but that's uh that's
not the point
so then Jim writes don't go to this yet
on May 21st what nights in June will
work for Sam we ideally are gonna shoot
the city around a p.m. Friday it's it
allows us to do blah blah blah thank you
greatly Jim Patrick responds hi Jim
Sam says whatever night Crowder is there
works for him P Patrick
and Jim responds I made 21st at 3:21
p.m. awesome thank you we'll be back
soon with dates then I'm May 30th we
haven't heard anything I say to Patrick
Patrick what's the deal and he writes on
May 30th hey Jim Sam Matt just asked
what's up do we have a date yet and then
I'm a 30th 11:30 2:00 a.m. thanks for
following up I'm sorry it's taking so
long I'm working hard on it and we are
in dialogue over it with Crowder I will
know more in coming days I will get back
to you for sure thanks again I think
it'll be awesome when it happens I think
Sam is hilarious thanks Jim Patrick you
tell Jim that I said thank you but then
June 3rd comes around and uh Patrick
I almost said me hey Patrick writes hey
Jim
any word question mark and Jim writes
back on June 3rd yep made some progress
over the weekend hope to have an answer
for you guys at the end of the week
thanks so much I just want this as just
as bad as you slash Sam want it and then
on June 9th ed Jim writes we tried hard
man but he just won't do it with Sam
very disappointing is there anyone else
that Sam might want to be on the show
with just a couple ideas and Coulter
lined up on the 26th we could offer Sam
also what about Jimmy Boyd or we've been
talking to him thank you Jim oh my god
kid where is the Trump cuck cuck
cuck and so Patrick writes back oof I'll
ask him about the others what happened
with Crowder he won't do your show or
won't do it with Sam did he give a
reason why Sam's gonna be cranky with me
which is true I was really cranky when
Patrick told me this and and then
Patrick III didn't get a response and I
was like Patrick what's the deal and so
he writes to Jim on June 12th hey Jim so
now Sam thinks I messed up somehow on
the Crowder thing
and that's why it's not happening he
didn't really react when I mentioned to
any of the other names I can press him
again though I'm sorry Patrick I was so
cranky and wanted Chlo Bashar asked well
I thought that I said to Patrick I said
hey man did you screw this up because I
wanted to debate crowder and he's like
no I didn't and I said are you sure and
he's like no and so that's why he wrote
Jim that way then you threw a chair at
him and then Jim wrote back all right
man I know you guys are gonna be pissed
but here it is what we got out of
Crowder Crowder said he has 4 million
YouTube followers and Sam has 500k
followers we already up to now 650,000
grown fast-fashion crota Wow and he
didn't want Sam trying to ride in on his
coattails of hard work blood sweat and
death threats just to lend his notoriety
to Sam which would help Sam gain some of
his followers and Crowder hates Sam for
some reason so he doesn't want to help
so I believe that for now the funny part
is of course like wait a second
Crowder's willing to lend his brand out
to unknown college kids well capitalized
on I happen to know for a fact that
there's never been a single college kid
that steven crowder has debated that has
even close to 4 million YouTube
followers in fact I will bet that I have
more YouTube followers than any college
student that he has ever debated and I
would also argue that he probably
anybody that he was gonna go on with on
Gavin's show and I don't know has he
appeared on Gavin show why don't we look
that up don't have much more followers
than I do maybe vyq I don't know 10% 30
you know 20% but not 400% anyways
Crowder was supposed to be on our show
last week so this had nothing to do with
Gavin it's just Sam unpopularity with
Stephen
so it's SIPP here's a crowd I wouldn't
even go it's show up
the show what's that he was on what whoa
this is interesting I don't know the
causation correlation tried so hard
multiple times he tried so hard that now
Crowder is mad at Gavin for pushing so
hard for it to happen I thought if
anyone could make this happen it was
Gavin but he could not convince him
after multiple attempts to do it we were
 pissed we think it's stupid for
him not to do it and that it would go
viral I think with Crowder getting
demonetized did not help things either
I'm not gonna give up but I figured for
now it's not going anywhere I would not
be surprised in the near future if we
get him to rethink it we told him he is
just as bad of the 19 out of 20 liberals
that say no to Gavin when we ask them to
beyond hard to have a dialogue when no
one wants to talk to each other
so hard yeah top two have a
dialogue with that said we would still
like to have Sam on with someone maybe
if Stephen sees that episode of Sam with
some other conservative then maybe he
could open up the dialogue for a future
date we have Candice Ellen's on
September 6th and blah blah blah we
could done the Conservatives side we
could use some help getting here he
liberals if you have any idea the shows
about having both sides and etc etc I'm
sorry I didn't happen we're gonna try
and get Sam and Steve and I personally
love Sam and watch a show every day as a
very thing a sweet thing to say
Jim weird that you would need to put me
up when you know that the show is done
every day from Brooklyn and this show
tapes in New York but maybe it's true
I'm glad he does
no hard feelings Jim and then I just
wrote back excuse me Patrick wrote back
because I want to see I asked Patrick
how much money are they willing to pay
before we say we because up before we go
public with this and and then
it turned out just five grand was about
as far as they were gonna go so then we
were like okay now it's time to go
public oh definitely a new movies Sam
and Gavin anonymous pen pals so now look
they hated each other one times each
other it's not evidence of anything and
some of you will say that just happened
once but no ladies and gentlemen this
was a pattern this happened in the
spring of 2019 but back in the summer
early fall of 2018 there was an event
that I was thinking about attending but
it was contingent upon me being able to
have a debate with someone who I thought
was influencing the younger generation
on YouTube I mean that was basically my
idea and if it's someone who I think is
a you know is is doing that I don't care
how many well the fact that he has you
know with three or four million YouTube
views or subscribers is indicative of
how many people he's reaching and why I
think that's problematic um you know
Roger stone I don't know how many
YouTube subscribers he has he's a fairly
big name but I don't think any I don't
think me frankly young people follow
Roger stone or care what he says and so
he's less relevant to me so here is a
recording that was made that captures a
phone call that took place between
myself and a Booker recorded in New York
which is a one-party state he of altered
the voices just slightly and
no names are involved here I mean of the
other party I don't normally do this to
be honest with you in terms of recording
calls like this but there was radio
silence I was supposed to debate steven
crowder and I was very very much looking
forward to it
do you remember Brendon I was supposed
to debate him at an event that took
place in California and this year it's
taking place at a different place in the
country I think it's Tennessee and and I
was very excited about this but then all
of a sudden I didn't hear anything and
so when the person said can we get on
the phone I was like okay but that's
weird
and I'm in a one-party state so because
I had anticipated that something was
going to go sideways and here is that
exchange things and things are moving
along literally just building your
proposed schedule panels oh great
I know it's very exciting stuff so
you'll have all of that soon I did want
to talk to you about the debate today so
it seems that steven crowder has maybe
gotten some cold feet okay and feeling a
little intimidated so I don't think he's
coming he's not even gonna come right
why is that posit now I want people to
understand that this is just this ladies
and you know assessment she's not she's
not inside Steven Crowder's head the
fact that he got cold feet cuz he felt a
little intimidated that's just her
assessment I want to be fair here
it's just her assessment you know it's a
great question I would love to ask it to
him myself
he's not even answering anymore
really mm-hmm well okay
that's too bad but I have two other
options for you that I think might be
interesting okay and if they're not to
the drawing board or we're happy to do
that so we have Candace Owens coming
from Turning Point USA
are you familiar with her Kanye Kanye's
a big fan sure
and the other one we have which actually
I think would be my preference I think
it could be very interesting and I think
it's a very interesting dynamic is um
Dan bond Geno who is Dan Bound Gina the
infant you know you know he he eluded me
at the beginning because I didn't quite
understand who he was he is hot he's had
insane growth on YouTube and Facebook
wide and things of that nature he was
former Secret Service and now it's just
a big CRO Trumper I'd love to send you
some info and background on him and kind
of what our idea is behind it okay but
if Candice it's neither option is
favorable I can absolutely go back to
the drawing board I have not a single
problem doing that I will I want to make
sure this is a great experience number
one for you and and something that's
interesting and toots them for you to
get into also yeah I mean I'm I'm
familiar with Candice Owens and that
might work it but send me information
about that other guy I just have never
heard of him and yeah that's a real
shame I think you're bigger yeah I don't
know what his team is doing around him
and that's you know just for me to
speculate at this might posit want to
make sure that we understand this is
speculation I imagine it's informed the
speculation also let me just say I
didn't mean any offense to Dan Bungie no
I just hadn't had never heard of who he
was I didn't know who he was and so well
you know but let's uh let's hear the
speculation it's speculation folks just
go back just a little bit because as you
can see I was really interested in
getting more information
steven crowder it work but send me
information about that other guy I just
have never heard of him
and yeah that's a real shame I think
you're bigger yeah I I don't know what
his team is doing around him and that's
you know just for me to speculate at
this point he I don't know he has a team
he has a whole team and he won't do it
he could bring the team I believe it his
father but I can't confirm or deny that
okay all right was it my posit
I want to make it clear she says here
this is just her inference so she
doesn't know she's no she knows no I
mean it's just it would be a weird thing
to just sort of randomly say I think
it's his parent his mom his mom didn't
want him to or his dad didn't want us
out of nowhere to come out of nowhere to
come up with that but that's that's the
inference and then and we pull it back
just at 10 15 seconds then I mean you
have to put yourself in my mind I got
this is the first I ever heard of that
and I'm like wait a second Crowder is
not a teenager right like does his folks
know he's doing this that's a real shame
I think you're bigger yeah I don't know
what his team is doing around him and
that's you know just for me to speculate
at this point he I don't know he has a
team he has a whole team and he won't do
it he could bring the team I believe
it's his father but I can't confirm or
deny that okay
I'm not that was with my infrared I
understand well I mean he's young isn't
he he's not that young because he you
young guy he's in 20th okay alright well
send me that what about three
eight-year-old boys in a trench coat
this phone call proves it well that's
why you gotta have dad
now now look I understand Stephen
Stephen is Stephen doesn't have the
confidence necessarily to back up his
you know change my mind but let me get
let me let me put this way steven
crowder is not capable of defending his
positions with an adult who has spent a
little time reading up about these
things and is somewhat knowledgeable
about this stuff oh he's 32 years old
Wow all right well it to be fair just
maybe 31 at the time when this
conversation happened he was probably 31
and I know that you know my daddy made
sure that I wasn't gonna get into a
situation where I would feel embarrassed
well into my late 30s so but at one
point
will he be with Sarah Jessica Parker at
this scene at one point Stephen Crowder
has has got a man up and actually have a
debate with people who are aware that
they're going to have a debate that
aren't going to you know in between
psych classes or you know and run into a
booth and then go sit down with him
that's you know I'd be like me going to
I don't know you know an elementary
school and saying like who's gonna play
one-on-one basketball with me right now
so you know
just did this because I know a lot of
Crowder fans out there feel and now wait
a second I don't want to laugh about
this because this is not easy for folks
there's a lot of people out there who
think that steven crowder is some kind
of champion of theirs and the fact is is
that if he actually felt confident about
what he espouses he would be open to
having a real exchange with people who
know what they're talking about she's
not to say that college students don't
but like I say you know I mean there's
I've seen some kids who do quite well
with with Crowder but I mean to be
walking down the you know the quad and
just seeing a booth you're not prepared
for you don't know who you're dealing
with you don't know what the topic is
and sometimes they do pretty well anyway
that's true it's true and and look
Crowder is largely most of the things
I've seen trying to argue the really in
many respects the indefensible and he
does well with some of these students
not so well with others and we're only
looking at the video that he wants to
release too so well if he wants someone
more age-appropriate to debate him the
rest of the Mr Crew is available yeah
there you go
know to check with my mom but Steven you
can come on this program you can record
it you can we'll do it live I am willing
to go on your program do it live we can
do it in another venue if you want but
you can hide behind the fact that you
have more YouTube subscribers than I do
but it really sort of breaks down when
you're willing to debate college
students who don't even have YouTube
channels if you want but we have this
debate I will not monetize
it I will not put ads on that day I will
demonetised it on YouTube you don't want
me to gain any of that if you're worried
about losing your followers or your
supporters that is fair because if I was
you I would be worried about that in
fact that's the whole point of this the
whole point of this is to say to people
who think that steven crowder knows what
he's talking about begin to understand
that if he really knew what he was
talking about he wouldn't be afraid to
defend it so that's why we're doing this
and if you are a fan of steven Crowder's
you should reach out to him and say hey
man there's two examples of you ducking
sam cedar in an embarrassing way and
look how many times - two examples
you get documentary and audio evidence
of something like that right never this
is somebody who's super super nervous
about it
fragile super fragile hopefully the
algorithm will get it in front of some
of those people's eyeballs yeah we'll
see but folks feel free to go into any
of steven Crowder's it's chat rooms help
link hash tag code feat Crowder cold
feet a lot of people are saying he's
cold feet Crowder I thought it was
disgraceful and the fact that his friend
Gavin worked so hard for him pretending
to be Jim and he left him out in the
cold like that I mean I just thought it
was very cowardly and very sad maybe
should ask his father you know the
baby's father should debate this there
is a theory about people who lift that
many weights that in some ways that they
are trying to like literally you know
wrap them like protect themselves from
something that they're really worried
about inside and I suspect that maybe
there
something inside of Stephen that he is
having a tough time with and it can come
out in a lot of different weird ways
lots of things so many lifting some
books next time
well I think until Stephen can look at
himself in the mirror and feel proud
about all the things about him not have
to worry about maybe dad not accepting
things about Stephen like his
limitations or his perspective on things
I don't know I don't know I'm sure
there's a sadness there
speaking of sadness let's talk about Jim
Jordan the the guy who refused to act
upon reports that one of his fellow
coach it was it a coach or somebody who
worked with the team doctor was
attempting to mama last may be
successfully molested some of the
students and athletes on set I mean
sexually assaulted oh it was over 1500s
by this this team doctor I didn't
realize there was a systemic oh this
just came out Oh a new thing came oh
yeah this came out in just the past 20
hours the universe the university rather
Wow they did a report there was 1500 of
these sexual assaults by this doctor and
apparently some of the students told Jim
Jeffords I mean uh Jim Jim's efforts Jim
Jordan Jim Jordan Jim Jordan and he
apparently didn't do anything about it
he was pretty upset that Goodell is ten
thousand hours for covering for the
president's crime yeah anyways that
almost has nothing to do with this clip
because Jim Jordan is on
the on Jake Tapper's show and he is
trying to promote that what they are
calling they haven't settled on name yet
accountant Obama gate to call it
secretary of state gate they calling it
gate gate Biden gate hunter Biden gate
hunter gate they haven't figured out
what they're gonna call it yet because
they're still in the writers room trying
to come up with a good hook might have
gone to the gate well one too many times
it's true gate well maybe what I just
call it Obama gate because he was black
but here is Jim Jordan on Jake Tapper
show trying to push some type of
narrative and tapper is pushing back
because there's no evidence beyond what
we know that hunter Biden was hired by
this gas company in Ukraine because they
hoped that he would influence his dad
and it didn't work at all least in this
narrow circumstance and Tapper pushes
back so things you really think they're
very polite wait a minute so where did
you learn the president lawyer had to
come I think that you came in here and
leveled a bunch of accusations and
allegations about hunter Biden I didn't
know I just said the facts 50,000 a
month he was paid by a foreign company
yeah he was very hyper asthma but Joe
Biden was trying to get a prosecutor who
was not pursuing corruption fired it was
supporting there was a sixth you guys
will go through to defend what you think
somebody who's been accused of things in
the last year into would be more
sensitive about throwing out wild
allegation not throwing out the facts D
what the prosecutor was not pursuing
corruption that's why the entire West
wanted him fired including
anti-corruption activists in Ukraine I
don't understand what you don't get
about that I like it
Jake Tapper there walks off and feels
like he's now earned like three
disparaging remarks of Ilan Omar and all
right next block is the fact that
Rasheeda to live
exists on the case against Trump but
it's I think one of the the reasons why
you want impeachment is because it
emboldened and puts the the Bush
administration on the defensive so that
when they come out with stuff like that
Jake the Jake Tapper's of the world have
more room to push back on their fictions
that they're going to promote we're just
heading into this election year I mean
this is what the this is what the game
plan is and this is it's helpful to see
very helpful to see I mean it would be
even more helpful if the news would
discuss substantive issues that affect
people's lives on multiple levels so
that was never gonna happen so it's not
like that seeing preempted yeah the
report on the implications of expanding
Medicaid in Michigan as opposed to yes
now they're not gonna do that
yeah now they're not gonna do that one
cuz they had to spend their time with
that yeah no I mean yeah it's I think
it's we know what what happens on cable
television largely here is a han gyeo
dhatus on The Daily Show really sort of
I don't know laying it out quite well in
terms of of the choices that we have in
the Democratic field Peabody judge
the other day said that he and Elizabeth
Warren share a lot of the same goals but
he doesn't want to fight so much he's
won a fight you know she wants to fight
and I want to Simpson outcomes I think
he said that's it I'm interested in
outcomes not fighting and the idea that
you can get
you can get these outcomes as if it was
just like we're just gonna go and we're
gonna have tea and we're gonna say look
this is the type of thing we want I know
you don't want it but come on guys let's
just do this no and here's your data so
making that point a lot of the people
who sound similar when they're talking
about fixing this problem are actually
quite different and I think of the book
as a set of infrared lenses to actually
understand who's peddling real change
and who's peddling fake change because
you look at people who say gosh you got
to rebuild the middle class but who also
say as Joe Biden did you know nothing's
gonna fundamentally change for the
billionaires in this country I just have
to say that is an incoherent and I don't
just mean rambling incoherent as the
Biden way but is an incoherent
intellectually incoherent theory because
in this moment I'm not saying all
moments but in this moment the people up
above are up above because they are
stepping on people down below and the
people down below are down below because
they are being stepped on and you cannot
say that I want to help the people down
below in a way that will change nothing
for the people standing on their necks
the same way you couldn't address feudal
England you couldn't address the Downton
Abbey world without dealing with why the
Grantham's are the only people who owned
that damn castle so big right you
couldn't deal with slavery without
making things worse for the white
plantation owners if there's no you
can't frankly look at the me2 world you
can't make things better for women in
this world without frankly reducing the
power of men to have impunity in so many
of the spaces you and I on everybody
else operated real
involves the loss of power and at the
heart of this book is the idea that
there has been an ideology for the last
40 years that is the ideology of win-win
we can empower the least among us we can
help people in Africa we can help people
in Appalachia and no one has to suffer
the rich people don't have to pay any
more taxes they don't have to be
regulated anymore and it is a lie it is
a lie the only change worth doing in a
moment like this with such an equity is
change that will necessarily make the
plutocrats less powerful the answer to a
winner-take-all world is almost
logically a world in which the winners
take less and as you said they're not
going to sign up for that it's us acting
together joining things getting involved
getting involved in democracy that take
change back from the charade zero-sum I
think is what he's arguing clearly he's
been watching this show you can go back
and listen to the interview we did with
uh I guess that was a over a year ago it
was that's right it was right before a
event reference before in California
high on yo-yo pronunciation of your name
is a zero-sum game but the the point
that he's making there I think is an
important one that really is in to a
large extent the way that you separate
the platitudes from their actual agenda
is the recognition that there are there
are there are enemies as it were to this
change and you need to name them you
need to be able to identify them because
they're there and it's quite obvious who
they are it's quite obvious if you're
going to make society more equitable if
you're going to help people you're going
to have to prevent a small group of
people from from corner
the market on all the benefits of
society or a disproportionate
astonishingly disproportionate amount of
the benefits of society you can't have
four people with the same amount of
money as 50% of your population you
cannot do it
can have four people who control more
resources than a hundred and fifty
million in your country and think that
that is sustainable never mind just but
that's then the only way for that to
change is do you take that money from
them we're gonna take it back from them
because remember our work made that
money labor creates wealth and value and
that's the only reason the billionaires
exist in the first place but you know
the the other thing is like I don't even
need to justify that is to take it back
I mean I think that's true but I think
it's also like look you want to live in
our society everybody has to contribute
it to making it function and it's
dysfunctional it's dysfunctional you got
lucky maybe you got lucky cuz you got
smarts or you got lucky because of the
way you were positioned or whatever it
is and you ended up with more than I
mean way more than anyone needs but also
more than is healthy for society for you
to have period that's it like we're
doing in the best interest of society
don't even need to have any
justification beyond that there's no
natural right to money government's
produce money you can go on as many
bitcoins as you want how's that sound or
you know whatever
billionaire coins that you've you've
created yourself but if you're talking
about a currency that's convertible into
the US dollar that can then be used to
pay taxes of course didn't grow in a
three wasn't natural he wasn't you know
didn't show up next to Adam and Eve it
exists because society has organized
themselves so you're subject to you know
society that's a confiscatory taxation
there are multiple reasons why we need
to do that policy what yeah but I'm
saying like you don't need you know as
far as like justification that's all the
justification I think we need I feel
like it adds a lot of heft though to to
remember that our work your work made
that money as the guys from street fight
said that's your money and we're gonna
get it back yeah I mean I think that's
true I think that's true as well
let's go to the phones calling from a
500 to quick five one two area code
who's this where you come from
um we're from Austin Omar from Austin
what's on your mind first of all I
message Michael about this a while back
I sincerely want to thank the show I've
been listening to you since America days
and it may be politically much at least
I've been able to fool my friends and
you think I'm politically smart I've got
several friends on a loop and most of
them are now Bernie supporters I don't
know whether it was because of my
arguments but I feel it was a
significant factor and I know at least
one of them said that he some think
we're just gonna vote for whoever I tell
him to what I can guarantee at least two
words from Austin for Bernie rain so and
that's pretty much that's pretty much
due to your sure I think pretty much um
also so I also want to mention that if
it wasn't for you sure I would be a
sorry I'd be a Warren support primarily
because like I know you say many times
that people don't care about the death
because my mentality was is a jet was
important and because of your show I've
realized that that's not a factor so I
would have been a warrant supporter if
not for your show now I'm a strong
supporter that's great
yeah the other thing I wanted to one of
the things I appreciate about your show
is that a few is one of the few times
the subject of UFOs are coming you're
one of the few shows that doesn't
dismiss it a poo-pooed idea you're like
like I know number one lady was talking
about conspiracy theories and she
mentioned that she thought UFOs are real
and I didn't see the slightest hint of I
rode in from you which I think many
other shows would have done that and so
one of the reasons I'm calling is that I
think of and I'm hoping I might have
another breaking news music from y'all
because I think I've discovered some
information from from publicly available
sources that each one by itself wouldn't
be would be just by like an interesting
curiosity but I think together either
proves or has a pretty interesting
prosaic and feasible and excellent the
most prosaic and reasonable explanation
is still something that I think is
pretty fantastic so I was hoping to
share that a little bit okay I mean you
know make sure it's not like book book
length let's let's keep it breaking I'll
try how about this I'll try and make it
as quickly as possible as soon as it
gets to landing you can just tell me
okay it's too long and I'll maybe send
an email about it okay okay so basically
there's a facility called knock at
anything I can remember right now what
it stands for it's a eleven thousand
strong engineering facility that that
provides technology support to the
Marines and the Navy within the last few
years as a scientist that goes to the
facility named Pais I don't know how to
pronounce his last name is AIS has filed
patents for several very sci-fi sounding
weird patterns to the point by some
journalist at this publication called
war zone got interested stars looking
for it
one of the pageant's was initially
rejected but then eventually accepted
once the private attorney for the
facility and the CTO for the facility
wrote a letter there saying that no this
is actually based on real physics and
interestingly enough one of the reasons
was that he claimed that the Chinese are
interested in the same thing and it is a
funny letter
the first paragraph is letter it seems
like in almost mocking the patent patent
offices guys science knowledge because
the guy said that it's not based on any
real physics and the energies involved
would be too ridiculous am I physically
the pattern I think this is something
that maybe you should send an email
first because it's to follow what you're
talking about but if you're saying like
there was some that that is it NORAD or
nope nor ket no no no and any any WCAG
and you can also Google patent the
patent was craft using inertia
production technology and it's my
contention with some other information
that even though they're just patching
it down it's been operational for at
least thirty years but a producing are
basically unconventional flying object
or object that has a performance
characteristics that cannot be explained
by conventional by publicly taught
agreed-upon physics so and and I think
somewhere in the US military by I don't
know but anyway so I'll send an email
about okay all right yes indeed email
bio check it out
just until you thank bang - sure I think
there's a lot more Bernie supporters
simply because of your show at least in
Austin awesome thanks the inertia engine
is the thing that keeps coming up when
people say all these UFO reports are
actually technology that we've created
or somebody's created oh that that that
we've created and we're just not kind of
like I mean we've done this with a
stealth bomber and I think drew I think
the Phoenix lights were drones but I'm
like looking retro actively it seems
like that's what the behavior they were
exhibiting but right was he necessarily
saying that it was alien technology no
he was just saying those UFOs right well
I mean of course they're I mean you know
I think more often I mean I have a
feeling that there's probably been you
know there Navy Air Force pilots who you
know have had reports of things but it
could quite be that it's us technology
or someone else's technology that we
wouldn't let people know about I mean I
don't know why would we keep it on
raps for that long though like the
stealth bomber was but but now it's not
who knows maybe it's the space comrades
coming to bring us full communism we
don't know well their beds totally a
possibility in a certain sense
I'm sure the Naval Air Warfare Center
would love the Communist aliens why
they're coming in a secret look where
the did you come from if people
knew oh yeah
things would be way out of here that
would be very cool an alien invasion
movie a bunch of like annoying like
aliens socialist lecturing his guys like
would I had to go to a goddamn TSA
meeting we we have been on the Chris
Coons beat for increasingly over the
past get in it for me you know Chris
Coons sort of like a an innocuous
senator right but the more the Democrats
in the Senate and the more the
democratic party begins to get more
ambitious in terms of progressive goals
more ambitious about acknowledging the
structural problems that we have things
like hey a lot of places are
gerrymandering to the point where
Democrats have to outpace Republicans
you know by 20% to actually win by 5%
the Senate is a body that is controlled
by you know 40% of the country and the
more Democrats get involved and aware of
this stuff and Democratic lawmakers are
willing to make some changes
the more Chris Coons has to feel like he
has to speak up so in some ways like
this is encouraging Coons came out and
said like you know if we take back the
Senate we should reinstate the the
filibuster so that we give them the
opportunity to stop us from actually
putting judges on the bench then he was
out there trying to gin up a war with
Iran until somebody pulled him back a
little bit
the other day this is from a discussion
that took place a while ago I think
right
oh this was over this weekend oh I
thought this was uh this is at the Notre
Dame Law School and they were doing a
panel on partisan politics in the era of
Trump now the title itself I find
annoying because the implication is that
somehow this era has become hyper
polarized the fact is is that it was
pretty hyperpolarized before it's just a
lot of people didn't really realize it
can we get back to the Gingrich era no
well yeah I mean I'm saying that's the
subtext of like yes that beautiful
bipartisanship right exactly when John
Rich years when just the Republicans
were at one pole arendt and the
Democrats were just basically hanging
around the the middle trying to placate
them Chris Coons has an interesting take
on it as to what has enhanced this
partisanship is it because after 30 or
40 years of assaults on workers on
attempts by Republicans to destroy the
protections that we had that started
with the EPA under a Republican
president the broadly the assault on our
government is that why because Democrats
have come to realize this because
there's a new generation that says hey
we keep seeing the Democrats just
basically roll over and work in cahoots
with these interests and frankly use the
Republicans as cover for them to do
corporate friendly things and make it
like they had no choice like Chris Coons
is that why there's the Democrats have
become more polarized and more adamant
about their positions to the extent that
they have well maybe but Chris Coons has
another theory
we've let in too much riffraff I guess
I'd also ask what you think about the
fact that you know in the good old days
we also had a Congress that was a lot
more homogeneous didn't have very men
and women very few people of color there
were large swaths of the American
population that were pretty
systematically excluded from political
power and influence so maybe it was
easier to get together when only some
voices were being heard in the political
system and now that we hopefully are
allowing more and different voices be
heard that itself takes some work to
resolve and to find compromise Chris
Coons been thinking about briefly say
you're absolutely right that the thing
that has contributed most I think in the
Senate to the grinding down of our
ability to function and compromise is
that control of the Senate has gone back
and forth with some regularity and it's
within just a few seats and so now I
will also say we have we have both
leaders of our caucuses and members of
our caucuses who are all too willing to
go in campaign against the folks who are
the ones most willing to compromise
because those are the ones easiest to
defeat you know I currently have
legislation that I'm trying to advance
with literally all five of the most
vulnerable Republicans so senator Tillis
and I bring senator Collins and I sent
right so senator Gardner and I we're
just working on these bills this week if
you stop legislating with the very
people who are at risk of losing their
seat because their bipartisan than how
do you expect the thing to get any
better when I challenge posit for one
second now just a little bit of history
the fact of the matter is is that
Republicans have punished people for
being bipartisan far more than Democrats
have over the past 20 or 30 years in
fact I lamented the fact that Democrats
I'm talking about Democratic voters
place compromise is such a high value
over even like their desired outcomes
compromise that's changed because
there's only so many times you can try
and kick the football when Lucy pulls it
away and I think Koontz has at least as
analysis goes I think he's got a point
here his Republican colleagues attack
those Republican colleagues who are
willing to work across the aisle now I
would also argue that these Republicans
that he's working with are also in you
know more or less just as bad as those
other Republicans but continue how do
you expect the thing to get any better
when I challenge my more progressive
colleagues about how will your dreamed
for vision of like complete justice be
accomplished their answers are
structural change get rid of the
filibuster pack the court these are
fairly extreme answers and I'll tell you
I think you're you're right about that
I want to believe of our country and
ourselves that a more diverse Senate
that includes women's voices and voices
of people colored voices of people who
were not professionals but you know who
grew up working class and are first in
their family to go to school and so
forth that we can engage those voices
that they can be part of the debate that
that doesn't produce irreconcilable
discord I think history may judge
otherwise why are you raising let's be
clear on what he's saying here okay he
is saying that the more you open up
democracy the more problematic it is
period he is putting getting things done
between him and his colleagues has a
value above the idea of democracy that's
basically what it comes down to and
there is truth the more interest you put
into a room the harder it is it's going
to be to get to a solution but as a
value those solutions you have to look
at those solutions as to whether they're
actually good solutions because they
don't represent the interests of the
vast majority of Americans I mean so
like you know this is the thing is that
he's looking at he's looking at process
only because that process delivered the
results he wanted not because there was
something inherently good about that
process he's not concerned with the
process being legitimate he's concerned
with the outcomes that he's most
favorable to I have a feeling that Chris
Coons would have a real problem if only
black males could sit in the Senate I
might be able to get more done than to
have yeah but only only black
autoworkers black male auto workers will
be on the Senate I would actually be
very excited for that legislative
package I wonder if Chris Coons would
then be okay like what we're keeping the
filibuster we're not gonna pour back
would love to see we're just we're just
gonna have black male auto workers in
the Senate and we you can't believe how
much we get done there's another force
like well we tried to have Chris in the
Senate but I'm not sure that's gonna
work at the end of the day because he's
gonna come in see this is a few bald
white guys in there but this is the
essence though this is the essence of
what people call privilege like the idea
that it is abnormal to have other people
in the Senate that the value of having
them there is is it is normatively
off-kilter it's it's different and
that's causing problems as opposed to we
have a problem that if we're going to
have real democracy we need to figure
out a way of doing this like it's just
where you place the emphasis on the
value and it for him it's very easy to
say like it is a little problematic with
the women coming in and the minorities
and the pores and which way doesn't
really happen
that soul is not everybody else Anna is
a millionaire I think except for well I
think everybody in the Senate is a
millionaire maybe there's one or two
that or not and for chris coons this is
the problem they're bringing in the
problem like you couldn't have a better
example of the white male grievance than
this it's just that it's dressed up in a
suit and it's talking about like it's I
this is not about me and my personal
enrichment it's about what's done to the
process by having all these other voices
in there for political scientists saying
yeah yeah I wasn't sure where he was
going with it until he said history
might not look kindly upon it and I was
like do you think history would look
more kindly upon a society where most of
the population is systematically
oppressed underclass he does yes because
he doesn't recognize that fact he just
thinks that if it was just me and guys
like me and here we'd get business done
and that business heat from his
assessment the business of fine it's
absolutely fine how bad do you have to
be with your perspective on this to have
Joe Donnelly the former senator from
Indiana come in and go like ooh wait a
second I want to distance myself from
that comment you're right about that
I want to believe of our country in
ourselves that a more diverse Senate
that includes women's voices and voices
of people of color and voices of people
who were not professionals but you know
who grew up working class and are first
and their family to go to school and so
forth that we can engage those voices
that they can be part of the debate and
that that doesn't produce irreconcilable
discord I think history may judge
otherwise but I appreciate you raising
both points I think the fact that we're
more diverse is one of the strongest
things that we could possibly have done
it is so much more reflective America
yeah yeah there you go I mean Donnelly
goes on to say exactly what a non
oligarch would say I mean I like the
Coons doesn't even realize
I mean he's saying this in public he
doesn't even he is so detached that he
doesn't even realize the implications of
what he's saying so detached he doesn't
even understand the implications of what
he's saying it is it's stunning it's
stunning and it explains like everything
you need to know about the attitude of
these people like I say just imagine the
the Senate if Chris Coons would be like
you know senator Coons for the sake of
getting things done we're just gonna
have blackmail Auto Workers you okay
with that oh whoa whoa wait wait a
second yeah no we're gonna be incredibly
productive no it definitely be a lot
more efficient yeah we'd nationalize GM
huh effective immediately responding to
the splinter responding to splinter
Slynt a splinter I guess found this
video right they they put it up
following the publication of this story
Coons communications director Sean Coit
insisted Coons intent was clear senator
Coons is committed to improving
diversity in our politics in Congress
and throughout our country coy told
splinter in a statement it's clear that
in this conversation the senator was
talking about how difficult but
critically important it has been to
increase diversity in Congress and also
how far we have to go now he did say the
part about how difficult it's been I
don't remember him saying it was
critically important and I don't
remember him saying how far we still
have to go I think he's even said that
history is going to judge that it was
actually we've created here reconcilable
differences now maybe he's Pro
irreconcilable differences
but I don't think so and like I say
Chris Coons had no idea what he was
saying
he's so oblivious and frankly I think
there's I think I saw I don't know what
that percentage is but that perspective
I think
is so widely shared by its easiest to do
it as as white men it's the elite dark
web
yeah well it's easiest to do it as one
homogeneous group and it just so happens
that the homogeneous group that's
already there is white men that's right
not their fault that's right well that's
I mean on some level it's they they are
caught in a hermetically sealed bubble
that they just haven't gotten used to
the fact that it's about to be pierced
and by about I mean you know over the
next 50 years but III honestly like that
that Chris Coons thing I feel like is
one of those things that if I had if we
had they you know sort of like a cache
like with a hidden door you press and
you go in to get all the weapons like
that would be I would take that video
and put it in amber and bring that out
all the time to show people exactly like
this is oh this is the attitude I mean
to describe this attitude right here
where chris coons had no idea that he
was basically saying like it's a
liability to have all these different
voices and we are deviating from the
norm and that's problematic time to take
the power back yeah like you know your
dadís basically said it like someone's
gotta lose and it's Chris Coons is gonna
lose I mean maybe not chris coons but
the chris coons i'ts know he is gonna be
such a pain in the ass if the democrats
take back the Senate just become a
Republican well there'll be three votes
he's with us on everything except for
the war on and on and on that's what
Barney finally won't work oh is dad went
to Harvard sort of uh the previous
reasoning of like well he's with us some
procedural stuff Bernie like shop but
guess what I still want that guy to have
health care calling from a 509 area code
who's this where you calling from
well hello hi hi who's this Oh me yes I
was wrong Reagan Ronald Reagan long time
no hear from I know I've been busy oh
excuse me
ruler yeah real quick it kind of flew
under the radar Berlin huh
that was the Lenski he said Ukraine is
beautiful and then the next thing he
said was that one of the winners of his
beauty pageant was from Ukraine it was
very sort of on brand and there's a
great little thing but I wanted to say
Sam you had a guest on the other day to
talk about conservative talk radio yep
who's that guy yeah remember that yes I
do though was Rosenthal Rosenwald yeah
yeah I enjoyed that because I listened
to the local talk radio in the morning
on the way to work and but what I liked
about it is that you're not afraid to
offer different perspectives on things
like I've been listening to this show
for a long time and I've heard the Air
America story a lot right and it's
usually about how it was a failure of
management right right and when you
brought it up to your guest he said well
yeah but also total lack of on-air
talent he did not say that and then you
kind of tried to bring it back to two
management he's like yeah but I really
want to focus in on the fact that like
everyone on air was really terrible and
they said there was a lot of people
there who were not experienced in radio
he said there was one person who was any
good and I saw your eyes kind of perked
you know you kind of perked up a little
bit and then he said Randy he said Randy
whoever
randy rhoads randy rhoads had been doing
talk radio yes she was the only one who
had had experience and talk radio
that's correct and then you were like
yeah but then also you know the problem
was they you know this and he's like I
don't think you're understanding me how
bad the on-air talent was I know you
were adding like you were he was like as
an example I thought it was particularly
awkward when he was like I mean as an
example they think that says some guy
did a brief turn and Sex in the City he
can talk about politics on a daily show
every day it's ridiculous
well tell it to this guy sorry tell it
Cynthia Nixon but anyway it was it was
great that you're willing to offer
perspectives that add layers to these
things and nuance that we otherwise
wouldn't have gotten right right that's
all I have to say well I appreciate your
calling in and reinterpreting what the
guest said that was uh that is very
people should listen I think people
should go back be able to go back listen
to it all right I think I thought that
part where he's not Reagan this guy a
little bit of Law School and he thinks
he's a social security expert oh all
right folks we've got a million people
have been hanging on for well over an
hour just gonna pick one randomly
calling from a four one nine area code
who's this where you calling from I'm
sorry you're the final caller of the day
yes
okay four one nine yes you're on go hi
this is drew Dahle Ohio drew from Toledo
what's on your right sorry there's a lot
of noise I'm currently in my car driving
so I was actually calling because a a
couple weeks back there was there was
actually like a I guess you could say an
incident of voter suppression here in
town
there was a City Council primary on the
10th of September and one of the polling
locations is at like a satellite area a
satellite location of the University of
Toledo
it's got Park campus and there was an
active police there an active shooter
drill there happening at the same time
friend of mine on Facebook was named
Julian Mack anybody can go look him up
on Facebook and see the post he made
about it and basically the hallway were
the the voting was normally taking place
there was a big sign that said closed
do not enter and you know it may not
have been planned that way but you know
that was that's clearly like just a bad
right
bad timing yeah it's really bad timing
and is anybody suing after I go ahead is
a by suing III called the ACLU in Ohio
but the only options they have or if
you're a lawyer or a reporter and I'm
neither of those things on there like
automated menus I wasn't really sure
where to go with that well I would I
would do it you know if you're a lawyer
I would just hit it hit that button just
say I okay when you talk to him I'm not
a lawyer but I think you should know
about this but I think whoever got
disenfranchised your friend or whoever
they should go and they should go and
talk to the a cell you because you know
you can't go back and I think you're not
going to be able to overturn that
election but the some recognition of it
but I appreciate the call good luck with
it thank you
all right let me take one more quick
phone call and then we'll get out of
here come from a four seven eight area
code who's this we come from
good afternoon Sam this is difficult
Jeff and Georgia thank you for holding
on the phone for so long I am sorry
other folks go ahead I'm appreciate you
taking my call stand by we have some
very rich they don't show today yeah
Vice President Joe Biden you know cuz
Sam like I really wish I was a
successful in middle class as as Ronald
Reagan you know so I'm just been sitting
here with me to join a lot of mayonnaise
American cheese sandwiches in balancing
my checkbook for about nine hours
straight now be enjoying a lot of
Everybody Loves Raymond the episode and
putting down a lot of work down to the
boat dealership and uh it's really weird
I don't feel any more rich or empowered
than I did I've yelled at the neighbor
kids several times now for no reason at
all and it really just has improved your
politics I don't have health care and I
was just wondering a few if you had any
advice for me it turns it like hwagok to
bear and were to live these middle-class
values that are supposedly gonna solve
our economy crisis in this country or no
II think about that you know I know
yourself okay you're successful
accomplishment I maybe eat more
mayonnaise I don't know I'm not exactly
sure we're doing well yeah I mean I was
I was thinking about drinking exactly 17
beers watching the new Transformers
movie and then head out to glorious
American eater Apple tea I don't know
that that some Beckett held me or I will
give it a try I understand Applebee's on
a on a Wednesday night probably has some
specials so I find cross dressing is a
DMV work you'd be very relaxing just
keep keep living out there class values
and someday you will magically have
money that's how it works
I mean I I'm hoping because Jimmy I just
I can't continue to drink like ranch
dressing is beverage forever it's it's
eventually going to catch up to me and
and so you know before that happens
getting Medicare from all past be a big
help well
when a majority poor I love you Happy
New Year Happy New Year thanks Jeff from
Georgia all right folks
I am sorry that is all the time we have
for today but we will be back tomorrow
same time and channel tomorrow
Eric Levitz will be joining us talk
about Bernie and Warren PC has in the
New York New York Magazine
all right see you tomorrow in that
[Music]
I just got
[Music]
feel any better yeah
take it
[Music]
I did somewhere the choice is made
so the option when you don't get paid
for the rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
takes you
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
