[Music]
this GM story is big for a number of
reasons and let me just start with this
I got an email from listener miles hey
Sam
I'm a tenth grader who's a big fan of
the show let's mark it very good I was
curious about your assessment of trade
policy in light of the 15,000 jobs lost
from GM I know you've been critical
about Trump's trade war and
international tariffs I know also that
the progressive movement and prominent
Social Democrats had harsh criticism and
opposition towards TPP NAFTA and PN T
are among other free trade agreements
I'm not even familiar necessarily with
PNTR I don't think off the top of my
head
permanent normalized trade relations
that was a European one I would assume
so I don't think but no PNTR was with
China years ago I don't know what the
most recent one is to be honest I'm not
positive of a hundred percent if you
oppose these deals to support
renegotiating them but I know this idea
was a key tenant of the Sanders campaign
and many leftist political organizations
as your position changed on
protectionism because of the effects
under Trump or is there something
specific about Trump's protectionism
that puts it at odds with say Bernie
Sanders yes well my position has not
changed broadly on protectionism I think
that maybe a little bit narrow the the
problem is we have a free full flow of
of capital we do not have a free flow of
flow of labor and broadly speaking that
is is problematic and we do not require
in the context of these deals the
safeguards for labor environment
consumer in that is bilateral or is
reciprocal
and that's problematic for for both ends
on that deal
today's guest is going to speak to this
dynamic in particular and then of course
I have problems with in particular the
the resolution dispute system that is
really contrary to the sovereignty of
the countries and and completely
anti-democratic but we will talk more
about that with today's guests and as
far as GM it's unclear to me that the
issue is now that the issue is a
function of Trump's tariffs and it's
incidentally thank you for the email
well this kids in 10th grade yeah very
very intelligent mmm yeah clever little
devil yes we're not gonna say I hope
mile it's there in tenth grade boom yeah
shots fired I don't know that you could
attribute what's happening with GM to
the the tariffs on Chinese steel
certainly when Ford it was announced or
I should say reported that Ford was
preparing to layoff twelve percent of
its workforce I think it was like
something like 24,000 people the the
implication was that it was a function
of the steel tariffs I haven't seen that
type of reporting with GM what we have
seen is that the tax breaks the tax
gifts the giveaways to GM that the
Republicans promised us was going to end
up in workers pockets did not end up on
workers pockets what we also did see is
five years four years of stock buybacks
which recall was an illegal practice
until Ronald Reagan decided that it no
longer was and what these stock buybacks
do and I
I've said this on this program odd
nauseam is it simply pays off the
biggest shareholders which contrary to
what some on the right will tell you is
not pension holders and it is the CEOs
the c-suite members the Board of
Directors and some very wealthy
individuals eighty-four percent of the
stocks in this country are owned by the
top twenty percent of the people and so
this is a a broader story I don't know
if it's directly attributable to the
steel tariffs but another part of the
story in addition to the stock buybacks
and the wealthy lining their pockets is
of course that promises made promises
not quite kept here is Donald Trump this
is from 20 what was this in 2017 2016
2016 in Warren Michigan
ladies and gentlemen Warren Michigan
here is Donald Trump he says about
Hillary is so bad he said she has
terrible instincts but we have good
instincts and I've been saying your car
industry is being sucked away from
Michigan's happening if I'm elected you
won't lose one plant you'll have plants
coming into this country you're gonna
have jobs again you want to lose one
plant I promise you yes well if you
lived in Warren Michigan and you worked
at the GM's plant transmission plant in
Warren Michigan I've got some bad news
for you he lied now of course it was a
silly promise for him to make in the
first place but Warren Michigan lost its
plant it was one of the at least six
maybe I think nine plants that were shut
down by GM here is Donald Trump
Youngstown Ohio in 2017 I was looking at
some of those big wants incredible job
producing factories and my wife Melania
said what happened I said those jobs
have left Ohio they're all coming back
[Applause]
don't sell your house don't sell your
house remember I got a lot of credit
this is hard to believe but the press
gave me a lot of credit because the
number of years ago I said this is the
time to buy a house during one of my
speeches I said go out and buy and they
did this big store again all over the
Trump predicted let me tell you folks in
Ohio on in this area don't sell your
house don't sell do not sell it we're
gonna get those values up we're gonna
get those jobs coming back and we're
gonna fill up those factories or rip
them down and build brand-new ones so
it's gonna happen Lordstown Ohio lost
one of its plants in this closing so get
a new credit card too but look the the
bigger story aside from the fact that
Donald Trump's a pathological liar and
if you believed him and it was not
enough caveat emptor is out there is GM
over the past four years had 14 billion
dollars 14 billion dollars worth of
stock buybacks now they're closing say
in their closing announcement they say
they're gonna save six billion dollars
annually by firing 15,000 people 14
billion dollars half of which come has
come in the last two years there was a
story I saw this at I don't know it's
like one of those
stock stock places wolf Street and the
guy wrote after wasting 14 billion on
share buybacks GM prepares for
Carmageddon closes eight plants but
here's the thing is that this concept
that they were incompetent right that
they wasted this money is what is the
problem here they didn't waste the money
the people who made these decisions made
off like bandits
they are extremely wealthy now because
of these decisions they would look at
this and say waste what are you talking
about
we made millions millions hundreds of
millions of dollars billions probably of
dollars we bought back our stock we
raised the value of our stock we are
compensated in stock because capital
gains taxes are cheaper on stock and
then we sold the stock we paid less in
taxes than we would have if we actually
went out and worked for that money we've
gotten paid in wages and we're super
wealthy and we didn't have to make
better cars we didn't have to help any
communities we didn't have to provide
for our employees we made out like
bandits this was not wasted we did
exactly what we wanted to do mission
accomplished and of course you know then
we had to layoff 15,000 people what are
you gonna do
competition would start kicking in yeah
yeah there it is if I may there are some
people who want to equate Trump's sort
of phony opposition to globalization
with Bernie's what Bernie's real
opposition to the problems caused by
globalization and neoliberalism and like
some of his rhetoric some of Bernie's
rhetoric has sounded somewhat
economically nationalist but I think
they're coming at the problem from two
very very different directions and
especially lately I've seen some good
good stuff coming from the Bernie camp
on how to deal with these problems in a
way that is actually constructive which
involves supporting an internationalist
workers movement not closing the borders
well the the the bottom line is and when
we talked to our guest today is that
these trade deals among other things
don't necessarily favor one come a
country over another it favors one class
of individuals over the exactly and that
in that respect it's there's a certain
reciprocity we're gonna get Mexican
Mexican millionaires and billionaires
richer and we're gonna get American
millionaires and billionaires richer so
it's truly bilateral it's a win win win
win but we will talk to her momentarily
in the
