adding to what we saw with you know half
a dozen state houses going to
governorships going to Democrats
flipping that's a key particularly in
the in the Midwest
I mean states that were key to Donald
Trump's victory are now you know like
you said earlier reverting to the mean
didn't happen in Ohio
I've been talking to Dave waggle on the
Washington Post political reporter and
he suggested that you know Trump
strength in any state that touches upon
the Appalachia tends to be a little bit
more durable but we saw gains in terms
of election reform and and redistricting
and making it easier for people to vote
and where I anticipate seeing more of
that as they fallout from this election
is in New York State then people don't
realize this there's an assumption that
because New York State is overwhelmingly
democratic that we've had Oh a three
chamber government democratic government
but it's just not been the case and a
big part of that was Andrew Cuomo who
well thought that he would have a a
political career is a a political
contender he did not want to get labeled
as too progressive and so he essentially
moved wife a deal between the
Republicans and about a dozen wayward
Democrats and allowed for these
Democrats to caucus with these
Republicans ensuring that the state
Senate would never end up providing too
progressive of legislation to land on
Andrew Cuomo's desk and because of this
wave election and a higher awareness of
this
independent Democratic caucus the
so-called IDC that largely came from the
primary with Cynthia Nixon and Andrew
Cuomo we now have in New York State for
the first time in years a Democratic
controlled Senate a democratic
controlled assembly and Democrats
sitting in the governor's mansion and we
could see all sorts of a type of voting
reforms which is going to necessarily I
think make our government more
progressive in New York State and just
like in California as New York goes so
so hopefully goes the rest of the
country New York we have Wall Street
here we could we could impose certain
rules on Wall Street but we could see
changes in election and perhaps health
care and providing more education I mean
the New York can be the experiment that
it's supposed to be and it's a fairly
exciting development and that one I
think that we'll see more of the
implications in the years to come well I
mean let me ask you because I actually
don't know I mean what are you
you know Cuomo won this week with a big
big margin I mean he very easily won
what do you think he's gonna do I mean
you know he's been making noises about
running for president I don't think
anybody would be surprised if he did it
but how does you know how since you
point out that this has been his sort of
strategy which was to kind of keep the
the legislature you know a as a check on
progressive which is really pathetic but
I guess that's what he did what does he
do now how do you see him yeah I mean I
think of Andrew Cuomo many certainly
listen he certainly got the message when
Cynthia Nixon jumped into the race that
he had to tack to the left and I imagine
you know he is faced with a dilemma it's
either he can run as a hardcore
progressive having
come from New York State signing a bunch
of progressive legislation which I
imagine the Democrats are gonna do in
this state or he can come to the
election as a guy who doesn't go too far
and I don't know I don't think that's
going to help him in the Democratic
primary so it really comes down to how
how sensitive his his take on where
we're at in this moment is and my
experiences it's not very so you know if
he still has presidential aspirations I
suspect what he's going to do is maybe
veto some legislation maybe make some
deals that are corporate friendly and on
one part and make it look like he's
doing you know covering some type of big
progressive initiative on another and
then he's gonna run and then I think
he's gonna lose quite quickly in the
Democratic primaries because he's not a
particularly good campaigner you know
but people remember his father in this
state and so that goes a long way for
him and so I guess we'll see but we
should also say as we're wrapping up the
implications of this election as far as
what took place in the election right
because when we take a break we're going
to talk about the other implication that
is we're on the other side of the
election and we're in a lame-duck
session and Donald Trump I think is
about to make his move but we had
hundreds of thousands if not millions of
people in multiple states vote by
referendum to expand Medicaid and we may
see that in one or two other states that
were dem pickups and so the what's
amazing to me is the durability of the
Affordable Care Act now with the the
Democrats in the house the the
Affordable Care Act the Patient
Protection bill is Obamacare is is here
to stay
and now we start to improve upon what we
have and I think we're going to see more
of that because
is over 50% of the Democratic candidates
who ran for Congress they ran on
single-payer expanded Medicaid and
Medicare in there's every reason to
believe they're going to continue and go
further with that with that policy
prescription I don't know if you have
anything to add to that there but that's
encouraging to me oh absolutely it's
very encouraging it's one of the you
know they I have to admit I was
skeptical that this would happen but a
lot of the health care you know the
political side of the health care in
actors back in 2009 and 2010
you know said hey look you just get this
in here because once it gets empty it
won't ever you know it'll stick if
people will want it now their view was
never that the Republicans wouldn't try
to repeal it and of course they did 70
times or more and you know continue to
sort of say that they want to do that
but their view was that the people would
become attached to it and I was
skeptical of that because I thought you
know this thing it's a Rube Goldberg
kind of clout you know machine that
doesn't really work and nobody
understands it etc etc but I was wrong
people did understand that an
improvement had been made in health care
and they don't want that to go back and
it's pretty clear that as of now it's
pretty much you know it's it's in there
now I'm not saying Republicans that
they're still trying to repeal Social
Security and that would give them a good
30 so you know never-say-die I mean
Democrats are going to be defending this
thing forever but the people themselves
they recognize that something beneficial
happened in their lives and for the
first time Democrats ran on that and it
was a big deal
for many of those people to run on it
they even had the Republicans running
scared and hopefully they will run on
that and the rest of the democratic
achievements like Social Security and
Medicare and Medicaid going forward
because those are material things that
benefit people's lives and it's
something they can hold on to see and
understand and Democrats are stupid not
to always always put that at the
forefront you know this is who this is
what we do we give you that we we
provide this stuff and we protect it you
know a lot of people
on to that I agree all right well listen
we have to take a break when we come
back it took less than 24 hours after
the election for Donald Trump to make
his moves he's got to do it quick
because Robert Muller has been working
rather quietly and I imagine quite
diligently over the past couple of
months and I think he was anticipating
this very scenario we are seeing start
to play out we're gonna take a quick
break I'm talking to the great Digby
I'm Sam cedar there's a ring of fire
radio
