let's talk a little bit about what's
going on with Jeffrey Epstein you know I
don't talk about this too too much on my
show at on the majority report because
it is it's only politics adjacent now of
course it was a big deal when Donald
Trump had his Labor Secretary was the
prosecutor that gave Jeffrey Epstein a
sweetheart deal we also know that and we
don't know the depth of the
relationships that Jeffrey Epstein had
with major politicians but we know that
he was friends with Donald Trump we know
that he was friends in some way with
Bill Clinton these are obviously very
powerful men and we know that he's been
a cue or I should say that some of his
accusers have mentioned people like
George Mitchell and and and others
Democrats obviously some Republicans I
mean it doesn't matter but the then he
dies in the suicide which I know it's
pretty extraordinary I know you've been
following this like what what do you
make of this it was on and honestly it
was quite a shock and also not
surprising at all to wake up to that
news on Saturday morning but you know
here's the thing
obviously they were there were
conspiracy theories of flying all around
some of them totally a hundred percent
plausible others that would make for a
good movie but yeah let's not get into
those but no I mean look Epstein the
conditions had to have been made right
for Epstein to kill himself you know he
was allegedly on suicide watch but oh
they had just taken him off as the week
progressed we had stories from the
medical examiner for one saying I can't
tell you how he killed himself well that
only made people go a little bit crazier
with the conspiracy theories we had the
the former mobster that worked for John
Gotti senior who said that he saw
Attorney General William bar go into
that prison shortly before the first
time Epstein was found bloodied and
bruised up
so that story kind of took on a whole
new life of its own maybe maybe it's
accurate maybe it's not I don't know how
much stock we put into a former mobster
right right not butch but good but
overall the thing is Epstein I do
believe he killed himself and I think it
was because this time he knew there was
nothing he was gonna do to get himself
out of this you know the charges I think
he was looking at more than 40 years
based on the charges against him the
trafficking is obviously a lot worse
than just having sex with a minor so he
knew there was no deal he could cut no
amount of names he could give up that
was going to save him from spending the
rest of his life in jail so at that
point probably figures why not just make
this happen right in that stage left
yeah but the conditions had to be right
and so that's why and this is something
you you and I had to briefly discuss off
the air it does make sense that
something had to have happened some kind
of arrangement possibly between him and
the guards or his estate in the guard
whoever it was to allow him the
opportunity to do it and as the story
unfolded throughout the week it really
pointed even more towards that the
guards conveniently all fell asleep at
the same time you know they took him off
suicide watch a day or two prior to this
it all was just way too convenient for
him well I mean that's the thing is that
I think I think you're you're right I
mean and let's be clear there are a lot
of people who commit suicide in in jails
and in prisons in this instance there
was a lot of coincidences that allowed
for him to be alone at the MCC my
understanding is that this is the
Metropolitan Corrections Center people
in his situation generally don't don't
don't aren't in jail alone they have
prison cellmates I should say and he
lost his on Friday and didn't get a new
one there's a lot of things that that
pointed to these sort of you know even
if you are looking at it without jaded
eyes that look like tremendous amount of
incompetence but here's the thing like I
say there's a lot of people who die by
suicide in jails but I would imagine the
number of those that do it that
successfully commit suicide haven't just
come off like literally days before a
suicide watch hey B have not been in the
news for weeks and months as having
possibly information that implicates
some of the most important men in our
country right like this is there is
incompetence
there is Horrors in jail we need
criminal justice reform we need to we
need to really roll back our carceral
state etc etc but the bottom line is
like how are we to believe that no one
had a fire lit underneath them to make
sure that this guy did not kill himself
I mean like surely even those rookies or
you know part-timers or whoever they
were who were responsible for watching
him surely they must have known like hey
this is a pretty serious case this isn't
just like you know this is one that's
gonna make the papers I could get in big
trouble here that's why I think there's
such skepticism with people and then I
agree with you I think I think it's a
suicide I think that there was something
must have happened for all these things
to be sort of so aligned that he could
commit suicide in light of the fact that
there would have been an awareness like
this is somebody we really need to watch
I mean I I I just I find that hard to
believe but then the question is is will
there be justice will will you know
who's getting off and will they be able
to get off I mean like you know
who knows who's implicated in this bill
Richardson Mitchell's name had been
bandied about Donald Trump obviously met
his wife through Jeffrey Epstein you
know what's what's really interesting to
me now you know bring it up Trump at all
this is the fact that the Republicans
the Conservatives all over social media
for the last month or so ever since
Epstein got arrested said oh is Bill
Clinton Bill Clinton's going down for
this and meanwhile you had people on the
Left saying look if Bill Clinton is you
know did do any of the things Epstein is
accused of doing then heck yeah take him
down we don't want him on our side same
thing with any other Democrats but
Republicans never actually stopped to be
like we'll wait a minute yeah okay I
guess it is bad that Trump got there
they always wanted to deflect it back to
Clinton and the left was owning it
saying listen if he did it this is awful
we don't want any part of him would you
say the same about Trump and they never
would and the only thing Bill Clinton
has been accused of doing is flying on
the jet and lying about how many times
he was on the jet let's be honest about
that but you've got lots of pictures of
Donald Trump in Jeffrey Epstein Donald
Trump himself is actually named in one
of the lawsuits by one of Epstein's
victims yep yes Trump has been accused
of engaging in the behavior and yet most
of the coverage on this has centered
around Bill Clinton and these other
people win really the president is right
there quite literally in the court
filings and that's why this suicide yeah
Epstein took the names with him in his
brain to the grave but there are
documents according to Miami Herald
hundreds of thousands of them still that
will be released there are CDs of
photographs there are other witnesses
and plus most importantly there is the
word of the victims and those are the
people we got to listen to right and I
should just say that when I say that
that Epstein introduced Trump to Melania
that that that's according to Epstein I
mean you know maybe you know I don't
know that
Trump acknowledges that but that's a
weird thing to say if you don't have the
receipts on something like that you know
it's a weird thing to go around and talk
about but all right with that said we're
gonna take a quick break we'll be right
back with more bring a fire radio I'm
Sam cedar we'll be right back with
Ferren cousins for one more segment
