[Music]
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in
[Applause]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday September 24th 2019
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged industrially
ravaged Gowanus Canal in the heartland
of America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today brian Rosenwald on talk
radios america how an industry took over
a political party that took over the
united states also on the program today
creeping towards impeachment as trump's
ukrainian fishing expedition unravels
[Music]
meanwhile in the wake of a botched peace
plan US airstrikes now killed 40
civilians in Afghanistan Trump cronies
refused to warn the New York Times
reporter of an imminent arrest in Egypt
and a decision pending on Trump's
attempt to quash New York City subpoenas
for his taxes meanwhile Bernie drops a
wealth tax that outpaces warns as well
as dropping a medical debt payoff front
plan get it
I mean while Biden turns to third way to
sink health care Boris Johnson gets
bonked by a British Supreme Court
Parliament no longer suspended its
official term it's called bond'
its bonking no it's sort of fellow
Scotsman Bob gansan Netanyahu may have a
deal on an Israeli government that's
great and work for a middle and a war
criminal will see all this and more on
today's program ladies and gentlemen
thank you for joining us we have a full
complement in the studio today and
things are moving rather quickly or they
appeared to be at least in terms of
public and congressional sentiment
regarding impeachment this is something
as you know I've been hammering away at
for some time and it feels like between
the corey lewandowski
testimony and then this report that i
guess it was now about a a little more
than a week ago when Adam Schiff was on
Meet the Press on Sunday a week ago
Sunday saying that there was a
whistleblower complaint that the
Director of National Intelligence
refused to hand over well that guy John
McGuire Tobey Maguire is the actor
correct John McGuire is the acting DNI
he will be testifying in front of a
House Intelligence Committee publicly on
Thursday he will be meeting with the
Senate Intelligence Committee behind
closed doors is my unders
it's unclear who the whistleblower is
the Trump administration yesterday
floated the idea of what we'll put out
the transcript of the phone call but not
the whistleblower complaint which leads
me to believe that the whistleblower
complaint is probably I mean they could
be lying about putting out the
transcript of the phone call but it
leads me to believe that the
whistleblower complaint is a little more
comprehensive than just a a secondhand
version of a phone call in the meantime
over the past I don't know 36 hours more
and more details have come out and it's
quite clear that Donald Trump tried to
blackmail Ukraine into finding something
that he could use against Joe Biden in
an election and used the money that the
Congress had appropriated for support to
Ukraine as the what he was blackmailing
with I'm an attorney
all right back dear there you go
tremendous deals and the pieces of this
first of all I I mean I wouldn't put
Rudy Giuliani out there but here is Rudy
Giuliani claiming that well now remember
there were stories months ago about you
Rudy Giuliani heading to Ukraine to do
to dig up this stuff now it's one thing
for political operatives to be sent to
go dig up dirt on another op you know
another candidate I mean it's it's a
little bit unseemly to do it when you're
the president and to into sort of like
send your personal emissary because it
implies that maybe you're using your
influence and leaning on them but now
the implication is gone it's hull seems
to be very very explicit so here is Rudy
Giuliani and what they're all trying to
do is they know at one point these facts
may
come out so what they're trying to do is
backfill an explanation for them and so
they're trying to describe what they
feel will ultimately come out but
they're going to it pre interpreted it
mean it's not terribly different than
what Bill Barr did with the Muller
report you can't see it I'm gonna tell
you what it says so by the time this is
released we all know the story it's an
old story but wait a second it slightly
doesn't say exactly what you had said
that first time but here is Rudy
Giuliani still saying something that is
rather incredible he's not addressing
his trips to the Ukraine he's just
claiming that he'd been enlisted with
just one phone call because apparently
the State Department they don't have
anybody who has any relationship with
Ukraine at all and so Rudy Giuliani's
the only person and they maybe they knew
that he was being sent there by the
presents they figure well we don't we
don't have a phone number for anybody
who speaks Ukrainian and so here is uh
Giuliani telling this story on Hannity
because remember now the danger for
either candidate whoever the Democratic
candidate is they're gonna have the same
danger the danger for both these
candidates when they run for president
is going to be whose base is going to be
depressed in terms of turnout like who's
not going to be fully maximized and so
it all becomes how can we maintain that
we are above the fray in some fashion
did our state Department ask you to go
on a mission for them they they did you
were by the sit and you went the State
Department called me and said now I
gotta say that was very adaptive Hannity
to know to ask that question cuz I would
have never thought to ask that question
even like did the State Department ask
you about this it was a State Department
mission for our security against Ukraine
being ripped off and Joe Biden who here
can we who is going who's my biggest
lapdog Pompeyo okay then it was the
State Department that sent him go did
our state Department ask you to go on a
mission for them they
they did you went the State Department
called me and said would I take a call
from mr. year Mac who's number two or
three to the president-elect now the
president I was put together with mr.
year Mac I talked to him he gave me
enormous Liam portent facts I conveyed
them all to the State Department
unlike the media lies fake news I was it
so let me just see if I understand what
the deal is the State Department says
hey will you take a call
not what you initiate a call but they're
gonna call you and give you facts and
then relate them to us and the reason
why we want you is because you are so
familiar with what's going on in Ukraine
that you know that this guy who's
calling you is the number two or three
he's somewhere he's you know that he's
sort of important and that way you are
much better positioned to take the call
to get the facts to relate them to us
okay I just want to be clear that I
understand he gave me enormous ly
important facts facts conveyed them all
to the State Department
unlike the media lies fake news I wasn't
operating on my own as operating a
mission for that I have to tell you John
I knew this back in November John or
John or whatever I knew I knew this back
in November I don't know what it is that
he knew back in November column John I'm
not sure if he even knows okay it all
goes bust you just call them John so
here's Giuliani trying to sort of
backfill I don't know exactly what this
story they're trying to make here but
here's Donald Trump also trying to do
his backfilling because now it's been
it's clear the reporting is clear that
Trump a small veiny hold off on the four
hundred million dollars that Congress
has appropriated to the Ukraine and hold
off and tell them tell Congress that
you're holding off on it because the say
that the delays were part of an
interagency process but to give
no additional information that was a
pattern which Inc which which went on
for two months so this started in
mid-july the money was due and this is
according to three senior administration
officials so somebody is trying to stick
the knife into somebody and I would bet
those senior administration officials
are probably coming from the vice
president's office or maybe they're some
vestige of somebody who's left who's
upset out I'm trying to think of who
that might be somebody who's got what do
they call that a hairy lip is when you
get a little upset or mustache no that's
Bolton all right go to the Washington
proves a story about you supposedly a
skin
so here's the story very simply we're
watching Venezuela very closely as far
as withholding funds those funds were
paid they were fully paid but my
complaint has always been and I withhold
again and I'll continue to withhold
until such time as Europe and other
nations contribute to Ukraine because
they're not doing it just the United
States we're putting up the bulk of the
money and I'm asking why is that
and I want Europe and it's always been
this and everybody knows it every single
reporter knows that everybody in the
administration knows that what I want
and I insist on it is that Europe has to
put up money for Ukraine also why is it
only the United States putting up the
money and I and by the way we paid that
money but I always ask why aren't other
countries in Europe especially putting
up money for Ukraine okay so just so you
understand that the the Venezuela stuff
he really wanted to get that out of the
way he didn't care that he needed to
address this and his argument is the
reason why I would held the money for
two months and lied about it to Congress
even though they had appropriated it was
because I was mad that the Europeans
haven't paid up
which is why then I just gave the money
on September 11th I never publicly said
I withheld the money because of the
Europeans and I gave it I'm doing that
in retrospect because that's the most
effective way to do it and I would
withhold again even though I didn't
withhold until I used any of the
leverage from the withholding which of
course is no leverage against the
Europeans if I don't give the money that
Congress has already appropriated so
they have yet to figure out how they're
going to answer this question and I
think the answer is just going to be
complete stonewalling however we will
have a better sense on Thursday when
Maguire has to go in front of the
Congress and the reason why will will
have a better sense on Thursday when
McGuire has to go in front of the
Congress is because
it now appears that the dam has broken
there have been about ten more over the
past 24 hours Democrats who have come
out publicly for impeachment the latest
are seven freshmen Congress people they
are
I guess all Nash they consider
themselves national security Democrats
I'm not sure exactly what that means but
I have a feeling that means Democrats
but we like killing Yemenis that's right
regardless they I don't know if they
were all they're all vets I guess of the
military or the nation's offense and
intelligence agencies according to them
they wrote them as a megabucks winner
and one is a megabucks winner and they
are all more or less so-called
front-line Democrats I think five of
them beat Republicans in 2018 the other
two were in districts that could go
either way or with dealing with the
retirement so these are supposedly the
poster Congress people for why Nancy
Pelosi was not pursuing impeachment and
here is Roe Kahana
this morning right on on c-span on
Washington journal basically saying that
he thinks the train is about to leave
the station with an op-ed in Washington
Post about this issue of impeachment
these seven members of the military and
intelligence communities before they
came to Congress where do you think the
the caucus line is right now I saw that
late last night that op-ed and I said to
a friend that's a game-changer
these are extraordinary members of
Congress they have the most credentials
when it comes to national security or
military issues they are off many of
them are in districts that Trump carried
for them to come out and say this
justifies an impeachment inquiry really
as
the tenor in our caucus you had a number
of progressives like me would call for
an inquiry now you have moderates and
people on Frontline districts calling
for it I can't think of something more
significant than that upend significant
enough to move the speaker to pursue
impeachment investigations I would be
surprised if she doesn't officially
endorse impeachment investigations at
this point obviously you'd have to ask
her but given the breadth of support for
that in the caucus that would be my
expectation now the real question is
going to be like I say when the Director
of National Intelligence shows up at the
House Intelligence Committee Thursday
and either gives them the whistleblower
testimony starts to commits to allowing
the whistleblower to testify to the
committee or not and there is now talk
again about Congress's power to hold
people in inherent contempt up to this
point all of the rebukes by Congress's
subpoenas have been pursued in the
courts and still awaiting resolution and
it's a very slow process and this was
deliberate on the part of Nancy Pelosi
but Congress also has the ability to say
okay you're gonna you're we're gonna
hold you in contempt and we have the
ability to find you money or we can put
you in our jail that is in our basement
they literally have a jail there and
they can put you in jail in their
basement be like being put in the
dungeon I imagine there's going to be
just finds and that will be when that
happens you know this is for real
I tweeted last night at one point
I am looking forward to the column
saying that Nancy Pelosi played this
geniusly
lulling Donald Trump into a false sense
of security so that he would though go
in blackmail a country to get them to
produce lies for his campaign and it
worked
so are you take a victory lap Nancy and
and a call for impeachment the
psychological needs of people for Nancy
Pelosi to be good for certain people are
deep uh yeah it's not out there yet but
I I find hard to believe um I think it
will come we will check that out in the
meantime before we go to Brian Rosenwald
who actually interviewed me for this
book I have forgotten about that it was
a long time ago
today's support for today's show comes
from embark I mentioned this before you
can discover your dog more than just you
know well fur deep I guess with the
thank you with the most da most accurate
dog DNA test kit on the market now when
I first heard this I was like seriously
why would anybody do that and after we
read the first ad first of all Kelly was
it was into it I'm gonna read what she
sent me but after the first ad we we
heard from a guy who not only used
embark DNA but their dog was such an
integral part of their family because it
was very therapeutic for his brother who
had I think it was Asperger's and and a
the ability to know more about the dog
and B to ensure that they're feeding the
dog and caring for the dog properly and
are aware of any potential diseases the
dog may have an inclination for a
biological indication for has made them
all feel much better about keeping their
dog around Kelly did this for for eating
she
said she received Eadie's results from
embark and there's so much information
about her she tested clear for all a
hundred and seventy-one genetic health
conditions that was when I just
mentioned they screamed for and she's
not a carrier at risk for any of the
genetic diseases they test for that's
got to be a relief there's also a full
clinical trait report so much great news
but most importantly I can provide the
report to her vet which will provide so
much information to help with lady's
health as she grows up the the dog DNA
tests from embark looks at over 250
breeds 170 genetic health conditions
they apparently analyze more than a
hundred times more genetic information
than any other dog DNA kit it's accurate
down to a five percent breed component
and it's the only company with stellar
customer service vets and veterinary
geneticists on staff will will walk you
through the embark results right now for
our listeners embark has an exclusive
summer offer it's not even summer
anymore technically you can't get
anywhere else go to embark vet dot-com
use the promo code majority save 50% off
your dog DNA test kit discover your dog
more than fur deep visit embark vet
dot-com use promo code majority to save
we will put a link obviously in our
liner notes in an all our podcast
delivery systems in the meantime quick
break when come back I'll be talking to
Brian Rosenwald real quick John Lewis
just called for Trump's impeachment he's
very close to Pelosi so that's more than
your yeah I think where we are we're
very very close at this point to this
being full blown and we saw look we saw
just when they changed the rules what it
meant in terms of Corey Lewandowski
things are gonna get more aggressive and
I think this is a very good thing
because I mean we can talk more about it
and I probably said a Todd nauseam but
Donald Trump does not want this and
neither do those senators who are
running for reelection or the house
members they do not want this to be a
referendum on Donald Trump
they want it to be a choice between two
people who stink and they want each race
to be as localized as possible and
there's nothing that says national
referendum then how you voted on
impeachment vote we'll take a quick
break we'll come back brian Rosenwald on
talk radio's america how an industry
took over a political party took over
the United States
we'll be right back
you
back Sam cedar on the majority report on
the phone it is pleasure to welcome to
the program Co editor-in-chief of made
by history which is a daily Washington
Post history section and a scholar and
residence at the partnership for
effective public administration and
leadership program at the University of
Pennsylvania author of talk radio's
America how an industry took over a
political party that took over the
United States Brian Rosenwald welcome to
the program hey Sam great to be with you
so we should say full disclosure you and
I spoke I don't know how many years ago
was six seven years ago when this was a
thesis project of yours back when I you
know was lose I guess but I guess
technically I'm still in radio I do a
terrestrial show on the weekends Ring of
Fire but was just maybe coming out of my
daily radio grind at at air America and
so nine years yeah nine years of
research and writing and most of it was
unplanned I just sort of went where the
facts led me all right well so I mean
let's you know you you obviously you
give a history of the development of
talk radio give us give us the the the
or I should say political talk radio
give us just the sort of the broad
strokes so we can get into sort of the
what what the real dynamics are but just
in terms of this the milestones of the
history tell us how it developed
although the real big milestone August
1st 1988 rush limbaugh goes national at
a time that AM radio is desperate for
new programming because music sounds
better on FM and as music because music
sounds better the listeners are you know
going to FM and with them is going the
advertising revenue and at the same time
there's rules in radio ideas about what
makes for good radio like the idea that
only nationally syndicated radio will
only work overnight but good talk radio
has to be local and the sort of paradigm
at the time is Larry King someone who
can you know ask good questions in an
interview and can interview everybody
from presidents and prime minister
- you know mobsters and then take calls
about anything on someone's mind at 3:00
a.m. it could be abominable snowmen or
yetis or things like that or you know
anything and limb ball comes along and
reshapes the whole thing he is providing
a product that most people have never
heard before
it's on the only thing you can expect is
to expect the unexpected every day it's
brash in-your-face his perspective is
shines through every day and everything
he does but it's fun it's funny it's
conservative he breaks every norm and
every rule and it catches on like
wildfire and people are calling him
saying thank god you're on the air rush
and from there it leads to a series of
decisions every one of which was made in
the interest of making money that
reshapes the whole industry so that
today what you have is you know but
stations where most health sound like
Limbaugh and you usually have you know
in a lot of cases you have a local
conservative Morning Show followed by
syndicated talk all day the rest of the
day and that is only possible because
you know Limbaugh reshapes this whole
thing now there's a couple of things
that that set this up - to a certain
extent right is is he starts an 88 that
is we're about what four or five years
out maybe less from the Fairness
Doctrine being eliminated right well the
Fairness Doctrine actually goes away in
87 so it's only one year okay and I
think that Limbaugh would have happened
without the Fairness Doctrine and my
best and not everyone agrees with that
but my best piece of evidence is that
he's been cast BK in Sacramento he
starts in 84 and he's doing the same
show in Sacramento that he would do
nationally and they just have a liberal
on the station somewhere and that's
really where the Fairness Doctrine plays
such a critical role here which is the
rise of these all conservative stations
the first couple of all conservative
stations are successful and ironically
enough Seattle in San Francisco in the
early 90s where KVI in Seattle
skyrockets over a couple of years once
they start branding themselves is all
conservative and going to all
conservative hosts and this becomes
the idea in the business and you know
talking to people in the radio business
they tell you no we're not the most
creative lot the first thing your boss
is going to ask you when you try to say
I want to try this format is where is it
working and for a lot of these guys the
paradigm became okay all conservative
stations are where the money's at but
for that to work you have to have the
abolishing of the Fairness Doctrine if
the fairness doctor is in place it
mandated overall balance in a stations
programming so station could have rush
limbaugh on but they would had to have
someone like you on as well to give that
overall balance in the day's programming
line so that is the key role of the
Fairness Doctrine in this whole process
is that you couldn't have gotten these
all conservative stations that we have
today if that was still in place all
right so there's two things that that
strike me one is is that the the idea of
that conservative talk radio explodes in
otherwise liberal areas is actually
consistent with my experience on air
America where we would have big
audiences in in pockets in otherwise red
states yes so in Austin Texas
Asheville North Carolina you know to a
certain extent Madison Wisconsin I mean
places where maybe they are
there's the you're surrounded by you
know it's a red state to a certain
extent where there are pockets where
people want to hear their perspective
and hadn't heard it before yeah I mean
one thing people have to understand
about the radio businesses to do well
with a major city station you only need
like three to five percent of the
audience and as the guy who came up with
the idea of putting an all conservative
station on in San Francisco told me and
he happen to be a card-carrying Democrat
he said you know the one thing you can't
openly be in San Francisco is a
conservative and what what talk radio is
in many ways it is it's a digital
version of the neighborhood bar and if
you're conservative and you feel
maligned in a place like San Francisco
or if you're liberal and you feel
maligned somewhere in a red
date you're looking for someone that
shares your perspective that can say
what you think without worrying about
upsetting friends family coworkers
bosses and that where you can go and say
hey I can be myself my values are
respected here I'm going to hear things
I agree with that kind of thing so it
makes great sense that you would have
done well in places where people felt
marginalized from aligned and where they
couldn't be themselves or air their
views because they were worried about
social pressures and that sort of thing
and we should say too that the certainly
the theory when we were opening air
America was that the the only way to do
a sort of a nationally syndicated type
of network and maybe we'll get to that
but but the only way to do really
successful political talk radio is to
have that format consistency throughout
the day because at one point people are
going to get there they're not going to
they're gonna turn their dial from the
liberal to a guy if they're conservative
or vice versa and you know the one thing
for radio folks is just like don't ever
give them a reason to change their dial
in their car because people are lazy
yeah I mean this is one of the most
contested points I think among people in
the radio business you've got a good
half or two thirds of people who say you
got to have format purity the example
they'll give you over and over is well
when you tune in the country radio
station you're not going to be happy to
hear Beethoven's fifth you know that we
don't do this in music radio so why
would talk be any different now what
I've seen is that I think you can
succeed with people who have very
divergent opinions in the same
programming lineup but it's very
expensive to do that you have to brand
your station well you have to advertise
it so ed Schultz and Rush Limbaugh were
number one their market back-to-back on
the same station in North Dakota at one
point but they branded it they had
billboards they made fun of their sort
of divergent opinions and things like
that
or you've got places like kgo and CI
or in San Francisco that was number one
in its market for 30 years but they were
the community hub they had a big news
gathering organization they had every
perspective Under the Sun and they were
kind of an institution a heritage
station so it can succeed it's just much
more expensive especially with the rise
of syndicated talk what you have in
terms of all conservative especially but
they know this was what Air America was
trying to do is it becomes much more
affordable to say okay we'll put a local
conservative Morning Show on and then
will pluck from the the array then the
buffet of syndicated options for the
rest of the day and build a programming
lineup and the thing with all
conservative talk that the programmers
found out was that the what they call
the TSL the time spent listening was
really really really high people would
turn their dials on and they wouldn't
turn it off um for for record lengths of
time which meant that they could charge
higher advertising rates and that things
were really successful and they could do
this with syndicated programming that
was cheaper to air and so it made sense
from a business perspective and you know
all these decision makers are largely
worried about the bottom line and that
that's what's driving a lot of this so
it's not to say that you can't succeed
with that other kind of format but it's
much harder harder and it requires much
more money and effort because you are
kind of rebuilding your audience in a
lot of cases you know if the
conservative host has a bunch of
conservatives that then the liberal host
comes on well you'll get some will stick
around because they want to scream at
the radio but others are going to go
away so I don't want to listen to this
and so you have to pull a whole new
audience it and it got you know but the
late Alan Combs who most people know is
Sean Hannity's sparring partner from Fox
but it got him fired a couple of times
when he was number one in the market
element on talk radio at night because
he would have a really good audience but
that audience wasn't the same audience
that the conservative morning show in
the same station was going to draw so
they couldn't really use that audience
to drive people to that morning show and
in radio morning drive is sort of the
number one day part and so they said you
know we need a conservative in here at
night it didn't matter that Kohl's was
really successful that's right because
the audience didn't transfer over
so and and then let me ask you about it
from this end to I mean you know we
should also say you know radio is a very
the profit margins are razor thin and so
the idea of expanding that type of cash
is a is a pretty rare event
to what extent to is it not just about
you know that that difference then maybe
maybe this is a question that probably
would have been more appropriate later
but one of the things that I observed in
terms of air America and and I hope
we'll spend a little more time on this
but is that not just is the audience
different for a conservative and a
liberal talk radio but the the
advertisers are different like the the
business model in terms of the
advertising is as different between
conservative and liberal talk radio in
many respects as it would be between
let's say Spanish and English talk radio
that you're hitting a fundamentally
different demographic and the
advertising models are different what
did you how much did you come across
that and I would imagine it would be
conceivable to me that you wouldn't come
across at munch because there wasn't
many people who were who were
advertising directly to just a liberal
audience are left well I think that's
true you know in a lot of cases
especially after the 1996
Telecommunications Act which enable
raised the ownership caps again it was
the third time in like 20 years that
they had raised the ownership caps so
you've got these giant conglomerates
that own tons of stations they might own
six stations in a market so they were
selling like advertising packages so you
don't get as much of it but I think
we're going to see more and more of what
you're talking about now and into the
future as opposed to maybe 15 20 years
ago and the reason is that that the
cultural profiles are so different right
you know your average liberal is
probably you know a local gun store just
to pick a kind of caricatured example
it's probably not going to advertise on
a liberal show that's not their audience
whereas it might be a really good
audience for them on a conservative show
and there are other things like that and
and the other big difference is that
fortune 500 companies the big
advertisers are getting more and more
skittish you know one thing that really
changes for talk-radio over the last 15
years is the rise of the internet and
media monitoring stuff so like in the
90s if somebody like Limbaugh said
something offensive to people who are
not his audience people were not his
audience really didn't hear it they
wouldn't know that like if you weren't
tuned in on the terrestrial radio
station at the moment it happened you
wouldn't hear about it and this is one
reason that like Limbaugh gets in
trouble when he does ESPN for football
commentary for like five minutes and
after like two weeks he gets himself in
trouble and inspired and the reason for
that was all of a sudden his content his
regular kind of shtick gets no aired for
a broader audience
well with the rise of both digital
streaming and organizations like Media
Matters and their conservative
equivalents of that all of a sudden
there's monitoring all of a sudden you
don't just have to be tuned in to hear
that thing and with the rise of social
media that's hurt advertisers because
first you find a clip of someone saying
something deeply offensive and then that
clip goes viral and then people start
tweeting or facebooking at the companies
advertising on those programs and saying
do you stand for this are you okay with
this so as those advertisers say well we
just want no part of anything political
because we're gonna offend half the
country one way or another right then
you're going to get more of those kind
of niche advertisers who are focused on
on some demographic characteristic of a
liberal audience or conservative
audience and so I think you're gonna see
more of this actually going forward then
you did in the past yep and and there's
a similar dynamic on YouTube now as well
alright well let's talk about right so
that's you know those are some of the
sort of the mechanics from an industry
perspective let's talk about what
happened politically we should just say
that you know like I think I I recall
I recall George Herbert Walker Bush and
this must have been in like the early
90s 91 maybe when he was running for
re-election or I should say election as
maybe it was reelection somewhere around
there he was kissing Rush Limbaugh's ass
right what what what what's interesting
about this story is he and his White
House are actually really slow to catch
on to the potential benefits of talk
radio some of that is when they start in
a you know Limbaugh doesn't go national
until a few months before he's elected
and in those days if you wanted to hear
a radio program it's depending on
whether you've got a em reception where
you were so they can get the reception
in the White House they have to go out
and try and seek it out and it's always
hard when something is developing as in
administration's in place to really
notice it so they kind of figure it out
late he does an interview on Limbaugh
Show if it's 90 or 91 when Limbaugh was
on vacation because his vacation fillin
at the time was a representative from
California by the name of Abby won Bob
Dornan for people who don't remember him
he was the sort of forerunner of the
house freedom caucus he was this loud
bombastic guy who had been a broadcaster
but because he's at you know member of
Congress he's got some connections to
the White House so Bush goes on with him
but in 1992 June of 1992 in fact
Limbaugh not though I want to paint this
picture for your audience
Limbaugh is a guy who has been fired
four times as a DJ in the seventies he's
dropped out of college in 84 he goes to
Sacramento he's talking about Renaldo's
Magnus as in President Reagan and
somebody from the Sacramento Bee bothers
to look and finds out that Limbaugh has
never even been registered to vote in
the decade plus that he's been eligible
flash-forward however eight years June
of 92 and Limbaugh is sleeping in the
Lincoln Bedroom of a White House staying
overnight and the president takes his
bags from the elevator at the White
House to the Lincoln Bedroom himself and
he tell Limbaugh talks about this on the
Today Show and you know he's almost
choked up by this he says you know I
wish my parents could see this I wish
they they were looking at this
because he had no issues with his dad
sort of think he was a failure and that
is sort of the first moment of
mainstream Republican embrace at this
and it would only grow with time Bush
really didn't get it
Bill Clinton honestly understood the
value of the medium a lot more but
Republicans beginning especially with
Newt Gingrich and in his leadership
really get this and reach out to talk
radio every day they are pumping talking
points out there they are having
segments suggestions they are themselves
going on there's one case I ever count
in the book where Gingrich is just
driving on i-95 to go visit his daughter
and Limbaugh says something and Gingrich
pulls over and called in because he
feels like it needs to be addressed so
it the whole political world changes in
in the sort of the mid 90s as Gingrich
becomes the focal point of republicanism
as opposed to Bush and now this is also
the time that Rush Limbaugh who was I
think probably the chief promulgator at
least in terms of of of scope of who
heard this from him the whole Vince
Foster murder story gets built basically
in the in this you know via his platform
yeah I mean something that people need
to understand talk radio is a show talk
radio is a soap opera there are good
guys and there are bad guys and this is
not a journalism based product I can't
stress that more because house play it
both ways you know Sean Hannity loves to
say when he gets in trouble for for
passing along one of these ridiculous
conspiracy theories he says well I'm an
entertainer I'm a talk show host right
he doesn't say on the journalists but
every night every day I'm radio he's
like you gotta tune in tonight to TV
we've got this exclusive thing or he'll
lead the show by saying we've got
exclusive news for you here tonight and
he has like his own investigative
reporter and all this stuff but none of
that goes through the journalistic
processes or editorial processes at his
Network you know at Fox and it's a show
it's a soap opera and conspiracy
theories they fit with what a lot of the
audience's think
and make for a good show and he actually
this one day he brings the market down
in the early 90s because he reports that
he's heard from this newsletter that he
gets that Vince Foster was murdered in
an apartment owned by Hillary Clinton
and the stock market actually goes down
because he's pushing this this nonsense
and you know that this is a good it's a
good storyline it makes for a good show
and it helps to honestly explain the
2016 election I had a Republican
consultant say to me you know the thing
you got to understand I think this
interview took place a couple of months
before election day saying this person
said it makes sense to me that people on
the right would think that Donald Trump
was maybe the lesser of two evils to
Hillary Clinton because for 25 years the
Clintons have been V villain on this
media they've been you know that my she
says I I know people on the right who
see Hillary Clinton is almost demonic
you know these people are trying to
destroy America and that's the picture
painted because that's part of the show
it's part of the soap opera yeah I think
that's absolutely right I don't know
that there's ever been frankly a
candidate for office in the history of
the United States who has generated more
revenue for in their opposition than
Hillary Clinton in the history of
American politics in terms of like that
I mean the amount of the millions and
millions and millions and millions of
dollars that were generated around
stories about the Clintons because that
that was basically those for those those
eight years of Clinton is what basically
built Limbaugh right I mean this is
where the wasn't that basically I mean
that you have the rise through you know
obviously George Bush's term but it was
Clinton that really cemented it for ya
Limbaugh is definitely a cultural
phenomenon and a big deal before Clinton
you know by 91 92 there are restaurants
partnered with local affiliates to have
rush rooms so the people can come and
have
lunch and listen to the show piped in so
he's a very very big deal at that point
um but he is not you know what Clinton
does he actually does an interview
Limbaugh doesn't interview a playboy and
I can't remember if it's 90 and of 92 or
93 Reese's look I wanted George Bush to
win I think George Bush would be better
for the country but I key he doesn't
even try to deny sits Clinton's good for
me you know makes it easier to have a
show I had somebody say you know it's
easier for a guy like Limbaugh to be
outside sir throwing rocks that it is to
be kind of on the inside and so it gives
them something to rail against it gives
them something it gives them a villain
it gives them something to a post yeah
Limbaugh begins his program every day
during the Clinton years but with a surf
spoof of the old night line start where
he says you know America held hostage
day number whatever he calls it the raw
deal is how he dubs the Clinton
administration so it is great for him it
gives them something to rail against and
it makes him you know especially Bush
leaves office there's a vacuum
it makes him the player in conservative
politics either you know they're doing
polling about the presidential primary
in 1996 and they're polling Limbaugh
this guy has gone from failed deejay and
a guy who worked in group sales and
marketing to the Kansas City Royals in
the early 80s and within a decade he's
gone to being polled for a presidential
primary and this still exists I mean I
remember back in in like oh seven
examples of congressmen calling in to
Limbaugh to apologize to Limbaugh for
one thing or another I mean I can't even
remember what it was but just the idea
that you have standing you know that you
have sitting politicians calling in to a
radio show to apologize for offending
them is stunning and and this has gone
on and it expands and you make the
argument that on some level at one point
Limbaugh and then Sean Hannity is
fortunate enough for his career to
basically follow Limbaugh in many
markets across the country this is a guy
who frankly
I don't know maybe you have a different
opinion or maybe it's you don't want to
even bring it up but from the
perspective of someone who does this
Limbaugh I think incredibly talented at
what he does Sean Hannity not so
talented at what he does but God was
tenacious and has been doing it for long
enough and was fortunate enough to have
the biggest lead in in the country and
to be owned I think by the same company
which is a nice place to be and that's
basically how it starts to grow from
there yeah I mean I think you have just
recovered kind of the consensus in the
industry you know everybody left right
or Center says Limbaugh is enormous ly
talented Limbaugh reshape this we saved
AM radio there's a lot of respect even
for people who hate his views Hannity is
is not considered in the same light in
terms of talent handy actually gets very
very lucky in two respects
um watched it three respects first is he
ends up on Fox and and he at the time
he's I believe he's still in Atlanta
when he starts at Fox and then he moves
shortly thereafter to WABC he's doing
overnights at first on in New York radio
but so he gets the audience on Fox and
he's ready you know I think part of what
turns Fox onto him is that he's Limbaugh
as vacation fillin at that point but
then really importantly for Sean Hannity
his national show starts on September
10th 2001 um and he's got clearance and
eight of the top ten markets because at
that point he's an ABC show and so ABC
stations take him and that's
unprecedented clearance for day one so
he's reaching a broad audience and the
next day is 9/11 and after 9/11 every
news product benefits people want to
talk about this people are angry they
want to listen to something and Hannity
takes off from that and then helps to
build his show so indefinitely Limbaugh
has catalyzed a lot of people's careers
he has built this whole industry and I
think most people tell you that nobody
else has his talent none of these guys
have this talent and you know some are
more talented some are less
and they all have slightly different
flavors of conservatism but he helps
build this entire industry and it's had
an increasingly large political impact
over the last two decades place the the
political impact I want to talk about
the political impact both in terms of
like how much at what point like you
know how much Rush Limbaugh was driving
the Republican agenda I mean obviously
if Newt Gingrich he's pulling over on
the radio on the side of the the the
highway because he's got a you know
clarify stuff with Limbaugh he's already
at that point by mid-90s has an
incredibly influential role in the
Republican Party certainly when Obama
got into office in 2008 he spent the
first three or four months of his of his
presidency basically making Rush
Limbaugh the intellectual pillar of the
Republican Party which was the case
actually but I'm curious as to you know
how you measure that if there is a point
where you saw Limbaugh's peak sort of
influence but I also want to talk about
the other side of that because from my
perspective one thing I've been aware of
is that you had particularly when you're
talking about like sort of the the be
level guys the michael medved z' guys
who were like maybe regional or smaller
national shows they all worked at
townhall they all had sin occurs at at
either an online website or they were
getting a lot of like ads from Hillsdale
College which gets its money from the
Heritage Foundation there was a
tremendous amount of ideological money
that was which is not to say that they
weren't getting corporate you know money
but I'm saying there was a lot of
ideological money that was if not paying
them to be on the radio paying them when
they were off the radio which allowed
them to be on the radio yeah there's a
lot of this kind of murky network and
it's something that I wasn't able to get
into as much but you know even down to
place like Heritage buying a lot of
copies of some of these book and
Hillsdale definitely
adds a lot of these people shows and
things like that but I'll give you the
best example of the synergy because it
goes back further 1997 I happened across
a recording of a random Limbaugh show
and I wasn't really listening to
expecting anything special it was just
that there are so few available shows of
his from the 90s that you kind of listen
to whatever you can get your hands on
because you want to hear what's going on
how it sounds the tenor to town and we
get to commercial and I'm only half
listening and what does Rush Limbaugh
launch into a live read for and library
meaning he's reading the ad himself Fox
News at that time the very new Fox News
and he does this whole spiel at how you
know all that that stuff we've talked
about about other networks being about
the reporters opinions this is going to
be different and this is the place to go
and call your cable company and ask them
to add this channel and ends with Fox
News as fair news yeah and it shows that
there's this deeply interconnected
Network you know Hannity is the second
most important radio talker today and
he's in some cases he might be first
given how close he is to the White House
but he's also you know been on Fox News
from day one you've got even some of the
guests are conservative hosts on Fox
you're right that these people have
columns
you know Salem which owns a a network of
radio stations and they are the one
owner for whom ideology is what drives
what goes on their airwaves it's only
conservative talk and Christian talk and
they also own townhall red state and I'm
blanking on the third one but another
big conservative digital platform yeah
they own like three of them they bought
them over time and so you get these
things they're news max is now a
television network and a digital site so
there's all of this cross-pollination
it's one big network that exists that
exists to feed conservative Americans
content that is going to valorize their
views that is going to give them a
clubhouse because these people feel
marginalized and scorned by it by those
who disagree and that's that's really
what this is exists they they realize
there's a market for this all right
so where is it now I mean you know
because it seems to me that you know
YouTube has has in some way supplanted
at least in the you know be YouTube and
and and you know has supplanted this to
a certain extent like I don't read about
Limbaugh that much at all anymore now I
know from a conservative perspective
Limbaugh is still their leader right but
it is also like guys like Levin who has
cross platforms
he's on radio and has he's Co partner
with blaze TV Glenn Beck did the same
thing and when we talk about
associations Glenn Beck was heavily
financed by Americans for Prosperity I
know back in in the aughts
quite a bit his whole nine twelve stuff
and you know the Tea Party was you had
Sean Hannity and if they're doing Tea
Party rallies that were you know all the
audience was being bussed in by by Koch
brothers money I mean there was a lot of
money sloshing around during the aughts
it feels like part of it is online now
and part of its on radio Ben Shapiro has
a radio show and an online thing I mean
where where is the center of gravity is
it more or less the same Limbaugh is is
has he been eclipsed on some level does
it matter
um so what I say to people is this a
little bit like if you were the only
supermarket in a one supermarket town
back in 90s talk radio was the only
place Republicans could go if they
wanted to get a message to their base
they wanted to sort of take the
temperature of their base and segment a
message now there are a lot of platforms
and there are a lot of people competing
for conservative eyeballs ears and
cliques which means that it's actually
driven the content nuts just further to
the right but driven it tactically
towards the extreme driven it towards
people saying shut the government down
over this or that or the other thing
because the one thing a host doesn't
want to appear to be is impure they
don't want to risk having the upstart
say ah you know you listen to that guy
for all those years you watch Fox for
all those years but you know Fox hasn't
adapted with the time they don't get it
come watch us
so that that's driven the content but
from a political standpoint all they've
done is make the megaphone stronger all
they've done it these people are all on
the same page most of the time it's not
like there's a morning meeting you some
people I think see conspiracies and say
oh there's like some morning meeting
where they're all taking marching orders
or something like that does it work like
that a lot of these guys are friends
Limbaugh and Hannity you know Hannity
used to be on opposite neil bortz in
atlanta and they would text each other
not texting it's probably for texting
but they call each other during their
breaks because they were buddies you
have a lot of these relationships Levin
and Hannity these guys are friendly John
Boehner did this interview of Politico
after he retires where he says you know
who was that nutty guy at night Levin
always screaming at the radio mr.
producer this is that you know that
that's his shtick he dragged Rush and
handy far to the right and so there's
this cross-pollination Limbaugh still
sets the agenda for talk radio in a lot
of ways he's the king when he says
something other people are listening
people are tuned in they're following
their figuring out what is Rush saying
and that sort of sets the agenda for
what the people the rest of the day are
talking about maybe even into the next
morning but you know that the Fox
primetime people Ingraham had a radio
show Hannity does radio and television
so there's a lot of this
cross-pollination that sets the message
so that is sort of that the political
piece of it you're right however that
the delivery mechanism is changing but
that you know I don't know if in 10
years people are going to put up with
terrestrial radio what is it 22 minutes
an hour of commercials you know people
don't really want to listen to that well
they're not gonna put up with that model
right I mean they still may get it
interests you but it's not going to be
that model right right I mean I what I'm
saying is I think there's a delivery
mechanism is changing here I think that
the content is just as powerful I think
that you see that every day in the Trump
administration first of all because he's
taken his style directly from talk radio
and cable news but also because you know
last winter we have a government
shutdown in part because Limbaugh you
know they have a deal and Trump's
apparently told the Republican
leadership yeah I'll sign off on this
see our continuing
and then Limbaugh and others go crazy
and the next day he like in Trump like
text Limbaugh or something says you know
hey we're gonna hold the line we're
gonna shut this down if they don't give
me the wall money you know they have
that kind of impact we've heard about
your Limbaugh play golf with Trump
Handy's advising Trump they're always
talking Tucker Carlson was with Trump in
North Korea or for that last summit they
weren't in North Korea but you know
somewhat with the North Koreans you know
all of this kind of thing so the impact
is there but the delivery mechanism I
think is shifted I think that the people
are going to say you AM radio in ten
years might look like the print
newspaper does today kind of going by
the wayside a once-great medium but I
don't think the content is going away
because there's still a market for your
people say well what about you know
younger you know the demographics are so
old on cable news and talk radio and
that's true but again we go back to that
that those original all conservative
stations three to five percent is all
they needed to be successful in the
market right well if you're a millennial
if you're one of the like one and thirty
Millennials or Jenn's ears who are
conservative you might even feel more
social pressure not to voice your
opinions you might be even more looking
for something like ben shapiro or in
daily wire and he's he's done
successfully we have been successful
with a younger audience he told me I
interviewed for the book he told me you
my demographics are young because it
doesn't take either you don't need
seventy percent of the people who care
about politics in a demographic to be
successful and I think that one thing
that you're going to see as the medium
changes as we start podcasting in
YouTube become the thing as opposed to
you know terrestrial radio is you're
going to get more ideological diversity
more of what you're doing where there is
a market for everything because you know
one thing that kept liberal radio off of
the airwaves is there's a paucity of
fifty thousand watt stations what we
call flamethrower stations and the
example I use for audiences that are not
familiar is when I was a kid we used to
take vacations drive up to Maine drive
down North Carolina and at night you
could go out to the car and listen the
Phillies why
want to listen to the Phillies when
they're they were perpetually terrible I
don't know but you know didn't want to
miss a game
you could go out listen to it because
the station was so strong you could hear
it you know eight nine hours away well
there was a limited number only a couple
hundred of those stations well but in
the digital space there is no limiter
like that there is no oh if you're not
on this station you're not going to get
heard by as many people it's if you've
got talent if you produce something good
that people want to hear that there's an
audience for there's a market for and
the barrier to entry is much lower so I
think you're going to get more
ideological diversity out of that let's
just talk a little bit about air America
I mean I what else I mean what can you
tell me about that experience because
they're really conservatives have
dominated talk radio and we had a
there's been you know some amount of of
liberal talk radio in certain pockets
locally in the snap but air America was
the only real attempt and I guess you
know Schultz and Stephanie Miller were
sort of concurrent in developing a
national presence I mean what what's
your take from from all that I mean do
you point out rightly that it that there
just wasn't as many it wasn't just as
many outlets available that were free
that we're willing you know and to the
extent that there were Air America had
to come in and either buy them or rent
them all the entire day so Air America I
think I spent in my doctoral
dissertation I think I spent 18 pages
explaining why air America itself failed
and a lot of the questions a lot of the
reasons had to do specifically with Air
America with management decisions
constantly changing management that had
different visions for what the network
would be you know they started on day
one and they're already in the hole
because the the founder is kind of a
scam artist who said there's all this
money in the bank that isn't there and
they had an enormous ly expensive vision
and I wonder what would happen if they
had had you know five hundred million
dollars sitting around to finance this
but there are other factors that are
broader to why liberal talk hasn't
succeeded so the first is that for
liberal audiences you know when you
talk to people in the radio business and
say well why it hasn't liberal talk see
succeeded they say well that's not true
it has succeeded um and their answer is
well there's NPR or others you know
urban urban or african-american talk
formats or Latino talk radio which is
all very successful and a lot of people
say well wait a second you know that
that's not the equivalent of Rush
Limbaugh that's not politically in your
face kind of talk sort of what air
America was trying to be but what it is
is the if you picture the Democratic
coalition as a three-legged stool you've
got young voters
you've got minority voters and you've
got sort of highly educated
professionals suburbanite and but the
last group is listening to NPR the first
group the young voters are interested in
formats like guy talk or Howard Stern
which is Howard Stern kind of thing and
then you you're minority communities
often have this robust talk product in
their communities but it's a little bit
more diverse than the political talk
radio they might get into politics but
they might also talk about community
needs they might also be talking about
religion they're much more diverse
thematically and so what you've got is
those things are all eroding the
audience the potential audience for
liberal in-your-face talk and so that's
one factor the second factor is you get
a lot of people in liberal talk the
first attempts at liberal talk in the
90s people like Mario Cuomo or Gary are
not very hard um yeah the Colorado
senator um Gary huh yeah it's very hard
I I'm I'm thinking myself now you got
the first name wrong but I had to get
right these are people who failed
politicians they're not people who are
trained in radio and over and over and
over again when you talk to be best
people in radio left right or center
they all started like Limbaugh as
deejays like in their teenage years
where they started as legal experts for
ten years before they got a show they
learn the craft of radio well air
America brings a lot of very talented
people on but you put somebody like Al
Franken on the radio he's never done the
radio before and it's a little bit of a
unique product and you know I talked to
mark
it was on air America and has become
maybe one of the most successful if not
the most successful podcasts are out
there and he said you know it took me
two years to figure out what a good
radio show would sound like and what we
wanted to be doing and by the time we
hit that you know we hit our stride
there was three management teams later
and they had a very different vision for
what air America was going to be and
they weren't willing to let us build the
audience now that we were really doing
high-quality political satire type stuff
and you hear that over and over and over
again where either people came in and
even funny entertaining people thought
that their goal was sort of a political
mission they were trying to mirror what
they heard from Limbaugh without
understanding that when Limbaugh goes
national and takes off
he tells an early interviewer you know
there are three reasons people listen to
the radio entertainment entertainment
entertainment and that's what he's
trying to do in the early days but they
don't hear that so either they're trying
to do that or they're finding their
voice and in a lot of cases on their
shows there were two or three people who
were thrust together without much of in
the way of rehearsals to figure out well
what do we sound like together how do we
want to make this work how what's our
brand going to be and realistically most
of the attention to air Americus at the
beginning you it's the set up where you
need to have a really sleep operation
from day one both in terms of the
quality of the product and the
distribution model and being able to get
to people because it's getting buzz in
the New York Times and everywhere else
and it's at a moment where Liberals are
the ones who feel marginalized we take
this 2004 Republicans control both
houses of Congress they control the
White House they control the Supreme
Court you know leans right and liberals
are really really angry at mainstream
broadcast media because they're mad
about the war and they're mad about the
aftermath of the 2000 election that felt
stolen and they felt like wasn't covered
that way and so there is a crying need
for air America you know for a liberal
voice and they have this opportunity and
the only person who really hits the
ground running perfectly on day one is
Randy Rhoads who's a veteran radio host
and you know this is nothing new for her
and everybody else it takes them
time to kind of hit their strides to
figure out what they're doing by the
time they hit their strides the
network's deeply in the red that they're
struggling to get on in places and that
that early attention is kind of fading
and it would have taken a lot of money
at that point to pull an audience in and
they're already doing something that's
really really hard to had like the
billion dollar vision with none of the
finance you know Fox News loses like a
quarter of a billion dollars in its
first few years yeah like to build a
network you need a lot of money so there
are so many factors that play a role and
you know sorry that answer was a little
bit long but it's just a big complicated
picture no it brings back a lot of
horrible memories and I appreciate that
I can tell you the that when when Maron
got fired it was literally like two
weeks after Howard Stern left
terrestrial radio and the way I would
describe that would be like if you know
we the you know because Marin of course
was sort of our version of Howard Stern
you know the neurotic undersexed Jew in
the morning talking about politics and
it was I would walk around at that point
I'm saying like it's like coca-cola just
announced we're pulling our Cola from
the supermarkets and a Brooklyn soda
company says oh you're pulling your Cola
well in that case we'll pull our Cola
take that and it didn't work I mean
there's so there's an opportunity here
and you know what ends up developing
over time is first MSNBC moves left now
so you get people like Rachel Maddow
who's certainly if she doesn't have the
the bandwidth of Russ or the influence
of Russia politically but she's
important Chris Hayes people like that
you know in the 90 or the 2000s it was
Keith Olbermann and now you have things
like pod save America or on the far less
Chapo Trap House and things that podcast
you know we're starting to see liberal
media develop to a much greater extent
that this perspective driven stuff but
you know air America I you know I wish I
could go back and rerun the experiment
with you know a lot more money behind it
and
what happened or even moderately
competent management I mean I can tell
you that like the the most successful
time we had was while we were in
bankruptcy when there was literally no
one at the helm and each show operated
our burn rate was a you know like about
an somewhere between 25% and 15% of what
it had been prior everybody was doing
fine there was about five different
times where I think it that the that it
could have come back and and worked and
they the I will say this about radio
executives they need a big wide margin
of error because these are not nimble
thinkers and the people that we had at
the end they were so befuddled by what
opportunities were online it was
shocking I mean Jesse shocking you
wonder you know if air America really
hits the digital thing hard whether they
kind of become pod save America a decade
earlier yes yeah there's so many kind of
counterfactuals that you could run about
that but what it comes down to is that
it just it wasn't producing a product at
the moment that people most wanted it
that there was sort of really high
quality and I don't just mean the hosts
I mean also the technical product and
where people could find it and that they
didn't have the money
you know Limbaugh in some markets it
took about two years to be successful
you know I want the guy put him on in
Chicago who said to me said you know
today my bosses want to let me try that
show for two years they would have said
get like Spanish I Hulka music on let's
try something different but they gave
them time to build an audience there
were air American needed to hit
immediately and they hadn't done the
kind of rollout stuff beforehand no
letting people experiment and figure out
their voices and things like that that
would let them have the the perfect
product on day one it took time and
that's the one thing people don't ever
afford you anymore
so you know it really does you know it's
hard to assess air America versus
liberal radio more broadly and there
have been voices like Tom Hartman and
Stephanie Miller who have been
successful you know there's been no one
who's been Limbaugh asked and I think
that by the time he gets at the 2000
another problem here at the beginning
Limbaugh's audience is like 25% liberal
it's people who might be laughing in
spite of themselves or who want to
scream at the radio but over time um
ripples give up on am radios he said
well why do this this is you know all
this stuff that I hate and hateful and
awful and I'll you know all these people
from G gordon liddy to Hannity you know
those kinds of people
and so to bring them back to AM radio to
air America thinking is a lot of money
and it just wasn't there and if you're
you know Clear Channel now I heart media
and they did put air America on in some
of their clusters but if they're if it's
the third or fourth most important
station in the cluster they're not going
to devote that kind of advertising money
to it it's not a political thing it's a
business thing if you know you just
don't think that much money into your
third or fourth property in that market
because it's not good business right and
without that people weren't going to
come back they didn't know it was there
they could drive across town and lose
the signal you know because it's on some
high numbered station that didn't have
much of a signal and so they're all
these these obstacles and you know maybe
if there had been a liberal Limbaugh
somebody who really reshaped things if
John Stewart instead of being on The
Daily Show had been on the radio this
might have been different you might have
gotten liberal radio but he happens to
go into too late night comedy and he
colonizes that you know arena and you
haven't seen conservatives on late-night
comedy really successfully and radio
ends up being the opposite well Brian
Rosenwald
the book is talk radios America how an
industry took over a political party
that took over the United States really
obviously very interesting stuff to me
and I think more broadly and so I
appreciate your time with us and we will
put a link to your book at majority dot
F M Sam it was great talking with you
and I'd love to do it again
all right thanks Brian somebody all
right take it alright folks there you
have it now with that said just got some
breaking news about ten minutes ago
Howard Fineman
and some of this at this point is there
is no doubt in my mind that some of this
is also people getting out ahead of this
and attempting to box her in when ro
Kahana comes on on c-span in the morning
and says I would be very surprised if
Nancy Pelosi did not come out for
impeachment what that does that's either
indicative of one or two things one that
he knows that she's going to or two that
he wants to make it that much harder for
her not to do that
because the expectations are raised
people presume it's going to happen that
puts pressure on her Howard Fineman
reports that a very solid Democratic
House leadership source this is remember
John Lewis has just come out for
impeachment just confirmed to me that
speaker Pelosi will announce a formal
impeachment inquiry this afternoon and
implied that she herself favors
impeachment of Donald Trump and so we're
headed into a new era
ladies and gentlemen where Donald Trump
is going to be on the defense
consistently and there's gonna be this
argument from the Republicans that
somehow the Democrats are on a witch
hunt they're not doing their job it's a
very difficult argument for them to make
certainly with everyone in their
coalition will believe it but they have
passed something like 65 bills in the
house that they did in the first six
months eight months ranging from a $15
minimum wage to fixes on health care to
broad anti-corruption bills and people
remember HR 1 I mean this is these are
this is good stuff nobody cared nobody
cared and so the idea
that the Republicans are going to demand
some type of action on something what
would they demand action on you guys are
not dealing with wealth inequality
you're not dealing you know I mean this
is and this is going to take some
pressure off of the presidential
candidates to deal with Donald Trump and
allow them the opportunity to offer a
better vision I will tell you right now
who is unhappy about this and it's Joe
Biden and I will explain to you why in
fact I wasn't gonna play this till later
but there's a reason why Joe Biden would
be the least excited about the Democrats
in the house
pursuing impeachment because Joe Biden
has built and this is what I think is
also another example of the Achilles
heel of his of his campaign Joe Biden's
campaign has one message that message is
Donald Trump is a horrible guy Donald
Trump has no integrity Donald Trump is
untrustworthy he's dishonest
he's vulgar etc etc now I've argued that
this is a liability because the one
arena that Donald Trump can play on is
like you can throw mud at me but I can
throw mud at you and the only way that
Donald Trump is gonna win is if his
opponent is so muddy and smelly that
there that that opponents own supporters
are like ah I don't like it and they
don't show up to vote that is this been
the strategy there's a strategy with
Hillary Clinton it'll be the strategy
with the next person and if you are
running on a platform of I smell good I
look good
I'm clean and
smell sweet you are very vulnerable to
Donald Trump throwing mud at you if you
are running on a platform of this policy
or that policy or returning America to
an economic period with this or with
that health care Don trow could keep
throwing mud on you and you may not
smell so great but that wasn't your
appeal in the first place and when there
are other avenues to attack Donald Trump
what do you have left to say if you're
Joe Biden and here is a preview of I
think of what Joe Biden's the rest of
his campaign is he finds himself in a
situation where he I guess gets a sense
that this reporter is somewhat hostile
to him and he died he's completely
flummoxed this is in Iowa right is this
in Iowa and a reporter I get the sense
that I don't know you know what we're at
what venue she's from but I think it's
just basically you know Iowa reporter
has this exchange with Joe Biden while
he is ready to I'm not sure what this
maybe this is in his his offices in Iowa
but good well in Iowa the unemployment
rate is two-and-a-half percent people
say they are employed in Iowa and their
small businesses are growing Iowa grows
wrong time before heat they're employed
before he got elected the president won
by 10 percentage points and I'm not
suggest he didn't win my ten percentage
points when I'm suggesting this he's not
the reason for the unemployment rate
being down but why don't want to make a
change though well that's up to them to
decide why should they for them to
decide will make your case I'm not going
to
I like that though she was like a few
you're not giving me a good interview
get home it's not I'm old this is I mean
this is this is pretty basic stuff
what should her pitch to the American
public and I quote this is Alexander
Coburn from 2008 change in hope or not
words one associates with senator Biden
a man so rightfully symbolic of
everything as unchanging and hopeless
about our political system that a
computer simulation of the corporate
political paradigm senator in Congress
would turn out Biden in a nanosecond
yeah but but to be fair that was 11
years ago great nobody's been very
transform the first duty of a this is
I'm sorry like how do you not have an
answer to that question now maybe he
wants say like oh yeah no we're not
gonna keep him campaign in Iowa in terms
of the general lat
right like yeah we're getting the
general election we don't care I mean I
guess one could have said like well
listen right now I'm running in the
primary and you can ask Democratic
voters themselves do they not want a
Donald Trump but the problem is and then
she says well okay but what's your
argument that you're gonna appeal to
people outside of the Democratic Party
because this is the conventional wisdom
that he needs to do that but what like
what's going to compel them to come and
vote for you I like Iowa about as much
as I like you young lady I mean stop
trying to trick me
right oh oh oh now I gotta ask for
people's votes hold my brothers got a
gas problem but the problem is is that
is that with impeachment ongoing and
it's not gonna go anywhere but it's
going to hold donald trump to account
Joe Biden's gonna have less things to
say frankly on some level I think I
think but we'll see all right we're
gonna take a quick break head into the
do you see this is kind of the same
thing Biden getting this is from anger
Tylar pager biden getting into a
disagreement with a voter over his
health care plan she says his plan is
protecting insurance company's profits
he questions whether she would pay
higher taxes for it she says yes he
responds you got the right candidate and
Bernie then yank you
president do you mean mr. president we
have moved into the part of the campaign
where Joe Biden's like if you think I'm
actually I mean how much work do am I
supposed to do for this listen folks you
can support this program by becoming a
member at joined the majority report
calm when you do you are supporting the
free show you are getting extra content
I posted what was the what was what was
the interview what was that that video
that yesterday that got demonetized that
I was like a oh why oh yeah option
failed public option would fail we were
playing a clip of somebody's testimony
about public option we got demonetized
all of our daily shows for the past I
don't know three weeks not all of them
if we've done 12 than 10 or 11 have been
demonetised I imagine it's gonna be a
blip but you know this this is what
happens with with YouTube you know we
talk about we say the words AR TI o
N and maybe things get demonetized
or we talk about G UNS and things get
the demonetized you know if those
sensors can spell yeah talk about CIA
ops yeah
and but it's our members that basically
allow me to get at least three or four
hours of sleep at night and not have to
worry about that and so you can become
one of those people I joined the
majority report calm
don't forget the a I'm quickie I think
on Friday we're going to try and put it
up on its own feed and within a week
it'll be exclusively available on its
own feed want you to we're gonna ask you
to go subscribe on the day that it's uh
that we launched it so that we can sort
of like push it up into the charts
whether it's on stitcher or wherever it
is or however you listen to your podcast
and we want you to to subscribe to it
and help us and I think you'll enjoy it
five minutes we never did it's never
longer than five minutes gives you some
of the top stories of the day give you a
sense of what's happening and the a.m.
quickie right now it's available in the
majority report audio feed and you can
check it out there and finally a just
coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or
chocolate use the coupon code majority
get 10% off and lastly don't forget
today's episode was supported by
embarked DNA you can discover your dog
beyond just like whatever fluffy looks
like or or but whatever spot looks like
no people like what kind of dog you have
I don't know some type of month well now
you can say first of all when I say that
in front of my child it's really
upsetting to them and so you don't want
to say that in front of your dog either
mmm embark DNA you can it's the most
accurate dog DNA test kit on the market
it looks at over 250 breeds and four I
think it for a dog owner even more
importantly 170 genetic health
conditions that allow you to determine
what's the best way to feed or care for
your dog what might be a problem in the
future to keep an eye out for terms of
disease right now for our listeners
embark has an exclusive summer offer you
can't get anywhere else you can go to
embark vet dot-com use the promo code
majority to save 15%
your dog DNA test kit and discover your
dog more than fur deep visit embark vet
dot-com use the promo code majority to
save Michael today is Tuesday yes
CIA dr UGS will be one of the topics
tonight also Michaela Wilks who's
running for Congress running against
Steny Hoyer another of these very
inspiring candidates taking out
hopefully taking out some of the least
inspiring people in the history of Earth
we talking with her about criminal
justice reform single-payer and foreign
policy new Lula interview on the bricks
which was actually just sent to me
directly plus Mike Racine on the
national security state and Hollywood
and how Saudi Arabia subcontracts
everyone from the Sudanese to the
Pakistanis to fight it's worse for them
maybe even the United States what does
that mean for it Iran even as Israel
coalescence around a unity apartheid
government with BB and Gantz that's at 7
at 6:00 of special stream McHale
kolinsky Michael Brooks show on YouTube
of patreon.com slash T MBS where we just
did an illicit history of social
democracy with Bosh Garson Cara Jamie
this week on the anti Fattah we speak
with Aaron Bassani of Navarra media
about a little bit of the brexit stuff
and more so his new book fully automated
luxury communism we kind of interrogate
what he means by that bring up some of
the critiques that have been raised
about it I think it's pretty good if I
do say so myself also I am recording a
new episode of my side project the
vampyre castle the only podcast with
that name that is all about actual
vampires with Leslie Lee the third from
struggle session and that should be out
Friday for our patrons at patreon.com
slash the anti Fattah Matt yeah coming
up for literary hangover this weekend is
solo episode I did myself recorded it
late last night I hope it turned out
well haven't listened back yet but it's
on hope amok
for the first novel by abolitionist a
writer lydia maria child so look forward
to that
seeing the fun half jamie and i may have
a disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich i have an absolute
right to mock them on youtube their
buggy i am not your employer I'm sorry
[Music]
you're idiot we're just going to
get rid of you alright yes
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
Rand Paul I had my first post coital see
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
swirl fine we can double dip yes this is
a perfect moment no wait what you make
under a million dollars me you
 take quick break I want to take
a moment to talk to some of the
libertarians out there take whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastik I'm feeling more chill
already Donald Trump can kiss all of our
asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys ready to
Ibiza flirt with such
death to America it's a free speech
issue if you don't like me thank you for
calling into the majority report them
will be with you shortly
we're back ladies and gentlemen it is
the fun half I of course
neglected to call into the phone system
yesterday as you know we did not get too
many calls you will try and do that
this is Don Trump gave a a pretty
bizarre UN speech wouldn't you say
I would say it was low energy it was low
energy but some of these things are a
little bit weird going up there and
chastising media and academic
institutions oh yeah it was sort of a
Stephen Miller special saying that open
borders are promoted only by sex
traffickers that to me seems like a
rather you know extreme vision of things
that would seem to be a bit of a over
generalization
I mean a little bit just a little bit it
sort of sounds like somebody who is like
terrified of of getting I don't know
impeached and so relying on on really
sort of
a lot of of riling a base maybe I don't
know oh he's gonna get so awesome as
this thing progresses yeah this is gonna
get it's gonna get a lot worse before it
gets better folks here is Donald Trump
in front of the UN gel assembly heavily
sedated but arguing that media and
academic institutions are assaulting
time a faceless bureaucracy operates in
secret and weakens democratic rule media
and academic institutions push flat-out
assaults on our history's traditions and
values in the United States my
administration has made clear to social
media companies that we will uphold the
right of free speech a free society
cannot allow social media giants to
silence the voices of the people and a
free people must never ever be enlisted
in the cause of silencing coercing
cancelling or blacklisting their own
neighbors Wow first of all the idea that
academic he's talking he's literally
delivering the Dave Rubin portion of the
speech right media and academic
institutions grievance studies are
pushing flat-out assaults on our
histories traditions and values
Gavin McGinnis has been deep platformed
Milo Yan innopolis can't even get more
than 20,000 followers on gab people are
blogging about Dave Chappelle it's
really really bad right now so much so
but I took 14 xanax before I gave this
speech so much so that I'm actually
using the department or he probably has
no idea but the Department of
education is actually threatening
universities because if they're Middle
East Studies programs deal with
Palestinian human rights as an example
you can UNC you have a joint middle-east
program that the title 10 funding is
being threatened to being pulled from
unless there's more judeo-christian
values that are put in there and helps
our security best defense is a good
offense but Donald Trump is not done at
the UN he sleepily also says that
question of borders and immigration is a
function of sex trafficking wonder why
that was on his mind so which I hate I
hate totally opposed to that once I get
a wife why would I care you're in the
United States and around the world there
was a growing cottage industry of
radical activists and non-governmental
organizations that promote human
smuggling these groups encourage illegal
migration and demand your ratio of
national borders in Eurasia Eurasia
today I haven't had you hear those open
border activists who cloak themselves in
the rhetoric of social justice your
policies are not just your policies are
cruel and evil you are empowering
criminal organizations that prey on
innocent men women and children you put
your own false sense of virtue before
the lives well-being and countless
innocent people when you undermine
border security you are undermining
human rights and human dignity I mean
this is pretty stunning stuff from
Donald Trump alright so here's here's
one more clip of Donald Trump and others
you know you know human traffickers
sorry I'm a little slow is they demand
payment info for services rendered it's
another thing that we don't like about
them getting up on that sand
the CEO D is the worst thing that has
ever been developed in the Western world
no trust there's no trust
many of these smaller operations will
say that a girl is from one part of the
world and then send you one from another
so customers are deceived and
disappointed this injustice will last
and you think you're getting a bride
from Belarus and it turns out she's from
Azerbaijan you've paid Ukrainian prices
for kazakh product do you think you're
me you think you're helping them you're
just making them more Andriy Oratia we
overstayed yes simply promise them that
you just gonna make more money not gonna
have to be President or via first lady
oh you gave them a child then they still
unhappy happy well so here's Donald
Trump I want you to watch this next clip
of Donald Trump at the UN General
Assembly you will see reaction shots
from the goulds that they brought to the
speech who are all and I noticed Mike
Pompeo yesterday when when Trump was
trying to explain about why he withheld
payments or was going on with all
payments or corruption and Pompeyo sits
there and he's got a thing where he's
like you can tell I mean I've been in
these situations where you lock your jaw
and you just like don't smile don't make
any reaction whatsoever just look
forward and all of these people are well
practice at it and they have to do this
because they cannot indicate they can't
believe that this guy is the president
and so here it is this is clip number
wait this isn't know this is five oh
yeah do for first and then we'll do five
will give the reactions and then you got
to see the reaction from somebody on Fox
News
just so that you get a sense of just
like how diluted these people are I mean
right now I couldn't be less sympathetic
to Donald Trump as like I I have more
sympathy for inanimate objects that I
come across on any given day than I do
for Donald Trump and I'm worried there's
something really wrong with him in this
instance try and deliver this speech
he's got it going really slow the
teleprompter is moving so slow he's you
know presumably he's read it at least
once and he can't make out the words and
he's talking he is so sedated and so
let's play this clip of him trying to
just say fire tire Americans will never
fire or tire in our effort to defend and
promote freedom of worship and religion
we want and support religious liberty
for all there you go I mean how
heartfelt that is we will never fire or
tire what would happen if you fire in
your pursuit of your fire we will listen
Israeli delegation is fine I don't think
I've ever seen a speech that has been
delivered with less sort of seemingly
connection to the words than this one
but look at the looks on these on these
lunatics here you've got Mike Pence Mike
Pompeo you've got is that Kevin McCarthy
but no that's not Kevin McCarthy but
yeah who is that
no that's McGuire is that is that
McGuire obably McGuire and Wilbur Ross
and then you have Steve Newton's wife I
think is that it well no oh she's oh
she's new UI ambassador okay and then my
neutrons behind her right yeah okay here
we go
it is the divide between those whose
thirst for control deludes them into
thinking they are destined to rule
there you go thirst dripping the room
watch these clips of Donald Trump and
even if you despise this man you have to
be like I'm concerned
cuz there's something really wrong with
him
however katie mcfarland she's found
something to like ching the president's
speech together katie if you could first
tell us what you just saw and in the
words of the president what's struck i
think this is his best speech ever and
look at the body language he was
confident he was reading slowly he
didn't repeat himself a bunch of times
closet wait a sec we just go back to the
body language for a moment pop up of a
video of him the body language was
confident he's literally sort of looks
like he is about to pass out guy plate
plate look at this body like all being
relaxed weird please believe leo this
body length nice g accuracy operates in
secret and weakens what kind of my
credit first of all you can't open his
eyes media and academic institutions
push what is the body language here that
we're supposed to be looking like how
else would you deliver this speech
relaxes me good the body language so
confident speaking slowly didn't repeat
himself fired tire they just changed the
word good song and in the words of the
president what's struck i think this is
his best speech ever and look at the
body language he was confident he was
reading slowly he didn't repeat himself
a bunch of times which he has always
done in the past and the other thing is
how many times did he talk about himself
I never counted one he was talking about
the country he was talking about the
things that he wanted Americans to
accomplish even when he talked about the
economy is improving he didn't say I
created the jobs he said we so I think
it was a very
I also think it was the best description
again answer team how those make America
great again memes and what America first
means he's usually tweeted this stuff
out but he's never really articulated it
so thank you for noticing my
articulation yes I was so drugged your
high it was like all of the bull means
wheat you know you're tired
I mean hired fired right I can't
remember it doesn't matter
that's an insult to Trump if you're
watching this is a trump supporter you
should respectfully tweet it katie
mcfarland and tell her to respect your
president more because she just down she
just undermined frankly a lot of his
best work which are freeform
off-the-cuff well and very much about
himself
here's the thing katie mcfarland may
believe that this was the best speech
that donald trump was ever given because
he didn't repeat the words twice as he
read them he read slowly almost as if he
couldn't read no one cared if he did a
whole like house a big section of sex
traffickers is that something cuz yeah
that's a real big sex trafficking it's
the word it's the worst but we remember
do remember hillary clinton was Jeffrey
Epstein that'll think it was terrible
she was very excited about how humble he
was in the speech that was written for
him looking at a teleprompter it did
anybody remember how much the
Republicans talked about Barack Obama
using a teleprompter I mean this went on
for years and now they're praising
Donald Trump for just being able to read
the speech that was given to him for his
humility was was all saved up for that
speech because here he is asked the
question at the United Nations about
Nobel Prize very likely definitely you
will be deserving a Nobel Prize
I think I'm gonna get a Nobel Prize for
a lot of things just they gave it a
fairly which they does well they gave
one to Obama immediately upon his
descent to the presidency and he had no
idea why he got it and you know what
that was the only thing I agreed with
him on yeah there we go
I was where was that badgering this
speech but you know what I love that was
a pretty medication that was pretty that
was before they drugged me in the
bathroom without I look what what I
think is amazing though about all of the
fake Obama like there was this
Republican obsession with this nonsense
they did he talked about the
teleprompter for years there was the
suit thing when he came out wearing like
a tan suit or something and they tried
to make that a thing but it was it was
perfect because it was like the
Republicans definitionally could not
talk about his actual scandals and you
know liberals went or progressed or
centrist or whatever wouldn't hold them
him accountable for that either so you
had an administration of like you know a
bank bailouts and drone strikes and all
of this stuff but because none of that
was on the table they did have to go
like he uses a teleprompter tan shoot
tan suit the best one was Obama's
hip-hop BBQ fails to create jobs that
was pretty great it was true actually
though oh really common do create jobs
we created a fire party sorry white
people let's go to four six nine area
code who's this where he come from four
six nine hello
I hear you one more chance
I come from a Skype number I think it is
who's this hi how's it going
Matthew from England Matthew from
England Matthew what the heck is going
on in your country I don't understand it
any of it well am I allowed to swear yes
if you do it with a British accent and
the transcripts can't pick it up go
ahead well I forget it's a cluster size
actually it's it's a little bit
embarrassing really it's the second time
I've I've lived in a country that a the
premier has been found to be breaking
the law by the highest court in the land
and my green card comes through soon so
maybe I'll be three three there you go
congratulations Oh green card from the
United States that's right yeah you
certainly bring so much I said so what
is uh was that is that what you were
caught in - just tell us that year you
are the new and the harbinger well and
well yeah not really no I was just
calling in basically first to give props
to my girl great a Sundberg
unfortunately I'm a public servant so I
can't be joining in on the climate
strikes but she's I think she's an
embodiment of maybe an energy that was
there at young people but she's also you
know her personality has amplified their
energy it kind of comes soon enough you
know we need we need a lot more pressure
basically as as a Tory you know who
would probably disagree with but it's
very small politician by the name of Ken
Clark said is on climate change that
sadly politicians don't lead they will
only follow where the voters go
and so the voters and the public have to
put serious pressure on politicians and
businesses to just be making these
changes yeah I agree I think she's been
very inspiring to a lot of young people
too and I think you know with something
like this you don't really see the
impact of it until your
some distance away in terms of time to
see what is inspired by it but I
appreciate the call and I'm now going to
play a clip that gives you a sense of
what the right is doing in response to
Greta thumb burg she we played the clips
of her yesterday chastising the UN
basically saying like you know don't
don't come here in condescend don't say
don't get all sentimental at how cute it
is that a sixteen year old girl is you
know come across the ocean this is not
about you know this is not a feel-good
movie of the summer this is about you
people doing your job so that I don't
have to do this type of thing and in
addition to the right blaming her for
anxiety rates in Europe this is the
attack they're gonna take care Michael
Knowles he's really desperately trying
to create a name for himself in the in
the Ben Shapiro world of right-wing talk
another failed actor he's another failed
actor I mean let me play this way like
it arguably I'm a failed actor I was so
much more successful than a Michael
Knowles and when I went into this I I
did so thinking I was only gonna do it
for six months I was still turning down
film roles and still writing scripts and
I was in LA shooting a TV show when I
get called to do this I've seen Michael
Noel's real and it was not a bad actor
and he wasn't doing anything it was all
you know sort of like a home movie type
of stuff or small you know probably
student films but the guy didn't have
the wherewithal and I think it was
probably a smart move on his part but
here he is good desperately trying I
mean how do you push back on an
incredibly articulate brave
sixteen-year-old
is trying to draw attention to climate
change
whose basically you know has just told
the UN your your delusion of of
perpetual economic growth is just that
how do you push back on this well of
course you you do the same thing you do
in regards to everyone else that you
look down upon as a conservative black
people Latino people women who speak up
they're all being used right that is the
formulation and in fact it's also the
formulation of white nationalists I the
Jews the problem of the Jews their race
traders and they are getting the black
people to do their bidding well this is
part of that Michael knew Noel's tries
to set the predicate for Greta Thornburg
has no idea what she's doing she's being
manipulated it matters because the
climate hysteria movement is not about
science if it were about science it
would be led by scientists rather than
by politicians and a mentally ill
Swedish child who is being exploited by
her parents and by the International are
you so what you're seeing here is a
political movement and a religious
movement and it's fulfilling of
religious and political goals of the
left but it isn't doing very much for
science Chris you had a visceral
reaction to that go ahead yeah I mean
you're a grown man and you're attacking
a child shame on you she's trying to
tackle ethics right am i right relax
skinny boy I got this okay you're
attacking a child you're a grown man
have some come not I'm attacking
television maybe on your podcast you get
away and say whatever you want because
nobody's listening you're on national
television be a grown-up when you're
talking about children she's trying to
save the planet because your president
doesn't believe in climate change and
kids need to take to the streets to
worry about their future you are
despicable for talking to her about her
like that you should apologize on
national television right now I think
the international left and her parents
who are exploiting a girl with
many mental illness first off okay okay
we don't need to hear any more about
this so uh she has Asperger's which in
no way would suggest that her parents
have the ability to manipulate her to
believe that climate change is a problem
it is you know I think it's conceivable
the evidence-based commentary right her
intrepid miss in in facing people on the
world stage may in some way be a
function of her Asperger's that may help
her in some way in that and and that the
in her in having that type of guts but
it the idea that you would get up and
say that she's mentally ill that's why
she cares about climate change and that
she's being exploited is it's is pretty
shocking now of course we know what
happens to scientists who go in the
forefront of this you know ask Michael
Mann who was just buried and I think he
just won his lawsuit actually but I mean
the the idea that now they're saying
well what about the scientists and it's
all the hysteria this is this is what
like you can track from denial to
denying that it's man-made - well
they're over like they're getting so
emotional about it
Michael Knowles is no longer going to be
on Fox News I wonder how long that is
going to be but Fox News announced that
they they just big loss yeah that he
crossed the the one apparently a
standard they have there does he know
how many people are living with a mental
illness of some kind like it's it's
ablest in addition to everything else of
course of course he's trying to make it
like she has no
capacity it's it is simply like how
desperate do you have to be to push back
on this and it is it is really basically
the same they need to come up with this
because they need to come up with like
how is she being manipulated she's -
she's too old she's shown that she has
too much confidence to sort of say that
in general this is like this she has no
idea what she's doing she had some type
of mental illness meanwhile Swami has
said that Michael Knowles is not welcome
back on their network they won't book
him again according to according to Fox
now we'll see how long that lasts but
maybe they should also just keep
watching the rest of their network
because Laura Ingraham still has a show
on there I don't know how many
advertisers she has she couldn't let it
lie either now to be fair to Fox their
president is about to be impeached or at
least the start to go through the
impeachment process they may not want to
talk about that so it's a little bit
easier to attack a young woman that is I
would say if you could find the Bible to
Fox News and boil it down to one command
one commandment as to making it easy
always find a fee a young female villain
here is Laura Ingraham fulfilling the
first Fox commandment world is waking up
and change is coming whether you like it
or not I anyone else find that showing a
time of tribulation has come our test is
at hand the final test
I can't wait for Stephen King sequel
children of the climate there you go
comparing Gothenburg to children of the
corn Wow glass houses fascist Stepford
wife indeed that's pretty good I mean
it's all just part of what they need to
do to address this it's pretty stunning
it's pretty stunning Bernie came out
with a new plan he had two new plants
actually released in the past two days
one is a a plan to eliminate Americans
medical debt they will negotiate pay off
past new medical bills in collections
that credit agencies have reported they
would also ban the collection of medical
debts beyond the statute of limitation
limitations and struck the IRS to
conduct a review of the billing and
collection practices of the nearly 3,000
nonprofit hospitals so broadly assault
meta medical debt the other big plan
that he dropped was a wealth tax that
you recall Elizabeth Warren had
introduced a wealth tax some time ago
this one is even more dramatic it would
create an annual tax that apply to
households with it now I want everybody
sit down because I don't want you gonna
freak out about this a lot of you it's
gonna apply to households so it's not
just an individual married couple who
have this amount together with a net
worth above 32 million dollars yep this
will affect a hundred and eighty
thousand
households in total the top point one
percent he would create a 1% tax on net
worth above 32 million with increasing
marginal rates that top out at 8 percent
on net worth over 10 billion dollars so
those people are gonna get hit hard that
is for single filers the brackets would
be halved meaning the tax would kick in
at 16 million dollars
ish I gotta start looking into some
places in the Bahamas or something mean
I'm an ardent in bernie supporter but
it's disturbing on some level when you
look at like the stats that most
Americans can get you know five hundred
dollars together as an example this is
the type of thing that gives us a brand
for being disconnected from middle-class
concerns here is Stuart Varney the
expert brought on to Fox & Friends to
explain why this is so bad senator
Elizabeth Warren has a wealth tax
proposal if you've got if you are worth
fifty million dollars or more you would
pay a wealth tax of two percent each and
every year on your accumulated wealth
Axios reports that Bernie Sanders has an
even more aggressive wealth tax in other
words he would take more than the two
percent over fifty million that
Elizabeth Warren would take either way
they are rotten proposals number one
they're a brand-new form of taxation and
who needs that
and number two it assumes that the
government will do more good with the
money they take off you then those route
wealthy individuals can do with it
themselves like create jobs innovate in
technology put their money to work in
different kind of ways it's a rotten
idea when they popped a bottle and they
sit down at a laptop they say wow that's
a populist message let's blame the
successful people for the struggles I'm
feeling maybe for middle-class and
working-class they say I like that idea
do you think it would do more hostage
posit posit for one second I just want
to go over I just want to review I wish
we had the ability to put a quick ire on
up but we could we could show the two
points that he makes against these
proposals first one is who needs that
that's literally it creates a new tax
who needs that
that's the first reason why you would
not want to do this because who needs it
and the second one is do you think that
government will do better with this
accumulated wealth tax than those who
are sitting on this accumulated wealth
now definitionally accumulated wealth is
not being invested in creating jobs
it is it is accumulating it's a hoard
that they're sitting on it is exactly
that not a populist idea that's popping
up in your head so where the power comes
from
exactly it's definitionally people
people create jobs to the extent that
they create jobs with their businesses
this is not a corporate tax this is on
individuals none of that money that
these individuals are sitting on create
jobs now to be fair maybe they are
spending this money on a McMansion or
ten or
extra hundred or 200 foot boat but it's
not that 2% or 1% above 32 million that
they're spending right like the idea
that like oh I only have 32 million
dollars between the two of us sweetheart
we're gonna have to pay another three
million dollars in taxes that's gonna
leave us only with twenty nine million
dollars so I guess we're not going to go
out and spend 22 million dollars on the
house that we were gonna get or the boat
or the car and amazing monetizing you
too there is no exactly there is no
scenario where this is going to stop
wealthy person from buying what they
want to buy the fact of the matter is
they can't find enough to buy but let's
let Stuart Vani
have one more crack at this their money
to work in different kind of ways it's a
rotten idea when they popped a bottle
and they
sit down on a laptop they say wow that's
a populist message let's blame the
successful people for the struggles I'm
feeling maybe for middle-class and
working-class they say I like that idea
do you think it would do more good to
take money off wealthy people and get it
to other people that's it yeah yes the
answer is yes it would in fact it would
the there's a tremendous amount of data
that shows that it would I can just tell
you liked it at first the concentration
of wealth is underfunding our Social
Security program the concentration of
wealth is slowing the velocity of money
it is not traveling through the system
as much not as many people are touching
it because you have it all you have what
three families in this country who have
more wealth than the bottom 50% of the
people of course of course it would
there's not even any question in fact
all you can come up with for the reasons
why it's no good is who needs that the
under a Bernese plan this is how much
these more these billionaires would owe
this year the walton family would owe
fourteen point eight billion dollars
jeff bezos eight point nine billion
charles koch 3.2 billion sheldon adelson
2.6 billion rupert murdoch one point two
eight billion just contemplate this is a
1% or i guess on some of these guys an
eight percent tax the idea would be
within 15 years you would basically take
out billionaires you would tax at a rate
in which they cannot accumulate this
kind of wealth and so good for bernie i
don't know we will see it anytime soon
but the idea the the fact that two of
the leading candidates are debating how
much should we take from billionaires i
I like quite a bit there's this a
contrast that kind of points out how
well they aren't using any then using
this money for anything useful because
as this Yahoo Finance clip the points
out it's all stuck into things that
aren't very liquid that's right okay so
yeah here's another example of this here
we go here is their they're looking at
this on Yahoo and they're trying to
figure out like well how do we talk
about this like how how can we possibly
make it sound sympathetic that someone
with over thirty two million dollars
just parked somewhere is in some way
well it's gonna be complicated it's
gonna be so complicated to do this it's
not it's bad for the market but it's
also very early in the primary season
and as is the case in every primary
season it's all about appealing to your
base so the Bernie Sanders the Elizabeth
Warren wing of the party however defined
is appealing to that base and almost
sort of one upping IC or two percent
wealth tax and raise you up to I think
Bernie's proposals as high as 8% yeah
but the statement he tweeted this
morning it I think 901 eight percent on
over ten billion worth eight percent on
I'm sorry ten billion ten dollars I know
that worked for couples I think that is
yeah compass the practical even aside
the legal challenges to it the
practicality is hard people who have
that much money don't have it in a bank
account or in a brokerage account it's
held an illiquid hard to value assets be
it private companies be it real estate
be it art for that matter valuing those
things on an annual basis has all kinds
of positive friction in valuing I mean
kids because all that art that they're
hanging out like those like 20
million-dollar paintings that they have
in their in their house
those are creating a lot of jobs because
you have to have someone come in and
dust it you have to have someone come in
and make sure that the climate is
correct in your McMansion so that the
canvas does not get too crunchy in your
apartment dude we're talking above
McMansion penguin oh this isn't even
makhmud
right it's a mansion manche manche and
but I love the idea that bet this guy
saying like the implication is you know
when Bernie or Warren get into the
general election they're gonna have to
soften a little bit to bring in a wider
coalition they'll probably have to drop
that wealth tax down to you know to to
drop it off dealing it'll be 40 million
or above we've won more billionaires on
trumpet every single debate like oh
you're out here making a big show well I
got a tax how about that I mean it's
just I don't mean I know we'll never
change because this is you know it's not
empirically based but it's just it's
stunning like every single poll says
socially moderate to even center-right
economically center-left to populist
like that is the this wherever the
elusive center exists that's what it is
and these people just still talk as if
there's somebody and it's gonna be a lot
of somebody Akron making like $60,000 a
year's like you know what I'm pretty
concerned about this wealth tax because
we're really creative people who run the
economy and I I sure wouldn't want them
to jeopardize my lower middle class job
that's the arts not Bernie that
certainly hasn't had a buy all that was
more boutique version right do that
there won't be any more public or New
York you're calling from a Skype number
as far as I can tell this is a two six
six that may yeah who's this Oh perfect
sorry I'm I'm calling from New Zealand
so there might be a second delay or so
yeah that sounds pretty good what's on
your mind who is this awesome Peter I
was hearing that uh that Trump UN that
the Trump UN yeah he's giving a speech
at they sound very growing out of it yep
sounded like one of those like parents
was filming him after he got his wisdom
teeth taken out yes exactly very it's
very disconcerting a yeah I mean I mean
what's the plan after that I mean if
ten steps in are we are we shattered
are we happy are we feeling like today
elections in the bag or at what point
does this all kind of fall apart
I will presume that the election is in
the bag 45 minutes to an hour after they
call it on November whatever that day is
7th or 8th 6th I don't mean in so I
don't mean in terms of his like his his
mental well-being I mean if Trump
doesn't make it to the election at that
time I mean cuz this is a real
back-and-forth at this point one day I'm
seeing him he's he's brisk you know he's
getting out his normal 5 words and then
the next day you know he's sloshing
along barely making it I you know I look
people have been thinking that he's
gonna drop since day one with a heart
attack and I don't think highly highly
unlikely yeah drop I mean literally
physical I understand but I'm saying
like even today they put him on some
drug cocktail I'm almost certain he was
already back to himself in the Nobel
Prize section yeah which by the way is
probably the only reason we don't have
like a global war happening right now
right I mean I think I think I look I
don't think this is I guess it's I think
it's highly unlikely yeah I I just I
just don't think that's you know in the
in reality it's far more likely frankly
that he'll have an opportunity to pick a
Supreme Court justice then he'll have to
have someone stand in for him in the
election it would be my guess but
hopefully you know i if trump was to get
struck by lightning and mike pence
became the president mike pence ran
against that i would also not be
terribly worried about my i prefer to
run against mike pence than donald trump
that for particularly if he had no time
really any damage go ahead a really
quick point i also wanted to bring up
the actual reason I was calling was
about the the Greta setup and your
interview earlier actually kind of led
into this quite well you're talking
about liberals in the radio and early
days I don't know if you remember Alan
Berg way back in the day
g-god uh he was killed by some Nazis
yeah yeah so that was kind of the early
days as I remember it I remember my dad
kind of talking about those days you
know when you know after the sixties and
seventies kind of blew over being a
liberal in the 80s was kind of a
frightening experience yep and that kind
of seeped over into the 90s as well but
I mean this has really picked up on
social media I started following Trump
sorry not Trump but Trump's the people
that Trump is following online and man
that is a headache and this morning it
was just pure vitriol all at gretta if
you want to go look at those posts of
all the people he's following it's just
right down the line of people just
making those you know mentally ill child
comments you know this from my kid I'd
smack him
you know I throw him over the side and
Coulter I forget the name of that that
Michael Knowles Ann Coulter yeah and
Coulter congratulated him on his
appearance congratulate by the way you
have a kid a yeah I have I have kid a
Android yeah if your if your kid ever
wants to make their own an Coulter just
have them glue some yarn and googly eyes
on their elbow all right well I will
tell them to do that
I appreciate the call the woman is
angular you got it you got it you gotta
like both the arts and crafts
suggestions and the comments calling
from a 6-1 to area code who's this where
you come from
hi this is both rock bullfrog what's uh
what's up what what's it oh oh Prague
Prague oh my gosh thank you so much we
love your the work you've done thank you
yeah I'm always tickled when you guys
comment on it it's it's amazingly play a
little bit good just to remind folks of
what we're talking about it's an
incredible accomplishment this and and
so that we can get beer good this of
course is full Prague right here
all right so now that we have you on the
five okay posit now that we have you on
the phone how did you what it what what
was what did it start as like did you
first put together the audio or did you
have like a notion in your head like how
did it start
well like I've been listening to you for
years and years and I have all of these
memories of different memes and inside
jokes bouncing around in my head and
then DJ Danner key had that fun house
song come out and I write music to as a
hobby now but excuse me yeah I just sat
down one Friday night and like spent
eight hours and hours going through old
clips and episodes and picking out fun
phrases and little things and then kind
of grouped gentlemen to something that
seemed like they made a narrative and
then wrote some music and just kind of
formed it into a kind of rhythmic
speaking as you can say yeah and then
and then and then you you did the
animation yeah I had to teach myself how
to do the animation cuz I showed a few
people the the song and I could see they
were kind of confused trying to follow
along and I had this vision in my head
of what was going on and yeah I
basically just used like PowerPoint and
iMovie to to make an animation for it
and a bunch of little other inside jokes
like my my favorite little Easter egg in
there is when you and Michael her talk
and Load making new moves or whatever
and Michael's drinking Shibley yep which
that's it REITs are my joke back from
like the Occupy Wall Street era yes you
were teasing them about being hungover
coming in saying that you
drank too much to believe that night
distant yeah I remember every time I
would have a laminated copy of my pay
stubs during the Shapley jokes like
really the Shibley right was drinking
rainwater with five roommates wasn't
high quality Chablis two buck chuck oh
yeah no I've noticed the Chablis all the
time I didn't even think that was a the
III I mean I I remember that bullfrog
it's every part of this is I mean you
literally can come up
there's think there's new things that I
notice every single time yes I'm still I
still see new things that I am amazed by
this crowd never gets tired of art
that's about well it it really is a
masterpiece and and I'm it really honest
I can't thank you enough I like how the
math gate stuff in there because that
was a different time the math gay thing
was yes yeah thank you
I clips I clip all of your reactions to
it and I'm not feeling down I go back
and watch you guys laugh no it's it's
it's hysterical I also really I mean
it's less I guess it's less prominent
but the I thought the the Dave Rubin
video you did as well also work no can
you not hear Michael good oh sorry oh
yeah I was just gonna say I also think
Dave Rubin video you did was masterful
oh thank you so that's the one that
begins with day more and Rubin and then
it just left his best debate Sam cedar
hey Dave this is a very brave lump on
your part oh yeah yeah sjw nonsense
dave rubin is gonna absolutely need to
be exposed to golf and trolling video
and then there was like 14 videos of
this our friends creative awesome people
on youtubes basically everybody I love I
love wait wait I don't think it's a few
more seconds of being indulgent here but
there's the james woolsey david cameron
like mashed up so random shot of me with
skrillex there too that's a deep cut the
jesus image in that one is a lot
actually does have a similar energy i
gotta say in terms of his persecution
complex god i gotta say just can't thank
you enough
really the just the hours of enjoyment
that we have gotten from this day's so
glad to hear that that's great thanks
for that and even the elusive brandon
also just on top of everything else as
much as I like to watch you squirm I I'm
I'm one of those BAE people so in case
you're worried about pronouns one of the
very people who got it day them yeah I'm
a day person saying how can we possibly
use that that why would I know I don't
know how to address Yale that it's a
real problems literally not a word
now what's the history except for the
times that I've used it on Twitter that
someone referred to a person as they
someone pointed out that the great thing
with ben shapiro is that there is
literally always a tweet so like there
was we did that yesterday
well no no about David Koch oh no no
there was a one where he's like you
ghouls David cow exported marriage
equality which was like not really the
point of why those of us were
celebrating David Koch's death and then
of course there was a meet and you know
what's funny is honestly there is a part
of me that I I don't I don't take
offense to that I think some people want
to try to maintain some standards in
general and I don't have a problem with
that but ben shapiro immediately of
course their screenshots of like
essentially like basically I'm happy
Howard Zinn is dead hopefully like the
clock is like clothes on Chomsky - it's
like all right just every single time
with that get a little bastard well
raagh again thank you so much I'm so
glad you called they are an i
bureau i really think so excited to know
how you you conceived of that at least i
mean that that process is fascinating to
me that that it was just basically the
way that you grew up that together also
inspirational kids if you want to learn
technical skills you can do it yes you
got an autodidact
I actually really quick Bull Prague and
for all creative people out there
Kyle kolinsky the other day shared with
me a 2014 Dave Rubin on TYT defending
the Israeli bombardment of Gaza I'll
just say that clips one of the funniest
things I've seen in quite some time
like if the content was not so
disturbing watch Dave simultaneously
talking about the only subject area that
he actually cares about which i
defending Israel and just being
completely there's one part we're just
saying I know you trust the government
stuff but maybe this is one time where
we do trust them that Hamas started each
it looks like such
I appreciate the call better with the
beard Dave I'll give them that that
foligno just got this big vacant look
its face and you just literally just
think yeah I do I do that we should like
bomb schools and stuff but I mean baby
you do the Israelis are trying it's
actually beautiful because it's just
like the libertarian stuff it's just
like the distilled essence of what
everybody says well they defend Israel
just pared down to rock outfit yeah
right now without any of the know
Florida who Tremont's call from a seven
one five area code whose desk where he
called from hi I'm Drake from Wisconsin
Drake
yeah Drake from Wisconsin
what's on your mind Drake so I'm topic
of burning Warren um and kind of
thinking about if Warren does get the
bid what are your thoughts on Bernie as
advice I think he could make it the
impact on the ground I can do a lot of
groundwork as vice president I mean I
find it hard to believe that either one
of them would pick each other for Vice
President I mean I guess it's
conceivable that the Bernie would pick
Warren for vice-president but I think
first of all I really think that you
need to have a person of color on the
ticket I just think that like there is
the I mean just in my interview with
Bernie I said this yesterday that his
movement and I think his involvement in
his movement is going to exist
regardless of what happens with this
presidential outcome I would imagine
that if Bernie wanted Elizabeth Warren
in the in the administration that she
would have the pick of where she wanted
to go on some level but I think - I
think you need some youth on on the
ticket and I think you need
some black person a brown person
Joran is a Native American
well now Pocahontas Margaret Mary I mean
I think she probably does have some
Native American blood in her but I don't
think probably about as much like I
don't even know serbian blood is you
have i think that actually you buy out
two percent yeah well I think most of us
have two percent of most everything I
think that uh I I don't know I I do
think in general it's just honestly way
too early to ask questions like that and
the only time it really becomes relevant
is if there was some type of convention
literal formal alliance scenario and
that there was an agreement and then
that would just be a question of who
wanted it and who was in the lead right
I mean I but yeah but in general I don't
yeah it seems to me that you would pick
somebody both from you know what what
Sam was saying and maybe also frankly
somebody younger that's possible as well
it's like somebody not in their 70s
right in both cases
appreciate the call yeah a lot of people
have been hanging on for a while come
from a 308
area code comes up hey Sam can you hear
me I can is this Kowalski Kowalski
Kowalski you remember in Nebraska what's
on your mind
yeah so just wanted to call and cuz on
youtube I've been running into this
advertisement that talks about 55% of
all rural health care providers would
get shut down if there was a
medicare-for-all or one of these other
government plans I looked into it a
little bit more it's from the
partnership for America's health care
future which is just a lobbying group I
guess from health insurance companies
and pharmaceutical companies that want
to prevent the
fashion of government healthcare looking
into their source a little bit more it's
just a straight-up lights not even a
half-truth it's just a lie I'm not
really sure how that's even legal but
it's been making the rounds I guess
around here and in Kansas and in Iowa so
there's something for your viewers to
keep a lookout for yeah not only is that
not the case I mean look there has to be
Medicare for all is not going to solve
the problem of like hospital
concentration and the hedge funds that
are taking over these hospitals and the
buying distressed hospitals and closing
them down or selling them for real
estate or whatever all these things
there's gonna have to be other measures
that that take on the the hospital
industry and in reform it and if it and
in the with Medicare for all or in the
absence of Medicare for all there's
gonna be a real problem with rural
hospitals I think because it's just to
privacy that they'll end up doing direct
subsidies I mean that's all the aussies
do it I don't see why we wouldn't use it
it works for them I know a few people
from Australia it worked so just one of
those things people need to keep in mind
like this isn't something that people
aren't on the lookout for it's just
something that they're using in Iowa I
think if anything this probably helps
bite and more than anyone else what's
that
but Biden's not really you know the
Medicare for all kind of guy oh I see
what you're saying well you know it came
out that Biden Biden's campaign had
contracted a third way organization to
come up with those type of things in
fact I'm not even convinced that those
talking points didn't come
probably from you know some enterprise
associated with them so yes that's why
it helps Biden probably kids on some
level the campaign paid for it but or
her or vice versa appreciate the call
time here four people have been holding
on the phone for over an hour calling
from a seven seven zero area code who's
this where he called from - no this is
Kyle from Atlanta Kyle from Atlanta
what's on your mind
hey the other week I was um I was having
a conversation I play some DD with some
buddies every every week and we were
staying late three of us and it was like
the perfect control group were like a
progressive liberal and like a
Reaganesque libertarian yeah as I
thought of you with yeah you made me
think of you with a lot of the fun of
the talking points that he used I and
I'm just I find it interesting you know
it seemed like the liberal in the room
on policy was sort of closer yeah you
know to you know a lot of what I was
saying but he felt the need to kind of
beat up on me more when I was talking
versus the libertarian and I'm curious
your your perspective as to why why why
it is it there there are certain
liberals that are just so resistant to
this sort of idea I guess what they do
is far and left ideas that they just you
know they push them away you know and
give the bullet to the to the
progressive in the room where the
libertarian is you know spreading
falsehood and
I think maybe it's because they're they
I mean I I I don't know I think it's a
personality trait I think it's sometimes
I think it's like it because it's the
the question is why do liberals or
centrist tend to attack the left more is
that it yeah that's obviously an
anecdotal example but it's not the only
you know it's not the only experience
I've had like that
well I mean I think I'm good I think
there's I mean I think it could come
from a bunch of things I think one
there's a perception that it is the the
existence of someone to your left can
sometimes make you feel like the
integrity of your position is being
questioned right like that the the
emotional impulses that you have to that
formulate your politics someone wants to
sort of someone who is arguing from the
same emotional impulses but wants to go
further in terms of implementation in
some respects it may make you feel
insecure about your about your position
I mean I think some people also sort of
you know perceive it to be that like
you're going to you and it's frustrating
when you and I agree on sort of similar
outcomes but what you're what you are
suggesting is counterproductive I mean I
think that probably goes both ways okay
is true across the entire left-of-center
spectrum to from you know centrist
liberals to even people who identify as
Democratic socialists saying I'm the
real left and everyone to the left of me
is just crazy or a wrecker or some kind
of like insane ultra-leftist right I
would watch their also Aaron Bustani did
it I just just want to plug it real
quick cuz he did like a ten minute video
that spoke directly to this dynamic and
it reflects on what Sam said but it you
know it's elaborated tonight I think
it's a big part of wanting to
simultaneously think that they hold both
the moral and practical positions and
you're both undermining their case
because the truth is as an example you
can do way more for poverty and
inequality than they're allowing and
also you know and again I'm assuming
this is a you know relatively limited
conversation but like single-payer is
extraordinarily practical so they get
kind of
touchy from both angle was was you know
he seemed to even agree with me on a lot
of the policy um seemed to be sort of
even left-leaning for a liberal friend
Judy nd buddy he sounds like a what
do they what did that person articulate
was was well I don't know I mean you say
that they're there he's taking swipes of
what in particular well it was so what
was really interesting is um he gave me
sort of I won't use his last name but he
used his last name and said it's you
know the blood loss plan um and and it
really you know what it what it would
accomplish if implemented was was really
a lot of what you know the sort of
progressive left advocates for and I was
left it was very frustrating I was left
it at one point to just sort of say you
know I I I think that the only
difference between us is that what I'm
advocating for is actually policy that
is you know being discussed your friend
is trying to figure yeah go an see
Pelosi announced impeachment proceedings
okay all right so wait so what so and so
I'm now I'm confused so you you you both
agree on outcomes and they just resent
the fact that you know the policy it
resent the fact that I know it um I
don't I don't think so I I frankly I
don't know that we got far enough to you
know they even get to what his true
objections were because it seemed well
how did how did the objections come out
like what what well I mean how did how
did you know that the a had objections
well it it wasn't he didn't you know
vocalize them much on the substance as
much as he just did you know try to sort
of attack me on philosophical grounds
and and yeah it you know
some of the misunderstanding that you're
you know articulating now is sort of
what I felt speaking with them I sounds
like maybe you're just your buddy has a
little bit of an ego issue
I mean sometimes it can just be
impersonal maybe maybe you're a jerk
well how old is he how old do you he's
he's an older guy a teacher that's I
think you get into 40 probably pretty
close I'm almost 27 yeah well okay
I mean I think like you know 27 year old
coming in to tell a 40 year old teacher
who the hell do you think you are buddy
that's I think there could have been
some of that going on but endeavor to
persevere as they say and I Got News for
you you were the final call on the
program today appreciate the call with
peace and love I love these segments way
more when you do it where you actually
speak with people for an extended period
of time as opposed to the 30-second
calls I think you guys are best when
you're on substance and it's just best
yeah I don't want to do that regularly
but sometimes I feel bad when people
have held hold on and just give them a
chance for 30 seconds but I hear that
appreciate the call
bye-bye all right folks that's all the
time we have for today's program however
good news will be back tomorrow
tomorrow's Wednesday usually we do news
on Wednesdays we will talk news well
we'll have David day and on so we'll be
able to talk news as well as something
that's highly relevant The American
Prospect has an amazing outline of what
actually could be done not literally in
the first day but sort of on the first
day regardless of what the legislative
situation is so this is even that much
more relevant for people who like a a a
Warren or a Sanders presidency and may
not have a compliant Congress
all right folks see you tomorrow in that
state goes through that guy to get sue
[Music]
but I know some
[Music]
I was late I just got cut
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made oh
the option
rubber bands
[Music]
laughs we tried
[Music]
Jeter takes you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
