[Music]
let's go first
- we'll get to the Flynn thing I'll just
keep you an update on it I mean it's you
know it's it's pretty fascinating from a
couple of different perspectives I have
to say we're going to talk about Tucker
Carlson's ads fleeing from his show but
first let's start with the wall it was
just announced moments ago that Mitch
McConnell is going to be putting up it's
going to be putting up a vote to a vote
on a continuing resolution in the Senate
my guess is that would not happen unless
he thought he had the votes so I suspect
we're going to see a no government
shutdown they're punting til February is
that right Brendan the idea it's it's
interesting they the initially the the
idea was we don't want to punt to
February because the Democrats come in
and they have more leverage over the
budget but as I was saying in the run-up
to the midterm elections I'm not
convinced that Donald Trump and the
white house he doesn't want the
Democrats to take over on some level I
think there was reasons for him to be
concerned about all the investigations
and whatnot but I suspect at this point
like can you is there really can to
really even be more investigation what's
the phrase these baked into the cake
well baked into the cake but also it's
like if you are being shot at with a
machine gun and someone's hacking at you
with a machete and someone else is
lighting you on fire are you a real live
is making fun of and sorry that life is
big for you are you really that
concerned at the idea that you might get
run over by a car I mean you know at
that point it's like
but what this does politically for Trump
is to say I can't get something done
because I'm being obstructed by the
Democrats and he will be obstructed by
the Democrats cuz we will be all upset
if these not obstructed by the Democrats
so I guess the idea is we're gonna punt
to February and then we can actually
blame the Democrats for the government
shutdown then is what their arguments
gonna be it's very hard to blame the
Democrats for a government shutdown when
your party controls both houses and it
is ostensibly over the fact that no and
in the here's the reality no one wants
to fund the wall even if it's artistic
and beautiful and really just a fence
that you could see through but the
administration is trying to make an
argument that it's not going to cost
America anything you'll recall Mexico
was going to pay for the wall and Trump
tweeted out this this morning Mexico is
paying in parentheses indirectly for the
wall through the new u.s. MCA the
replacement for NAFTA exclamation Park
far more money coming to the US because
of the tremendous dangers at the border
including large-scale criminal and drug
in flow the United States military will
build the wall oh I guess there wasn't
there's a missing period there but
nevertheless the argument is that I'm
trying to parse this out good it's a
rigorous one now I think Trump
understands that if more money was
coming to the United States it wouldn't
actually be coming to the United States
Treasury it would be coming to United
States citizens theoretically I was
being sarcastic and then the argument
would be they're gonna pay taxes on that
money and that's where the money's gonna
come from now there are no official
estimates as to how
much more economic activity if any is
going to be generated in this country by
the USA but if you ostensibly it would
be whatever you know hundreds of
billions of dollars so that you could
get the extra five billion in taxes to
pay for the wall of course we're still
US taxpayer money is paying for the wall
which is not Mexico but imagine if you
actually were a human being and you had
to try and sell this to somebody and you
didn't do it through Twitter you
actually had to stand in front of them
how would you react well we don't have
to ask that hypothetical question
because here is Sarah Sanders trying to
sell this BS to the White House press
corps with the deficit ballooning to
over a trillion dollars under this
president where are the additional
monies for this wall going to come from
and why is he asking American taxpayer
for them what he promised Mexico's we're
not asking American taxpayers for that
we are looking at existing funding
through other agencies right now that we
can draw on to do that in the media
immediately the president's been clear
the president has been clear that the
USMC a deal would provide additional
revenue through that deal that would
deposit the best is the look on this
reporters face when she says those very
words he just go back just a little bit
I I'm sorry folks I mean I I just love
to look at the look of shock I mean the
idea that people can be shocked by any
of this on some level anymore like I
don't know how you show up to that place
every day for work and there's actually
anything that come out of anybody's
mouth where you're like wait what here's
has been clear that the USMC a deal
would provide additional revenue through
that deal that would show that Mexico's
paid for the Walton Treasury the the
trade benefits is there are any don't
don't go to the treasure
he say that the revenue provided and the
money that would be safe through the
USMC a deal we could pay for the wall
more times over and by doing that new
trade deal we have the opportunity to
pay for the world let's go to private
citizens don't go to the United States
traffic he's talking about the general
revenue that comes from that tax we're
not taxing we're talking about
additional revenue that wouldn't have
existed without the president getting a
new deal there have been a number of
things that we've looked at in which we
know we'll have additional revenue that
comes in through the u.s. embassy from
the US MCA we think there will be more
than that that comes in yeah we actually
in fact in fact we're gonna we're gonna
do I mean what's amazing is she knows
she's gonna go out and tell that lie and
she still there's just there's no
numbers you can't even make it up she
couldn't even get out there and say like
well we project I mean we've seen
projections of anywhere from 100 200
billion dollars worth of new activity
I'm not gonna just come out here and
give you fake numbers I take I'm come on
extracted stats really serious projected
numbers and and here's the thing we are
living in an era where this is none of
what we just saw is is is relevant it's
not relevant from an electoral
standpoint because most people won't
watch that it's not relevant in terms of
the people on Capitol Hill because the
Republicans are as despicable as the
Trump administration they are one in the
same the only difference is they don't
have to say these dumb things because
somebody else down on Pennsylvania
Avenue will say the dumb things for them
Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan have been
the greatest enablers of every horrific
thing that has happened in this country
Paul Ryan even had the audacity the
other night to come out and and call for
greater immigration for the Irish for
the Irish we are housing 15,000 children
right now and the only time that he's
talked about
said the words immigrants in months if
not years has been to call for more
Irish immigration I mean give me a break
the idea that we're not seeing tens if
not dozens of reported pieces or think
pieces in the the establishment news
media about how wretched of a human
being Paul Ryan is is a disservice to
the country if I if you gave me like
three days at the FCC I would revoke all
of their licenses most of them are not
licensed but certainly the net major
networks would get their license revoked
by me I'm gonna revoke her license to
wear a peter pan collar she is not doing
Manic Pixie dream girls any favors with
that representation people don't know
that you're in charge of that to try
Manic Pixie dream girl outfit I'm gonna
put it on and I'm gonna lie the
immigrants excuse torturing children I
mean I got a consult with the others at
the Politburo but I think you know
additional do you say some shoe Eric
