sitting with me now at the mass torts
conference 2018 at Nevada Las Vegas Mike
Berg from the law firm burg Simpson
Eldredge Hersh & Jardine and Mike you
and I have talked in the past you've
done a lot of I know construction
litigation faulty mantorp and they've
been the lead lawyer in the years and
the ortho ever and those iPrEx the
litigation Pradaxa okay so what what are
you working on now I think there's
something that people should really know
about that we're working on now you know
with the Cavanaugh hearing and the
hurricane the very little news came out
about these gas explosions that occurred
north of Boston in the Lawrence and
Andover area these explosions were not
explained explosion of one building
these were explosions of multiple
buildings along the main and feeder
lines of the gas company Columbia Gas
it's the most outrageous thing I've ever
seen I've tried numerous gas explosion
cases around the country have handled
more than 50 gas explosion this is the
worst conduct I've ever seen by a gas
company okay give us a sense of and I
don't think people appreciate this this
is when you say it went across these two
towns it wasn't where they were joining
I mean it literally like how many miles
spam warehouse is subjected to just
blowing up probably for between three
and five miles it's a long it's
unbelievable and and the reason and this
is really such an amazing situation is
in 2004 the gas company got acquired at
that time we have memos showing that
they knew that this is this this these
lines these old steel lines which had
been around for more than 50 years
needed to be replaced
they had leaks they had corrosion and
they knew they were dancing with the
devil if they didn't do it and so this
is Columbia energy and they are bought
out by National Grid is that what
happened whether they were they were
brought out by a company out of Ohio
which bought them is a holding company
that now owns Columbia Gas but we hold
both responsible and and they knew in
memos that they needed to repair and
replace these lines they knew there were
leaks in these lines they knew that if
they didn't do it and didn't do it
really quickly there were going to be
potential problems and what people don't
understand about the delivery of natural
gas is that it's lighter than air so if
you have leaks what happens to it it
tries to get above ground it'll go ahead
and permeate along the line and if you
have multiple leaks along the line which
is what they had here ultimately that
gas will find a way to get out whether
it's through cracks in the basement
whether it's in a house whether it's in
a store and when it does and you get the
right mixture of oxygen and natural gas
and you it can be from a pilot light it
can be from a boiler it can be from
static electricity you now have an
ignition source and the next thing you
know you have a catastrophic explosion
which burnt is there's deaths
there's people burn how many deaths well
we we know of at least three at this
point in time we have probably a half
dozen people that have been burned but
even even beyond that these people have
been evacuated from their house and
what's interesting is you have the the
town of Lawrence which is one of the
poorest towns in Massachusetts and then
you have Andover is one of the richest
right next door and these poor people
are the ones in in Lawrence they were
evacuated they couldn't get back into
their home they have no gas they have no
electricity they can't they got to go
stay with somebody a friend outside of
the the
the explosion area most of them suffer
from PTSD most of them have incredible
damages keeping them from being able to
go in and go back to what would be a
normal life gasps still has not been
restored
Wow people have still not been able to
get to their property well here's what
strikes me there's a couple of things
like and so if I understand you
correctly the gas will leak in one place
and it would just sort of lay across the
pipe until it finds a seep that it can
go up correct and presumably there were
multiple of these over that three to
five mile stretch right and then at one
point whatever it was made it pop up or
they found the gas found one leak that
put it to another level and then they
were able to go to the home oh we do
know we do know a couple of things
because we're still in the early stages
right because it just happened within
the last 30 days what we do think is
that the gas pressure went down and then
the company increased the gas pressure
in the mainline so the gas pressure goes
down because there's less gas leaks they
pump up the pressure which then pushes
the pressure on those leaks to find more
crabs right it makes it even worse
because when you have corrosion I mean
can it can happen not only from
corrosion and these that's at this point
we have a metallurgist is looking at it
but we also know people don't realize if
you have a construction vehicle a
backhoe or a shovel that just just nicks
that line with the freeze/thaw that
occurs up in Massachusetts and in other
places you're going to get that that
steel pipe is going to become brittle
and you may have had and we don't know
yet because we haven't gotten all the
information a catastrophic fracture
where the pipe itself breaks open and
maybe there's multiple catastrophic
fractures that occurred okay
but clearly that piping that
infrastructure is old yes you have memos
that suggest that like we have old stuff
you guys are buying us but we should
just tell you in full disclosure we have
old stuff and so the holding company is
responsible because they are aware of it
the existing company is responding but
how do we know ten miles down the line
passed and over you know or 20 miles
west into Worcester I mean why are we to
believe that any of this stuff is safe I
don't think there is I mean one of the
things I handled the case up in
Steamboat Springs Colorado in which our
whole city block blew up one of the
things we actually went to trial one of
the things that was very interesting was
I was able to ask the people in the gas
company how many more I said time bombs
drew an objection I said okay how many
more explosions are there under the
ground that you don't know about and the
answer is we don't know after the case
and we got a very very large verdict for
the injured people in that case a
multi-million dollar verdict the jury
went to City Council and demanded that
they replaced the entire gas system and
I'm going to tell you I talked to the
Boston Globe I talk to people in Boston
they better be demanding that there's a
full and complete looking at the system
as you said all the way along the line
is there a mechanism in the context of
the case that you're doing I mean
chances are you gonna settle maybe but
who knows but can that be worked into a
settlement or a verdict where it's you
use the responsibility to the communist
I think yes I think that the City
Council I know that the I was
interviewed when they were having a City
Council meeting in Boston about whether
or not this could happen in Boston and I
and I basically said yes it can and it's
more probable than that because these
lines they're structurally inferior
there are now new kinds of pipes that
don't have the same kind of problem
and to leave them in the ground where
you have corrosion where you have
potentially these lines have been hit
and under the d-o-t regulations the only
testing that they're required to do when
the line is up is some sort of
above-ground tester that's not gonna
that's not going to find those leaks
what you have to do knowing that you
have these leaks is you have to start
uncovering those lines and you need to
start replacing the period period and
you can't wrap them we had in the
steamboat case I had another explosion
up in Cody Wyoming where it got struck
and they wrapped it well that's not
going to help you when that when that
when that fracture occurs right and
you're going to have a apartment in that
case an apartment building went up
what's unusual about this is we don't
have just this one giant explosion that
occurred like in the two cases I
mentioned you have these multiple
explosions that occurred that really
suggest me there are large stretches of
line absolutely be a problem absolutely
I mean this is it seems to me it's the
functional equivalent of like you build
like a little housing cul-de-sac you do
it all in 1970 and you put a 25-year
roof on it and you know around 1994 one
roof fails maybe a couple others lasts
another year or two but they're all
going to go around that time it's yeah
and I think it's but even but even worse
and I like your analogy but here
people's lives are in danger everyday
and anybody who lives in that area who
understands the the truth about it
should be very fearful when is the next
explosion going to occur when are they
going to replace these lines and I'm
going to tell you they had a plan in
place back in 2004 but they do talk
about how much money it's going to cost
them right to replace it these lines and
they newing not knowingly delayed it so
we went from 2004 to 2008 teen and they
had plenty of time to fix this so these
people would not be going through what
they're going to do that now I mean it's
all about shareholder value right
because if we expend more money where
our profits we're just eating into
profits because we're investing in the
future shareholders want their payoff
now and so this is one of those things
there's another twist that I want to
make sure everybody understands
in Massachusetts the Public Utilities
Commission entered into an agreement
with the gas company and there was a
thing in there called the tariff and in
the tariff they attempted to limit the
liability of the gas company for
anything like this and they did it
without the consumers knowledge without
the consumers knowing in which it says
they're not going to be responsible for
for anything that occurs with regard to
the gas line and the argument was well
we're going to keep your gas prices
lower that way all that did was
incentivize the company not to do the
repairs they needed to do well they're
not liable then yet and and we believe
because there is some case law in which
they've enforced the tariffs in a
subrogation case that the tariff has to
be reasonable and under these
circumstances this company has to be was
held responsible not only for the damage
that it caused the injuries that it
caused but also consequential damages
and in this case it is our opinion
punitive damages so Mike when do you
bring in activists I mean you said the
jury went to their City Council and said
that but like it this seems to me to be
one of those situations where activists
would become aware of this tariff and
agitate against this and make their
there they are they should be they
should be brought in now and we're
trying to what run the reasons I wanted
to do this show and I've been on radio
and I've been on television and I talked
to the Boston Globe is to let these
people know that we're out here to help
them not only from the standpoint if
you've been injured or displaced ever
you have you know you didn't have
insurance but to actually get involved
and demand that they go and start
digging up this gas system because you
know people may not have an idea of when
you have a natural gas explosion the
incredible damage that it does you know
it's it's worse than a fire because what
happens is when that gas ignites
it'll blow the entire buildings to bits
in one of them that I was involved in
the flames went up almost a hundred feet
because that gas is continuing to pour
into that mixture and that fire
continues to burn Mike Berg thanks so
much for your time today really
appreciate it
I appreciate being on thanks in
