from an 847 area code who's this where
you calling from hey it's Josh for
Chicago hello Josh
from Chicago I'm not calling in to
defend a deep-dish pizza today don't
worry all right I'm glad you do there on
the time it speaks for itself I was
actually at I want to add in about the
small Harris and also um these sort of
centrist candidates and what I've
noticed about them and how they've sort
of adopted these sort of progressive
things right and where I think Bernie's
Lane is I've noticed that a lot of times
they will the way to tell for better for
lack of better words a wolf in sheep's
clothing I felt like this was especially
true with Gillibrand who I think is I
she's basically kind of just a hack I
think right now is they will not offer
any kinds of specifics right and will
speak in generalities and then in case
children shall blow that question on
policy of America which was basically
kind of just a lay up question and I
think where Bernie and Warren do will
rise above is that they do actually
speak in specifics and I think it was I
think was Michael who talked about this
the other day where he said that I mean
Bernie can almost eight each other in a
primary by almost being sort of a tag
team for progressives and building on
each other's ideas and even though she's
a bit more walkush I've been incredibly
impressed with the campaign she's run so
far she's apparently done a good job in
Iowa and I just I think it's very
possible that Kamala Harris and I don't
remember exactly how Marco Rubio was
perceived by Republicans right it's also
very possible that she goes the way of
Marco Rubio where people see through her
and she just goes nowhere
it's possible
I mean it's possible here's the thing
especially in the primaries big as
Democratic primary yes it's possible
yes but I will say this the thing that
that really did Marco Rubio in was his
work in the Senate people like he you
know he went out on a limb for
immigration reform and then he stepped
back and basically dropped it literally
dropped it in front of everybody and I
just don't think there is going to be an
opportunity for Harris to make that kind
of mistake in the next two years I just
don't think there's going to be and but
you may be right we'll see we'll see I
mean it's too early it's too early to
make these assessments it's just you
know she comes out she's got 20,000
people at her announcement rally her her
her you know sort of coming out went off
fairly flawlessly but we'll talk about
it right now I appreciate the call Josh
here is Kamala Harris at in a CNN Town
Hall which follows her big rally 2012 on
just logistically that suggests that she
has a very strong campaign apparatus now
granted it was in California where that
there but I will remind you California
is in the third tranche I think it's the
third or fourth basically week of
primaries Super Tuesday very early and
that's gonna make a big big difference
it's tough it's tough here she is with
with a Jake Harris at Drake University
in Iowa excuse me Jake Tapper that would
be and she's talking about Medicare for
all correct me if I'm wrong to reiterate
you support the Medicare for all bill I
think initially co-sponsored
senator bernie sanders you're also a
co-sponsor i believe it will totally
eliminate private insurance so for
people out there who like their
insurance what they don't get to keep it
well the listen and the idea is that
everyone gets access to medical care and
you don't have to go through the process
of going through an insurance company
having them give you approval going
through the paperwork all of the delay
that may require who of us has not had
that situation where you got to wait for
approval and the doctor says well i
don't know if your insurance company is
gonna cover this
let's eliminate all of that let's move
on all right let's go to them yeah i
think she met let's move on not to
switch questions Jake Tapper took it
that way but look I mean here's an
example of the opposite of what we've
been talking about right she doesn't
address the words that Jake Tapper says
in terms of like that means that people
can't keep their insurance because she's
smart
she does must say that because that
ended up being a you know a club that
they clubbed Obamacare with and Obama
would but she went on to say why
nobody's gonna care about that so here
she is talking about the morality of
billionaires gotta be careful here folks
cuz you know you need money to run for
office if you're not gonna get all those
$27 donations
my question for you tonight is simple in
a society where nearly 1 in 5 children
live in poverty is the existence of
multi billionaires morally defensible
well here's let's just say this we have
had policies in this country at least in
the last two decades that have
disproportionately benefited the top one
percent to the exclusion of working
families we have a situation in our
country right now we're just recently
this administration passed a tax bill
that benefits big corporations in the
top one percent to the exclusion of
supporting working families and that is
unconscionable and you are exactly right
we have babies in America today that are
on the verge of starving we have
families that cannot pay their bills and
one of my proposals is that we address
this inequity around what what has been
termed what would be one of the most
significant tax cuts for middle-class
families in generations and it is what I
propose I call it the lift Act but what
we would do is for families who are
making less than a hundred thousand
dollars a second before we hear what the
plan is to not address that question
this is an insufficient answer from my
perspective and and I'll tell you why
because someone was talking about like
you know two decades what is that what
are what are you talking about two
decades it's been like 50 years that we
have had this income inequality like
she's not steeped in this and it's clear
and there is only one way to deal with
wealth inequality in this country now
you could say like I have no problem
with wealth inequality fine but I think
people listen to this program know that
we have a problem with it
but there's only one way to deal with it
and that is not by providing six
thousand dollars extra for some segment
of the population that and that's not a
bad idea but that's not going to deal
with wealth inequality wealth inequality
can only be dealt with by limiting the
income of people of people making
billions or millions of dollars does the
income inequality let's start with
wealth inequality obviously you need to
in some ways get more aggressive with
taxing wealth there's a lot of arguments
that is very difficult to do people are
gonna hide it and this and that that
that all that may be true we do it in
terms of like we we tax wealth in the
context of property taxes right now we
could do it with other things we could
do it in terms of capital gains we could
do it in terms of a high top taxing
my marginal tax rate the ideas are out
there every day for the past two weeks
we've been doing a video with the AOC
talking about it on national television
so it's not hard to find but she doesn't
want to go there people can make their
own assessments as to whether or not
it's important that she goes there but
make no doubt about it she's not going
there good hundred thousand dollars a
year they would receive a six thousand
dollar tax credit that they could
receive five hundred dollars a month
understanding that we have so many
families in America right now that are a
$500 emergency away from complete
financial catastrophe let's also
understand that we've got to have
economic policy in this country that
understands that right now it's not
working for working people right now in
America in 99% of the counties in
America if you are a minimum wage worker
working full time you cannot afford
market-rate for a one-bedroom apartment
that is absolutely unconscionable and so
we've got to correct it and part of it
is that people at the top 1% people who
are making ten million dollars a year
who have 50 million dollars a year they
need to pay more taxes
she gets there
and what we have to do is correct course
because for too long the rules have been
working against working families and
working for the benefit of the top 1% we
have to correct course she now she won't
go as far as saying that billionaires
are morally indefensible she says you
got to raise taxes on the wealthy but
this is not anything that's particularly
new like it look there are specific
plans out there it's just interesting to
me that she'll cite the ten million
dollar figure right which is where ALC
has put her 70 percent tax rate that
she's you know rhetorically it's just
interesting I will make this prediction
she will be a lot more specific this
time next year well she's gonna have to
be exact cause the beauty of candidates
like Bernie and Warren is they make
people say what they mean exactly like
like I heard someone say that Obama was
the last horoscope candidate or the last
candidate who could be vague enough so
what he's saying could mean you know
whatever you want it to mean and that's
just not gonna be possible
that's exactly right well Trump was the
last one I think well that's well I
think you could get away with it on the
right and a little bit different way
than you could on the left particularly
in this day and age but that ship has
sailed
that's right but that's exactly my point
is that you know there's a lot of stuff
in there there's a lot of like you asked
me a question are billionaires immoral
I'm gonna tell you I'm gonna tell you
everything that you know already about a
problem that exists but I'm gonna prove
to you that I know that that problem
exists and then I'm gonna give you a
vague answers to how I'm gonna fix it
yeah yeah I mean Bernie got Hillary to
run against single-payer health care the
last time around she was not expecting
to have to do that it is gonna be very
different this time it is and and the
fact is is that you set expectations
during these during these during these
campaigns and it's a lot harder than it
used to be to set these expectations and
not meet these promises I mean promises
you
we get mad there's not a lot that Obama
promised that he didn't deliver on it's
just the people didn't listen to
carefully to the promises yeah
entitlement reform was on the bill and
fortunately that didn't happen because
of the freedom caucus did he promise
card check card check I don't know if he
I think he said he would sign it but the
problem I think was more with the Senate
in that instance but also like what I
was saying before about the powerful
rightward forces that enact on you as
soon as you get into office if someone's
being dis vague at the outset like that
well just she is it doesn't bode well
for the future wait to see where she is
in January of next year I mean it's
understandable why on day one you're not
gonna be you're not gonna have the same
specifics
you know because frankly that was also
my point in terms of her brand Elizabeth
Warren she's gonna come out with
proposals that are going to be
surprising insofar as how they're
executed same with Bernie but there's
not gonna be any proposal that's gonna
come out of Bernie or Elizabeth Warren
they were gonna be like wow I had no
idea they wanted to do that right I mean
that's just not gonna happen because we
know already what their agenda is come
from an 8 for 5 for 7 area code who's
this where you come from Chicago hello
Bryan from Chicago what's on your mind
hey first of all thanks for taking my
call just let you know a longtime
listener first-time caller
you guys do a great job love listening
and I don't know if anybody else was
catching this but I had a hard time I
couldn't hear the videos that you were
playing on the phone line at least so I
missed all that clip I heard your
commentary but yeah I just wanted to let
you know since you're doing some
troubleshooting it seemed but anyway
I'll keep this short do you know if
anybody's really spoken out about what
they think about private prisons or
anything specifically Kamala Harris you
know she's done anything about that well
you know it's funny that you mention
that about private prisons I don't know
that she's addressed private prisons as
of yet on the federal level I think the
the the on the federal level the Obama
administration had basically said we're
gonna get rid of a private prisons if
I'm not mistaken
now that was reversed by Trump but I
have no reason to believe that she is
going to be to the right of Obama on
this like you know prison reform is a is
one of the few bipartisan areas where
you have a certain amount of cover
regardless of where you are however we
do have this clip of Kamala Harris from
2013 at the Chicago ideas week and again
I sadly I say this with the regret don't
think that Democrats largely are going
to have as much of an issue with her
stance on criminal justice reform that I
have but at the very least it should be
out there here she is at the Chicago
ideas thing and you can and we're gonna
make it so that you can hear this you
tell me how you would characterize her
perspective on the idea of criminal
justice reform six years ago I have
friends like Eva Patterson okay so I say
with all love and warmth that part of
the concern also for people who who are
progressive thinking and liberal minded
or just progressive thinking in terms of
just fix it fix it is that we all have
these posters in our closet that is
attached to a stick that we sometimes
will cart out when we're talking about
criminal justice policy and those
statistics that you first heard when we
opened it up incarceration and we run
around with these signs build more
schools less jails build more schools
let's just and we walk around everywhere
build more school we protest build more
schools less jails put money into
education not prisons
there's a fundamental problem with that
approach in my opinion and it's this I
agree with that conceptually but you
have not addressed the reason I have
three padlocks on my front door so part
of the discussion about reform of
criminal justice policy has to be an
acknowledgement that crime does occur
and especially when it is violent crime
and serious crime well there should be a
broad consensus that there should be
serious and severe and swift consequence
okay so I mean now this is a little bit
hard to sort of grasp what she's saying
here she says that when you talk about
putting more money into education versus
prisons you cannot ignore this
fundamental the truth that why there are
three padlocks on my front door so it's
unclear to me if she's saying there you
can't ignore the fact that people are
afraid of crime if that's just a
political situation and then she goes on
to say you got to acknowledge that crime
exists now I don't think that people who
are saying put less funding for prisons
more funding for education are saying
that crime doesn't exist I think what
they're saying is hey we're putting a
lot of people in prison for illegitimate
reasons not we shouldn't and I know
there are some people who say abolish
prisons we've interviewed them on this
show but that's not what I'm talking
about I'm talking about sort of what
it's considered sort of mainstream normy
politics at this point I don't think
that there is any major contingent in
the Democratic Party that says we don't
believe crime exists but I think there
is a I think the mainstream of the
Democratic Party in 2019 says there's a
lot of people in prison who shouldn't be
in prison there's in fact there's an
extraordinary number of people and
that's what I think the marijuana
you know criminalization legalization
movement is largely about that there's a
whole whole like hundreds of thousands
of people in our prisons for drug
offenses and for small-time offenses
that are that that perhaps not only
should they not be in prison but to the
extent that anything that they did that
we have a real problem with as a society
could be fixed by more opportunities for
people that come from some basic
services maybe not just education maybe
sort of anti-poverty things and a whole
host of other initiatives but to set up
this dichotomy is highly problematic to
strawman and say and maybe it was
different in 2013 but that's not that
long ago to say that there's a vast
majority of Democrats or people who are
saying that we want more money for
education they're saying that there's no
such thing as real crime that we're not
acknowledging that crime is real that
violent crime is real that to me sounds
like a very very strange formulation
that is problematic now she hasn't had a
chance to address this in 2019 she may
come back and say you know I've
rethought my perspective on this stuff
and you know she should have that
opportunity and people should be asking
her that but this is you know right now
what I feel like the thing to do for
people is a long list of questions for
all the candidates not just Kamala
Harris not just Bernie Sanders put
Elizabeth Warren and and Pete badging
her and and anybody else who's declared
we it's time to start coming up with
questions that people should be asked
yeah she argued against releasing
nonviolent offenders because they were a
valuable source of labor in prison I
want to see that gone also I don't know
what that part
Jamie I mean I wouldn't be surprised but
lawyers under her direction it would be
okay you guys have a clip of that I'd
love to hear it but one of the I think
one of the main things that's kind of
keeping the marijuana legalization held
back so much is just the seizures that
they get from it local police
departments and everything they can
seize your car your house or whatever is
connected to supposedly connected to
that drug trafficking our opinion and
that's that's a big fun source for them
so I think that's one of the things that
creates I'm sure but that's gonna go by
the wayside that's that's that I mean
it's not going to happen tomorrow but
largely across the country that's done
that I mean it is done you know the
fight about marijuana legalization is
all but over you know a dinosaur wags
its tail 20 minutes after it's heads
been lopped off or so I'm told
and that's what we're seeing now I mean
the head has been has been more or less
severed the the cats out of the bag it's
just a matter of time but appreciate the
call oh and 2013 was also the same year
that black lives matter became active
I'm pretty sure so it just shows there's
some questions it shows like two very
different approaches to criminal justice
in America and it's a time when a whole
lot of people especially young people
especially young black people were
saying you know this isn't working for
us
