so we have currently working without pay
and this is a partial shutdown because
it was already a statute passed earlier
in the year that provided for pay for
the majority I think of government
workers but in addition to the hundreds
of thousands who are have been
furloughed they're not getting paid and
they're not working we have 54 thousand
custom and Border Protection agents
getting working without pay 42,000
coastguard employees 53,000 TSA agents
17,000 correctional officers 14,000 FBI
agents 4,000 DEA 5,000 fighters who were
with the u.s. Forest Service these are
all people who are paying to go to work
essentially at this point right because
they're not getting paid paying for
their transportation whatever it is a
decent number of these people I would
say mmm good time for you to go find
other work I'm not terribly excited
about what the Customs and Border
Protection people are doing these days
but I mean obviously some of this is
necessary but all of this is a struggle
I mean all these people have families
these are their jobs we have hundreds of
thousands of other workers you're going
to start seeing as of today Smithsonian
closing you're going to start seeing
more public parks closing and not only I
mean just contemplate this the the
administration the Office of Personnel
Management last Thursday I think it was
they tweeted out advice to furloughed
federal workers on how to explain their
situation to creditors in land
Lorde's they also gave a sample letter
and it went like this quote I will keep
in touch with you to keep you informed
about my income status and I would like
to discuss with you the possibility of
trading my services to perform
maintenance paint me a painting
carpentry work in exchange for partial
rent payments now banks are well known
for taking like yeah if you've got a
mortgage with us and you'd rather come
in and make some shelves or perhaps
organize our files feel free to come in
this is also hitting with a lot of times
like you had a lot of federal workers
who they don't know when their next
paycheck is gonna come they're not gonna
go expend money of on presents for their
kids there are all the the human
suffering here really just needless
suffering is pretty stunning what will
also happen is there's a couple of
thousand federal contractors you know in
in a lot of the buildings subcontractors
a lot of federal buildings if you have
janitors security guards people who work
in like the commissaries and they will
never get back pay they don't come in
these companies are never gonna give
them back pay many of these workers who
are furloughed right now or who are
working without pay we're talking about
eight hundred thousand total hopefully
they will get back pay but the bottom
line is right now they're having to go
out and they're either taking loans or
they're putting stuff on their credit
card they're never gonna get paid for
the interest that they're gonna get
charged in their credit card the 20%
interest that money's never coming back
the insecurity that they're dealing with
the their that they're cutting back in
real time the stress that their kids and
themselves are probably going through
this is never gonna get returned in a
dish
- that it undermines the missions of all
of these agencies if they cannot count
on on funds coming in all their
contracts right you're gonna be putting
contractors out of business you're gonna
be putting people out of business who do
business with the government so this is
problematic in the it reverberates and
so here's what's gonna happen probably
tomorrow or maybe Friday the house is
gonna pass a budget with I don't know if
there will be 1.5 billion dollars for uh
you know border security or whatever
that means
look they could pass the five billion
dollars and Donald Trump's not gonna be
able to do build anything other than
more replicas of his prototype walls for
the most part because it's it's it's a
drop in the bucket but the bottom line
is if you're gonna give him five billion
dollars for you know to pretend that
he's building his wall get something get
permanent status for Daka
kids get permanent status for dhaba and
that was the deal they had a year ago
and of course Stephen Miller said told
Trump don't don't do it or Trump though
who knows but the house is gonna pass a
budget and then it's gonna go to the
Senate and Mitch McConnell is gonna have
to make a decision he's either going to
put that up for a vote and it will pass
because there'll be Democrats who will
vote for it he's also got to worry
though that there's gonna add there's a
half a dozen senators who are gonna
pretend Republican senators are gonna
pretend that it's problem right like Ted
Cruz is gonna get out there and this is
gonna be this time shine and Mike Lee is
gonna get out there Rand Paul is gonna
say this is you know I finally have
principles and blah blah blah
then the bill if it passes in the Senate
will go to Donald Trump
and then he will presumably not sign it
and it becomes a pocket veto maybe he
will veto it just to show it and then it
goes back to the House and the Senate
and then things start getting really
interesting it will most likely pass the
house but in the Senate there could be
enough Republicans who don't who are
afraid of voting against Donald Trump
well who knows ultimately I don't think
this works out very well for the
Republicans but it's like I say a lot
worse for the federal workers and the
federal government and this is the prop
this is the rub this is why when we talk
about asymmetrical politics this is it
because it's a problem for people on the
left most that the government is hurt
and that federal workers are hurt by
this and the hurt continues and gets
worse as you go on so the leverage is
with the Republicans but Donald Trump is
about to own this and despite the fact
that he already announced that he was
going to own he's gonna own it in a an
even more intimate way very shortly you
want to talk about asymmetrical politics
public sector workers are not allowed to
strike in most states because you know
their jobs are too important
they help society run but the
Republicans are allowed to do the exact
same thing if they decide to it's that's
this area a lockout right it's basically
a lockout for all those people were
furloughed and it's even worse for those
people who are not for a load but don't
get paid ya know it's it's it's a real
problem I don't know how you make a you
know a long term reform to this but
that's why the there has to be a
political price exactly because
otherwise it continues to happen and and
we shall see I mean hopefully that
we'll see a price paid
