I really want I mean it is so important
to get really basic and really basic
humanity stuff team human non human when
it comes to these immigration cases
there's any number of policy debates
about immigration obviously I am on the
very much left of immigration but which
I mean everybody that lives here now and
has lived here should be immediately
granted a status citizenship period
crossing the border should not be a
criminal offense should be if anything a
minor civil one totally decriminalized
the United States as well as by the way
the Europeans should follow all
international law that they have signed
up to on refugees and more broadly we
need to address the security state and
climate policies that are driving so
much accelerated migration across the
world there's still going to be borders
and in fact many country as of now and
in fact many countries on the receiving
end of as an example US foreign policy
are quite interested in how to have a
open fluid relationship the rest of the
world in terms of travel trade commerce
and exchange but they actually would
like their sovereignty to be respected
by US foreign policy as an example so I
say this because these debates can get
very abstract and very very quickly in
ways that really have nothing to do with
the debates that are taking place and
the urgent response to what is happening
from this administration and from ice
right now this is again if you think
that this is acceptable if you support
that raid that is putting children in
shelters or relying on children on a
stranger's for food and clothing or
whatever else that really is I mean I
this is a deeper version I don't mean
like
shouldn't be partisan it is clearly
partisan and in fact maybe it should
have been more partisan because
Democratic leaders help set the stage
for this through their own policy sets
but this is human or not if you support
this you are not a fully paid-up member
of the human race and I wanted to
highlight and and again that is not
every single policy issue that you could
have about immigration that one is to be
really clear and this one also is this
story I mean I'm sorry as I actually
have some hesitation about sometimes
sharing stories that are just absolutely
you know depressing frankly I I I
actually think there's some job that we
have here to engender a little bit of a
sense of hope and possibility even as we
cover all this stuff this story's just
horrific just awful it's just a
documentation of the human cruelty of
the Trump administration and ice an
Iraqi man who was born in Greece came to
United States as a child and was
apparently never properly documented six
months old I don't know sneaky yeah very
sneaky grew up here worked never caused
any problems nothing he was deported to
in Iraq the man is an American he
doesn't speak Arabic I don't think he'd
ever even been to Iraq before let alone
live there well this man died because he
wasn't able to access insulin for his
diabetes this is just pure pure raw
uncut human cruelty and again anybody
who would defend this is not human I
want to make because again I keep
wanting to make the distinction you
might hear some people say well I got a
different idea about borders than you or
I I have some different thoughts about X
Y & Z and again I I am of the school
that the left in general needs to be
able to
I argue effectively here different
viewpoints and so on
not because of persuasion but frankly
because of how the project is branded
but this stuff is outside of the bounds
of human again
these policies whatever ice person did
this has a death on their hands the
Trump administration has a death on
their the chain of command here and
every anybody who touched this should be
exposed personally and you know being I
mean facing trials for the rest of their
life just obscene here is a video of
this man who died up please I was off I
been denied stakes in six month old know
the spoon a quick smoke or resin
and I use that said I've never been
there I've been dysfunction my whole
life even it's pretty much bourbon this
four five six months and David used to
listen to me there was an agent remise
the Department of Homeland Security is
located on three three three my helding
before michigan 48007
agent c'mon I'm not sure about the other
one but his name is deep but what his
name is
well they just whatever love you to me
they wouldn't let me call my family
nothing they just if you go to the right
and your best bet is to cooperate with
us that way we're not gonna show you all
things to do on our commercial flight I
begged them I said please I've never
seen that country I've never been there
however they force you I'm here now in
our own language aging I was treated
honestly I'm diabetic I think it's my
charge I will go another five something
to eat you know I got nothing over here
you can see I was kicked in the back
get off the guys properly I was sleeping
on the ground he claims it is positive
you know I begged him I said I don't I'm
sorry I apologize I don't really know
how to pet a move from that just
was evil
it's evil it's evil I shouldn't swear
sorry it's evil I don't if you are
defending that you're not a human being
you need to save yourself you need to
access your humanity and the people who
did that that really is some Nazi I'm
following order stuff right there the
level of sociopathy and cruelty and
grotesqueness of the policy set and then
the fact that you know those guys
projects hitting a quota getting a
thrill getting a kick out of the fact
that you know whatever distracts them
from their miserable lives they can just
go and just destroy somebody's life and
go home to a cigar in Hannity cigar in
Hannity it's absolutely disgusting and
it's outside it's not human I'll keep
repeating it there needs to be and and
and again that is the stuff that's one
of the reasons also that I really do
recommend that you specify that those
rhetorical pushes can't be used on every
single thing because they are here for
certain things that is not see stuff
that is totalitarian that is murderous
that should be criminal every single
word you could throw at it and if there
is an ability to prosecute the people
who did this absolutely I mean there
needs to be we talked about broader
needs for like historical understandings
of this country across the board and
Truth and Reconciliation commissions
there's going to need to be a Truth and
Reconciliation Commission out of this
yes I mean this is just
tourism directed from the state and
something that will absolutely be
implicated under you know the Obama
administration - there's no doubt about
it the entire history of the Department
of Homeland Security which is a short
history this is - created in after
September 11th there is no broader
institutional memory here this is a from
the outset national security state
boondoggle that was created to
securitize and surveil the Muslim
population infinitely above and beyond
the bounds of the small and surgical
measures you need to take to protect
from actual terrorism and it's been
weaponized now to terrorize immigrants
across the board and undocumented people
and if you think that your life is safer
because you support a policy that
murdered this guy then honestly I mean
honestly the most the most compassionate
thing I could say for you is that you
should immediately seek help and I don't
mean that as as a polemic I mean
literally you should seek help if you
experience actual physical anxiety
because this man was in your country you
need help you need urgent help not being
polemical not being sarcastic I mean as
Joe Biden would say literally you need
help I'll also say this if you're maxing
out donations to Donald Trump
you need to be exposed by a Joaquin
Castro hundred percent and if you're the
CEO of SoulCycle and you know and and
Equinox and I don't normally go for
these things but I'll tell you what guys
uh cancel those memberships it hurt uber
and heard uber and this guy comes out
nice and he basically tries to you know
I'm summarizing but essentially ya know
we're doing a Hamptons fundraiser for
Trump because I'm a greedy sob not
because I'm a bigot I mean and of course
frankly being a greedy sob leads to the
same results as what we saw with this
man in this indirect ways whereas if you
are starving the state to give yourself
more handouts and money that
killing people so it's the same thing
but I don't know that just really maybe
we shouldn't start it that way because
it's very hard for me to move from that
I I'm sorry but it that is one that must
be told it's like those stories share
that story there's Clips when you see a
police officer murder you know it's like
some of these things you know you people
need to see them they need to be real
about this this this is what gets
abstracted you know it's about there's a
border and what we need is a
common-sense approach I mean when you
know this is this is what is missing
here again in a very specific
conversation about these ice policies
and this approach which really frankly I
mean just again to put it in real terms
george w bush's immigration proposal
which was totally business friendly had
all sorts of onerous demands on people
the document citizenship and was not a
justice oriented bill and he did do a
lot of very militant moves at the border
this would not happen under that
immigration deal wouldn't happened so
you need to be very specific about the
set of policies that you're supporting
here okay
