[Music]
this is the pretty disgusting so there
is a plan to name a Washington DC street
after Jamal khashoggi he's the the
journalist writer who was killed by the
Saudis he was a u.s. resident apparently
had a lot of friends at the Washington
Post of its where he worked I think
there's a lot of people I would like to
see a street named after I'm not sure
that Khashoggi would be the first one
that I would do but whatever if there's
a constituency to do that in in DC then
fine but here is Seb Gorka who
apparently has a real issue with this
the idea I have to drive my my Mustang
down the road but here is here's a
disgusting how desperate the Trump E's
are to to avoid this crap show around
mmm Mohammed bin Salman and one has to
wonder just how much how many of them
are getting paid to maintain this
relationship yeah quick little blurb
that we noticed in the local papers
yesterday it's about day a neighborhood
here in the District of Columbia a group
just voted to rename the street oh yes
in front of the Saudi embassy for Jamal
khashoggi what do you make it act why
would you name a street after a man who
was best friends with Osama bin Laden
and a member of the Muslim Brotherhood
yes he was murdered and that was unjust
that was wrong but this is not some
saint and champion of democracy his last
article for post was about the need for
theocracy and supporting the Muslim
Brotherhood would we rename streets in
DC after Ayman al-zawahiri the head of
al Qaeda would we rename streets after
KSM the mastermind of the
9:11 hijacking it's a little peculiar to
say the least
mm it's a little peculiar like is it
like what like what is the nefarious
thing going on you know here is a
perfect example of how how poorly we do
our jobs because if this happened and
it's impossible that the same
circumstance would have happened under
trial under Obama what Sam it's just
impossible right there's no way the
relationship would have been with the
Saudis that they felt they could get
away with this
okay there would have been some
constraints but just by chance if
something like this happen and under
Obama's presidency a street was named
after Khashoggi that same hit by Seb
Gorka would be classic
this proves Obama is Muslim Brotherhood
I thought you were gonna go the
direction that David Axelrod would be in
Washington journal be like gee I don't
know I mean he was best friends been
lauded well no no no I'm like hey so Bob
people just be like no no they'd say
this would be oh yeah this is Swami
 yeah yeah they could just act yeah
unity yeah I mean I have to tell you I
I agree I don't know if khashoggi would
be my first choice either but I do like
the idea that it's in front of the Saudi
embassy right makes me support it and
the other thing too is like I like I
mean he's clever enough to just
basically be like the dead cats ooh
force lad right like that's an
extraordinary claim yeah like it's one
thing to say I mean I just a little
housekeeping on it like this guy was a
Saudi royal adviser and supported the
Mujahideen in the 80s along with you
know us right entirety of the US
military and intelligence apparatus and
was moving we enabled it we out funded a
funded it and let the Pacus the
help coordinate it the Saudis funded it
and then we outsource the practicalities
the Pakistani so when he was there that
was as American as apple pie as in
Ronald Reagan compared these people he
said they were the moral equivalent of
our founding fathers and yes he was
working with religious groups and
criticizing the Saudi monarchy because
that's the only political game in town
there unfortunately and he's you know
he's conservative I don't know I don't I
don't want Mike
I don't want Mike Pence's a policy
adviser to get caught up in an embassy
right like how just utter the utter
inhumanity you have to have to go there
is all sort of jaw-dropping along with
like what even by their standards is
just like like he could have said he's
Muslim Brotherhood which is not true but
whatever but he's like Osama bin lot uh
was Osama bin Laden's bestie and then I
lived in Saudi and now I'm at the
Washington Post and uh yeah well and
speaking of troubling connections which
is worse vertes ear end or the Muslim
Brotherhood the tez ear and was well
frankly not as on the scene right now
I wear with my mandarin collar
Jamal khashoggi z-- grieving wife can't
zoom it because her husband's dead
here in Osama bin Laden you skirt of the
bathhouses together right massage each
other so I'm not sure they should have a
street named after him why can't I get
back on Fox c-span is so lame
