this is very upsetting to me because as
you know I have agreed to debate charlie
Kirk he is the leader the president of
turning points USA turning points USA of
course is the organization that funnels
millions of dollars into college student
government races so that a Republican
reactionary wins this is a legit
organization just doing what everybody
anticipate should happen with with
college and university elections that is
millions of dollars of outside money
being poured in so that they can win it
and to hear something like this is very
upsetting and surprising because
apparently the Miami New Times received
messages it's just very hard to find
loyal people these days that the Florida
Chapter at Florida International
University they had a chat group called
T P USA FIU
fun and which they were told to avoid
let me quote here just avoid saying the
n-word and don't reference Richard
Spencer too much too much and don't I
like hell I like the pragmatism of that
yeah so she was straight guy yeah and
don't you hate just cuz all the time
right words listen your Jewett
and it shouldn't happen all the time
cuz that gets boring it should be like
let's have a thoughtful conversation
about how Jews control the media but
don't always go on about how much you
hate the holidays you be fair when we
all start our slack groups or our
discord groups that's one of the first
things that we say don't forget don't be
openly racist don't Jew hate just
but there's also there's also a little
more now I don't mind the the sexual
innuendo but one member of the group
posted a meme featuring a brown Pepe the
Frog which is of course the alt rights
mascot and this guy happens to be raping
a Swedish woman while another brown Pepe
holds a gun to a man's head as you can
see a white person now this still does
not make any sense so oh this is this is
too normalized that we could even be
having this conversation but they're
doing a lot of things here in addition
to being racist and misogynist and
disgusting because I thought the Pepe
was supposed to be their person their
thing as fascist but they've made the
Pepe so Dee
so are they acknowledging that they
actually want a Saudi system here I
don't know there may be a little bit
confused but the idea is that a refugee
that refugees because it's signed says
back they're refugees welcome we'll
overcome the the white goodness of
Sweden I get that but the refugees are
Pepe's yeah and if anything they're sort
of gender politics and interest in the
Jew question might have some interest in
the Saudi Court well you you could
probably sit him down and and try and
order aggragate right or not right
exactly another messages members of the
group discuss dressing up as a nice
officer to aggressively grapple latinas
and deport them and alluded to watching
lowly hentai which is a form of anime
porn depicting girls so there you go
back in 2017 The New Yorker reported
that a top turning point official texted
I hate black people turning point also
invited an activist with a history of
anti-semitic remarks to the influencer
retreat let me just say this to the eye
I maybe I should get a promise from
Charlie Kirk that he will not
Jew hate on me during the debate but I
feel like he probably keeps happening
it's weird
you know a lot of times these groups get
infiltrated so that they can pose as
loyal members like this happens all the
time
with well some guy infiltrated a DSA
meeting in DC apparently and just
recounted their minutes that they
probably could have gotten from Facebook
well yeah but there was a lot of
parliamentary hijinks in that meeting
that he reported I know this um if
you'll remember like gosh members of
like like the Nazis like there were
infiltrators there were Nazi
infiltrators into the Nazis who made the
Nazis look bad by the time free folk
totally infiltrated we were committing
genocide we don't know who to try to
never their attention we just merely
wanted an environment in Germany what
people could speak freely
look it's unfair to hold the whole group
responsible for a few bad apples and
leaders okay I challenge anyone out
there to form any type of conservative
group and not have to run into some of
that well it's just a difficult thing to
do
right so cuz obviously most young people
who have bizarre fixations about Western
culture and weird sexual issues and
otherwise Michael have no I know you're
being sarcastic no you're missing the
point they're like Newt Kings
anybody you could say this is Charlie
cart Kirk's fault but I challenge
anybody oh no to round up an
organization of more than let's say 25
conservatives and have them not be
racist or have a problem with Jews or
ten okay or ten I'd like to be extremely
fair I think that's gonna be difficult
pheromones so I don't care who you are
so before you cast the first stone you
go out and try and find 10 to 15 to 25
conservative people put them in a room
in
it's not you know tell me they're free
of people who are gonna joke about being
anti anti black let alone you want to
start a national organization I just I
just know I feel bad for Kirk cuz I know
how upset he was when the crystal
Clanton's stuff came out at the National
Field Director that said I hate black
people like them all I hate blacks
end of story that's what she said and
you know you think you turn over a new
leaf and then you follow right back into
the same old habit when you're like
actually I got into this business
because I'm so concerned about the
plight of the black family it's super
hard
