because I want to tell you you wrote a
piece you know I guess it was I can't
remember maybe at the beginning of the
year about you know how did the end of
the world become old news I guess that
was over the summer and maybe just a
couple months ago and the the idea that
you know I mean it's certainly I know on
this program we talked about climate
change
far less since November 8th of 2016 than
we did prior to that because there's a
real sense of like doesn't matter
it mean not that climate change doesn't
matter but no matter how much we talk
about it there is nothing we're gonna do
to move a republican-controlled Congress
and a Republican president and now and
we should maybe touch on this briefly to
a Republican or right-wing controlled
Supreme Court with Brett Kavanaugh
coming on who is you know to the extent
that one could put up roadblocks to
anything positive happening that you
know in terms of the apparatus that
already exists he is you know sort of
the poster child for that but if yeah
sorry to cut you off but it's you know
he's his positions on on Roe have been
talked about a lot but actually he's yea
considerably more conservative on the
question of federal regulation than he
is on the question of you know on the
question of choice yeah yeah
I mean this is I think this is why
frankly the right was so jazzed to have
him you know Roe is you know sort of the
shiny object there for them but I think
the from a business in the corporate
corporate perspective his basically his
philosophy that government regulation is
almost in and of itself illegitimate is
I think very attractive to these
corporations but so we're twice removed
here right like it doesn't matter we
could put five million people on the
streets tomorrow in New York and you
know the Republican president
public in Congress would just be like
yeah whatever enjoy your blue state but
on top of that even if we were to move
forward we would be we would still be
you know hoping that our our soft power
could sort of somehow influence these
other countries I mean what what do we
do about that I mean you know like I
mean I was reading rereading your piece
on on these disasters and looking at
like I think it was New Delhi that you
said would be inhabitable within you
know several decades because of the heat
and I'm thinking to myself well we made
Iraq I mean like we specifically we made
Iraq inhabitable for at least several
hundred thousand people that we killed
and we created four million refugees
four over the course of I don't five or
six years no one see it wasn't people
cared but not that many like not enough
to really fundamentally change our
government we were directly responsible
for that never mind we're just you know
you know in the in the bleachers
watching it you know as you know New
Delhi becomes inhabitable I just I mean
how do we what what I mean what's the
psychology behind this I mean what what
do we do I mean it's okay the question
to answer I think personally I return
always to politics I I think that you
know we have what I think of as a kind
of a delusion in like you know the
well-off liberal West that we can make a
difference with our consumption choices
that if we you know if we drive electric
cars and if we fly less and if we you
know eat less red meat that you know on
some level we can sort of we can address
the problem that way in my mind like
politics is such a moral multiplier here
that's like the only way that we're
going to get to the kind of you know
that were talking about that World War
two analogy the only way we're going to
get to that level of transformation is
by applying political pressure to our
governments and around the world and you
know I think that's you know one reason
the midterms are so important it's
another
the reason that you know 2020 is gonna
be so important but looking at the
bigger global picture is even scarier I
mean the obstacles to change on this
front in the u.s. are real but globally
what we're seeing over the last decade
is a retreat from the very kinds of
institutions and sort of networks of
cooperation that would be our only hope
for true global action so you have just
you know all across the world
you know nativist movements
nationalistic movements right-wing
leaders who are really really focused on
securing the well-being of their own
country not thinking about the you know
the globe as one community that needs to
deal with this genuinely existential
threat and that's really really alarming
it's only continuing further I mean the
you know the election results in Brazil
earlier this week or over the weekend
where I mean they got one more round to
go but it seems quite clear that Boston
I was gonna win and that's just another
step forward in this you know we built
right after World War two after many
many millennia of human conflict we
built a kind of a network of cooperation
the UN is a big part of that but the EU
is another feature of it we had
globalization itself which is you know
obviously a kind of complicated economic
system that has produced many losers but
even so was really a an effort for the
world to be working together and moving
towards shared interests and over the
last decade that's really changed it's
interesting you said you know we talk a
lot less about climate change since
never me 2016 if you look at the the
public opinion polls actually the peak
of awareness and anxiety about climate
change was in 2007 in the US and that
was in part I think because of Katrina
and in part because of the Al Gore movie
An Inconvenient Truth but those that
interests was like leveled off
completely I mean it was cut down by the
financial crisis
people started worrying much more about
the state of the world when they worried
about the state of the world in in those
terms in financial terms and there's a
kind of a bait-and-switch there too
because you know we've sort of
understood for about a generation or so
I understood I'm you know essentially a
neoliberal technocratic kind of person
and I had the idea that like the public
would only accept action on climate
change if it came for free or if it was
going to offer economic opportunity and
a lot of the messaging around climate
adaptation is sort of focused on those
on those note saying like oh look at all
the green jobs we're creating
we're now at a place where we see we see
that the economic costs for not acting
are going to be so so much bigger than
the economic costs of acting it's almost
like you don't think of making an
investment in the stock market as a cost
because you expect that over time that
you'll be you know drawing money out of
that investment and it's you know it's
getting to the point where it seems
almost as clear about climate there was
a report a few months ago that said that
if we were to successfully aggressively
act on on climate we the world would
save twenty six trillion dollars by just
2030 I think the number in the IPCC
report is 50 trillion dollars by that
same amount by that same year and that's
just you know that's just two decades
away so with that isn't the problem with
that calculus that that's not how the
world works I mean I'm not even talking
about human psychology in that like oh
if I spend a couple of bucks on my car
now and change the oil I won't have to
deal with the engine seizing up you know
down the road I'm talking about we don't
you know in the same way that we
perceive our economy as doing well if
the GDP is hitting a certain number and
the stock market is doing a certain
that's indicative of some people doing
well right like is it a problem we have
when I talk about nationalizing it's not
because we need to marshal these forces
it's because we need to constrain the
forces that are preventing us from
acting maybe because the problem is not
that we're it's going to cost
all of us too much money relative to
that what we would save if we do that
it's that it's gonna cost some people
who have powerful people yes outsized
power in our politics it's gonna cost
them more yeah I mean namely I guess
like the fossil fuel business in general
anybody who has sort of entrenched
economic power yeah I know it's it's um
I think the sort of transformation the
revolution that the academic revolution
that's really necessary is bound to
upend many of those many of those sort
of power hierarchies and people at the
top of them don't like is that a bloke
eh I mean yourself identify as a
neoliberal insofar as that you're hoping
that the market is going to solve this
and that they sort of like market
calculations but when when you see the I
mean for someone like yourself who is so
acutely aware of the sort of train that
is but you know barreling towards us as
we're sitting on the tracks like does
that implicate your perspective on you
know sort of that broader question
because it seems to me that you know
Brett Kavanaugh just as an example Brett
Kavanaugh is on the Supreme Court
because there's a lot of people out
there are hoping he's going to overturn
roe v-- wade he may or may not they may
do other things that will inhibit a
woman's right to choose but at the end
of the day the reason why the real push
behind him the power behind him was his
perspective on limiting government's
ability to regulate corporations like do
we you know if that is the successful
recipe to address you know what the and
agenda do we need something like that on
the bag is the nominal center center
left in other words like do we do this
as a bank shot because obviously climate
change is not motivating people enough
do we make it about something else so
that we get a regime in there that will
address climate change right because if
the problem is entrenched power of
moneyed interests do we go for
you know you know let's just say John
Doe who is going to get rid of student
debt let's say because ideologically
that person's also going to maybe
nationalize our power structure well I
think that yeah I think that there are
there I mean there are a lot of
different paths forward and my own
perspective is it like we don't you know
we don't just need to focus on on one of
the expense of others but I completely
agree with you that the problem is
beyond at the moment at least beyond the
markets power to solve and that combined
with 2008 we're already seeing you know
climate change and the financial crisis
both have generated a huge amount of
skepticism towards unregulated market
power I think that's very valuable on
its own but I also think it's especially
useful in thinking about how we might
mobilize action on on climate the to the
sort of the question you may ask you
raised about you know rhetorical the
rhetorical play to be made here I mean I
think yeah it's it's um it's for me it's
less about finding someone who is you
know running on student debt relief and
more about what things about climate
change can we imagine and put into play
that have much more emotional salience
for voters than say sea-level rise and I
actually think that there are a number
of really important ones that have
basically not been played by climate
activists to this point the first one is
the one I mentioned earlier which is
about the economic impact I mean if
we're really looking at a world that is
30% less rich because 30% less growth
over the rest of the century because of
climate change that's twice as big an
impact as the Great Depression and it's
permanent that's huge
like that is you know economic suffering
beyond the scale that any of us can
imagine it's eight times as bad as the
Great Recession was and we see how much
that scrambled American politics
geopolitics so I think that like putting
people you know putting the the economic
numbers in front of people much more
aggressively I think is
really important because it'll hit them
in their own you know they can see it
hitting them in their own wallets and in
the I mean but can you though I mean I I
don't mean to like you know but like you
know that to me is seems so abstract
like the idea that down the road we're
going to lose this we're gonna lose a
trillion dollars or a billion dollars
doesn't even matter you know a gazillion
in economic activity like is there
really a way for the average American to
sort of put that in their wallet like as
something that is like literally affects
their wallet it's interesting and I I
mean personally I think yes and it
connects to something we were talking
about before which is that you know when
I said I'm I'm sort of temperamentally
in neoliberal what I really meant is
like I came of age in the nineties I
feel like in so many different ways I
believe you know I believe in my core in
ways that my brain maybe now doubts that
like the world is going to get better
that economic growth produces well-being
and happiness and that like history is
moving in one direction towards more
prosperity and health for all and I
think that that basic intuition about
the world is dramatically threatened by
climate change
and whether or not the average American
can say well if this happens and this
happens my bank account will be this
much smaller if you imagine you know a
permanent Great Recession I think that
just about everybody can really
understand it's not just exactly how
they and their family may bet but the
entire outlook of the of the country and
indeed the planet will have changed away
from you know the idea that your
children will be better off than you are
and will be living more abundant
prosperous lives than you did to one in
which the past actually looks sunnier
than the future and that is so dramatic
a transformation of perspective I don't
think we've really started to process it
but that is the bargain that's being
offered by climate change I would say
one other thing totally separate from
the economic case is public health
there is an enormous public health
interest in stopping climate change so
at the moment nine million people are
killed every year just from the
pollution that comes out of burning
fossil fuels
it's called small particulate pollution
9 million people and some scientists
recently did a study where they you know
in exactly the benchmarks being used by
the this IPCC report looked at the
difference between the public world's
public health at 1.5 degrees in the
world's public health at 2 degrees and
they found that just based on this one
public health issue just based on the
small particulate pollution that comes
out of fossil fuel-burning a world that
is 2 degrees warmer would have 150
million more deaths than a world that is
1.5 degrees warmer so that's 25 holla
costs you know to go back to what I was
saying earlier like we have no chance of
getting 50 degrees so it's going to be
considerably worse than that
but the public health imperative I think
is actually quite strong that's the
reason that China actually has moved so
aggressively on climate change over the
last years is that they were dealing
with a lot of these public health
impacts quite directly because their
governments would have to pay for it I
mean they're yeah they know they they
they understand the implications of
their of it on their government i I you
know I'm good and and the public you
know it's not just deaths I mean there
are the there are huge impacts just on
the amount of carbon in the atmosphere
on cognitive functioning so you know in
in cities with a lot of carbon pollution
test score results are followed by 10 or
15 percent which is really dramatic I
saw a study recently that the effect
from car exhaust on premature birth and
low birth weight and babies is so strong
that in areas where they just introduced
EasyPass and therefore the cars moved
more quickly through the toll and
distributed less exhaust in the
community that low birth rate and
premature birth fell by double digits in
the in that neighbor in those
neighborhoods so there are all of these
sort of public health Carl
that I think people will will you know
our would at least be open to getting
agitated about getting activated by in a
way that they find the prospect of say
sea-level or distant cost agricultural
yields quite hard to wrap their minds
around if they know that like you know
the average lifespan of their children
is going to be caught it cut by several
years because of the amount of pollution
in the atmosphere I actually do think
that is a quite strong case for cutting
that pollution and if we cut all that
pollution we will you know in so doing
solve climate change now the problem
with that is that at the moment all of
the pollution that's in the atmosphere
is suppressing global temperatures by
about one degree so we list called
aerosol pollution all of the ship that
we've put into the atmosphere over the
last 100 150 years it's floating up
there and it's reflecting sunlight back
towards the Sun which means that the
planet is not as warm as it really
should be if it was unpolluted so if we
solve if we solved the public health
problem if we eliminated all of the
pollution in the atmosphere we would be
saving these 9 million lives every year
and having all of these other beneficial
impacts on public health but the planet
would immediately get one degree warmer
which means that we'd already be more
than 2 degrees warmer than the
pre-industrial average we be already
past again this threshold of the IPCC
was just saying this week is absolutely
unacceptable in some true sense like
with a true state of global warming on
the planet we're actually already north
of two degrees it's just that we have
this weird backhanded you know pollution
thing that is happening to suppress
global temperatures so that we think
we're only at one point one degrees
we're living is that we're only at one
point one degrees but the sort of true
global warming impact is north of two
degrees already
wow that's encouraging so if we're
successful in saving lives we're going
to end up costing lives on some level
yeah
yeah well I mean I I gotta say like I
you know I'm I'm I'm a I'm a thousand
flowers bloom type of guy in terms of
ideas I'm starting to think though that
you know it's it's the implications of
global warming just are too abstract for
for people as a as a as a as a political
motivator it feels like to me but you
know we'll see yeah I should have give
him folks like a little bit of a warning
before we did this well I would just say
about that I mean I you know I am I
think that the world is starting to wake
up to the issue I think that with all of
the extreme weather we've seen with the
wildfires with the heat waves with all
the all the hurricanes we have another
hurricane bearing down on Florida just
this week which is crazy it could be a
possibility category four category five
storm we haven't even really heard about
it that the world is waking up to the
effects of warming and starting to see
that it's it is something other than
just sea level rise but the problem is
that we don't have that much time as a
last question to what extent and maybe
because the Republican Party as far as I
know is the only major political party
in the world that believes that global
climate change is not real I mean as a
tenant of their party to what extent if
the Republican Party you know and
obviously this is I'm asking you to
speculate wildly here but if the United
States was not inhibited from being a
leader in this like you know I mean it
and Obama goes out and signs the Paris
Accords obviously completely
insufficient but if there was no
political cost whatsoever to this if the
entire country was on board in the same
way that maybe a small you know
Indonesian island was I mean what what
do you think the difference would be in
the world I don't think it would be much
I mean you know as I said before I think
the main drivers of this are well just
to take China as an example China is an
authoritarian regime they do not have
any of these political considerations
and while they're moving much faster
than they were five years ago ten years
ago on climate they're still moving way
too slow and that is because the main do
you think an unencumbered United States
would have been able to make it move
quicker I think some to some degree but
I think that you know that the economic
trade-offs are really the thing that is
that have slowed action on this and and
you know there was a really interesting
study that came out a couple weeks ago
that compared the you know the the
amount that climate change would cost
particular countries over the coming
decades with how much each of those
countries was responsible for warming
and the u.s. actually was came
surprisingly high on the list of
countries that were going to be affected
economically they had the second-highest
economic cost of climate change and we
are in this weird kind of karmic balance
where actually just as our share of the
climb of our responsibility is exactly
the same as our share of the climate
burden that will be bearing India is by
far the worst on this metric they have
their share of climate suffering is four
times higher than their share of climate
responsibility and they're the country
in the world is going to be hit hardest
by climate change and China is in the
reverse situation China is at the moment
they are 4 times more responsible for
climate change than they are you know
going to be seeing impacts themselves so
the economic incentives in China are
actually running in the opposite
direction that we want them to run with
they they can theoretically pollute more
and those costs will be owned by a
mostly by other yeah and that's the real
problem is that generally we haven't
developed a system where we're all in
this together
and so particulars have an incentive to
slow walk their own commitments do less
than they need to because fossil fuel is
cheap growth
but if we all do that we're really
 I mean and there needs to be you
know one body one coat one coalition
that dresses this totally head on I
think that's really the lost opportunity
for from American leadership but I I
don't think that we'd be much farther
along right now and I don't think that
we'd be facing a different set of
dilemmas than we do now it's really what
are the Chinese going to do what are the
Indians going to do and what are
countries like Nigeria and Kenya going
to do as their populations like double
and triple over the next couple decades
