[Music]
you'll recall that some time ago
a bunch of morons felt it necessary to
have a straight Pride Parade in Boston
now look I grew up in Massachusetts I
grew up around d-bags like this all the
time so I'm not in any way disturbed by
them I feel comfortable around them I
may be at times I was one of them not
quite like these guys but in my own way
let's go the straight Pride Parade but
and I certainly look I am in favor of
people being able to do high jinks to
prove their political point even if
their political point is one that one
usually experiences as a 12 year old boy
and then you grow out of it by I don't
know late in your 12th year somewhere
like around 12 and a half you grow out
of these things like these ideas like
hey wait a minute straight oh yeah okay
whatever these guys obviously did not
they didn't handle this very well it was
really in many ways a disaster let's
just listen to this question that was
asked of these three stooges by Bryan
Ricci oh who is I think he's a local
reporter and it turns out to be a fairly
salient question who knows if it was
just me and Mark we said we're gonna
March it doesn't matter we have a point
to make and we think we think it's okay
to be straight that's all and there's
nothing wrong with that doesn't make you
a hater and if people are saying that
it's just bizarre what the heck's wrong
with being straight
it's great to be straight you say don't
hate the straight we have to say that
the taxpayers are upset that city
resources are going to be wasted because
you three guys can't get laid
Philadelphia your girlfriend what's your
name again philadelphia your girlfriends
what's the name I'm sorry what sir I
would what actually it turns out I'm
asking serious question he's not serious
questions of the straight pride would
the guy here in Santa Claus outfit
holding the iPhone who is revealing the
fact that they had done some research
and spied on the guy and found out that
his girlfriend was in Philadelphia I
think nevertheless the question actually
was a very legit question because now we
know how much that cost Boston police
had to pay or a it cost taxpayers over
thirty thousand dollars to deal with
those what a hundred people not even who
showed up for that dumb parade i I just
ridiculous a wait a second what's this
oh wow what's this total this is more
over time holy oh yeah that wasn't the
total whoa that was just for the
barriers I'm sorry that was the barriers
it turns out you got to pay for the
barrier truck and the event activity the
overtime cost was six hundred and eleven
thousand dollars so the entire straight
Pride Parade cost the city of Boston six
hundred and forty thousand dollars you
know the sad part is they're probably
cops who would have showed up for free
to that rights apology it's probably
true but the amazing thing is like you
know like like of all the complaining
they do about like the special rights
that gay people have an arson
the special secret rights that they have
how their speech is suppressed yeah
there you go 40 grand for that complete
waste of time do we know how many people
showed up to this yeah I think it was
like literally like a hundred so that's
about $60,000 per person yeah I'm quite
convinced if you had given everybody 600
bucks they would have stayed home you
could have given you could have saved
the city like 700 grand man I'm sure
there's no other I'm sure there's no
better use of the money for that it's
good a good time to be in the barrier
delivery business I was gonna say maybe
maybe this whole thing is just a giant
false flag for stimulative spending I
have all of a sudden gotten super
sympathetic well it's a whole bunch of
guys got overtime good economic activity
what kind of girl I'll tell you why I'll
tell you if I owned a barrier the
barrier company I would make money like
yeah you know what guys it's time to put
on the Magic the Gathering suits again
and some straight Pride Parade flags and
right-wingers are just subsidized by
barrier company yeah that's the size
between these organizers and the barrier
companies all right focusing there
here's what we're gonna do
