[Music]
but let's also just turn to this other
thing that's sort of fascinating so Jeff
Bezos I guess it was yesterday takes to
medium and writes a letter to the world
basically saying that he got contacted
by the folks at National Inquirer who
are concerned about the investigations
The Washington Post is doing into the
relationship between the Enquirer and
the Saudis and the Trump administration
and basically said we have dick pics of
you that you took and your girlfriend
and boy it would really suck for you for
them to get out into the public maybe we
should meet in the context of all the
stuff that you're pursuing you know in
terms of chasing us down and Beezus
basically said I'm the richest guy in
the world and I live in my own universe
and so I don't care what picks you have
of my penis I am going to out you and
that's what happened
and I don't know that for me the really
fascinating part was how much he talks
about Saudi Arabia in this piece right
like it just that seems like a little
bit of a bank shot but it's as if he is
it's his way of threatening them like
with like look I want you just to be
aware we're much closer to finding some
connections that you may not have
thought of and we're gonna put it out
there right now this is the way that we
leak stuff out there
oh absolutely there were there and there
are a lot of rumors to that effect that
the you know the post has some kind of
information you know I mean they were
the the employers of sodium you know you
know they were and and and they've been
truly I think the people at the post who
worked with him I think they had an end
reporters in general but especially at
the post but but we're just completely
appalled by what happened and also the
fact that
you know Trump and Jared Kushner who
apparently was helping MBS Mohammed bin
Salman you know with his damage control
on the story was calling him up and
saying hey let me help you out here
they're truly appalled and offended by
this and so they've been pursuing this
and at the same time I think that that
Bezos hired you know one of the
country's most you know well-known
private investigators what's his name
Gavin de Becker I think excuse me out in
Hollywood you know he's very well known
as a you know super top investigator and
you know I think I'm not surprised that
basis would hire him and he's also been
on this and there of course Bezos was
sending a shot across the bow there
which was kind of like hey you know are
you sure you want to go here are you
sure you want to mess with this and I
think that that a lot of that has to do
with the fact that I don't think basis
cares about his dick pics you know he's
the richest man in the world you know
okay whatever you know and you can buy
anyone out of penises after that or
doesn't matter yeah who cares you know
and I don't you know none of us care
about fifty six at this point is like
you know what we've seen one dick pic
we've seen him all right so you know
this is no big deal and and the fact
that basis you know is extremely
powerful and in terms of his wealth and
in terms of the fact that he hosted
Washington Post you know I think that
that he's decided to take a you know to
take to use that power that he has as a
billionaire or excuse me as Howard
Schultz says a man of means
right um that he said he's gonna use
that to try and push this and and you
know actually try and do use his power
for good in this one respect I mean I'm
not trying to give him a pass on all the
rest of it but in this case and I mean
hey you know this is a really you know
interesting tactic on bezos's part
because I mean when I was in second
grade I guess it was a sixth grade
Charlie had cook caught a note that I'd
sent to a friend in which I called the
teacher a
and he was black he blackmailed me for
it and was saying that he was going to
tell her and I had to give him money and
do all that so I took the note to the
teacher sorry on one second
just got a note that breaking news we
just broke some news for their God about
Charlie Adcox
Yeah right the whole story right right I
know it's a big one really really
interesting but I'm just saying that
doesn't say this is one way to deal with
blackmailers right which is just take
take it upon yourself to just sort of go
and admit that the thing happened and in
the end the blackmailer often looks way
worse for having for doing what he did
so I think that that's what his what his
approach is here and I think you know
he's done himself some good too I mean
the dick pics are the least of it right
I mean at this point we may be talking
about an international incident that
could reflect very very badly on on the
onion choir and also on this you know
the Enquirer has been doing this with
Trump's enemies for a long time right I
mean this came out during the Kohen
thing I mean we knew that pecker was
called up to Trump Tower when Trump
decided to run for for president and
Trump said so how can you help me help
me with this campaign and pecker said
well let's see what we can do here so I
mean the idea that there's a political
overlay here that perhaps he was also
helping out his friend friend Trump is
is also a big part of it yeah and I I
mean more and more it sort of feels like
there's this group of guys who are
friends or just like we're gonna get in
on this deal and there's all these like
you know it's it sort of reminds me of I
can't the his nameis Kate was a Collins
who is the congressman who was like
getting insider information for stocks
and what's a Collins and was just like
I've made for millionaires in Congress
you know they're all rich cuz me like
all the money just sort of flowing
around with these guys and you start to
wonder you know you know with the with
the Saudis and UAE I mean there's just I
don't know there's a lot of stuff
flowing through here and it just seems
like it gets more and more layered as we
go but Digby thanks for unwinding some
of this
go back to watching the Whitaker the
Whitaker case well I need something need
to I need to catch up on it after the
show so I'm gonna go read what you've
written about it as always thanks so
much for your time today Digby Rob
thanks for having me Sam have a great
weekend everybody
