[Music]
so let's just start with obviously
Donald Trump had his 4th of July
celebration and God spoke and poured
rain on everybody
there was no flooding although one could
have anticipated that thanks ok the tank
I against the tanks were ok I didn't
want to be honest with you I I didn't
watch it I and pay much attention to it
at all obviously Donald Trump screwed up
in his speech we may get to that but
also what he did and what happened this
week is that the American women's soccer
team a won the World Cup who they beaten
that it was the Netherlands the
Netherlands and this has been a source
of some controversy because the team I
don't is she the team captain yeah
Rapinoe is she the team captain and
she's been pretty vocal about having no
interest in going to the White House and
critiquing Trump and Donald Trump
apparently a couple of days ago said you
know do your job and win maybe shouldn't
talk so much and so they won and then
they continue talking and sarkar has
been one of those sports around the
world that has been very much associated
with politics maybe because it's an
international sport I'm not sure we
don't we don't infuse politics and with
as many things in this country although
sports are certainly becoming far more
political and I think it was stories of
maybe people who had a fandom in the
Spanish Civil War for soccer teams I
think it was
or maybe the fascists later I can't I
can't quite remember the story that
inspired me to you know put a black mark
through my Patriots hats and since they
did not go to the White House I was able
to take those those pieces of tape off
and but here is a guy from Fox News
going down I guess this must have been
on Sunday thinking he was going to cover
oh no no he's in France right
with a bunch of probably expat Americans
maybe not watching the final game of the
World Cup as the u.s. women's team wins
I guess their record fourth title I
didn't realize that and Fox gets a real
sort of man or woman on the street
perspective on how Trump is doing in
Europe we are here in a sports bar de
Leon France we are in a sports bar we
were going to be outside there that's
the classic soccer chant of F Trump I
think is what they're saying you can
really see how sports fans hate it when
you politicize their sports right they
really hate it I think they were also
yelling Fox sucks I think there is half
of them were going Fox sucks and the
other one we're going F Trump that's
versatile those dovetail really nicely
yeah it is it's a nice message huh so
there it is you feel the heat and that's
why the shocker will never be big in
this country it's never be big
