PETA the destiny of America is always
safer in the hands of the people than in
the conference rooms of an ele
[Applause]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Monday August 19th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
[Music]
professor of history at Monash
University in Australia author of red
meat Republic a hoof to table history of
how beef changed America
Joshua aspect will be with us also on
the program today federal court allows
the Trump ban on abortion referrals to
go forward while lawsuits continue could
mean loss of millions of dollars to
women's health providers across the
country rural areas particularly hit
hardness meanwhile Trump's forced
attendance rally backfires three
potential mass shootings foiled this
weekend
Bernie releases a massive criminal
justice proposal and Joe Biden realizes
his mouth is a liability hongkong sees
1.7 million people that's 1/4 of their
population March in the pouring rain
this weekend in protest new report CEO
has grown almost 1,000 percent in the
past 30 years doing a lot of good work
yours I feel quite confident in saying
as not meanwhile senator Sheldon
Whitehouse and four other Democratic
senators declare war on the Supreme
Court of the United States and removing
a stigma Atlanta makes school lunch free
to all students lastly in a national
survey of economists seventy-four
percent say a recession likely by late
2021 as data shows the tax cut was
indeed a total scam and lastly leaked
proud boy chats show they were plotting
violence surprise surprise surprise all
this and more on today's program ladies
and gentlemen yes hope you had a good
weekend falled all that stuff that
happened in in Portland this weekend of
the Twitter fortunately not no no
significant violence of any sorts the
proud boys were severely outnumbered by
an anti-fascist an tyfa protesters and
somehow the proud boys were able to have
a non-permitted arch with protection
from the cops and the anti-fog people
not so much but nevertheless no no no
major violence let's get into this shall
we ladies and gentleman just a reminder
a little a couple of just housecleaning
things next week we're going to be on
vacation there will be all new recorded
interviews which you will enjoy and
if you want to get a brief fix on the
news of the day our a.m. quickie is the
best way to do this it's sort of like my
headlines that I read at the front but
it's a little bit more in-depth than a
couple of stories and not quite as few
many stories but you'll get a sense of
where the news is without having to get
too deep into it every day on the
majority report feed you simply go and
subscribe to the majority report you
don't need the members feet or anything
like that just go on to iTunes or
stitcher or Spotify or your podcast app
audio only go in subscribe it will come
to you in the morning hopefully by 9:00
often before then but we try and get it
out the door by 8:30 or so but we'll see
I will still be doing it on vacation
really you ow
yep yep what about your co-host well she
is well she will be too she is not on
vacation but I will be on vacation yes
heavy on the quotation I would like you
to take an actual vacation now yeah well
it's pretty good I mean I you know I it
doesn't take long to do and so there may
be screaming children in the background
we'll see I'll be interesting acoustic
speaking of which in in studio today we
may have a guest
I've hired someone to do a little bit of
organizing around the office and her
name is nyla cedar she may actually hop
on the the microphones also reminder if
you want to become a member of this
program it's very easy go to join the
majority report com your support makes
this show possible so there's quite a
bit of talk about a recession largely as
the world goes so do we in many respects
and there's a couple of things to note
before we hear Donald Trump pretend that
it's not happening
one of them the one of the things that
people are pointing to is this yield in
the or inverse yield a
in verse in the yield curve which
basically means I'm gonna do broad
strokes here because frankly I only have
a rudimentary understanding of this long
term interest rates are rising above and
this only happened very briefly I guess
it for like an hour or two the other day
but every other time it's happened fifty
times it has been predictive of a
recession long-term interest rates rose
above short-term interest rates which
basically means that people have
concerns about the economy down the road
that but that's basically what it is I
mean it has to do with Treasury bills
and where investors think that safe
places to go are and what yields will be
etc etc but that's the long and short of
it it happened very briefly so who knows
the big concern though however is that
the Fed does not have much ability to
lower interest rates more than they have
which is a tool that you need to fight a
recession the other tool that you could
use would be government spending which
of course there's going to be massive
reluctance to do it particularly if a
Democrat comes into office in 2021
they're gonna use the excuse of this
massive deficit and debt to say that
cuts have to be take it taking place and
[Applause]
you could raise taxes on the very
wealthy poor that money back into the
economy in a myriad of different ways
but unlikely that you know the politics
would have to be pretty pretty different
than they've been in the past thirty
years there's a report out today CNBC
writes about economists who have
examined the impact of the 2017 tax cuts
and job acts say it isn't helping and
much in any of the ways advertised
overall growth business investment or
worker pay all flatlined tax cuts have
not generated the promised growth of 3
percent or more there was an uptick then
some of that stuff was revised down
we've already seen the bulk of it a
Congressional Research Service analysis
I want you to remember this because this
is exactly what happened in Kansas now
Kansas it destroyed them because they
don't have the ability to print money
and borrow money they have to balance
their budget every year but the argument
is if we cut taxes revenue will actually
go up from taxes because there'll be so
much more business activity that more
money will come in complete disaster in
Kansas so much so that a fully
Republican legislature voted to increase
taxes three years later because it was
so devastating four years later a
Congressional Research Service analysis
concluded that the law has produced you
ready for this because when I say to you
I'm gonna cut taxes and we're gonna make
more in revenue that means that tax
revenue after I cut the rate of taxes is
actually going to come in at like a
hundred and one percent or 105 percent
or a hundred and ten percent of what we
cut in terms of taxes the Research
Service Congressional Research analysis
can Lou the law has produced no more
than five percent of the growth needed
to offset the tax cut losses so they
missed it by that much are both my hands
out of frame because that's the only way
to communicate this here is Donald Trump
when asked about the economy
he thinks it's like a tennis match with
China for some reason I don't see a
recession I mean the world is in a
recession right now and although that's
too big a statement but if you look at
China China is doing very very poorly
they've had I just saw a report they've
had the worst year they've had in 27
years because of what I've done and they
want to come to the negotiating table
you know they're having companies losing
I mean they're leaving the companies are
leaving and they're laying off millions
of people because they don't want to pay
25 percent and that's why they want to
come to the table I don't think there's
another reason other than President Xi
I'm sure likes me very much but they're
losing millions and millions of jobs in
China and we're not paying for the
tariffs China is paying for the tariffs
for the 100 times and I understand
tariffs work very well other countries
it may be that if I do things with other
countries but in the case of China China
is eating the tariffs
at least so far I'd be a pivot time
later today right I say right go far
because I don't actually want a
recession right slight lack of
understanding of the global implications
we have a bit of incredibly
interdependent economy with China which
is why if we do bad we do bad uh
everybody says when I wanted to start
trading with Mars that it was a pie in
the sky that now we have a backup don't
need China have Mars it's a great signal
for our economy that China is shedding
jobs and having extreme instability so
it's exactly what you want a lot Rime
trade partner people are a little
skeptical about Donald Trump and his
grasp on these things so who better to
send out to assure us all that there's
no recession coming that he had a steady
hand then the guy who was famous for
being the biggest booster of the stock
market in the economy about nine months
before it had its biggest crash since
the Great Depression I will say this
this must have been pre-taped because
this aired at 10:00 a.m.
and later in the program we're going to
play a performance of his at 10:30 a.m.
and they're simply unless they have a
one of those beer funnels in this studio
there's no way he could have had this
type of evolution let's say which is not
to say that this is gonna be sober right
which is it I'm just saying that it
takes usually a couple hours to get that
but I don't know here is one last point
okay low interest rates low interest
rates which is across the spectrum is a
very good thing for housing for
construction for automobile sales so low
interest rates no inflation virtually no
inflation Chuck Todd so I actually think
it's a pretty good story and again let
me echo my theme let's not be afraid of
some optimism okay you say that but you
you actually said that in 2007 right
before the war the second worst downturn
in American history this is what you
wrote there's no recession coming this
is in December of o7 the pessimist 'iz
were wrong it's not going to happen the
bush boom is alive and well it's
finishing up at six consecutive year
with more to come the more to come was a
massive downturn so I'm I admire your
optimism but the the data is pointing in
another direction
well I plead guilty to that late 2007
forecast I plead guilty by the way every
other forecasters see who weren't alone
you are that's Road ship you weren't
alone they were all there however just a
wee bit of Kudlow defense now by
February and March I said we on CNBC in
those days I did go to I did go to the
recession call so III will plead that I
I did see it
I don't know that anybody saw that kind
of crash but look this is not that close
I just want to make it clear it's not a
question first of all there was a lot of
people who saw a crash a lot of people
actually saw a major crash I know this
because I was talking about it if I was
talking about it with with only really
an ability to read other people in terms
of the economy
then clearly there were people talking
about it but let's not make a mistake
here he didn't say there's a chance for
a slight downturn he said we're in
booming this guy was out there optimism
optimism optimism every day on TV every
day
that's the bush boom great time advisor
rivet of Chuck down you know here's the
irony that was when he was more sober
despite the fact his analysis was less
sober as it were I'm speaking
metaphorically continue this is not then
this is not then our banks are well
capitalized our financial systems in
very good shape and I must say is the
president is transforming and rebuilding
this economy he deserves enormous credit
a new policy of lower taxes and
regulation and energy opening and trade
reform you know we didn't quite get to
three percent but look Chuck first two
years of the Obama administration we
were just a hair below 3% okay
we're moving in the same direction did
we have nice called the Obama
administration did he just call it the
Obama administration I think that's what
he said we didn't quite get to 3% but
look Chuck first two years of the Obama
administration we were just a hair below
3% okay we're moving in the same
direction and let's be honest what are
we talking about their bomb talking in
the fresh years of the Obama
administration we were in a deep
recession yeah oh yeah but the Trump
administration austere Damas
well hey bottom line we don't need to
see any more of this because the really
sets a loose shot but the real problem I
mean he's right to a certain extent that
we don't have the same exposure in terms
of the financial system although who
knows but more than likely not the
problem is there is no slack there is no
room and in the event that there is a
downturn I mean we can spend but you
know you know if a Democrat is elected
president all these guys who don't care
about the one trillion one trillion
dollar deficit I mean debt right now
they're gonna be freaking out about this
I'm gonna downturn this shot it's if I
face chucks had all right we're gonna
get to the stuff will you let our guests
know we're gonna be a little bit late
this is good I like I like doing ads
like this because we have been
advertising for quit for several years
and now but I just we just have I just
wait for the testimonials to roll it
what's the ease
his way to ease back into a routine
simplify mornings and evenings with an
electric toothbrush from quip it's
back-to-school time folks it's time
sonic vibrations offer an effective
clean that's gentle gentle on your
sensitive gums in just two minutes twice
a day the multi-use cover works as a
stand it mounts the mirrors it's great
for traveling puts your brush front and
center in your bathroom and better yet
the lightweight compact design means
that you can take it with you
not just on trips but out and about on
the town but also traveling with it is
huge because you keep your routine brush
heads are automatically delivered on a
dentist recommended schedule every three
months for just five bucks making it
easy to stay committed to your oral
health folks you know about why I love
quip but I'll just sum it up gave one to
my sister
I was I was quipping it that's when I
came up with that myself and I gave one
to my sister Betsy she texted me out of
the blue I mean I had sort of forgotten
I'd given it to her she texts me out of
blue
my dentist wanted me to thank you for
giving me that quip says if my teeth are
noticeably in better shape what more do
you need the bottom line is oral hygiene
the key is to do it every day and to do
it well and the quip is designed both in
terms of its shape and its ease and its
placement on your sink or on your mirror
and with the timer to get you to do it
every day that's the key with this stuff
and that's why I love quip and why it's
perfect for getting back into a routine
quip starts just 25 bucks go to to get
yours go to get quip dot-com slash
majority right now you can get your
first refill pack free that's your first
refill pack free at get GE tqu IP get
quip comm slash majority so also
supports it for today's show comes from
embark which is the most accurate dog
DNA test kit on the market
now for non dog owners probably unclear
why you would want a dog DNA test kit
Kelly has been using one with Edie she
says the whole process has been
incredibly easy she's super psyched
about finding out about Edie but there's
there's more to it than just the ease of
the use I mean as to as to the value of
it
she says it's super easy but after we
did the first embark ad we got an email
from somebody I guess it's overseas
there in Britain and he rode in my
younger brother and best mate is 19 now
he was diagnosed with Asperger's
syndrome when he was 5 he struggled for
many years with significant anxiety and
his unique spirit and character was
misunderstood by his peers for years
things were tough and despite our best
efforts we felt hopeless in trying to
support him we knew he had so much to
give to the world but couldn't find a
way to support him to do so for his 12th
birthday we adopted a golden retriever
for him which he named Gregor Samsa Matt
Wright the business isolated malign
protagonists from Kafka's the
metamorphosis
since Gregor came along my brother has
never looked back almost immediately he
had someone who understood him who he
understood
Gregor gave him confidence comfort
critically a way for him to meet new
people without stressing about what to
say or do straight away
in short Gregor has become absolutely
essential part of our family we couldn't
imagine where my brother would be had he
not come along at 7 gregor is getting on
he's happy and healthy at the moment but
our vet recently suggested we get a DNA
test to make sure we know what to expect
and take all precautions we chose embark
DNA because of its reputation and
positive reviews its simplicity of
delivery and return the fact that it
tests for over 170 plus health
conditions the service was brilliant and
my brother loved learning more about his
best friend more importantly our vet is
tailored gregor his diet in line with
genetic predispositions the results
identified giving us the confidence
we're doing all we can to make sure
Gregor is around for as long as possible
a dog DNA test may sound silly or like a
novelty or luxury
for us it has been a way of showing our
love and support to a complete member of
our family sorry for the length but
absolutely cannot recommend embark DNA
enough it's beautiful here I mean it's
amazing it's nuts
so embark has an exclusive summer offer
for our listeners go to embark vet com
use the promo code majority say 15% off
your dog DNA test kit you can discover
your dog more than fur deep visit embark
EMBA RK vet ve t comm use promo code
majority to save we're gonna take quick
break when we come back I'm gonna be
talking to Josh respect but our red meat
Republic
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of
history at Manoj University in Melbourne
I think I messed up
mohnish close enough okay and author of
red meat Republic a hoof to table
history of how beef changed America
Joshua Specht welcome to the program
thanks so much for having me on
ok so just the the era that we're
talking about you follow this basically
starting from the 1800s through the
early 20th century right yeah but just
tell us why why why beef why beef as a
way of or what that tells us I guess
about the way that America was developed
particularly the sort of the political
economy yeah I think that's that's a
great question and you know at first to
the why beef when I started started
writing this book was I was just curious
about it and then what I discovered as I
looked more and more about how beef was
produced that it tied into all these big
stories at the heart of what it means to
be American but also at the heart of the
American economy so we think about the
stories of the American West cattle
ranching is obviously everywhere we
think about this roof Cowboys there are
essentially cattle workers as I talked
about them but also the model for big
industrial agriculture is pioneered by
meat packers often working with beef in
Chicago so I see is a set of four firms
headquartered in Chicago you can think
of Chicago is kind of a Silicon Valley
of its day and they remake both
agriculture in the United States but in
a way industrial production they pioneer
things like the assembly line and offer
them a disassembly line okay so let's
start with this notion of the are you
there yep oh sorry let's start with the
notion of of the cattle ranch and you
know the you
right that basically beef becomes a or
meat becomes a tool for conquest in some
ways and also a justification for one we
explain that dynamic yeah I think you've
gotten to the heart of it so if you
think about the kind of Far West in the
United States if you think about places
like the Texas hit Panhandle I'm sorry
professor we're having a little bit of a
drive professor excuse me we're having
just a little bit of problems if I could
just ring you back and we just have a
little bit of trouble I've got
connections sure thing but folks bear
with us bear with us on this not sure
what's going on but
hello hi alright hopefully that's better
so I had asked you you know you had you
characterized beef is both a a tool for
conquest and a justification for
conquest and by conquest of course we're
talking about the the the genocide and
the displacement and of Native Americans
at this time yes I think that's exactly
right and what I mean by that is that
for much of the American West it was a
it was an area considered initially in
particular way too dried to farm and so
at times in the mid 19th century it was
a place you might want to cross over to
get to somewhere like California but it
wasn't quite sure what you could do with
this land and at some point Americans
started to look around and they saw the
Bison they saw lots of bison thriving
and they wanted to hunt those but then
they started to look at their cattle and
they thought you know we could graze
these on a large scale and just replace
these bison with our cattle and all of a
sudden they had an economic reason to
use the land they had a way they could
make money out of it and to them this
was a kind of higher use for the land
than say either hunting bison as
American Indians were doing or the kind
of highly mobile agriculture they saw so
they both wanted to make money out of
cattle and they viewed that as making it
legitimate to see as the land from
American Indians and they would not have
been able to do this without the rise of
this kind of range cattle industry who
were the Veii in this instance and to
what extent that they have like other I
mean we can you go into a little bit of
the sort of the perhaps the other sort
of like economic reasons why they would
want to settle I mean it just seems like
on some level they're looking around for
you know a solution to a problem that
isn't there unless that problem is how
can we exploit more how can high amass
more cash right well I think the
motivations of these people is kind of
hard to figure out I wrestled with this
as I wrote the book so I tell the story
of a woman named Susan Newcombe was born
in the Midwest and as a teenage bride
moves
with her husband to the very remote part
of Texas and I read through her Diaries
and I try to understand well what are
they doing here what is their plan and
to an extent there was an idea that
moving to a place like that could give
you a fresh start you might not have had
you know you might have been a second or
third born in the Midwest not not
getting the family farm you could kind
of create your own land but you know so
at first a lot of these people are
engaged in things like hunting's they're
hunting the Bison and we see a lot of
crossover between kind of small-scale
cattle ranching and bison hunting and we
just see a lot of attempts to basically
play out the logic that had happened in
the East Coast the United States right
the whole logical United States was
based on acquiring land for farming and
once your area gets settled up you kind
of move farther and farther west and
eventually got to these dry areas where
you had to embrace something like cattle
ranching I see and then so following
that sort of that-that-that-that change
that took place there tell us what the
relevance of me.how reservations sort of
played into this dynamic well one thing
that I thought was interesting is I
thought there was a kind of
straightforward story of basically a
violent story of the United States
military essentially seizing all this
land for American Indians kind of
opening up a vast canvas that then
settled by American citizens what I
actually see happening is a kind of
on-the-ground small-scale process of
people moving into places taking land
and kind of fighting back and forth so
early cattle ranchers are almost like
paramilitaries in some places then
toward the end of this process they
create this reservation system where the
majority of land is taken by the United
States many different American Indians
are forced onto these very small parcels
of land and so I thought maybe that's
the end of that story but what you
actually see is that the means for many
of these American Indians to support
themselves off the Bison they're gone
they're forced onto this land that they
can't really farm they have no way to
support themselves and so the United
States government starts supplying them
with beef handouts rations and many
times the lucrative contracts these
handouts come from Ranchers so this
reservations
becomes an early subsidy the ranchers
then see these American Indians who are
relying on you know what they call
handouts or rations at the time and they
say look these people can't support
themselves what we've done here is
justified so they look around and see
this reservation system it both
subsidizes them and justifies what
they've done to them so there's sort of
like a classic self licking ice cream
cone we put them in a position where
they can't make they cannot sustain
themselves and then say their inability
to sustain themselves is exactly why
we've had to put them in this position
exactly and of course you see that kind
of dynamic all the time with
dispossessed and marginal populations as
a justification from the more powerful
and how like how does that just happen
it mean to people just sort of like
develop that as they go like I mean how
how planned is that notion that's it
yeah that's a fascinating question and
when I thought about a lot I'm to some
extent there was a big picture plan I'm
more see it though as often if you look
at what's happening and these kind of
remote forts and outposts what you
actually see is they mostly want to just
avoid conflict but all of their
assumptions in ideology matches the
assumptions and ideology of these early
ranchers so whenever there's a conflict
with American Indians they obviously
side with the ranchers and farmers and
so it's a kind of piecemeal process but
it all aggregates and matches up in kind
of their big-picture assumptions about
what is justified and behind everything
is the assumption that we're using this
land productively therefore we can claim
it right I've heard that somewhere
before actually in my discussions with
modern-day libertarians and looking back
on on on why their property rights
trumped the indigenous people's property
rights but then now interesting so
moving from that that that era if we
move into this sort of era of like which
ends up being a sort of a false start on
some level of corporate ranches explain
that dynamic and where are we in terms
of time at this point
okay so in our story we're kind of we're
talking earlier in the nineteenth
centuries or talk in 1840s 1850s 1860s
but the story really takes off after the
American civil war ends in 1865 and so
some of this has happened in the 1860s
and 1870s and by the late 1870s 1880s
investors from the American East and as
far away as places like Scotland say you
know we could try to turn this ranching
thing into big business so they move in
with lots of money and they look at that
you know they see a hundred herds of a
thousand cattle and they say we can make
this into one herd of a hundred thousand
cattle and were you dealt with hundreds
we deal with thousands or tens of
thousands and so all of a sudden this
becomes the hottest new investment of
the 1880s everybody is starting up these
ranches you see these kind of
millionaire Playboy's from from places
like England moving out west and they
they this is kind of their like toy
business but you also see this running
on very sound business principles the
problem is people are a little too
exuberant the story we see often times
in the history of American capitalism
and everybody basically is over
investing making bad deals and the whole
thing kind of blows up so the big
corporate ranch doesn't really take off
because there's this big boom in cattle
and there are some disastrous winters in
the 1880s and at the end of that story
just when this is all falling apart this
boom and bust cycle there's these firms
in Chicago that start to think about how
they can slaughter cattle and Chicago
and distribute the meat fresh all around
the country and when everybody's going
out of business they're buying all their
cattle and all of a sudden these small
companies in Chicago turn into global
behemoths in the late 1880s okay so let
me let me just stop there there and just
so we should also say like this period
of time is I just remember this from as
a kid watching Bonanza and the Ponderosa
right this was basically the story the
Ponderosa on some level right they were
cattle ranchers yeah and and so ok so
what where is when all these people are
coming in
you know presumably after the the Civil
War and they're coming in they're
pouring all this money like where's the
market for this like who is eating this
this beef and how and how right at the
okay at that point yeah I mean that's a
great question so basically most of the
cattle or there's a lot of cattle in
Texas and this is there's cattle all
across the US but the kind of surplus of
cattle in Texas is the key to this story
so before the American Civil War there
had been some ranching in Texas and
Texas was linked with New Orleans east
to west the American Civil War basically
ends that trade because the Union
doesn't want that happening and all of a
sudden of these cattle just accumulating
in Texas doing their thing right grazing
reproducing and during the American
Civil War in 1860s all these cities in
the north are getting huge and they're
developing a national market Chicago is
a big city now New York is getting even
bigger Boston and so there's all these
hungry people in these cities in the
north and all these cattle and places
like Texas and kind of remote areas in
the West so as of right now there's no
way to really link those two but these
these big ranches realize hey if we can
move cattle quickly from Texas or
Wyoming to Chicago we can get rich and
so that's that kind of story you're
telling me so this is where you get the
kind of famous cattle drives of the Old
West moving hundreds of thousands of
animals to places like you know Kansas
to get them into the rail lines and into
Chicago and then in Chicago presumably
they go into the slaughterhouse and then
they get sent to the east is that the
idea yeah so in in the early part of
this story Chicago is just kind of the
center of the rail network East so the
animals go alive to Chicago and then
they spread out alive to cities around
the east coast of the US but starting in
the 1870s these these favi business
people in Chicago start trying to figure
out how to make a refrigerated railcar
essentially a moving refrigerator it's a
it's kind of a disaster at first they
crash a lot they try to hang the meat
and it swings too much and the cars
topple over but eventually they work it
out and all of a sudden instead of
shipping these live animals all around
the country
which can be expensive they can do
everything in Chicago centralize all the
business and very quickly and cheaply
send it everywhere fresh and that's how
these businesses capitalize on
everything that's happening out west to
take a kind of takeover GlobalMeet from
Chicago and so you end up having this
dynamic where because the corporate
ranch has got too too big I guess and
then they end up basically dispersing or
they they had too much I guess liability
one one you know bad Blizzard can
destroy their business yeah the the
slaughterhouse has become the
essentially have like a monopsony I
guess and they end up controlling the
market and therefore dictate both ends
of the supply chain right where you know
what they're gonna pay and and how much
they're gonna extract as it goes east
yeah I mean you've got it exactly right
so the technical thing would be say they
have an oligopoly oligopoly so they are
kind of there's three or four firms they
control selling to customers and buying
now the last technical Texas version of
that is to say they have both ends of
the string as people in the period like
to say and what that means is basically
they can they can capture all the
profits so they bankrupt they go around
the United States on the customer end
and bankrupt all the local people and so
they control the whole supply chain
there and because the ranch is the big
ranches have failed they can the meat
packers of shout-outs kind of dictate
what they want to the ranchers because
the ranchers are all small and
relatively scattered and so they become
a behemoth and this mobilizes all sorts
of political conversations about whether
these Packers are too powerful should
the government do something maybe should
they break them up which is a bit like
debates about tech companies today but
this starts a whole conversation about
the relationship between business and
government and there's a couple of at
that point well it's interesting I guess
is like the the the the quote from
Sinclair Lewis he was trying to appeal
to people's hearts and missed and hit
stomach the idea being Sinclair Upton
c-can't Sinclair sorry that the idea
being that he was concerned about the
the plight of of workers in this and
ultimately what really stuck with people
was the sort of the quality and the
safety of the meat right so that why we
get at that around this time we're now
around the federal Meat Inspection Act
right yeah so so basically what happens
is you know there's a story we can tell
about these Chicago slaughterhouses it's
a story of kind of business genius and
innovation in a lot of ways they pioneer
what looks like the assembly line and
Henry Ford and his memoir said he got
the idea for the automobile assembly
line from Chicago although they called
it a disassembly line because they were
taking one animal carcass and making it
into all sorts of different things right
and that could be a story of innovation
right they come up with his breaking it
into tasks but it's also sort of
incredible labor exploitation because
when you break things into individual
tasks very specialized ones he doesn't
just magically make people more
productive it enables you to work some
harder right so you have people who set
the pace so you pay a little more to
work extra hard you can train people and
overwork them because you can replace
them easily and so this is the
slaughterhouse becomes this site of
incredible exploitation and Upton
Sinclair becomes curious about this and
studies it and he's a kind of socialist
revolutionary so he writes the jungle
the story of this immigrant families
toil in Chicago as this precursor to a
revolution but along the way he talks
about contamination quite graphically
talking about it you know a finger
falling into a vat talking about animal
feces contamination and because that's
so visceral to people who are eating
things that really becomes the way the
public starts to mobilize and if you
think about it business doesn't want to
be regulated in terms of Labor Standards
but they're happy to work on sanitation
issues because they want to restore
consumer trust in their product and so
they quite quickly realize that this
kind of Sanitation is a problem they can
you know solve to encourage people and
that's how we get that problem and we
should say also that
specialization of the workers completely
diminishes a worker power right because
they become a car literally a cog in a
in a machine yeah and so what we see I
mean the the the in my part of the story
I argue all this action happens between
about 1880 and 1900 or 1910 and there
are attempts to unionize but there's a
legal regime and in a kind of government
that's not very sympathetic to organized
labor and so they can't effectively
unionize in the key story I'm talking
about now in the 20th century meat
packers for me packing workers do
unionize but already their baseline
assumptions about the kinds of jobs they
have are so kind of eroded by that
period I write about and so yeah worker
power is quite limited during this
period and and then once we get into
that that's sort of like that's that the
the the state regulating both the sort
of the health requirements and the
hygiene and best business practices I
guess following that there becomes sort
of like more questions about antitrust
yep so I like to think of a key actor at
the end of my story is Teddy Roosevelt
so if we talk about Upton Sinclair as a
revolutionary Teddy Roosevelt is kind of
the perfect politician to tame
capitalism which is kind of what happens
so he is very suspicious of big
corporations but he's also suspicious of
organized labor and you know what he
sees as socialism and so he says in
order to kind of save American
capitalism from itself we need to
regulate so he accepts huge centralized
meatpacking as kind of an inevitable
development but he says we're gonna you
know act to regulate them and prevent
them from engaging in practices that are
too predatory or from cooperating too
much and so he does things like he and
best he organizes an investigation of
the meatpacking industry or as they
called it the beef trust when the meat
packers try to say we're not colluding
we're all going to form one gigantic
company they say no you can't do that
and there's all sorts of court
investigations starting to limit their
power but in all of this they accept
that big centralized food production is
necessary to the world we
and that continues to today so I mean
what is the so I mean how much of this
is sort of unique to - to me as opposed
to just sort of the the development that
we see I mean is where is meet relative
to other I guess products or commercial
you know things like we're you know
because obviously you know we have this
story that scholars have been looking at
in terms of cotton and it being you know
closely tied into slavery but the
implications of the cotton in terms of
the economy of the entire country not
just the south but even but of the east
the Northeast and around the world to a
certain extent the cotton because of
that dynamic of slavery and the free
labor and McGinn z-- to drive everything
like what where it is beef where does
meat where is meat like I guess rate
relative to cob within that sort of
ecosystem that's interesting I like to
think of it maybe as the questions of
the early American economy and its
exploitation and how it works and
markets cotton is is kind of the product
to understand that I think in the late
19th century excuse me beef ends up
being the perfect product to understand
the challenges of the late 19th century
American economy and that's in part
because it's so complicated to produce
and distribute so the fact that they
want to distribute it fresh people like
fresh beef as opposed to some other meat
products they might be cured because it
has to stay fresh from Chicago to New
York or Chicago to Boston or Chicago all
the way to London there's all sorts of
challenges businesses face in
coordination similarly because cattle
have to be produced far away their rural
animals there's all sorts of questions
of coordination to get the animal from
say Texas or Montana to Chicago and all
these challenges mean that the meat
packers are figuring out these
complicated questions of supply chains
and distribution that create a models
that then are
peed in all sorts of industries right so
they figure out how to efficiently
slaughter animal about its spoiling and
pioneer the assembly line they figure
out how to distribute fresh products
which then becomes important to
distributing fresh fruits and vegetables
which oddly the meat packers actually
control in the early 20th century and so
all these challenges that the beef
packers kind of pioneer the solution
that then gets taken up by other people
and that's why I think understanding
history of American beef is so important
what was driving the demand for meat
I mean I understand like it's just I
guess my sense of that era was like Oh
meat is a is a luxury you don't you
don't you don't see it that much I mean
obviously because of the challenges
you're talking about but I'm trying to
guess I get get a grip on you know the I
would imagine that someone in that era
particularly in the mid 1800s sees like
look at this massive country and if I
could put railroad tracks down
everywhere in this country I could own
like everything I could I could you know
go in and speculate on real estate
because I have control of the over over
transportation I could speculate on in
real estate all across the country
I could I could look at destinations I
could look at places that we're gonna
have to pass through but I need
something to send by rail and I need a
commodity and in terms of like going
east-west you know and I'm I'm asking if
this is if there's if there's an element
of this I like beef seems to be the
thing but there isn't a market for beef
how do we do how do we juice this thing
look at me how much of the market was
there was this something that like we're
going to you know figure out how to
downscale beef I mean because we have a
version of this right in the early 70s
when the Nixon administration basically
said we're gonna subsidize corn which is
going to make everything cheaper in
terms of frayed and that's going to put
more money in people's pockets and it's
going to help the economy etc etc
which is gonna help the you know all
these industries I mean of course in the
mid-1800s that wasn't that there wasn't
so many different sort of layers into
making that determination but how much
of of it was like we're gonna use beef
as the thing that's going to sort of
open up we're gonna create a market with
that but it's gonna open up all these
other markets for me hmm well I think I
think that's interesting I mean I think
on that from the viewpoint of the
railroads the funny thing about the
story is in terms of this fresh beef
slaughtered in Chicago the railroads are
initially very skeptical they don't want
to get involved because they have such a
good trade shipping live cattle all over
the US and so they forced the meat
packers to develop their own ideas their
own refrigerated rail cars and all of a
sudden when that takes off the meat
packers are holding all the cards so in
a way they become more powerful than the
railroads but but to get to your point
about why me you know I I've thought
about this a bit because I kind of
wondered well you know say they start
producing all this beef presumably they
got to convince people to eat all this
meat or to want it right and what I
realized I started reading about what
beef kind of meant to people is that for
most of the people who were immigrating
and coming to the u.s. already living in
the u.s. in this period they already had
a preexisting preference for fresh beef
fresh beef in a way was a special
occasion food and so they were you
people were used to eating it on feast
days or special kinds of holidays for
special occasions and so what that meant
is if you could provide them with this
thing that had been expensive so they
only had it on special occasions if you
could provide them that cheaply they
would want to turn that special occasion
food into an all the time food and so
the story and consumption becomes this
occasional food becoming a dietary
staple and higher and higher
expectations in terms of quality and so
that just ensures that as much as you
can produce this in the late 19th
century people are going to consume it
now as we saw a beef production
consumption rather
Peaks in the 1970s in the US and it has
come down some but through that period
just anything you can produce people
will want it and that kind of makes the
distribution of beef which is bulky and
heavy a perfect thing to distribute in
the national rail network and so where
does the
leave us now I mean when we're looking
at the story of sort of the I guess the
political economy where where is where
is beefs future and what I mean I guess
what lessons can we learn in terms about
with the way that decisions were made
going forward I mean the labor stuff
seems to and we're gonna play an
interview next week about the car
industry and so many decisions about
logistics were made basically to to
diminish the power of labor right it
doesn't feel like that was as conscious
of an effort in this instance because it
the the labor was so sort of in some
ways except for in the slaughterhouses
removed in terms of the process of which
stuff was being built but or I should I
mean
delivered but I mean how much of that is
what is the lesson we're learning from
this I think there's kind of I thought
about this some since since finishing
the book and I think there's got two key
things I mean the first is that labor is
a major issue in terms of the
slaughterhouse and there's all sorts of
fights in my period and you still see it
today I mean with these recent raids by
ice on these facilities in the south so
still kind of marginal labor is
important to this business but but as
far as lessons today I think the key
thing we see with industrial food and
it's pioneered in the beef industry is
that low prices to the consumer become
an overarching organizing principle and
a justification for things are done so
when people say hey this is exploitative
of Labor or this is destroying local
environments and communities people from
the industry say well that's what we
have to do to provide cheap beef and
because the whole system is organized
around that then any change to that
system is in fact going to raise food
prices and making food unaffordable is
not exactly a good policy solution so I
think one of the insights is that
changing these things is going to make
it more expensive and that ties into a
much broader question about a more
equitable society
so beef will become more expensive and
people need to be better able to afford
and beyond that in terms of go ahead no
I mean so I mean is that is that used as
a as a mechanism to to prohibit reform I
mean it sounds yep so in the 19th
century mightor and then I'll tell you
about the present briefly the 19th
century you see that people are
investigating philip Danforth Armour one
of the biggest meat packers and he
basically says you know we have to do
this if you want to feed the urban
masses feed the common laborers he said
at the time these are the rules we have
to play by and that's how he avoids
regulation today if you think about
increasingly in debates about the green
New Deal where people are saying we have
to think differently about beef
production basically often critics of
that are saying you know that they're
coming for your hamburgers they're
saying you're not going to be able to
afford your hamburgers anymore and that
turns a kind of consumer concern to
deflect a criticism of how it's produced
and so you see that parallel even today
that's fascinating and and do you expect
more of that I mean where do you see the
future is that or is that basically it
we need to if we're going we're at we as
a society are gonna have to make a
decision yep well I think the other
point though so we said so that is a
concern about all sorts of industrial
production and commodities the other
thing of course is the environmental
impact I mean all the evidence suggests
that society needs to reduce its meat
consumption dramatically and that has to
happen over time but in the short term
we have to think about the impacts of
that and so the worst cases in terms of
climate change is deforestation in Latin
America and while American beef
production is kind of not directly
coming from that there are potential
trade deals that are happening between
the United States and Brazil that could
put some of that meat on the American
table there's a whole conversation about
beef and climate change that I think we
have to be thinking about now that my
characters weren't thinking about in you
know 1880 the book is red meat republic
a hoof to table history of how beef
changed america Joshua spec we will put
a link to your book on majority dot F M
thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it
thanks so much for having me on all
right folks
we're gonna take quick break heading to
the fun half wherein we will play the
Larry Kudlow who has had time to
marinate from the earlier conversation
he had with with with Chuck Chad time to
soak soak in the info it reminded me a
bit of do you guys remember that
documentary King corn yes yeah I think
you interviewed those guys
you must have but I think that would
have been Air America days right it's a
while yeah but I think I interviewed
them later I'm not quite sure but yes
there was a couple of documentaries
about corn at that time when people
understood this sort of the implications
of of that big agribusiness and of
course I think if you were to do an
updated version of red meat republic
yeah corn would play an outsized role
huge role in it and it would be
interesting to do a through-line of the
rationalization from the meat packing
plants to amazon but just a reminder
it's your support that makes this show
possible you can become a member by
going to join the majority report calm
when you do we give you extra content
every day during the break even people
are gonna have access to the deep
archives Brendon has been thumbing
through the pages of our deep archives
picking out stuff that he thinks is
gonna be interesting for people when I
say deep archives I mean deep archives
I'm talking almost over a decade old no
get over a decade old it's very
interesting stuff back in the day when
majority America launched the majority
report is in its first iteration we had
some super high-powered guests at that
time so you have access to all of that
by becoming a member plus you'll get the
free show without commercials but as
always you can find information about
the commercials in your podcast notes so
if you want a deal on something you
check that out
tonight is Monday that means tomorrow is
Tuesday yes indeed and on Tuesday were
gonna be talking with Shaheed Butare who
is running to challenge Nancy Pelosi in
the Democratic primary I'm gonna
obviously be really interested in his
ideas on foreign policy and how he might
represent a change in rupture in that
regard and how his campaign fits with
the broader movement then he came in
very close last time around it was only
in the race of the last three months of
the race and in the primary now he's
starting out a year ahead know he's
clearly got real chops and I mean I've
actually been seeing that there's
there's some other candidates in the mix
some of whom seem pretty appealing as
well but he does seem likely if
somebody's gonna pull off a completely
Herculean upset like that seems like he
probably is the candidate to do it so
I'm looking forward to talking with him
and a kiss barians gonna join us and
we're talking about this that incident
that we played of the of the of the
ice-truck in rhode island kind of trying
to basically drive through the
protestors and how we can correlate that
with the state initiatives that
republicans have pushed to essentially
criminalize protests across the country
of course Kashmir Argentina a whole
bunch more patreon.com slash TMDs thanks
to our first 70,000 subscribers on
YouTube as well and see us in Chicago
this weekend still tickets grab one
Jamie's out but I know she recorded a
new anti Fattah yesterday so go to
patreon.com slash anti Fattah the anti
fada
to check out what they got going and
hurt sigh her side project of vampires
real vampires on literary hangover this
weekend was the second weekend a row
with a new patron episode George Orwell
George Orwell shootin an elephant and we
problematize Orwell and canceled him so
look what that's gonna that's funny I
was wondering what happened to her well
oh no he's gonna stick around here we
don't really cancel him but we do talk
about some just did a little probation
right yeah he's he's put into a Burmese
jail for a little bit
just to reflect because of his lack of
deepness in his representation of
Burmese subjects in under the rush so
folks you love your dog right well you
want to know more about yeah I mean
unfortunately your dog cannot say like
oh ya know I was born in Chicago and my
dad was a terrier my mom was a golden
retriever was a beautiful they were not
supposed to get together the oral
traditions are not strong not strong in
dog it well that's why embark D dog DNA
test kit looks at over 250 breeds in a
hundred and seventy genetic health
conditions to help you care best for
your pup so now like you find out the
origins of your puppy or dog and also
you can find out what things to look out
for it you know dogs have a lot of
genetic predispositions to different
diseases to different and certain foods
are are better for them if you love your
dog you want your dog to be around for
as long as possible an embark dog DNA
test kit is the best way to do it and
right now for our listeners embark has
an exclusive summer offer you can't get
anywhere else
go to embark vet dot-com use the promo
code majority you'll get 50% off your
dog DNA test kit it will allow you to
discover your dog more than fur deep
there you go it's a great idea embark
vet dot-com use the promo code majority
to save check it out also just getting
this breaking news it seems like the cop
who was involved in the Eric garner
choking and death Daniel Pantaleo has
been fired by the New York Police
Department no
criminal charges as of yet but they but
he is gone and that's important that's
an important development overdue but
sometimes the wheels of justice move
slowly the guy should actually be on a
criminal trial I mean without a doubt
but but at the very least at least the
New York Police Department is severed
its ties all right quick break fun half
six four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty see you there Jamie and I may
have a disagreement yeah you can't just
say whatever you want about people just
cause you're rich I have an absolute
right to mock them on YouTube frees up
their buggy whipping like he's boss I am
NOT your employer you know I'm tired of
the negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean
to upset you nervous yeah maybe you
should rethink your defense of that you
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right dude you want to
smoke this joint
yes do you feel like you are a dinosaur
 exactly I'm happy now so win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven eight 56:27
1/2
five eight three point nine billion Wow
he's the ultimate math bird don't you
see why don't you get a real job instead
of spewing vitriol engage with your left
one boss everybody's taking their dumb
juice today I'm hoping that more moves
to my repertoire all I have is the dip
in the swirl fine we can double dip yes
this is a perfect moment no wait what
you make under a million dollars to hear
your come here not they accuse me
 you you all right take
quick break I want to take a moment to
talk to some of the libertarians out
there dick whatever vehicle you want to
drive to the library what you're talking
about is jibber jabber silastic I'm
feeling more chill already Donald Trump
can kiss all of our asses hey Sam hey
Andy you guys ready to Isis Shitler with
such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
we are back Sam cedar fun half there's a
story out there we may talk about this
on Wednesday oh you know I meant to say
this in the first half of the program
and I will we will get to I think on
Wednesday at the very least we'll cover
this either Wednesday or Tuesday when
I'm not sure what we're gonna be doing
but on Friday in my conversation with
Ben Dixon I asserted that the Democrats
had not come out that none of the
Democrats had come out or the democratic
party I don't know exactly how I phrased
it needed to get a strong policy on
immigration so that there's actually
something they can run on rather than
just sort of like bobbing and weaving
about what's going on and a couple of
folks on Twitter
particularly the a noted host of
redirect the immigration podcasts a
really good podcast it's M it's okay
Ronald Reagan said why didn't you
mention Warren's plan and frankly I had
missed it to be honest with you I had
missed it this was in July and we will
get into the details of that plan it's a
very good plan it's it's very strong
and it's uh pretty detailed it is still
I think incumbent on Democrats to come
up with a broad principle but ultimately
what this is gonna come down to is just
like it really is gonna come down to a
very general idea and I don't want to
step on you know stuff when I start
talking about this but I did
accidentally listen to an episode of the
redirect this weekend the the the one
about the public charge rules that and
and the bottom line is the way that
these changes happen ostensibly there's
no you know they're not making some big
edik we're gonna keep people out it is
like a death by a thousand cuts and it's
going to end up in misery a ting
hundreds of thousands of people not the
least of which it sounds like Ronald
Reagan because he make his job very hard
as an immigration lawyer as if it wasn't
hard enough but the idea altom Utley is
like knowledge of the specifics of these
plans or one thing but really at the end
of the day it's summing up what the
point of it is like are we going to be
open to take in refugees are we going to
be open to take in immigrants without
putting up unnecessary obstacles and
what not I mean I think broadly most
people accept the baseline of like we
should know who comes in and out of the
of the country that's important to know
for security reasons and you know
largely for security reasons
but you do not have to criminalize
people who come in and turn out to just
be people who want to live here
and if they have any decent reason for
being here
family I'm leaving hardship then we
should let them stay there is no
indication that there is some specific
group of people who come in who are
going to be any more or less apt to
contribute to our society than any other
group it just doesn't exist and there
does not seem to be a compelling reason
to not let them in other than just sheer
spite
that's a ethnically engineer and
electorate I mean I put that in spite I
would probably yeah it's in the mix at
least well we'll talk more about this
when we go over the new stuff in the
meantime I just want to give a shout out
but boy that Ronald Reagan she comes on
our show and he's he's you know he comes
off as being you know sort of immature
no no I'm the opposite I was gonna say
boy he's so whiny on his show oh right
his shows just the endless kvetching oh
my gosh Ronald Reagan shows up and tells
us to his uh his his case his case work
he's like you think you have problems
yeah it's just complain complain
complain but it's worth checking out
just to see how he does it
three direct really good all right so
speaking of which so we played earlier
in the program Larry Kudlow on Meet the
Press Sunday morning airs at 10:00 a.m.
a lot of times what they'll do is the
pre-tape stuff particularly if you've
got to do an LT n connection with let's
say Fox News and so you'll pre tape it
so there's enough distancing a little
bit of time now the problem is that
maybe you know you're sitting and you're
in the White House yeah you're in the
White House area waiting to do you know
a hit on morning television and look
you're just sitting and it's boring and
they have a spread and the buzz just
it's just like you're just looking for
something to kill the time times a day
somewhere so by the time he gets on on
Fox News to talk about the trade
tensions that exist he's on there with
Dana Perino who was the paid liar for
the Bush administration he's talking
about Greenland and so like you know
when you're not having to talk up the
economy the pressures a little bit off
so why not
why not let loose it's sort of like a
weekend it's our history it is infestors
they like favorites China China is
paying for these tariffs but you go
backwards a little bit I'm Gary system
with the question we have our question
okay incidentally China is the word are
you saying as biracial why go back to
the head of that just I just want to
make it clear yeah good favorites China
China is paying for these tariffs by a
ratio of about 4.1 there that's what we
expected to happen I've enjoyed having
you I have one last question
if you get asked to go to a site survey
about purchasing Greenland can I go with
you
well maybe I'll run the Central Bank
look it's an interesting story it's
developing we're looking at it we don't
know years ago Harry Truman wanted to
buy Greenland Denmark owns Greenland
Denmark is an ally real and is strategic
place of Sturridge they got a lot of
valuable minerals I don't want to
predict an outcome I'm just saying the
president who knows a thing or two about
buying real estate wants to take a look
I'm saying
you get all I'm saying is if you get
asked to go and do a site survey I'd
love to accompany you on the trip and do
an interview out there Larry Kudlow
thank you for joining us happy sender
let's check a buggy hand for one second
but if we just put put better so shy
nothing but there are fresh that buck
who's that fry Greenland wait a second
hi don't worry I am worried that I am
super worried that he is due for another
heart attacks and the beginning of this
interview is actually kind of his i
watch the beginning remember like what
was it six eight months ago when he when
he first I came on after three or four
months he had a hard cash it's like he
did a series of the these type of
interviews where he was visibly like
cold sweaty yeah the heart was so wet
now White House economic advisor Larry
Kudlow welcome to Fox News Sunday Larry
thank you
Thank You Dana appreciate it so Larry
there's been a mixed back retail sales
are up job growth continues
manufacturing slowing down what point
accumulation he's completely any new
legislative policies or executive
actions to stave off but some are saying
could be a possible sighs well first of
all I don't see recession at all
second of all the Trump pro-growth
program which I believe has been
succeeding lower tax rates big rollback
of regulations so positively no no this
is true I mean to the extent that
there's been a rollback of regulation
that is true to a certain extent
certainly the rate of regulation has
dropped and they have rolled back some
very key regulations that keep people
healthy the tax cuts are not working
unless your measure is are really rich
people getting richer what about the
black hole orbit race out here
it is true that the trajectory has
remained the same but that is after a
huge supposedly priming of the pump
supposedly Dominicans you have pharmacy
degrees now after being trade reform
we're gonna stay with that we believe
that's the heart of the free enterprise
we want an incentive oriented
supply-side economy providing
opportunities for everybody across the
board and as your repo man should look
we have blown up retail sales let me
just pause there consumers first of all
they're working the employment numbers
are terrific second of all they're
working at much higher wages third of
all they're spending that's possible
interesting Lee they are saving even
while they're spending that's about as
good as it gets and I notice at the end
of the week a lot of the Wall Street
firms have been marking up their
economic growth forecast I think we're
in pretty good shape and I want to just
say you know we should not be afraid of
optimism I don't know what it is
everybody wants to talk about pessimism
okay this is I mean look I just want to
say this in all honesty I met Larry
Kudlow I don't know I did his show
probably a dozen times over a small
period of time at one point I was like
you got to pay me if you want me to come
out to New Jersey I'm just not gonna do
it anymore
but he was very gracious he was always
nice to me always enjoyed me getting
into an argument uh I worry about his
health honestly you know with that said
you go and you sign up for this
administration which is disgusting what
you're doing disgusting things to the
environment to our society at large
racist they're kidnapping children they
are I mean if he needs to drink to allow
himself to continue to work for this guy
you know I feel bad for him
but it has its limits if you know a
server
mr. Bishop Easter I try a little bit of
Employment optimism Sam ser Alliser said
I was did a radio show but now as I said
forget we're gonna do the 80s again and
it's gonna be Trump and it's gonna be me
and we're just gonna crash and it's
gonna be beautiful data Perez is it
feeling afraid of optimism is a problem
I'm afraid of it you got your podcast
Matlock you got the Patriots it's coming
along everybody just to think about the
future your chair should we look at
another sad guy I was a sip recruiter
but wrong yeah in economy what is it I
don't know what this somebody sent me
this yeah why not I'm just curious as to
what's going on maybe somebody knows
because my understanding was well I
don't know this is just an example I'm
just throwing I don't even know what to
say about this this is just a know what
the story maybe he's joking do we know
let's just play this clip apparently
this was on his live show he gets a
request to interview a democratic I
guess challenger I don't know to an
incumbent Republican or to an incumbent
Democrat we don't really have candidates
on this show I'll ring a fire we do that
we've had three challengers two
Democrats on the show so far two or
three or maybe once the extras booked
we've had we had someone on who is a
challenger to Nunez I prefer really
right now looking at primary challengers
to Democrats even Democrats and I have
to say that like during the Mike Capuano
I can't pronounce his name
IANA Presley race I wondered if the
resources were worth because guano was a
pretty progressive Democrat but there's
two things that I have come to believe
about primaries
one is sort of temporarily unique that
the era of primary challengers the era
of new Democrats the younger Democrats
are better all things equal
the younger Democratic generation is
better I'm not saying because they're
young they're better I'm saying it just
so happens that what for whatever reason
I have a bunch of theories as to baby
boomers you know overshadowing my
generation because my generation of
Democrats not so impressive but the
younger ones they're better their
politics even when their politics are
the same in terms of like where they are
in terms of policy their understanding
of the Republican Party and the
political age we're living in is better
we're gonna have her on but there's a
pollster out there I can't remember her
name now who predicted the 2018 wave
almost down to each individual race like
within one way before anybody else and
she's using a different model that's
been used before and the model basically
is this we're living in a hyper partisan
era this is not gonna go away and who
you mobilize for Democrats and and for
Republicans is the issue
there's no persuading there's no
convincing you know republican-leaning
independents to vote for the Democrat it
doesn't work that way it's bringing out
people who are just who haven't voted in
the past or I mobilized based upon
negative partisanship so impeachment
which theoretically has nothing to do
you could be a Blue Dog Democrat
and a democratic socialism you could
both be for impeachment or you
theoretically could be both against it
but the point is in this day and age
being for it helps you elect orally and
she's gone back and look at the races
that were lost people who who were
moderate lost because they were not
distancing themselves enough from Donald
Trump so this generation of Democrats
much better about that they're much
bolder even if their positions are not
any different often they are the other
thing is it's very good to discipline
the sitting Democrats even if you like
them because when Jerry Nadler gets a
challenge based upon impeachment it
gives him ammunition to go to Nancy
Pelosi and say hey look I can't give you
this one because I'm gonna lose my seat
so we aren't we understand each other
I'm gonna lose my seat if I don't go for
this now I don't know that that's his
reasoning or not but it helps so my
point is this is everything I'm giving
you is based on just a sort of analysis
that has nothing to do with me
now I'm going to give you an example of
someone who bases their analysis of
these such things based on stupid petty
arguments I don't know if he had an
argument with jank or with Kyle kolinsky
or the people at justice Democrats who
are there now or if he's just mad
because a OSI won't go on his you know
show or somebody's not returning a tweet
but this type of stuff is ridiculous
this was Joe maybe he's joking
maybe he's joking but I don't think so
super liberal ultra proud millennial
American says hey Jimmy will you
consider interviewing my friend Lauren
Ashcraft who is that's watch your mouth
who is right it's called a butt crack my
friend Lauren butt crack who is running
in New York's 12 she just had an
interview with Mike Figueredo and
well then she's covered then sure I'll
have Lauren Ashcraft on his Lauren ass
craft to justice Democrat see if Lauren
ass graph is a justice Democrat if she
is probably not she's not a Justice
Democrat recive jumper Democrat from the
district 12 in New York all right take
her name down let's see bling gear on it
that's weird she does actually look like
a TSA ass crack Laura ass crack she had
justice Democrat she a corporate justice
corporation corporate justice Democratic
what do you make it out like what is
what whoa shanked in retweet myelitis
show it the yuk-yuk factory carolyn
maloney is there again good good person
to be pressuring Laura Ashe crack watch
your mouth say oh my god pretty good one
but but no but seriously I will not have
anybody offer justice Democrats I hate
them
one to sell it's just so weird they're a
bunch of sellouts and it's very hard
deliver my signature line in the new
YouTube error well I mean they're their
whole philosophy is everything he said
isn't possible of course he's gonna be
salty about them what's that oh oh right
right right right yes no he hates the
Reformation project because it every day
it shows him to be full of it Laura
asked crack
they'll think I'll comedy little thing
called Timon yeah there you go
so I say both third party no matter what
no matter where you are I don't care if
you're in a swing state yeah yeah it's
better than me to sell out I think about
for Jill Stein we could support
Elizabeth Warren next time let's play
his killer Mike thing he's amazing he's
so good
killing Mike is so good um this is fresh
off the heels of Bill Maher saying just
whack-a-doodle stuff about BDS he really
he really has a problem with religion if
it if it's a religion that starts with
an eye and ends with an M right here's
killer Mike on Bill Maher's program
explaining to people why the concept of
free college of a free college option in
every state is actually good for society
Mike what did you think of cardi B's
summit with Bernie Sanders there Dennis
I wouldn't so encouraged because this is
a country that prom well this is a
country of vagrants on walnuts and
protestors in our inception we
essentially diluted of the United Kate
[Laughter]
represents the young heir for Latino
woman from from poor and working-class
background who has now used her platform
when she could have become far more
conservative made her money and walked
away she used it to engage not only for
her own self-interest but self-interest
on behalf for people she's now probably
in a forty thirty five to forty five
percent tax bracket and she said I don't
mind paying my money I just would like
my money to go other places besides
Miller's here I'd like it to go to
education and I think that's what my
grandparents wanted when they moved from
the deep south it's what your parents
want so for me seeing her participate in
it invigorates me because I know other
young women 18 19 21 years old
may not be going to college for four and
six-year degrees but maybe going to
beauty school maybe working menial jobs
it makes them well that's an interesting
point then because Bernie who you
support yes okay he's for free college
yeah I've raised this point before why
should people who don't go to college be
subsidizing the ones who do because the
people who go to college you're gonna
making a lot more money college is not
free somebody's going to be paying
positive for one second now I don't know
this for a fact but I am willing to bet
that Bill Maher has never complained
about the mortgage interest deduction
that applies only to people who own
their homes as opposed to people who
rent like why should renter's non owners
of homes subsidize people who own homes
there's arguments we've certainly made
those maybe up to a point it's even
justified but I can't imagine that Bill
Maher has ever made that argument I
wonder if Bill Maher's ever making the
argument why do we have people who don't
have children why do you have to pay
property taxes to go to schools why do
we could do that or why do we have to
have people mandated insurance where
people have to subsidize I don't know
guys our age getting colonoscopies but I
smoke pot and I like Obama Marv
Perez wikipedia says he paid for his
Cornell days by selling pot so well but
here's the point is that this common
sense argument is only deployed in very
specific and narrow instances which
tells you all you need to know about the
person who's deploying this argument for
free college
yeah I've raised this point before why
should people who don't go to college be
subsidizing the ones who do because the
people who go to college you're gonna
making a lot more money College is not
free somebody's going to be paying for
that college I don't understand why the
people who get the
of it jumpin be paying college and trade
school and this is from a dad who has
had children who went to both my oldest
son went to on a tech trade and learned
computer engineering things of that
nature and sound engineer and my
daughter's did two years he did the same
two years twice on me in Savannah State
21 gram but he offered college and trade
school part of being an American is
being a steward for the next generation
of Americans
my grandparents worked in fields my
grandmother went to college my
grandfather toiled on a blue-collar job
so that my sisters and I could then have
post-secondary education I don't mind as
an American now investing in the greater
America if we're going to build an
infrastructure you got to have
carpenters in electricity do you notice
the I love that the mmm-hmm I'm
physically absorbing the stone oh he's
getting ready he's getting ready for it
I've heard this so many times like a
dance to write but I mean just this
concept I mean you get an interest
deduction on your mortgage doesn't
contemplate this you're gonna sell that
house mitt in many instances at a profit
it's completely not only is your living
subsidized but your profit making is
subsidized he will never complain about
that now maybe there's an argument that
homeownership is good
it creates stability in neighborhoods
gives people you know much skin in the
game and they're gonna make sure their
their homes are safer in this man I
think that's arguably a good argument
maybe we want to encourage homeownership
maybe we do maybe we don't the point is
how can you complain about the concept
of one public higher education
opportunity in each state in each state
and not complain about the mortgage
introduction tax which would cover it a
million times over
I don't missile a slight exaggeration
but well it's because of what you think
society
should do and should value that's it um
and it's but it's so beautiful the way
he threated it's like no it covers trade
school as well and in fact we should
respect and prop up and highly
compensate people in trade school either
the whole structure the argue it should
it should cover trade school of course
yeah
but even if it didn't the argument that
argue on the merits is there value to
having the opportunity for future
generations of Americans to get involved
in careers that are not dictated by
hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt
when they start day one in the workforce
is it a value of Americans to have
people who can go out and make that
money and not be chained to this kind of
debt that's the question it's absurd
it's an absurd why do we have public
school why don't we have public school
at all why should people who send their
kids to private school have to pay for
public education schools I do think that
actually points to a bigger project that
like somehow higher ed needs to become
more inclusive and not just basically
like a way for late teenagers to jump a
class wrong basically like it I don't
know how exactly we talked a little bit
about this on TMDs like making it more
like say like any 35 year old has like a
number of free credits so they can go to
a university and take every likes such
in such a years or something like that
right that it's not so sequestered as it
is not as isolated from society yeah and
that there's just more of a broader
concept and an investment that people at
different times in their life for a
variety of different reasons not just
professional advancement should be able
to take a course read books have
conversations uh so meanwhile the New
York Times has come out with they have a
project they're rolling it out there's
going to be more in the future but I
guess they've come out with like
a big spread in the New York Times
Magazine and it's basically looking at
and I haven't had a chance to read any
of it yet but it sounds fascinating and
to a certain extent like we mentioned on
the in the discussion about meat and the
role it played in the development of the
United States etc in vice-versa we've
had multiple interviews with people
about cotton there was two or three
books I think that we recovered it and
it's it's fascinating the development
that cotton and when you say cotton you
are also saying slavery because cotton
became such a huge commodity because
labor costs we're highly labor-intensive
process was free more or less for the
develop and it had huge implications
well apparently there's stories like
this about slavery in terms of the way
that it impacts all sorts of different
things yeah I think you I would be
surprised if you didn't see it shape
housing policy not just housing policy
shaping certain things it shaped the way
that we do the Supreme Court it shaped
the way that we that states organized in
terms of voting rights etc etc all sorts
of different things actual stuff Jim
Crow era I mean slavery impacts
everything and it continues to this day
which if you really look at how the
implications of events two or three
hundred years ago impact all sorts of
other things it shouldn't be a surprise
but apparently examining slavery for the
right in this country is it's like a
bloodletting it's I mean you've got
conservatives freaking out freaking out
right now like how come it's one thing
to talk about slavery but why does race
have to come into it you imagine saying
that and being a sentient human being
sentient sentient human being there was
one guy who I saw on Twitter and said
something to effect like well slavery is
not unique to America
yes is he solid solid yeah good stuff
here's Newt Gingrich New York Times
16:19 1619 of course was the the arrival
of the first slaves in the country 1619
projects should make it slogan all the
propaganda we want to brain you wash you
with is a repudiation of the new you
original in New York Times model like
why this deep investigation into slate
is slavery is so threatening to them
contrary to its stated goals says
Benjamin Weingarten he's some I think
Cato guy maybe it appears to be the
purpose of the 1619 project to D
legitimize America and further divide
and demoralize its citizenry like what
does that even mean D legitimize America
do we get our country snap revoked like
it does it deal edge it Amaya's it to
say it was built on slave labor
like what honestly like what does that
even mean what does it even mean I don't
even know what that means
alright but here is Jesse Watters
popping off with his version of this
from fox news a new expose by the New
York Times says that your lawn is not
only contributing to pollution and
climate change but it's also racist the
piste saying quote these lawns come on
the backs of slaves it's grueling
endless work by the 1870s we also see
American culture slowly start to embrace
lawns for the privileged masses so I
guess when my dad made me mow his lawn I
was his slave oh my god exactly it's
that's really the point that's their
news they'll take this one quote from
this massive like thing about lawns
I love as racist about your ties crazy I
am sure there's there is a story behind
that
I mean I you I do remember like those
lawn jockey things do you guys are you
old enough to remember those I've seen
those yeah they're in books there those
are pile do I saw them on lawns when I
was ill had those in lawns when you're
old in the 70s I only seen white ones I
didn't know they did like versions
oh yeah that's wild
oh yeah okay yeah I guess the lawns do
got some racialism
oh my god yep yep yep yep I remember
those well in there
that's us Jesse Watters what he thinks
about this jeez oh my god I can't take
jokes anymore God we can't even have a
lawn jockeys anymore I mean it is it's
so telling though isn't it that they
that they would be this nervous about an
exploration of slavery well they don't
want and again it it's not even just
like them the moral dimensions of it
because they they just don't want a
historical understanding of anything I
mean particularly slavery and race but
really anything I mean you just look at
their goatee like look at how the whole
war on terrorism and Islam was always
covered right it's it's evil it's a
magical comic book story it's not a
history that's there that's their their
core it's crazy pathology historic eyes
don't mythologize that's the leftist
project this is why Brit one standing
IDW people are so against these sorts of
studies and universities okay so is this
quill let this is a while back about
serious academics we'd realized that
when the public backlash comes and it
will come the defunding will be blunt
and indiscriminate if you don't clean
house now my point we pass it and then
he goes this is exactly right the need
to clean house obvious and it's grown
ignoring it we will we I don't
understand what this is reference to
it's basically but we want a clean house
on you basically Gender Studies
departments right just we don't we need
all this info before the backlash comes
it's it's it's contrary to common sense
that cool it's certainly isn't trying to
stoke
oh bloody Bernie Sanders just sent
pizzas to the coal miners they're still
blocking those trains in Kentucky and in
Belfast and really you missed this
oh no but Belfast Ireland apparently the
big the shipyard that built the Titanic
that's right
well I think it's closing and a bunch of
ship yard workers have occupied it and
demanding the government turn it into a
renewable energy some type of renewable
energy plant or something to that effect
how does it retraining uh yeah actually
and I mean there's a new piece in
Politico that just dropped basically
emphasizing again the way Sanders is
using his email list to really just prop
labor campaigns across the country we'll
see I hope it's a good I mean it's
definitely a good movement building
we'll see if it's a good campaign
strategy I thought yeah I mean who knows
who knows but I mean my instinct has to
be that at the very least forgetting
those the people with like serious
engagement to knock on doors make
contributions and do those sort of
things I think it would be if the strike
was happening in New Hampshire or Iowa
mm-hm
or South Carolina you know what I mean I
don't know I don't know I I mean I'm
very happy Roger to capacity building so
that you can be more easily say like
well can you now take those skills to
come spend a couple of weeks in Iowa and
New Hampshire organizing it yeah we'll
see called from a five 1/8 area code
who's this where you come from
hey this is a game from Iowa Gabe from
Iowa what's on your mind uh so I was
just um we've been talking you guys have
been talking a lot lately about the sort
of predictability of violence coming
from the right given their rhetoric on
things like the invasion and immigration
were broadly right and I'm wondering
about what what's your take on willem
vanspronsen who's the guy who you know
sort of firebombing and i guess that's
some guns at the ice facility in
Washington because it seems to me that
Wang's in not not just rhetoric but
reality we have a terrorist organization
ice targeting violently targeting people
and people driving trucks through
protests and whatnot we need to start
thinking about or like just what's your
take on that sort of direct action
obviously not endorsing violence or
whatever but like yeah we do wrong and I
mean I think it's wrong I mean I I'm
gonna tell you this like I don't think
in any situation where where people can
get hurt
is it is legit at this point I don't
know if there's ever a point where it is
I mean I imagine you know I it's hard
for me to imagine in our society at this
time there ever being something that
it's legit in terms of like of doing
anything like that type of violent act I
think there comes a time where like you
know graffiti or you know targeted
vandalism down the road I think there
are instances where that may be you know
legit I don't know if we're there yet
frankly I don't think we are I think
there needs to be mass protest and I
think look good it's more we know what
like when we get there well I don't know
but I but but I there'd have to be a lot
of other things exhausted before then so
instead of like this guy expending
effort on getting guns and you know
building fire bombs far better to go out
and organize people and get people
because I mean look at the value frankly
between what those people locking arms
and sitting in front of that gate did in
exposing that driver
for being the type of person who would
do what they do to immigrants versus
what that guy who you know armored up
and you know we buffed up and went and
tried to attack it I mean look at the
relative value of those in terms of the
the argument far more valuable than
doing a peaceful protest it just is yeah
yeah yeah I guess it's just sort of the
relative value I think has yet to be
seen of that others that exposing this
one guy but I think obviously
individually someone doing something
like that is obviously worthless and
it's horrible PR but you know I would be
lying if I didn't have some sort of
sympathy and also you know like when
people are talking about storming area
51 there were all these memes going
around on the left main page is about we
should just do this except for ice
facilities I would be lying if I didn't
think like maybe not the worst idea I've
ever heard of my life I don't know I I
think once you do that then you're
basically opening the door to to you
know things like people fire bombing
Planned Parenthood clinics well in all
these massive state repression I I just
think like I don't I want to just
disaggregate I on the on the level of
what you might sympathize with and the
moral feeling I'm with you a hundred
percent
but if you look even historically at
situations where there were actual
historical conditions that kind of fit
more of like armed struggle politics
those tactics still basically faded away
right like I'm talking South Africa
Northern Ireland which are much more
actual examples of this and I think like
a lot of people sorry if you did that
there would be a massive repression of
state apparatus that would just be
completely overwhelming and I mean if
anything frankly there's already
legislation on the books in states that
are criminalizing nonviolent protest and
nonviolent interference and things like
that I mean that was
the thing that happened during Standing
Rock they tried to basically make it
legal to do what that guy did namely run
protestors over right so I guess that
committee sort of sounds like the math
the math day repression is currently
unfolding right now when they only take
on be really yeah it would take on a
totally different scale yeah when you
open that when you open that door people
that want to be given a reason and
there's still enough space right now and
as degraded as it is but there's still a
certain degree of openness in the
institutions in civic space if you did
that that would be shut and that is why
I think people like it's tangential but
I'm not at all supportive of that new
FBI briefing on conspiracy theories I
think that even things like that are
very disturbing creep on overall civil
liberties but if you gave them that
opportunity they would run they're
already running a truck through it they
would just cut it out completely
I feel appreciate the call yeah come
from a 65 one area code who's this where
you come from six five one six five one
going once going twice sold next up
seven three four called from a seven
three four area code who's this we come
from I Sam this is Jack from Michigan
how are you good Jack from Michigan
what's on your mind so when it comes to
Larry Kudlow thing and he was saying
that they were showing the thing there
that I'm a shy run from Fox about you
know consumer spending was going out but
back part he wasn't doing that well
which was on his head altogether was
just having a hard time understanding
what he was saying well I mean because I
was wasted Jack and and and he was also
fibbing you are zip Jack from Michigan
but we shared your disbelief and that's
why we played the clip John for Michigan
appreciates a three-song Cal optimism
stay stay stay blue a little glass of my
gold what a admit with me the glass is
always half full baby stay gold Ponyboy
and what is half empty they make you
full again with more amber optimism
[Laughter]
optimism of as a cool it's like a like
the fall foliage of glass I'll take my
optimism neat please here's bootp Budaj
basically doing the Republicans work for
him it is quite clear that what's going
to happen the day a replay Democrat gets
elected to president we will hear of the
unsustainable debt and deficit that has
accumulated and we need to cut programs
immediately you could raise taxes but if
we are headed to an economic downturn
except for on a very narrow set of
people you don't want to necessarily do
that here is people to judge basically
staking out you know the common sense
this is what Nancy Pelosi was pushing
basically Pago right it's another way of
saying that like look I have a very
progressive agenda but we just cannot
implement it right now um I think much
more concerned about the debt than what
is fashionable among most people in my
party and it's largely generational
because Lord willing I'm gonna be here
when a lot of these fiscal time bombs
that have been set by leaders in both
parties but especially under this
present go off and it used to be that
the tug of war was between Democrats who
favored more deficit spending and
Republicans who wanted to do something
about the death and then the Republicans
took charge and revealed that they don't
they care because they blew a giant hole
in the deficit and so the very same
deficits that were being used as an
excuse when we were told we couldn't
expand programming for education or or
invest in our infrastructure deliver
health care to more Americans became
something not to worry about when it was
time to pass a giant tax cut for
corporations what's amazing about this
clip is he he recognizes how it's been
using the past and then he uses more of
their like what is the fiscal time bombs
that he's talking about what is it like
what time bomb we have at one point
something's gonna explode and blow
everything up what is that what what
exactly is he talking about I can't
really elaborate but I'm young as you
can tell other can leave me you'll be
dead by the time you understand so but
one day it's gonna happen you'll likely
be dead I'll be alive God willing as far
as I keep eating my veggies as far as
different types of disasters that might
happen if we don't take action today
right the dead is not really upset it's
not incredible that we have like a media
and political culture whether there is
okay there's an ongoing issue which no
one ever talks about which is nukes
which could cancel the world at any
moment and then there is the
acceleration of an ecological crisis all
of that doom and gloom rhetoric could
apply to both and then it's done to
something that like worst case you could
just say like oh I guess we just need to
bump taxes up on rich people and plug a
few holes no problem um no mistake
though no surprise that he he cleans up
in those donor lists he has the
wealthiest zip codes in the country
ah see what is this Brendan greetings
from the Hamptons where people judge is
winning the monogrammed shops and I'm
saying count cup count race the results
of which have been proven right in every
election except 2016 owner Valerie holy
cow I wonder if this is where I got I
didn't get it from the Jeb cups the
cups were somewhere out on Long Island
Camp you capturing I think wait where
Sanders if my mom I think anyone's
buying Sanders cups that's unbelievably
R terrible people they don't support
Bernie Sanders they're bad people folks
wow that's amazing bad people that's
amazing other Trump cups too of course
they're Trump cups yeah of course I mean
this is this is actually a micro version
of just like another reason to vote for
Bernie is the anti endorsement Wall
Street list this is a homespun version
of that oh don't don't get all huffy
about the monograms hey hey I love my
hello I love going out to the Hamptons I
was lucky at all of just say monogram I
can't I've gone out to Montauk and I
actually enjoy that but that's all those
in the actual water is nice but the
scene is not ish stuck between Budig and
Trump supporters yes I mean literally uh
so Bernie Sanders came out with a
massive criminal justice reform bill
it's six thousand word proposal it
includes banning cash bail solitary
confinement and civil asset torture it
calls for legalization of marijuana
abolishing the death penalty
it would create legal safe injection
sites where people can use illegal drugs
under medical supervision
it requires the Attorney General to
investigate every time a person is
killed in police custody we don't even
have stats there's no entity in the
country that keeps stats other than a
couple of journalists have done it do
you understand there's no official count
of how many people died in police
custody in the country it seems like a
good metric to keep it up that seems
like a early start it would establish a
prisoner Bill of Rights create a
civilian Corp of unarmed first
responders to deal with mental health
emergency's and boost funding for public
defenders that is pretty comprehensive
ends the three strike laws which are
horrible expand use of sentencing
alternatives ends mandatory sentencing
minimums and here is how they will deal
with this on Fox News his campaign Andy
says that all of this is designed to
root out institutional racism and
corporate profiteering what do you think
of its play it yeah well you know it's a
funny thing I worked in the justice
system for a long time I think it's it
may be the least racist system that we
have in the country if that's possible
you know we're a country that's done a
lot to try to root out if that's
possible there's so many less there's so
many completely non racist institutions
in this country that it's it's Alma will
be hard to find one that's let that is
that is less but it's blessed it's like
I stopped himself from implying that
America surrounded like a float in
racists is like yeah at least are we
higher or do we know what this Andy
McCarthy is what what did this guy used
to do former US Attorney in what
district fascinated by where this guy
could actually there he goes sdn why we
only dealt with wall street we we never
we didn't care what color you were when
you worked on when you worked on Wall
Street we were still gonna go after you
could be of any background and we'd let
you plea out policing the industries
that are structurally white exactly the
honor that I had when in my first twenty
years of prosecuting Wall Street I let
my first black executive offer insider
trading
maybe the least racist system that we
have in the country if that's possible
you know we're a country that's done a
lot to try to root out racism because of
our prior prior history yeah
you'll recall that part of the the those
moves to raid out racism would be things
like preclearance for voting and whatnot
that we got rid of here we go you get a
little bit more here maybe the least
racist system that we have in the
country if that's possible you know
we're a country that's done a lot to try
to root out racism because of our prior
history of it but you know if you've
been in the criminal justice system its
dominated for the most part by judges
and lawyers who are products of
left-leaning educational institutions
who don't have you know there's a lot of
things you can say about them but the
you know the idea that they're racist is
absurd and the the idea that they would
be presiding over a system that was
endemically racist is equally absurd the
fact of the matter is we have a lower
prison population and particularly a
federal prison population than we've had
in years and most of the provisions that
he wants to take out such as for example
mandatory minimums in the 60s and 70s
when we had you know tremendous crime in
this country we didn't have mandatory
minimum provisions and it was judges who
determined sentences unilaterally this
guy man is gonna argue that monetary in
America you've got to be kidding weigh
in on what the sentences should be for
serious crime takes out the eye of
representatives in Congress if you
repeal them then it's not the public
that decides what the sentence has to be
it's the judges and the judges
institutionally academically by way of
background tend to be much more lean
left-leaning and much more insulated
from the communities where there is no
rhyme than average Americans deposits I
mean this is stunning
first of all he's saying you want to
take the
sentencing out of the judges hands so
that they cannot contemplate or even
look at like hey wait a second how come
I look at sociological studies that say
whites and blacks smoke pot at the same
rate but 80% of the people show up in
front of me are black it's because the
poll the the the cops are bringing in
more black people for the for the same
crimes that white people are not brought
in for the judge has no latitude and
they get the sentencing
I mean it's so disingenuous stunning
well typical but Bernie's proposal very
very robust now this guy was previously
smearing Jamal khashoggi as a member of
the Muslim Brotherhood so Oh for the
National Review there you go a National
Review guy Andrew McCarthy you can't
forget it
oh that guy's intense look how Obama
embraces Islam Sharia agenda well that's
true too
he did a good job by that but he should
have talked about what I don't ever talk
about the black I've learned right what
about Shannon but if you talked to you
said to birdie you want to do that but
there's but we've got a little black
we've got more Puerto Ricans owning bars
they before I do it there and I said oh
okay RISM
can we sit optimism here's where I gave
her optimism my god it's like eating a
Chinese buffet okay okay you know all
the optimism you can want and then half
hour you're like I'm still hungry I
still want the optimism but you know
what they said it was an all-you-can-eat
and so I didn't stop as a fiduciary
contract night they didn't even shake
his I still ate it and it was good might
I there's a funny word my tie my tie is
out of a saucer drink I like a drink
babe I could go both my times might I
have all the whites are you
have for another vacation all right
here's Ainsley Ann Earhart on Fox John
the she's on the small business beat
chicken as um she has friends who have a
chicken salad Emporium that are very
worried about the rise in the minimum
wage and here is a woman who is closing
her business because there's too many
homeless people relocating her but
relocating but tell us about the issue
you describe some of the disgusting
things that you have to clean up when
you get to work every morning go into
detail about that and why you actually
decided to move your business well when
I come into work I'm never sure what I'm
going to walk into and I've been broken
into I've had my glass broken I clean
clean up human excrement off of my
doorstep every week cups of urine things
like that and I do have compassion for
these people but you know they're
sleeping in front of your door and
they're leaving trash and they're
turning over garbage cans and I can't I
can't do that anymore yeah we showed
some video of what you have to clean up
and your business when it was broken
into I was at dinner with some friends
from California the other day and I said
is this all hype is it really as bad as
everyone's talking about since I live on
you know the East Coast and she said
absolutely it is so bad we have got to
fix this problem if you look at some of
the stats it shows how big of a problem
that says homelessness is a 19% since
2017
more than 5,500 people are living on the
streets and this is the stat that really
shocked me in California
you guys have one-fourth of the nation's
homeless population living in California
at least last year in January of 2018
those numbers were were released that's
incredible
one fourth of our homeless population
lives where you guys are yeah what's
reaction is it really as bad as where as
the media is talking saying it is it is
as bad and and you know it's definitely
a lot of people want to say it's a
housing issue but it's it's a drug issue
it's a drug issue and there's what does
the governor doing to combat that drug
issue I mean I'm hearing he wants to
offer a safe space is where you can go
and shoot up now
absolutely um you know I've spoken with
a lot of law enforcement in my area and
they have all have have the same answers
their hands are tied
they can't arrest them and a lot of
people think that arresting them won't
do much but it definitely will
wow man there still is Orange County
stop athili I was a Legion I was waiting
I mean lucky lady there is definitely a
problem there and it's very defensive
problem um can we part of it though
which I mean it's not the overall
problem but part was kind of obvious why
a lot of homeless people would go to
California I mean as opposed to
Minnesota Yeah right isn't maybe we
could do a little deductive reasoning
here of course but the solution would be
to actually do programs to help people
not be homeless anymore it's not
housings not the issue drugs are the
issue but making a safe space for people
to have drugs and getting them to
basically become more functional in the
context of society would be a problem
well that's all these other ask them on
vagrancy charges and then what happens
like we were supposed to put them in
there for life I'm like what is the
logic the implication and also the the
point of the injection sites is not I
mean they do need to do things about
homelessness but the point of the
injection slice is to stop the spread of
disease right which is like right I I
mean maybe maybe she's has the position
of like the general and that what you
all thought oh bird movie is like just
the just disease of their also then end
up developing one-to-one contact with
people you can get them into programs
you get them into help yeah what the
ladies are scared so she's got a shop of
the homeless guys there Sam cedar here
is uh on the AIIMS hwv lit I live in
California and study policing
homelessness is caused by urban
redevelopment gentrification and
policing
you need to provide safe affordable
housing for people if there are drug
problems you need to provide support for
them there's just I love the idea that
you can just arrest these people and
then it's clearly a housing problem and
not only like do we need to build more
houses for like your public housing but
it's also there are vacant houses enough
to fill put every homeless person in
it's a it's a resource distribution
issue Gregory from Oklahoma my first day
back at college was great I had friends
who had known me since our first year of
college back in 2016 said that I looked
good and I noticed I lost weight great
day y'all glad to hear it Gregory keep
us updated contagious chameleon yet
another reason to elect Bernie Sanders
when the Republicans are attacking debt
stephanie kelton
may likely be Treasury Secretary water
boat from Kashmir in Kashmir 6,000
people detained in the last week under
the so-called Public Safety Act where
you could be detained for two years
without charge they've done this before
but not at the rate of a thousand people
per day what I've realized in the
silence in the international community
is that only weak countries are
threatened with sanctions and strong
countries get their situation monitored
wonder why why people wonder why oppress
people pick up guns Alesi with my love
doing some work around the office it
appears Sam supports nepotism and child
labor looks like he is running for the
Libertarian Party nomination after all
Tomcat hi guys I got to think that
considering what Matt is doing with
literary hangover George Orwell's
sitting defeated on the other side
saying well that's it I've been canceled
like Krusty did that one time
that's a very much dr. chaos MD we
should absolutely have to ition free as
wealth paid for books housing and food
for any person looking to enlighten
themselves a higher education whether
it's university or trade school it
amazes me how people boomers especially
think this is a bad idea
our media institutions are a big part of
the problem see me to focus entirely on
the argument against education the other
day I drove my girlfriend's card and had
the opportunity to listen to a total
trash interview on NPR Lou when the
interview uncritically allowed her guest
a professor from George Mason
dun-dun-dun speak about defunding the
education system because most Americans
don't remember what they learned in
school Jesus they know remember that
can't retain it I'm happy now Kudlow may
have suffered a stroke lots of people
slur more than they they get older the
pollster is Rachel a bit Cofer her model
doesn't look so good for Bernie also
check out the family about C Street on
Netflix after you watch mind Hunter
which is very excellent ah it is very
possible that Kudlow had a stroke but it
is not the case I had I mean he could
have had a stroke in between those hits
it's also possible that something else
happened you know the worst part having
stroke is having a Catterick wears magic
I would watch it's I don't know quality
wise how good it is but sacred games on
Netflix it's laws it says it sets the
understanding of the government that's
empower in India right now and I think
that doorway into sort of Hindu
nationalist ideas is important call some
good gangster show call from an 805 area
code who's this where you come from 805
805 PI let's try that six five one again
six five one by ID now this is not
updating how long people have been
online for I don't know what's going on
with that now I've got an error
bear with me fo
little technical complications will wait
for that to load back up here we go all
right we've had people who been on hold
for over an hour
gone from a 562 area code who's this
where you calling from hello hello hello
um yes look hello
uh yeah I just wanted to call concerning
something about my community
specifically I just moved to El Paso in
the last two weeks okay and what's your
name my name is Alan what's uh what's
what's your comment obviously that the
timing of you moving there I imagine was
a fairly intense period of time yes
exactly
um I guess my main concern is a lot of
people assume that people on the and the
Latino community you know especially
with the whole you know a lot of
right-wingers say that uh illegal
immigrants are voting and changing
elections and all that stuff and I find
that in my experience at least a lot of
Latinos are kind of apathetic as to the
politics even in like local stuff even
when even in like really serious stuff
like the El Paso shooting that type of
thing
I was just wondering your idea on how we
can address that how you think maybe we
could get the this community like more
involved I wish they were as involved as
the right-wingers saying well yeah I
mean obviously all the all the
immigrants you know undocumented
immigrants voting over and over again is
live but it's also the case that the
data show that the Latino community does
not vote in in numbers consistent with
just about every other community I've
heard a bunch of different theories as
to why that part of it is a function of
coming from societies where their vote
really has proven time and time again
not to matter because the
they elect someone who is good and then
then there's intervention from outside
and things revert that in some of these
countries now any type of involvement
with politics in any fashion puts a
target on your back literally yeah I I
don't know I don't know what it would
mean it's it's a it's frankly it's a big
mystery and I don't know that anybody
has figured it out yet I think you know
Democrats all of us hope that the Latino
community is going to come out in big
numbers even though you know the support
amongst Latinos for Democrats is
probably 6040 I think broadly speaking
across the country which is not nearly
as dramatic as Italy let's say for the
the black community but but the numbers
are just not they need to come out more
in numbers they have it they could have
a enormous power but part of it may also
be that they're somewhat conflicted
maybe more socially conservative in some
respects but but who knows yeah at least
here in Texas I find that on you know
even in my own family a lot of people
are you know really for gun rights you
know we had the conversation about you
know limiting gun rights and stuff like
that and the first thing that I heard
was people talking about I think it was
Arizona how you know you can't really
mess with people because everyone has a
gun in Arizona like really loose about
gun rights and stuff and a lot of
Latinos at least here in Texas you know
part of the military that's kind of
their main source of income their main
jobs out here so it's it's just kind of
weird that a lot of people assume that a
so many Latinos are just liberals and
just have those policies in mind but I I
don't know in my personal experience
I've found that kind of the opposite
almost well I mean the data bears out
some of that the the question becomes
like
the fact that an entire party is
organizing itself around demonizing you
will that be enough to drive you to vote
and I and I don't mean that even
facetiously I mean that is really the
question but as part of the to
appreciate the common we recognize you
know this is one of the reasons though
that I think having a more you know
broader and sophisticated discourse
about particularly really any community
but particularly I mean like Latinos
like that's such a broad category
because you're dealing many different
cultures and all and particularly I mean
you know there's political cultures like
in Miami that are so far right and so
identified with like the extremes in
places like Venezuela all right we got
tough time for one more call this person
has also been on hold for over an hour
you come from a seven six zero area code
rest of the callers I'm sorry we're not
gonna get to you today who's this where
you come from
hello this is San Diego hello Amy from
San Diego what's in your mind
interview with Joshua I have to say it
made me think of Bob's Burgers okay so
one of Eugene's the lines is it's a dead
cow on a bun but it's still really fun
and I just felt like that needed to be
added to the conversation I'm sorry I
didn't I didn't raise that I'm on a
silent strike right now about Bob's
Burgers because I have not heard about
the movie yet I'm in the movie I just
wanna I want to say that I have been
tweeting at multiple people for you also
Michael I've been adding you I've been
trying to say get them to write you a
character so I'm trying to do that this
is a great call I would say Amy I would
say Amy's focus on new blood in the
future I was gonna say you don't want to
divide your resources in that way I
think when you have a character we've
already seen it we get it you go blah
blah blah but I think the idea of
innovation it's something new this is
very smart
well and played more than one character
people need to realize this nicer more
characters Harold I think as well Harold
I played probably a does
characters on that I will I have a
proposal podcaster named Sam who gets
food poisoning at the burger shop I will
show you to my audience don't forget to
subscribe to the a.m. news node boom bye
Amy hello my favorite one of my favorite
shows is about burgers so I just like to
say that I like Mike I like my beef
burgers digitally only there you go
alright appreciate the call Hayami
alright folks that's it for calls
apologies if you were hanging on the
line there's a bunch of you or hanging
on for a long time we're gonna have a
news day at least on Wednesday maybe two
days maybe we'll do two days because we
go over different policies we'll see
Kyle's wife Braun's placing bronze plan
hi Sam I think you mentioned stat while
back where there's some significant
portion the 2015 Republicans without a
college degree thought the Republican
Party was to the left of Democrats do
you call this dead or misremembering
it's from identity crisis and it wasn't
Republicans 50% of white people
non-college educated white people as if
I think it was like 2008 thought the
Republican Party was to the left of the
Democratic Party on race that's from
identity crisis that book Kyle's wife
last week I heard you talking about
universal pre-k which is important but
kindergarten has always overlooked it's
not mandatory in certain states I did
not realize that and it doesn't have to
be free that needs to be the bigger
first step in my opinion universal free
full-day kindergarten also the quality
of indicate kindergarten varies wildly
from district to district I I didn't
realize that about kindergarten but I
would go yes
pre-k and K that's a con College alum
there
Ryann in Los Angeles lawn jockeys when I
was a kid growing up in an affluent Los
Angeles neighborhood the school bus
would go down the streets of privilege
and I would note all the houses with
lawn jockeys cuz they were the ones we
would hit first when the revolution
comes this penny for your thoughts
it seems like we need to be doing mass
protests on a daily basis how do we get
something like that started look around
see your friends in kindergarten cop
wouldn't it be better strategy for Dems
to call for accurate accounting of the
Electoral College representatives in the
house rather than the abolishment of the
electoral college
it seems that arguing for the
abolishment of the electoral college
gives an easy argument to the GOP that
Dems are attacking the founding fathers
whereas advocating for actual quality
based on population is harder to argue
it we haven't allowed an elector or a
rep since 1976 and we've added a hundred
million people since then that's a good
argument I love Sarah Palin since the
NYPD fired the dude that choked Eric
garner to death I want to bring you to
everyone's attention a story that got no
attention last month Philip Brailsford
the officer got criminally cleared but
fired last year after shooting Daniel
shaver in a hotel was quietly rehired so
he could file for medical retirement and
collect his twenty five hundred bucks a
month pension for the rest of his life
Jesus the suck really enjoyed the meat
discussion today big fan of meats and
smoking meats Bull Prague the Zuckerberg
refer oh my god there was a house in my
small Northwest at Wisconsin town that's
still at a lawn jockey in the 2000s Rob
sorry if this has been covered before
but out of curiosity would you how would
you respond to criticisms a
medicare-for-all like I don't want the
next Republican administration in charge
of my health care well I mean they're
called CEOs and they already are well
yeah that's a good point but here's how
I would respond to it with a proper
statutory framework they will not be
able to mess with it Donald Trump has
had a very hard time with the ACA and
that was a real sort of patchwork plan
where you needed all these sort of like
fixes for stuff this I mean the
see I understand his MacGyver full-on
MacGyver stuff and a medicare-for-all be
much cleaner regime as it were the DX
fool
hey man cavers the interview you did
with mondo Jones the guy challenging
neat allowing for the house in the
district as South amalgam dances he
mentioned he graduated from Stanford you
know what other african-american men why
see also graduated Stanford entering
politics cory booker but he went on to a
football scholarship he didn't have much
of a resume while in college book who
was third string and had to quit
football due to an injury and got into
social justice stuff late in the game /
wopo alright three more the greatest
Gaslight a sam related to the call
earlier I've seen some conservatives
arguing their constant use of the
emotionally charged word invasion is no
different than some on the Left saying
that we are holding migrants in
concentration camps what's the best way
to respond aside from pointing out that
our terminology is definitionally
accurate do they have a point about the
connotation of both things that would
could be something that could inspire
violence
no there's nothing implicit in the
existence of concentration camps that
says that you have to go and attack them
an invasion is a call to arms we can end
concentration camps that our government
sets up by by public policy changes an
invasion is necessarily out of your
hands the only way to stop an invasion
is to fight them the missing link
representative ray Lujan fourth ranking
Democrat now endorses impeach Trump one
night Russian lemonade stand
some of the shipwrights occupying the
belfast yard to prevent its closure and
demand it be nationalized to build
renewable energy infrastructure cited
aoc in the green new deal as inspiration
what a shame that ALC had to be
cancelled after she endorsed the winner
of the democratic party for new york
governor
you're Cynthia Nixon ed laws and the
final I am of the day mark monkey TV I
quit my terrible auto dealership job
after finding out about a huge pay
discrepancy I'll be talking about the
horrible weight dealers trap and steal
wages from you on my stream all week on
twitch until I find a new job if
anyone's interested fall a twitch.tv
mark monkey mu and KY and if you want to
help I take donations and subs also help
Sam I did a poll and people want you to
just grow a beard alright folks see you
tomorrow
[Music]
but I know some
I'm gonna get the
I was just got caught
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no luggage
[Music]
I just
where the choice is made though the
option when you don't get paid
[Music]
I fell off sweet ride
[Music]
takes
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
