[Music]
speaking of which Bernie made a vow last
night and I hope that we are in a
position to play this to Bernie Sanders
and say what about this buddy yeah I
remember
shut up I got it down to 55 percent yeah
what do you want here is Bernie Sanders
the pragma going on sensation it tapes
and you know the dynamic here is is is
is is great because as the rest of the
field
the majority of the field of the
Democratic primary contenders move to
the left on these questions of health
care and whatnot
Bernie is forced to move to the left and
get more aggressive with what he is
promising and and understand it looked
the there's a lot of academic research
on this frankly and it's
counterintuitive but politicians keep
their promises they tend to and because
they're it sets the expectations of
their electorate and sometimes they
hedge but more often than not they just
become smarter about what they promise
exactly but this is a pretty this is
pretty straightforward
promise Bernie Sanders on Face the
Nation I want to get to the issue of
health care the president this week said
he wants the courts to strike down
Obamacare the Affordable Care Act but to
be fair senator you want to replace
Obamacare too you want to replace it
with Medicare for all this government
Roz you know listen to be fair it's
really the wrong way to to be
relentlessly yeah
to be fair Bernie you seem to have two
legs to beaver has two legs - what's the
difference - be very superficial about
this because it's easier
it that is to be lent lessly
disingenuous it is so weird that they
feel like they have to structure a
question like that but go back to the
beginning ooh the issue of healthcare
the president this week said he wants
the courts to strike down Obamacare the
Affordable Care Act but to be fair
senator you want to replace Obamacare
too you want to replace it with Medicare
for all this government-run government
finance programs so if the courts strike
down the ACA does that ultimately help
you know look yes
Trump has an idea on health care his
idea is to throw 32 million Americans
off of the health insurance they have
doing away with insurance for kids who
are 26 years of age or younger who were
on their parents plans doing away with
the protections that the ACA has for
pre-existing conditions Margaret that
means if you have cancer you have heart
disease you have diabetes if Trump gets
his way the cost of health insurance for
you will be so high that many people
literally will not be able to afford it
thousands of people will literally die
that's Trump's health insurance plan my
plan is just a little bit different I
think we should join the rest of the
industrialized world guarantee health
care to all people as a right and the
absurdity of the United States spending
twice as much per capita on health care
as any other nation while a life
expectancy is actually going down and
our health care outcomes are worse than
many other countries and by the way we
pay by far the highest prices in the
world for prescription drugs Margaret
let me make a campaign promise to you
and you can repeat this play this tape
over if I'm elected president and that
is if I am elected president
I'm gonna cut prescription drug costs in
this country by 50% so that we are not
paying any more than other major
countries are paying maybe we're gonna
do that because we will look at the
average costs of prescription drugs in
Canada UK Germany Japan and France
but we will look at their average costs
which are 50% lower than they are in the
United States and we will do that and if
the problem a suitable industry if the
pharmaceutical industry which made 50
the five major companies made fifty
billion dollars in profits last year
they pay their CEOs outrageous
compensation packages if they don't like
that they will take a look at their
pattern when are you going to reduce
your medicare-for-all plan in this
Congress so you've already got five we
all go to deep supporting to do that
within the next couple of weeks next
couple of we are going to do yes hmm
like how she like making it like she's
like digging on something but you failed
at it got you he gave you a great
promise proposal there's no like there
wasn't even a bad exchange for you just
accept that it was positive instead of
negative I will see your gotcha and
raise you something even better that's
like the other thing about private
insurance last week when Bernie's on his
best foot when he's up in the ante a
little bit absolutely yeah
it's very hard to arm others once you
get out of that like but you're changing
uh you know you want to change let me
it's like Trump wants to lower the
threshold or lower the number of people
who are eligible for overtime you want
to raise it but you both want to change
it both you know who I hold not I'll
individualize this I'm sure not
big-picture failings of journalism wise
but a specific individual do I hold
responsible for that I cut my teeth
getting a little high and watching Tim
Russert and he was the master of like
[Applause]
but no he you would notice like this was
your position on taxes you said this
about Iraq there was never a thread of
like is there a difference between uh
supporting and illegal invasion or
opposing one is there is there it was
all you were here now you're there
what's that about that's that was his
shtick in fact he would say that is my
job it's just to record what they said
and read that back to them but because
here's nice to Dick Cheney Cheney was
just like I lied to you about today
you wanna guess I'm lying but you could
you imagine someone a an announcer you
know a host saying okay your proposal is
to lower taxes but to be fair your
opponent wants to raise taxes like we do
around here anybody even offering that
in Bell that structure of a question you
know to be fair you guys basically had
the same proposal you want to lower
taxes he was she wants to raise tax or
even frankly like in the context of this
debate you know you're somebody maybe
wants to raise taxes a bit to provide
full complete no BS coverage for every
single person in this country you on the
other hand want us to pay a bunch of
middleman fees to these companies that
aren't serving us well best phrase from
that though is when he said thousands
will literally die like you could not
frame it in a more clear way than that
yeah
