[Music]
all right let's get into the the
recession fears we talked about this
briefly yesterday the the yield curve is
has gone inverse or was briefly it
doesn't seem to have maintained 75% of
economists surveyed think that we'll be
in a recession by 2021 I don't know it's
a very weird time because in the past
generally the news media was relentless
about denying that we're in a recession
because so much of the money was being
made on the run-up to the stock market
and so many people were making money off
of that every everywhere you turned on
television news it was all stock rocket
up updates yeah and it becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy too right well
that they think it does but I'm not
convinced that it that it does but they
think it does and to a certain extent
like the this the the yield curve being
inverse or inverse yield curve is a
function of what investors perceive as
what they perceive is things are going
but you know we don't know if they are
just imagining it or they're looking at
signs that tell them but the White House
is looking at different policies in
which to deal with it and we're in sort
of a bad situation to deal with a
recession it's so bad that Donald Trump
is even having to make excuses for his
top economists who he sent out yesterday
you'll recall that we were observing we
were noticing that there were certain
characteristics that Larry Kudlow was
displaying when he was on TV like
optimism optimism gobs Luthor and
possibly stroke but I'm not clear
what it was but somebody said to Donald
Trump apparently there were reports that
maybe Larry Kudlow was drunk on TV
yesterday hey Savi ever write a piece
called you call it sex in the country
well I hope not I love Larry Kudlow I
think he's done a fantastic job he has
been going through health problems as
you know but I watched him this morning
he was terrific
I think Larry's a fantastic guy but I
haven't heard that at all no here we go
we're about a day or two away from Larry
Kudlow I think being faux even it did
not even I like how Trump's main
judgment of his performance is how well
he does on the TV shows the TV show he's
doing fine I mean aside from the major
major health problems so they are
contemplating cutting the the payroll
tax payroll tax as you know funds Social
Security and Medicare you pay about I
think it's 6.2 percent out of your
paycheck your employer pays 6.2 percent
on the other side on top of your
paycheck and this you are subject to the
payroll tax is up to about a hundred and
thirty two thousand dollars I think it
is now aside from the fact that it
really we should have the cap should be
blown out some people call for a
doughnut hole fine whatever but we're
just capturing far less of the nation's
income that way nevertheless there have
been deliberations in the White House
according to the Washington Post
even though deliberations about the
payroll tax cut were held Monday the
White House released a statement
disputing the idea was actively under
consideration business spending
apparently in the economy is pulled back
our v sales are down whatever that means
well did some people have everybody has
a different thing that they think the
you know is an indication of an economy
going south the last time the
tax tax was cut was in 2011 in 2012
under the Obama administration this was
in the time of a deep deep recession
that had followed in the wake of the
financial crisis frankly I was against
it then I'm against it now the
difference I would imagine we don't know
any of the details of how the Trump
administration would do it I'm sure it
would be done in a much more problematic
way during 2011 and 2012 the payroll tax
was dropped from six point two percent
to four point two percent the idea was
to encourage spending now a lot of
people think it didn't work because
people didn't notice George Bush said to
check to everybody which probably
amounted to less money but everybody
knew it was a check and so they went out
and spent that extra money as opposed to
doing whatever you know not being aware
that they had the extra money although I
haven't seen any any data on that I just
remember contemporaneously that was
something that people would talk about
the cut when it was imposed had an
automatic sunset provision and by 2013
it was back up to six point two percent
why is this important because the
payroll tax funds Social Security and
Medicare now under the Obama
administration because there was so much
blowback from progressives who said you
cannot cut Social Security tax because
you're going to underfund the Social
Security trust fund and the system
itself broadly and this is going to be
an excuse to cut later on so what they
did is they cut the taxes on Social
Security and the payroll but they made
up for that difference in the general
fund and it just got added to the
deficit I don't think that Donald Trump
is going to do it that way I think Mick
Mulvaney is going to see this as an
opportunity to starve Social Security
from
horses and which will ultimately be an
argument to cut Social Security benefits
this is it's highly problematic it's
also the other problem that we have is
there's no opportunity to deal with a
recession or let me put it to another
way there's a limited opportunity to
deal with a recession because the way
that you deal with the recession is to
cut interest rates but at this point our
interest rates are around like what two
and a quarter or something to that
effect I'm not a hundred percent sure
but they're low and when they're low it
means that you don't have room to lower
them there is no magic number it's all
relative on some level so there's only
so much cash you can inject into the
economy through monetary policy at this
point because we're just not that
they're just interest rates are just not
that high to begin with the other
problem is of course is that these
people are not going to spend they're
gonna cut taxes they know they can't
tuck cut taxes for rich people anymore
and we know that as as far as tax cuts
go the only ones that are effective are
for middle-class people in terms of
juicing the economy and even then it's
not the most efficient way the most
efficient way is to spend is to actually
put them on hit people's pockets and you
could direct where it goes the problem
with the the Trump tax cuts not just
from a wealth inequality standpoint not
just in terms of a plutonomy and that a
plutocracy standpoint we're that giving
money to rich people does not help the
economy giving money to people living in
poverty giving money to people living
paycheck to paycheck giving money to
people who barely save any money that
helps the economy
because they turn around and they spend
those dollars but when you give money to
rich people it's not like they have new
things to buy they just use that money
to create more money they buy stocks
they and they inject capital maybe into
some companies but they're just get they
don't there's no efficiency involved in
that so there's just not the same
opportunities to deal with the recession
if we do hit one Donald Trump is just
trying to figure out a way right now to
punt this into 2021 gather he'll be
present for a second term he'll escape
prosecution if he's fortunate he'll die
in office or it'll be a Democrat that
takes takes the hit on the economy and
believe me it'll be a disaster the way
they'll go after the Democrat
whoever it is it'll be a disaster they
will say you have no money people in
Congress in the Senate they will say we
have no money to do these plans we have
no money to do this we have no money to
do that
it's it's a real concern but it's a very
weird media time too because I just
don't recall and I've only lived through
I don't know three or four recessions as
an adult maybe maybe even less I don't
recall this perspective by the media one
way they're not in full-on denial but I
mean if Bernie or maybe Warren isn't
president when the recession hits it's
gonna be so much worse I think it's
gonna be I don't know I mean I think it
depends on what you mean by worse like
they're the only ones who would do what
they need to do in order to help us out
of it
the problem is yeah I mean the question
is gonna be can they get the Senate and
the house to do what needs to be done
there's no president who's gonna be able
to do it alone this is not and they're
gonna need the Senate in the house so I
don't know the there may be I don't know
I could come up with a like five
different scenarios I don't know if
there's a way to tell I think you just
could go with the president you want to
have and and deal with it but a you know
it's not inconceivable to me that a
Senate would be hostile to Bernie
Sanders and try and clip them more than
Joe Biden he'll come in and be like I'll
give you away a huge tax cut again or
whatever it is I don't know but it's
going to be ugly and just in case that
there's a desire to make it even uglier
the FDIC board apparently is voting this
morning and maybe they've already voted
they're going to roll back part of the
Volcker Rule which basically prohibited
banks largely from placing their own
bets they could do some things that were
sort of more like best practices certain
hedges certain like currency purchases
if it was you know to protect the assets
of the bank but they no longer were able
to use deposits and to do their own sort
of hedge funds and basically just
gambling with other people people's
money and now they're going to have
basically more latitude to do that this
was a big problem back in 2008 but that
was so long ago who could remember who's
around to remember such things basically
it uses the bang
as or I should say the depositors as a
backstop will use their money that's in
our bank accounts not just for loaning
out in you know safe bland
Vennela loans but now I'll also get in
there and get go to the roulette table
it's all FDIC insured so the taxpayers
will just have to pay for it if we blow
it I mean that's basically where we're
at this is a rule that went into effect
four years ago that's a long time you
get a little bored of those things after
a while so that's where we are in terms
of the economy and of course unleashing
the bank's right now is a little bit of
a seems a little bit terrifying and
irresponsible but it'll be fine
everything's gonna be alright about it
let's just get the Fed rates down to
about 0.25 records all over the place
