with Sam of America is always safer in
the hands of the people
conference rooms of any Elise
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex the majority report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday December 11th 2018
my name is Sam cedar this is the
five-time award-winning majority report
we are broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Eric Levitz staff writer New York
Magazine answering the question when
will the mainstream media understand
Republicans are authoritarian Condon
meanwhile the Trump EPA to weaken the
Clean Water protections you thought we
would enjoy covert foreign agent Maria
boo Tina cops a plea supposedly
cooperated and tick bro Reed Hoffman to
start a coke brother style voter
database we're gonna get rid of that
two-party system folks this is gonna be
to billionaire system Trump
administration shielding Wells Fargo's
college student college student gouging
and the farm bill looks close to passage
the Democratic win in the midterms has
snai it saved snap access for millions
of Americans
meanwhile Cavanaugh and Roberts pass on
the question of Planned Parenthood
funding in a classic keep your powder
dry scenario cross the Atlantic brexit
is fubar and I don't have a clue as to
what's going on I'm gonna find out what
the hell is going on over there
I have no idea can't follow it one
detail is Theresa May got locked in a
car and someone picked up a mace oh yeah
that sounds you do that there's a
special mace because they do Harry
Potter government over there somebody
picked it up and you got in trouble
meanwhile thousands of Florida absentee
ballots uncounted because of that
bombing scare before the election and
folks I hope you your windows and doors
are locked
half the troops are leaving the border
now we're like naked in the face of the
caravan all this and more on today's
program ladies and gentlemen yes it is a
famous Tuesday version of the majority
report of course we do a version every
day and we do so because our members
support this program you can be one of
those people what do you get you get
your podcast commercial-free you get we
have three ads today I've got quip I
mean I love these brands quip liquid IV
and third love but you get your podcast
commercial-free you also get extra
content virtually every day and then you
also get our undying gratitude so become
a member today at joined the majority
report com also we are now not only are
we in double digits for the tickets for
the pod fest in Brooklyn on January 13th
at 2:30 p.m. but we are under 1/6 uh
once way under 1/6 I I don't know did
some Christians yeah hurry let's put it
this way you got probably I would guess
at the rate that we've been going less
than a week under fishing with the start
kicking in competition has kicked in
folks and now it's if you are even
contemplating it get your tickets now
alright I want to start with this but
before I do when you think of the
perfect gift you probably don't think of
an electric toothbrush now you've heard
me say multiple times over the over the
past couple years that I have thought
about that my sister I got got one of
these and my dad
but the quip electric toothbrush is one
of the most gift guided gifts of the
season here's why it's perfect for
everyone with the mouth and it's
something they'll use twice a day
frankly you're not gonna hurt yourself
to use it three times a day
plus it has a multi-use cover that
mounts to mirrors and unmount to slide
over the bristles so you can travel with
it quip makes holiday travels clean and
easy and with sensitive sonic vibrations
it's gentle enough for sensitive gums
better yet the built-in timer pulses to
remind you when to switch sides for me
my favorite thing about the quip is that
not only is it make it easy to use your
electric toothbrush it is not this big
bulky thing that sits on your very small
sink counter right you have a small sink
right I do very small you do Brenden
anybody who lives in an apartment
understands that like you can't this is
not one of those things where you have
like two sinks and you know you have
this huge like territory to lay his
stuff out the equip fits practically in
one of those new normal toothbrush
it's a normal-size a toothbrush and then
you could travel with it and the whole
point about having electric toothbrush
is you've got to use it and then also
don't forget you got an angle come down
from the gums brush away
I'm not even to go into the paradoxical
work that I've had and what I what they
found up there when they do that deep
cleaning
so please but the quip is a fantastic
toothbrush
almost everyone I know now has equipment
I am not I'm not being facetious about
that both my sister's family friends
it's the longest I've used an electric
toothbrush because of the replacement
heads boom what did I tell you at the
beginning of this it's the most
important thing about electric
toothbrush is that you use it and that's
why I love quip and why they've had over
5000 verified five-star reviews it looks
like a big-ticket tech gift with a
stocking stuffer price just at starting
at 25 bucks and if you go to get quip
dot-com slash majority right now you get
your first refill pack free with equip
electric toothbrush you don't have to
tell you gift e that that's your first
refill pack free at get quip dot-com
slash majority got to change that brush
head every three months this makes you
do it and inexpensively also staying
properly hydrated particularly this time
of year you're traveling maybe you're
drinking a lot maybe you got a cold
thankfully liquid IV provides the same
hydration as thinking it's drinking two
to three bottles of water when we get
the boxes in here of liquid IV they last
about three days I'm not pointing
fingers at anybody but because you're
all culprits you all know who you are
it has a hundred and ten percent daily
value of vitamin C b12 non-gmo clean
ingredients it's a healthy alternative
to traditional sports drinks and it
delivers hydration to the bloodstream
faster and more efficiently than water
alone it's because of the vitamins and
minerals folks I'm no scientist but
that's what I understand five essential
vitamins it also has
or vitamin C than an orange and it's
much potassium as a banana
I love liquid IV I know you will too
right now my listeners get 20% off at
liquid IV dot-com when you use my code
majority a check out that's 20% off
anything you order at liquid Ivy's
website so go - liquid - IV dot-com
that's liquid - IV dot-com enter promo
code majority get your savings start
getting better hydration liquid - IV
dot-com promo code majority don't wait
get hydrated today and lastly support
for today's show comes from third love
what they do is they use millions of
real women's measurements third love
designs it's bras with breast size and
shape in mind for an impeccable fit and
an incredible feel here's what you do
you answer a few simple questions from
third loves fit finder quiz to find your
perfect fit I have seen it actually
there's a whole diagram about your you
know if your breast size or you you know
where your press go in different
directions it's some complicated physics
I understand third love offers double
the number of sizes there most brands
offer cups a through H bands up to 48
and with lightweight memory foam cup
straps that won't slip in tagless labels
you want to wear these soft breathable
bras and underwear every day especially
the new cotton t-shirt bras and
underwear thanks to a 100% fit guarantee
returns and exchanges are free and easy
I'm going to be honest with you I have
not tried these bras I do not wear bras
I have never worn a bra I don't
anticipate wearing one in the future
however good friend has told me that the
things she likes about it they don't
have a zillion options so it's easy to
choose something quickly the fit is
great
they tell me they usually have to return
most bras they order online even though
they're in the proper size because bras
you know like anything else the sizing
sometimes can be off shorter two bras
they both Fitch said that almost never
happens they're super comfortable for
everyday use but not as boring as most
t-shirt bras so you don't feel basic but
you do feel comfortable third love knows
there's a perfect bra for everyone right
now they're offering my listeners 15%
off your first order go 2/3 love.com /
majority now to find the perfect fitting
bra get 15% off your first purchase
that's third love.com / majority for 15%
off today so Paul Ryan is is exiting
stage probably I don't know lobby
setting - I mean I imagine that's what
he's gonna be doing and he is oh yeah
you know I have not seen all the stories
that are attempting to salvage his his
legacy quite yet his press team is
probably on it and they're gonna get out
there soon we'll start to see these long
lead articles that come out rich alone
remember yeah I would imagine at the
beginning of in January maybe in in the
next couple of days we're gonna start
seeing magazine pieces about how he was
a stalwart he represented real
Republican values maybe someday the real
Republican Party will come back to him
all of this BS that all these you know
that he deep down was a never Trump er
but he he put the party above his own
personal preference I mean who knows
what kind of sanctimonious crap we're
gonna hear about this guy but then there
are people who also feel compelled to
salvage their legacy or at least their
legacy and how it's wrapped up with Paul
Ryan's now let me say this straight up I
think Ezra Klein Kline is a smart guy
and there are pieces that he's written
that I've been very impressed with the
one that he just did about youtubers and
about that type of media I thought was
quite good
and there's been stuff over the years
that I think I found that he's done well
but one of the tendencies that he's had
that I have witnessed over really I
probably close to my entire professional
career from back when he was I think at
the American Prospect and is the a
tendency that is and I think you know
when we talked to Eric Levites about
this we're gonna see it across the board
that is to to want to be considered to
be a serious thinker and therefore
suspending his disbelief in realms of
politics that are about politics I
understand and I appreciate policy
analysis but policy is irrelevant if the
policy is being promoted as a fig leaf
or something else or if the policy is
being offered in something with less
than good faith there has been so many
instances of Paul Ryan I mean just off
the top of my head I'm thinking about
like his plan for for Medicare and his
plan for Medicare was to totally
privatize it but the argument was we're
still kind of Medicare so it's not
fundamentally changing Medicare it's
Medicare but the whole point of Medicare
is not the name the whole point of
Medicare is that it is a government-run
sponsored health insurance program it's
not a voucher system public school is
not tax is taken the money put into a
fund denoted public education and then
handed out to private schools that's not
public school that's private school
funded by the public
that's just one example that comes to my
mind but that is the most classic
illustration of Paul Ryan's BS so Ezra
Klein has written a piece at Vox
entitled Paul Ryan's long con
and in it he spends the first couple
pages saying Paul Ryan Paul Ryan's
reputation was built on the back of his
budgets draconian documents that gutted
social spending privatized Medicare and
showed the Republican Party had embraced
the kinds of hard fiscal choices that
George Bush had Slough tauf and Ryan
represented himself or presented himself
as the wonkish apostle of the new GOP
rolling up his sleeves and running
through the grass the charts graphs and
tables that made his case and this is
about how Ezra Klein says that Paul Ryan
never did what he said he was going to
do which was to cut deficits in fact
deficits grew at a time when we were
expanding our economy and they should
have shrunk and you should know for the
sake of this that I think Ezra Klein has
been fairly consistent in not caring
that much about deficits in specific you
know per se certainly I don't but Paul
Ryan claimed to now in the entire 15
years I've been doing this starting with
George Bush cutting Social Security
there has been near Union and unanimity
on the left of understanding that this
whole deficit thing was largely about a
fig leaf to cut things like Social
Security and Medicare so that rich
people could have more taxes and
probably to put most Americans in a
weaker position when it comes to
negotiating with corporations who might
hire them because if you don't have
health insurance if you don't feel
like you have a safety net right you are
in a weakened power dynamic with anybody
you might negotiate with and Al Gore
knew this that's why I was calling for
the lock box that thing that he got kept
getting made fun of and the lock box was
pretty necessary when George Bush said
well there is just I'll use here there's
no money here just I'll use Treasury
anyways
so Ryan wrote in the book young guns
I admit in recent years Republicans have
abandoned these principles of fiscal
conservatism
we've lost the true path and suffered
electoral defeats but we've not returned
from this experience empty-handed for
this Ryan was feeded in Washington
Society the committee for a responsible
federal budget gave him a Fisk EE Ward
for budget bravery it was a member of
the simpson-bowles Commission he became
Mitt Romney's vice president I was among
the reporters who took Ryan's reboot
seriously to move us to surpluses I
wrote of his 2010 proposal Ryan's budget
proposes reforms that are nothing short
of violent Medicare is privatized
seniors get a voucher to buy private
insurance and the voucher growth is far
slower than expected growth of health
care costs Medicaid is also privatized
the employer tax exclusions fully
eliminated replaced by tax credit that
grows more slowly than medical costs I
didn't agree with Ryan's policies but at
least he was making the trade-offs of
his vision clear but two critics like
New York Times Paul Krugman Ryan was an
obvious conman weaponizing the deficit
to hamstring Obama's presidency weaken
the recovery and Snooker Beltway
centrist eager to champion a reasonable
seeming Republican now this is an
interesting rhetorical trick that Ezra
Klein performs here and I don't know if
he's aware of it the way that he refers
to himself is I was one of the reporters
who took Ryan's reboot seriously the way
that he refer
to paul krugman as a critic he doesn't
even say Krugman's name first he say
Paul Krugman the Nobel prize-winning
economist was critical of Paul Ryan he
just says to his critics like Paul
Krugman now what is the rhetorical trick
that's being played here imagine if I
said to you instead of I was among the
reporters who took Ryan's reboot
seriously it would be among his
supporters among his sycophants among
those who were credulous of Ryan I took
his reboot seriously I mean you see that
you see the rhetorical trick here the
rhetorical trick is that Paul Krugman
was inclined to be critical of anyone
and therefore his analysis was just
coincidentally right now I may be
overstating it a little bit to show this
rhetorical trick but that's the
rhetorical trick that's being played
here and then that's what goes on to say
in his budgets for all the hard choices
didn't actually add up
they included massive tax cuts with
underestimated cost and unspecified
fining which is what led Krugman to call
him a charlatan back in 2010 Ryan had
waived this way as nitpicking well but
his critics predicted he would lose his
appetite for hard choices the moment his
party returned to power he hasn't
changed he has merely rebranded the
numbers proved them right Ryan was
elected Speaker the house on August
October 29 2015 over the next three
years annual deficits increased by
almost eighty percent now and then he
goes on to say to Ryan supporters this
is unfair being Speaker of the House the
most Faustian job in history but then
Ezra says I think that's too kind as
speaker Ryan had tremendous power he
could have he could have done this he
could have brought immigrations
compromises to the floor but he had Pago
but he didn't put pay go down for tax
cuts etc etc we are the choices we make
and Ryan made his I took Ryan seriously
when he said he was concerned about
deficits I covered the arguments Ryan
made the policies he crafted I treated
them like is he offered a guide to how
Republicans would govern I listened to
when Ryan said things like in Europe
generations of welfare dependent
citizens are hurling Molotov cocktails
because their governments can no longer
fund their entitlement programs we can't
let that happen here now here's the
problem the this story about why Paul
Ryan was a con man is interesting but
it's not a huge newsflash because Paul
Krugman was saying this eight years ago
the interesting story is why did you
take Ryan seriously when he said he was
what is the failure of Ezra Klein and
not just as reclined but all the other
centrist reporters and I don't know what
that means I don't know what a centrist
reporter means credulous credulous
reporters why were you so credulous when
Paul Krugman wasn't that's the only
interesting story here it's not that
Paul Ryan's a conman because Paul
Krugman and others told us that eight
years ago the interesting story is why
do you who was at the time one of the
most the premier Washington Post policy
analysis people why were you so
credulous you've told us the numbers
didn't add up and there were other
people who knew he was a conman and he
wasn't serious what made you take him so
seriously there is no such thing as
policy in a vacuum particularly when it
comes to politicians
right like I don't you think there's
policy in a vacuum at a think-tank but
at when you're talking about a
politician why is it that the media will
take the will will be credulous so
credulous with reams and reams of
evidence to the contrary when it comes
to the Iraq war when it comes to the
notion of deficits I've said on this
program many times before that the
reason why the press early on was not
capable of dealing with the lies that
were coming from Donald Trump was
because they had not exercised that
muscle that made them assess the
validity of a claim when it came to
Republicans in at least a decade or two
and the chickens have come home to roost
and the bottom line is we still see it
we still see it it's irrelevant that you
call Paul Ryan a con man now it's
irrelevant because he's leaving office
the time to call a con men a con man is
when he's in the midst of calming people
when you say in retrospect he's a con
man that story is boring the interesting
story is why did the Marx what was it
about the Marx who are still amongst us
who are still providing us an assessment
as to whether we can trust certain
politicians why did they get conned and
that's not in this story we're gonna
take a quick break when we come back
we're gonna talk to Eric Levitz about
the conning that continues to go on
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome back to the program New York
Magazine staff writer Eric Levitz Eric
welcome back to the program thank you
so Eric you had a piece just a couple of
days ago I guess the GOP is making its
contempt for democracy clear will the
mainstream media I think we all know the
answer to this but let's talk about
specifically what you're talking about
because I just went through my diatribe
of and and you know Ezra Klein more or
less I think entered into the sort of
center left left world of punditry
and reporting he's a reporter I am not
really in any way but around the same
time back in the early aughts and he
wrote a piece about you know as you know
what Paul Ryan being a con man and for
me it's a lot less interesting that Paul
Ryan's a con man in the piece himself he
said that we got fair warning from a New
York Times columnist about this who's
fairly prominent at the time that Paul
Ryan was a con man
but what why this happens and you've
written a piece about the failure of the
mainstream media to notice the
Republican Party's repeated examples of
not giving a about democracy just
lay out those those those examples sure
so the jumping-off point for the piece
was the events in North Carolina's now
ninth House District weird you know in
North Carolina the Republican Party has
pushed voter ID laws very strongly had
it really sounded the alarm about the
threat that voter fraud poses to
American elections and they were
obviously not alone in doing that the
GOP since at least the second Bush
administration when they launched a
five-year Justice Department
investigation into
or fraud and ultimately produced no
evidence but nevertheless persisted in
pushing the idea that restrictions on
voting were desperately required to
avert this phantom threat has really
been committed to the idea that look
even if there's like a 1% chance that
our elections are going to be tainted by
fake votes then or people voting who
aren't allowed to vote perhaps because
they're african-american and were
subjected to abuse of policing and then
got into the criminal justice system and
we decided to disenfranchise them for
that but that aside the this is such a
terrible thing that it's you know if we
need to disenfranchise poor voters who
don't have driver's licenses that's just
the price that we need to pay if we need
to prosecute immigrants who are here
legally but aren't yet qualified to vote
and I didn't quite realize that and I
cast a ballot that they shouldn't have
we need to put them in prison for eight
years as prosecutors have been doing
because it's just the integrity of our
elections it's just that darn import and
then we have in North Carolina's ninth
House District a Republican candidate
hiring a convicted fraud fraud ster to
essentially run a completely fraudulent
absentee ballot operation where he hired
people to go around this county Bladen
County North Carolina and collect
absentee ballots bring them to him and
the ones that you liked he would file
the ones that he didn't you would
destroy now Eric Holder to be to be fair
who better to pick up fraudulent ballots
than a fraudster I mean I don't fault
the the hiring decisions that were made
just the general ethical orientation of
the operation right um but so so this
this happens there's overwhelming
evidence it's not just evidence that
that this scheme possibly cost the
Democrats the general election but that
actually the the incumbent Republican
congressman was a victim of this same
scheme in the Republican primary and
probably
his heat to it so a Republican was
victimized by this fraud but the overall
upshot of everything was that the
Republican was going to hold that House
seat in the swing district and so
initially the North Carolina GOP the
party that was all about protecting the
integrity of our elections decided that
you know what actually while preventing
voter fraud is on the one hand worth
disenfranchising black voters to prevent
ensuring that a house election isn't
stolen amidst overwhelming evidence is
not worth waiting a couple of weeks to
finish the investigation they called for
the Board of Elections to immediately
certify the results they sent out donor
calls that try to raise money off the
idea the Democrats were illegitimately
trying to steal the election by
insisting on investigation into the
evidence of election fraud and and they
also alternatively some others began
using it as an excuse to push for even
stricter less access to the ballot to
cut down on mail and voting because look
see it's such a huge liability in our
system meanwhile in a legislature in
North Carolina Republicans put forward a
bill that you know totally neutral fair
rule that's just stipulate that the
party in the state that has the
second-most registered members that that
party should control all of the county
election boards in even-numbered years
and in the party with the most members
should control it in odd-numbered years
and then Dismas wait that's it split and
it's fair which in North Carolina
Republicans have the second-most number
of members and apparently anticipated
that they aren't going to grow their
party and so our legislating that in
every year where there's an election all
of the election boards need to be
controlled by us which you know right
now those election boards are the one
thing standing between them and stealing
this house race so since I wrote the
piece North Carolina Republican to
realize that their situation is
untenable have started to gesture
towards being possibly open to a makeup
election
but nonetheless that's what they've been
doing and so my argument is like if you
have something this blatant here up to
this point the mainstream media whenever
covering this issue has always made a
point of you know acting as though we
need to you know give the benefit of the
doubt right that Republicans have this
legitimate concern and every story has
at least one quote from them saying this
now in the face of a blatant admission
of bad faith you know this clear you
know is the Republican is the mainstream
media going to you know accept that that
no actually you know what
there is only one major party that is
even facially even superficially
committed to democratic government and
the other one isn't and that's like a
pretty important thing or the Fourth
Estate to be able to communicate to
voters and as far that is not been the
case despite not only Invents in North
Carolina but also that the power grab
was constantly Michigan etcetera I want
to talk about that a moment but just it
just I want to remind people too that
not only was the Bush administration up
to a five-year investigation where they
found little I think literally nothing
there were multiple US attorneys who
were fired because they were not coming
in with with prosecutions I mean there
was three or four this became a big
scandal that the US Attorney's are
getting pressured by Karl Rove to bring
some of those voter ID cases because
they needed some justification to to to
pass this legislation and you know when
we talk about what happened in Wisconsin
there's and and what's happening in
Michigan I mean first off we had years
ago indication of this when the the in
Michigan they passed the city manager
rule right the failure of democracy
which led I mean you could draw a
straight line frankly to the poisoning
of children in Flint by the water
because of that but you just remind us
of the New York Times headlines that
followed this Wisconsin thing yesterday
we was it yesterday we played
shucks Todd's interview with Evers the
new governor yeah I mean just stunning
stuff here yeah Todd came after my
article and really been validated my
pessimism even more than The Times did
but The Times wrote a couple of stories
about it one of them infamously I think
they changed the headline but was
headlined Wisconsin Republicans
defiantly quote stand like bedrock in
the face of democratic wins my point was
that both of their articles on the fight
in Wisconsin did not ever you're
covering this dispute this contest of
you know who who is legitimately has a
claim to wield power the legislature or
the executive branch of the government
and in in neither these articles was
there even a moment observing that the
the statewide officers the the incoming
governor and attorney general were
elected with the plurality of the vote
were democratically elected where the
state legislature was not where it's
controlled by a party that actually
received fewer votes for the assembly
and you know people vote statewide than
the other party and and yet the the
party that does not actually have any
popular the branch of government that
does not have a popular mandate for its
majority is taking powers away from the
branch that does and again Republicans
themselves are not actually all that
deceitful about this the Wisconsin
Assembly Speaker Robin vos stated
explicitly that you know the well we
tell reporters well we would have a
majority it wasn't for Madison and
Milwaukee if you just don't count all
the people who live in those cities then
we would have a majority and so
therefore we should cover in the state
you know they're quite explicit that
actually you know people who don't vote
for us really shouldn't have voting
rights or say over the government and
but but but that is not emphasized in
the mainstream media's reporting on it
it's not even it's not even mentioned I
mean it's not even mentioned and I just
want to be explicit about this the
Republicans got like 40
percent of the vote I think in Wisconsin
and they have with it 54% of of the of
the power in the house or more actually
it's a veto-proof this one's even more
egregious I'm getting confused with the
states they had under 50% of the vote
and something like 65% of the of the
power in the State House
that's Gemma Kratz have 36 of 99
assemblies that's just nuts
it's just nuts and Chuck Todd just talks
like ever should really be more
apologetic to Scott Walker and maybe
Scott Walker will be okay with letting
him have some of the authority that he
the sky Walker had his governor so all
right so we have so many examples of
this what's the problem like yeah I mean
I think the problem you know I think
there variety of answers that I mean I
think one basic one is that the
mainstream media as it exists today
developed in a less polarized political
era and around a business model that
that was about achieving scale by being
able to sell sell newspapers broadcast
news to Democrats and Republicans alike
and doing that requires internalizing an
idea of fundamentally you know both both
presenting a kind of equality of
legitimacy between the two parties
regardless of what they do and do not
stand for and also you know sort of
implicitly downplaying the stakes of
political conflict and you know that
model was deeply problematic from the
beginning but but it's you know
considerably more so when you have one
major party that is not committed to the
norms of liberal democracy and yet the
media you know isn't really adjusting to
this and there's so many it's both
setting their both business concerns at
this point but also just ideological
ones at this point the New York Times I
think from an economic perspective it's
subscriber base is overwhelmingly
liberals it I don't think it has a real
economic incentive to downplay
Republican extremism I think that it's
ideological it's so baked into the norms
of that institution and that is kind of
reflexive okay so so it's really just
muscle memory that they can't I mean and
we should be clear here right like this
comes from the the the ownership and
they simply hire people who are inclined
to have this disposition less or maybe
not for less for economic
their career is built on that on that
same sort of like brand like I take both
sides seriously regardless of any
evidence that may that may be out there
to suggest that one of these may not be
a good faith actor yeah I think you know
there is also the need to preserve
access to sources and both camps as far
as just it was I guess you know
legitimate practical necessity if you're
going to do reporting on negotiations in
Congress and being able to get you know
word of where it's heading to the public
before it becomes common knowledge then
you do need to have Republican staffers
who are willing to talk to you and if
your paper describes and forthright
terms what the Republican Party is today
maybe that's not possible I don't know I
I could think of of excuses but but it
regardless it comes with significant
costs so what I mean what is there I
mean is just said the way it's gonna be
like I mean I you know like I say this
is a I I feel like I have been you know
more or less fighting this fight as
consistently as anything
I've done over the past 15 years I mean
14 15 years ago we shut down the foam
banks at the New York Times Washington
bureau because of Adam Nagorny on the
radio and it I don't know what Adam Gore
Nagorny is doing these days but aside
from that it didn't seem to have much
impact yeah well I mean I think I think
the media environment is really
different you mentioned that Ezra Klein
piece there was also a piece by Matthew
Iglesias earlier this week that
basically argued that the threat to
democracy is actually not populism but
is the GOP establishment and it's highly
legalistic methods for undermining
popular sovereignty which is was sort of
an endorsement of arguments made by
people like Corey Robin and Jedediah
Purdy's people identified with the at
least quasi radical left in the United
States and so I think orthodoxy within
the liberal opinion media kids really
internalize the extremism of the GOP and
that form of media is a lot more
prevalent you know then then when the
majority report began and so I think
that there is there's movement in that
sense and I think that it's you know
there's never going to be an equivalence
between the the sheer hawkish Ness of
each sides each side infotainment
propaganda apparatus is because there is
just a certain amount of intellectual
integrity that liberals tend to have
more than more of than conservatives but
I think that pod save America is kind of
the a quasi Limbaugh for the left and it
is its attitude towards Republicans you
know even though it is estab
Obama staffers is it's a considerably
more more sweeping critique than what
we've seen previously and so there has
been movement I think in how the average
Democratic voter is being told to think
about politics by their media and I
think that's potentially significant
yeah I mean I think that's true III
would I would agree with that and I
think your your point about that
integrity it also strikes me is the the
structural disadvantage in this playing
field and and maybe it's I mean it's a
disadvantage it may be for the benefit
of all of us is that compensation in the
you know in this arena for the left and
right is different and on the right it's
just it's cash I mean it's literally
bucket loads of cash on the left there
is a certain amount of well I have I'm
I'm esteemed by you know those in this
this arena that I feel like that has
more cachet on the left than it does on
the right and part of that I think it
may be because of these sort of like
academic roots and value system that
seemed to be more present on the Left
yeah I think that there's some I mean
you know obviously there are
opportunities to sell out in democratic
politics but that generally doesn't take
the form of of jobs and medium or in
consulting you know working for the
Podesta group or whatever but but yeah
and even then I don't think the money
does I mean DC like knickers like fences
right hand man yeah he's like fifty four
million dollars this is networks
apparently somehow so yeah I mean we're
all making a terrible mistake
has anybody made it as anybody sort of
figure out what what what that's about
where's that guy getting that honey yeah
I have no idea she's like I don't know
five right I mean I think I don't know
there's got to be bodies buried
somewhere but I don't know that's
unbelievable
that's unbelievable I was just going to
do an ad for the for the dictator that
we're promoting from a former Soviet
republic uh I mean so where do you think
there was but like when I started it was
David Broder David Broder was sort of
the and I don't even know if that name
means anything to you
but David road or Broder was the
Washington Post sort of like the Dean
they I think they referred to him as the
Dean of Washington Beltway journalist
now everything has become so much less
aggregated and so much more diffuse and
not just from you know because of you
know online publications but because of
social media that there there isn't the
idea of a person being but when you look
on the landscape is like are the times
and the post still sort of the
institutions that better the ballast for
this I mean we're like is there that's
the question
yep I mean I think television news is
the worst I think chef Todd is a really
malevolent factor here you know I mean
the times in the post they have their
their journalistic norms which
inherently aquascape truths that the GOP
has an interest in obfuscating but they
also do a lot of really great reporting
that does my you know expose Republican
lies and the in the Trump era everything
is there the corruption the bad say is
so transparent
that that you know more than ever before
objective reality has this liberal bias
and the response of institutions like
Meet the Press at least according to one
Media Matters report that I recently
looked at has been to say well you know
the objective facts are so
anti-republican that we're going to have
a panel where we're going to have an
objective reporter but that means that's
basically a liberal and so then we need
to conservatives to sort of balance that
out so you have these these panels that
are heavily Republican and not just
heavily Republican but Eric Erickson is
a respectable conservative who can come
on Meet the Press and talk like the guy
who wants to throw leftist from
helicopters no see I mean if you imagine
what the left-wing equivalent of that
would be it would be some kind of Maoist
Anki or something rush you can't really
imagine the Chuck Todd isn't going to
have on it's so so yeah I don't I think
that I don't know how influential those
institutions are anymore is the
potentially good news I don't really
know that the audience for meet the
press is really getting that much of
their understanding of politics from
that show right to the extent that it is
it's not good there must be some weird
data about that because Meet the Press
has had that problem I mean you know we
can say now objective reality is
considered left so we have a non-biased
reporter on and they're supposedly the
liberal or the left voice but whatever
the scenario was ten years ago or eight
years ago or 15 years ago exact same
makeup of the panel exact same makeup I
mean I think it was you know the I think
the joke still is if it's Sunday it must
mean a Republican you know the Republic
you know the panel is all Republican
essentially you know just five John
McCain's just wanted him exactly I mean
now that John McCain is gone it's it's
open the door and and eric erickson
walks through i guess but i mean it
would be interesting to see if there has
been ever been as sort of an assessment
of what of what exactly okay
News Now does in terms of like public
opinion and obviously it goes through
rightly because when we say public
opinion I mean it seems to me these
narratives are fought like there's like
15 to 20 percent of the turf is where
the battle is fought over right like
there's like you know the and then the
idea is if you can win that if you can
win the majority of that 20 percent of
the turf of our you know sort of
societal landscape then the other 80%
will more or less come along right
that's the theory here right like I mean
I'm just trying to think of like why I
do this every day and and you know if if
we can move you know 0.5% 0.05 percent
of of the broader population you know if
we have I don't know tens of thousand
maybe a hundred thousand people that we
can convince of a certain narrative but
the idea is that it implicates that that
you know most of those people are on
Twitter and the only people who talk
politics are on Twitter are you know
listeners of a daily podcast and then
media you know political media that it
shapes their coverage and then this sort
of diffuses out to the general public I
mean is that do you have a theory about
that yeah well I think that I think that
Fox News is incredibly effective because
it you don't need to opt in to Fox News
necessarily to get brainwashed by it as
the studies have shown you know that in
places where Fox News is added and I
think like it's a fairly low channel
number so people just happen to click on
it more that you see this shift towards
Republicans where you know people who
aren't necessarily all that conservative
suddenly their source of news is
reshaping their minds and it's presented
as fair and balanced or whatever and
they don't necessarily internalize the
the partisan then did it but I think
that
across the boards with these media
outlets I think like Fox News and you
know obviously a much more limited where
the majority report I think are probably
most effective in in building out the
the ideological consensus or views
within the partisan tribe that you know
the Fox News has turned a lot of
right-leaning Americans into you know
just nativist paranoiacs proto-fascist
and I think that institutions like the
majority report in like left-wing TV I
think potentially give partisan
Democrats a more sophisticated
understanding of of what what
progressive politics is about and what
what they should be on the lookout in
terms of policing the direction within
their party but yeah I don't know I
don't have access to data to determine
how much you know progressive media is
making a difference with you know
whatever small chunk of largely white
non evangelical Midwestern voters who
aren't firmly in one partisan camp for
another what would what is reaching them
I do think I've written about this
before that there is this this problem
for Democrats where Fox News you can
have such a coherent mass it's the whole
networks
it's the coherence and they can they can
demonize immigrants without really
pitching off their shareholders all that
much whereas Democrats what you would be
wanting to do with if you had a
propaganda apparatus that was similar
would be to build out the class identity
of the viewership and you would need to
demonize oligarchs all day every day and
that's just not a that's not really a
viable prospect for a for-profit cable
news company that I mean that's
certainly you know there was there were
moments during air America's tenure
where that was a bit of a problem where
the the populism would run up against
you know the potential to like how are
you gonna sell this the democracy
alliance which incidentally we never got
dollar from the Alliance and I'm not
convinced and I think part of that was
also just like radio in and of itself
aside from the the message the medium
itself is highly populist and so the the
tenor and the tone of it and so if I
hear you correctly what you're saying is
that the jury's still out as to whether
I am completely wasting my life I would
say so yes all right well I appreciate
that
Eric Levitz thank you so much for your
time today we got a link up to your up
to that piece GOP is making its contempt
for democracy clear will the mainstream
media as well as your next piece
conservatives are right to write off big
cities Eric thanks so much for atonte I
really appreciate it yeah so there it is
folks our look at at your media today I
do think things have gotten better and I
think things have gotten better for in
part because audiences have gotten
smaller and less less aggregated the
because of Twitter and people have to
remember that in 2003 there was no
mechanism the only mechanism I recall I
mean Atrios had his blog Josh Marshall
had his DailyKos was up there liberal
oasis bill shares there was one with
Stoller and Jerome Armstrong I can't
remember what it is now and Chris but
you know and Digby at one point but
there was it and Steve Gillard there
were there were you know a couple of
dozen blogs the biggest media critic at
the time the earliest one was a guided
Daily howler and you can go back and
look at the writing is actually worth
going back I think it's the daily Howard
I can't remember his name now but there
were no there were no institutions on
the left that were critiquing media in
any way there was no one who was
quantifying like hey it was all just
like it seems like you know like you
never know buddy you know in the late
nineties it didn't necessarily occur to
many people like hey how come everybody
on TV is a Republican this makes me
think about how like the NBA they didn't
realize how valuable three-pointers were
in like the 90s so they weren't shootin
enough of him yeah analytics comes
around and then you're like wait a
second we've been this through
well there was also you know that
happened with the Billboard charts when
they started to put in measures of
actual sales in cut in stores all across
the country and music stores so how you
used to buy you music mat you would go
to a store and buy what was known as a
record and I just don't know but you
couldn't download at that time there was
no internet no yeah and so so when they
computerized the the stores like
actually could assess to combine the
data as opposed to just like checking
out the top five
you know Tower Records in the country or
whatever was for the Billboard charts
they found out like oh my god Phil
Collins is not that popular
it's rap
yeah like overnight the entire music
business changed because the illusion
that they had been selling was wrong we
didn't have anything quite as dramatic
when it came to cable news or but for TV
news but the the opportunity for for
people you know to address other people
on Twitter and whatnot are you saying
that communist newspapers like Socialist
Worker did not have a wide reach in the
population not then but now
much much wider maybe slightly wider
slightly wide and speaking of Twitter so
let's talk about this before we go into
the fun half this guy now has been
filling up my my my-my-my twitter thing
and i think he responded I sort of feel
bad for him a little bit
this guy brandon strata
he's the unsilent minority off to a good
start
i've to a good start and he was
responding to a tweet that i did to dave
rubin his dave rubin was talking about
how there there's a revolt against
patreon I guess because Sargon of a card
got bumped from it or something I'm not
sure mmm to be honest what you hadn't
followed it yeah they might be getting
nervous and I said a platform with
stefan molyneux on race and IQ i might
be worried about my patreon - yeah
exactly
and so so dave rubin you know posted
another thing like he the guy lives in
an alternate universe where what's going
on like like with him is really what's
going on with everybody because
everybody has that experience of living
in Hollywood and having a youtube studio
in your basement okay and that is funded
by the Koch brothers and so he he put
out the the revolt against patreon is
really can you pull up the Rubin yeah
you go other the yeah you gotta go back
there
yeah the revolt against patreon is real
I'm weighing my options but for those of
you who want an alternative way to
support you can go to directly to dave
rubin dot-com / donate oh we probably
shouldn't say that we don't want to push
too many people there yeah don't go
there listeners and so i wrote back is
this as real as walk away or even really
realer because he like if you go back I
don't know people can find it and if you
find it send it to me I would
see it like in September in an August or
before he took his break and like it the
June he's like something really real is
happening things are changing I can feel
the ground shifting been it below my
feet walk away is gonna be huge and then
he he bagged out of the walk away March
and how many people would we we saw the
walk away thing right didn't we see a
video of it there was almost like a
couple hundred people who had a mashed
it was like it's like the Million Man
March but - like a million men and yeah
it was more of a mosey if I recall right
and then we saw this dude what's his
name Brandon starka he is a I think he's
a model but it what an actor actor model
he's trying so hard to be the new Milo
and he just doesn't have it
he doesn't have it but but he apparently
after we had talked about how hilarious
his his thing was and like I say he's a
performer so maybe he meant it to be
funny he he wants he wants to come on
the show and apparently he just he he I
am to be or not I am Twitter tweeted me
last night
hey Sam cedar I told that SJW girl on
your show
I'd love to come on your show or have
you come on mine so you could say the
things to my face that you say about me
and and walk away when I'm not there
like the sniveling weasel you are she
declined care to confront me to my face
sure if you're inviting me on your show
I'll be happy happy happy to go
oh dude his show is so bad I'll go on a
show and and then he went
somebody said so many walked away and
yet the Dems had the largest margin of
victory in history
and he wrote delusional it was one of
the most underwhelming midterm election
results for an opposition party in
decades Trump did better than Obama
Clinton and Reagan now he's not he's
well we know the game he's playing here
but we I guess we could talk about that
on what's the show called on a show I I
would imagine it's called the unsilent
Majority I have a pretty good clip that
I just forwarded to Matt and he someone
said they offered you to call their
daily live show any day and make sure
you get through you keep crying about
not getting some kind of special
treatment and he said a phone call is
cowardly and yeah he wanted a video call
which we don't really do on this show
well we've never done but with that said
you know we're gonna try and set one up
for for tomorrow we have an interview we
have a I guess sort of a debate with a
libertarian Adam Koch has Sean this is
tomorrow and so this is it this is what
swatches oh you got Laurel Umrah yeah I
found a pretty good representative clip
what minority is structure what what
minority group is he a part of why is he
oh because he's the unsilent minority
yeah I guess he's the the minority is
the former former liberal I guess it's
the opposite of the silent majority it's
the it's the it's the opposite of the
silent majority the other thing that I
was reading this was I found this on
BuzzFeed because I wanted to see how
they were describing your Twitter fan
and this one is just utterly delicious
and I want to actually I it's kind of
funny but I want to get into it because
I want to actually dispel some of the
theories are some of the statements that
they have out there left us have out
there about you and then we'll actually
get into the tweet accordingly you're a
far-right personality known for
spreading hoaxes and false conspiracy
theories the suspension comes after Luke
bloomer tweeted a series of anti-muslim
falsehood
about Allah Allah Han Omar a Syrian a
Somali refugee who is one of two Muslim
women elected to Congress okay this is
something that I read about you a lot
Laura and I want to ask you about it
are you anti Muslim I'm anti Islam
you're anti Islam yes there you go the
liberal media lying again thank God that
minorities being unsilent now Wow oh so
I get it now we're the the people who
just verify everything that the
left-wing media says Wow
all right well about five times oh my
god that is really good that is really
good
oh but they said you are anti Muslim and
you're anti Islam I keep lying about we
keep lying about Laura Loomer right okay
well so I guess we'll get in touch with
this guy and I'm happy to go on a show
he can email us at majority reporters at
gmail.com in fact you can email us at
majority reporters at gmail.com with
your hopes your concerns your desires
your best UPS suggestions we need some
best of suggestions folks because we
don't want to have to go through all the
stuff for our end-of-the-year stuff so
all right I'm gonna take a break ahead
into the fun half of the program boy
could we give you extra content today I
can't believe it
just a reminder you can become a member
by going to join the majority report com
join the majority report com just coffee
co-op Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate
I think for a couple more days you can
get 30% off your coffee without a coupon
code so it gives you a great opportunity
to try just coffee if you've never tried
it before and you've always like yeah I
don't want to try it I don't want to
risk not liking the coffee 30% off man
it's almost like you're giving it to you
for free
all right take it easy Brenda no I'll do
my best
Jesus don't forget if you want to come
see the live Maggiore report you gotta
hurry ask the moms and TM BS is
happening tonight I think unless Michael
Michael's gonna have a miraculous
recovery he's gonna be from an iron lung
yeah Matt Taibbi will be be in studio
and Michael will probably call in from a
plastic bubble
it'll be like that John Travolta thing I
think you'll have the uniform right with
the whole plastic bubble and the
respirator on the back I think I saw the
remake of that Bubble Boy what was
Bubble Boy who was in that was that
Chris Kattan Jake Gyllenhaal well the
Travolta one was much better Jamie on
the intifada out now on the anti Fattah
Sean and I went to Mexico we met the
zapatistas it was really cool we talked
about it and out tomorrow we speak with
Justin Akers Chacon author of radicals
in the body of manganese des socialist
Wobblies and communists in the Mexican
American working class about how the
criminalization of migration has only
ever hurt the working class in the US
and around the world and benefits the
capitalist class how immigrants from
Mexico and elsewhere have breathed life
into the labor movement here in the US
and we kind of take apart the faux
populist arguments that we can fix the
problems of globalization by restricting
the flow of human labor whether those
arguments are coming from obvious bad
faith actors like Tucker Carlson or fake
friends like Angela Nagel mm-hmm get
that in when Michael's not here that ya
literary hangover we talk about
democracy in Chains and why academic
libertarians keep pointing up in the
circles of fascists whoo you know they
is sometimes you get invited to the same
parties and you conferences I watched
your debate with Stefan Molyneux last
night actually that was years ago yeah
it's amazing to see his progress
from this like extensible good-faith
libertarian whatever-whatever to like
full-on white nationalist yeah followed
money I don't think I've watched that I
was it I think it was pretty good yeah
it was done I can't remember was some
type of like outfit like pops somebody
we didn't even have live video at that
time where were you broadcasting from
the really crappy office that we had in
the the dollar pizza dollar pizza
district we used to call respec it was
very DIY oh yeah it was extremely DIY
this whole place is DIY polish DIY yeah
exactly
all right folks see in the fun hat six
four six two five seven thirty nine
twenty six four six two five seven
thirty nine twenty see you in the
[Music]
[Music]
alpha males and the alpha males are just
wanna almost says what
the alpha males are back
like I am a total junk can we bring back
the Jeep anarchy song
yeah are a couple you put them in
rotation DJ den well the problem with
those is they're like 45 seconds long so
I don't know if they're in the alpha
male
[Music]
[Music]
a lot of bang
a lot of back
back
Oh laughs have you tried doing an
impression on a college campus I think
that there's no reason why it reasonable
people across the divide can't all agree
with this
psych
black males back
Oh
black out there doesn't a little party
you think that America deserves to be
taken over by jihadists keeping it 100
for the bigger game plan bottle it's my
birthday
that's birthday to me Jew boy I have an
onyx benefit for you
and the alpha males of black
our veils
here we are back it is the fun half
ladies and gentlemen the fun half of the
program as you know we take your phone
calls cowardly of course to take phone
calls but we we do it anyways so all the
brave shows dating into the majority
replace right Sam will be with you
shortly all the brave shows have the
leaders of the walk away movement that I
mean I'm trying to think of like what
the goal the walkway movement could be
and how it could have been any more
thwarted than the 40 some-odd seats that
were flipped delusional totally
delusional totally delusional so I've
got some bad news folks I know a lot of
our fans were fans of the NRA TV and it
appears that Dan bond Jeannie no Dan but
what is it Dan bongos Dan bongos what do
you think what is his real name Dan bond
Gino Dan bond Gino dan bond Gino was
either fired or I think in his words
offered a very generous deal but walked
away from it I don't it has he issued a
statement to actually sing specifically
why he would have done that I haven't
seen much beyond what he said to Vic
burger hmm he seems to they would have
been inhibit his career trajectory it's
very odd but maybe maybe he wants to be
maybe he's gonna be on maybe he's gonna
be on Fox
I mean NRA has got to hire some lawyers
right stead of talent but so Vic burger
I guess reported that based upon
reporting from The Daily Beast and Dan
bond Gino got very upset he said
something that effective like we're
gonna come to your house well Vic Berger
originally tweeted this out I can't
believe NRA TV fired Dan bungee know his
content wasn't credible this is an
outrage please hire him back and I don't
know if we want to watch the content
first or see what Bonjean are replied
first
well let's look at some of that content
first this is a Vick Barger
reinterpretation of a Dan bond Gino
thing now Dan bond Gino's big thing is
like he likes to own liberals that's his
big thing and he's got a t-shirt that
says socialist tears and presumably
that's what he drinks he drinks
socialist tears I bet you a majority
report capitalist tears sure it would
sell better than that one ever did hmm
maybe we should huh
and he's got a bowl of lemonade's of
lemons I wonder what he's gonna do with
that he's got a blender and he's got a
lemon squeezer and let's watch he's got
a lemon and just put it into the blender
another lemon in the blender
that's very good actor in the blender
when they give you lemons make lemonade
[Applause]
isn't it and enjoy the fizzy lemonade
oh gosh refreshing H NRA TV should hire
Vicksburg they should hire him
first off even if Nick burger had not
reinterpreted that it was still weird
aren't you supposed to peel the lemons
before you make lemonade out of them no
I'd love to see you see if you're a
but but why would you have the lemon
squeezer next to it if you were just
gonna put him in the blender it would
the make out so good follow up for
bungie and here's another question I had
about that if that really was the case
that they blended those lemons and maybe
in the actual video he took them back
out of the blender peeled them then put
him back in why did it look like there
was no pulp in there what kind of
blender is bad news that's yeah fake
news by the NRA T so then damn Bungie no
wrote back what's your address we'll
need it don't make us work extra hard to
find it so Dan I guess was implying that
we may be he's referring to himself
we're gonna come by Vic burgers house
him in the 8 fans of his and our a TV
show yeah or maybe just a damn Bungie no
as a team I mean it could be team bond
Geno is gonna head over there I don't
know it seems like Dan is is really
upset despite the fact getting offered a
incredibly generous deal by NRA TV and
him being in such a great position that
he could actually just walk away from it
I mean look I I can I can I can vouch
for working for yourself there's some
there's some very positive things about
it some downside you know oh yeah I
gotta clean the toilet I'm not looking
forward to that but I like the back now
I don't have a boss but if the NRA you
know offered me a very generous package
I'd think about it and I don't even
agree with their politics
he's been on Hannity a lot this week too
and they haven't really brought up any
of the NRA
controversies with my boo Tina whatever
her first name interesting that's
surprising all right let's go to the
phones come from a 5:1 to area code
who's this where you come from
hey cam its kami in Texas Austin hi Tami
how are you I'm good how y'all doing not
good what's on your mind so I'm just
going to read this and then let y'all
take it from there something I've been
thinking about lately I've been thinking
about how the 12th amendment really
changed everything about the original
constitutional construction of the
executive branch
especially impeachment because if he
started out as the second-place finisher
in the general but ended up being just
some person the president picked you
know once he got the nomination no
voters involved before the 12th
amendment impeaching the president meant
installing their opponent
that means installing their partisan at
best and lackey it worse so a pardon to
foregone conclusion anyone who was
shocked at four didn't let the rule of
law right of course wasn't thinking
clearly in my opinion also just to find
the 12 screws up the VP is a tiebreaker
in the Senate back in the day the people
wasn't a sure vote with the president
Senate caucus right maybe just the
opposite anyway I'll get off and let you
tell me what you think okay
appreciate the call Tami I mean I um I
mean it certainly changes the the nature
I mean it changes the nature of the the
vice president and the aisle you know
you used to have two electoral sets of
votes for the vice president the
president mean without a doubt it makes
those changes I'm not sure I'm not sure
what the point is I mean I think there
is like you know III honest with you
I've never contemplated would we be bit
in a better position if the vice
president was
you know not necessarily picked by the
President or not of the same party I
think it would I don't know I haven't
really thought about it to be honest
with you I mean my knee-jerk reaction is
like I don't I don't know what what
difference it would make
I think in the case of impeachment
it makes impeachment more likely rather
than less likely depending on who is who
controls the the Senate in the house I
don't want a Republican vice president
if you have a Democrat president right
exactly so if in this instance
theoretically it could make impeachment
more likely than if you had a Democratic
vice president right I mean the
Republicans would never do it so I don't
know it's it's hard to I got to think
about it more but it's interesting that
I'm not sure to what end come from four
seven eight area code who's this where
you come from SAMHSA's Jeff in Georgia
how are you jobs in Georgia man hi hey
man good to talk to you good to tell ya
I guess I'm gonna I'm gonna transition
my podcast to a full time libertarian
debate focus production to obtain the
endless attention that you're going to
be giving me about all these videos I
make my heart you yorku sjw state
freedom I don't think that do you look
out Brandon is a is a libertarian cuz ya
know he's more alter ID
he's just more of an all-round light
yeah like guy I really I don't have the
stomach for that I'm sorry
I think I could pull off hey listen I
actually talked about Paul right a
little bit for real good cuz you know
I've noticed a few people you know who
previously bought into his you know
basically he's a flim-flam
right it started to come to light and
I'm genuinely glad for that that's good
but I got sad news
them his point of view his rhetoric it
is not unique
right it's mainstream in a GOP if he's a
hack in a conman that they are all hex
and conman like okay his his way of
doing things his priority is the way he
talks when he budget that is this GOP
and the reason none of it adds up is
because none of it adds up none of their
 right and I you know I don't
understand like at what point this
dislike fetishization of balance is
gonna be given up in the name of
caring about what's true man well it's
never going to be given up in the name
of caring about what's true I mean I
thought Eric levitz's point about these
media in this country grew up in an era
where you needed Republicans and
Democrats left and right as audience
members and so there was a certain
muscle developed to to provide that
balance and and and and I imagine there
was an era at the very least where there
was a there was a little more agreement
on what the challenges were you know at
least within certain narrow perimeters
right parameters I should say like you
know it's a problem and I think it's one
that's only going to get solved I don't
know that it's going to get solved I
think it's just that we're gonna have
less influential there's going to be
less singular media outlets that are as
influential cable TV is going to become
less relevant over time it is not going
to be supplanted by a youtube version of
Meet the Press what it's going to get
supplanted by is people watching 50
different YouTube versions of Meet the
Press
and everything at dessert I'm sorry to
interrupt but I think in some ways
that's kind of a regression to the mean
this idea that that the press is a
non-partisan in any place it's pretty
recent and it definitely has origins of
the 20th century I think in the 50s
probably started yep
but before that the American press which
has a long and storied tradition of
course no it was TV though I mean it was
TV because when you say it started in
the 50s what you're saying is when TV
was introduced and was trying to build
some type of mass presence it needed you
know because in the 40s and the 50s the
TVs were too expensive and the radio
could be a precursor to well yes yeah
but but radio you had local stations and
whatnot and and things were localized in
some way TV theoretically was going
coast-to-coast and you know you had a
couple of super stations where you had
50,000 watts that were we're also
designed to go in a certain direction
you cover like you know half to
three-quarters of the country maybe
theoretically but TV needed to get an
audience and so it it specifically did
not want to alienate its viewers and I
think to a certain extent we may be a
generation now I don't know I don't know
this has happened very quickly but we
may not be too far away where TVs
dominance and the business model is such
that it doesn't have to appeal to left
and right it can make its you know
choice across the board so you know
somebody's going to stay there in that
position but it's not going to have the
same influence let's put it that way so
I appreciate you taking my call say one
more thing it's that christmas comes
early there latarian debate tomorrow
once you rest up and once you stay
looser don't want you to go for that
jugular Sam I'll be listening hard Jeff
from Georgia dissident peasant folks
dissident peasant check it out
go alright well we get a what else we
got here
good news folks
would this is happening now right okay
so when does the budget have to be
settled by I was in a 21st of December
and Nancy and Chuck visited the White
House today and I don't know this is
giving me like PTSD I would just
remember when they first went in the
White House like I guess at the end of
17 right and basically said hey we're
gonna make things much easier for the
Republicans that actually ended up
leading to the tax cut in my estimation
because they had room to maneuver here
is Donald Trump Trump wants a wall and
he wants money for the wall and the
Democrats better not to give it to him
this is not the time to concede in my
estimation I don't think there was
anybody who voted for the Democrats in
that midterms who was like I hope we get
a wall out of this here is part of that
meeting where Trump threatens to shut
down the government one thing I think we
can agree on is we shouldn't shut down
the government over a dispute and you
want to shut it down the last time Chuck
you shut it down no no no and then you
up waiting it's alright quickly
and when he I don't want to do what you
did 20 times I've called for I will shut
down the government if I don't get my
wool none of us have you've said you
want to put that who said it I'll take
it
okay good you know what I'll say yes if
we don't get what we want one way or the
other whether it's through you through a
military through anything you want to
call I will shut down the gun okay
absolutely and I am round and I disagree
I am proud to shut down the government
for border security Chuck because the
people of this country don't want
criminals and people that have lots of
problem
and drugs pouring into our country so I
will take the mantle I will be the one
to shut it down I'm not gonna blame you
for it the last time you shut it down it
didn't work I will take the mantle of
shutting down and I'm gonna shut it down
for border but we believe you shouldn't
shave down thank you very much everybody
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
let's see what else goes on a lot of
friends of mine wanted a lot of people
that chuck in ants you know very well
one and I think people you'd like we
have a lot of people that want the job
chief of staff so we'll be seeing what
happen we're no rush no rush we don't
need a chief of staff like we have a
wonderful chief of staff right now we
really just know we are in no rush over
a period of a week or two or maybe less
we'll announce ooh well maybe more but
we have a liking for the what the
position that week or two that's all
right so we got two things here first
off Chuck Schumer is in Chuck Schumer
heaven because he has the president on
on record as saying I'm gonna shut down
the government and the Bailey's hate it
when government is shut down the
Bailey's get so frustrated Bailey's of
course is Chuck Schumer's make-believe
family that gives him advice on stuff I
don't know if he goes to like mr. Rogers
gets mr. Bailey's neighborhood I I am of
the mind that it really doesn't matter
what we just saw that exchange at the
end of the day what matters is that the
Democrats do not agree to give funding
for the wall the disintegration of our
government is already underway at this
point it is very very harmful to
government workers to
the government down they go on for lo
they don't know are they gonna be able
to afford Christmas presents they don't
know when their jobs are coming back you
can't budget etc etc but the Republicans
have constant consistently done this for
years for years and the Democrats just
cannot play this game anymore
and I think the inclination is in this
country to blame Donald Trump for
everything largely because he's an idiot
and a criminal and so they need to be
steadfast and then the other funny thing
is is that you would think that if you
get really you chief the staff and it
was your decision to get rid of them
have somebody lined up you might you
might have a couple you might have
somebody lined up you might have
somebody Lampert yeah I got friends they
get a lot of people want to do it but so
many people want to do it I don't want
to hurt anybody's feelings who really
wants it here's the problem I'm afraid
of hiring or firing anybody and john
kelly was supposed to do that but now
he's fired well I think Trump should
shut the government down forever I don't
think it goes far enough you know put
your money where your mouth is a
government shutdown for a few days bad
for workers government shutdown forever
no more president's 2020 do whatever we
want libertarian socialism good for
workers so if he wants to do that to own
the libs fine I do it for real I have a
feeling that if you were to go to a
place with no government and 300 million
people who wanted to eat that you would
be a bit of a mess I don't think that it
would be good for really anybody god it
breaks them eggs to make an omelet
that's true but translates really well
yeah that's that's true you gotta break
some eggs to make an omelet but I mean
in this instance what you're talking
about is the omelet is a lot of death
and carnage and starvation and Hort so
yes in that respect but
you think it would be worse than what we
have now under Trump I think yes getting
rid of the entire government just shut
it down shut the whole thing down
are you serious Jamie I am being jokey
but there is a serious point underneath
it take me literally not seriously take
don't take me literally what what is
that what is the serious point though I
mean the serious point is that this
system of governance is bad and it
doesn't work for the majority of people
and we need a major change in order to
fix it do you think shutting it down is
the best way to fix it like do you think
what would come out of literally
shutting the government down would
actually be better than what we have now
I do I have reason to believe that it
would be I don't know if I'm a hundred
percent right in that but you know what
I think we're headed for a collapse one
way or another yeah yeah going to find
out eventually I feel 100% confident
that that would not be the way to to to
get a better outcome like I would rather
have the Train what do you think all the
pigeons would do I would rather have the
transition be more gentle than just well
one day it's like what do you think all
the people with the guns would do well
if it happened today the right is much
more heavily armed than the legislature
definitely win
you just said Trump should shut it down
for good now yeah well this isn't
exactly how I want it to happen I'm just
I mean I'm I'm pointing in a direction
of something okay I mean I think there's
a facetiousness but yeah sure definitely
but I and I think and yeah this is
encouraging a lot of times people get
upset because sometimes the people get
hung up on stuff and you can't let it go
Jared Kushner who is who was very close
to MBS right they huddled multiple times
the Saudis bailing out the cushion er
family they would we know that yeah they
invest about how much in Blackstone and
what about that 666 right so the cushion
family has done quite well with the MBS
Mohammed Ben Solomon he is the Crown
Prince of Saudi Arabia shall we check in
on the it's he the Crown Prince
technically Jared Kushner of our country
or more similar positions very similar
position he's the son-in-law of the
president and here he is on the
president's personal spokespersons show
Sean Hannity talking about how the White
House has moved on from the murder of
Jamal khashoggi and what's that another
area I know that you've been interested
in is the Middle East you've been on a
number of trips you've been to Jordan
Egypt Israel Saudi Arabia you have
talked to all these people it seems like
there's a moment where there is a new
alliance or coalition emerging against
Iranian hegemony and a potentially
nuclear-armed Iran has that process been
hurt as a result of the Khashoggi
killing what is the status I know 17
individuals of being held responsible
and do you feel that we will get to the
bottom of it if we haven't already
I think our intelligence agencies are
making their assessments and we're
hoping to make sure that there's justice
brought where that should be
we're focus now on the broader region
which is which is figuring out how to
hopefully bring a deal together between
the Israelis and the Palestinians that
conflict has gone on for way too long
the president's been very focused on
trying to bring all the different
parties together and we're hopeful in
the next couple of months we'll put out
our our plan which again not every side
is going to love but there's enough in
it and enough reasons why people should
take it and move forward and this this
plan will keep the Israeli people safe
give them a good future but also give a
real opportunity and hope for the
Palestinian people so that they can live
much better lives they I've been saying
a lot that they're you shouldn't be
hijacking your
children's future because of your
grandparents conflict and this is a
conflict that's been going on for way
too long and the way that people are
living in Gaza and in the West Bank
right now is not acceptable and there's
a lot we can be doing to improve their
quality of life but it comes with
resolving some of these core issues and
it's not just the Israelis that wanted
it's not just the Palestinian people who
wanted it's all the people I speak to
throughout the entire Middle East who
would like to see this issue resolved so
they can start focusing on a brighter
future wait I'm sorry what was the
question again about Khashoggi someone
should get on the phone to Jared Kushner
and tell him that the CIA has made their
assessments that the intelligence
agencies have all come back and they
have apparently audio tape that Donald
Trump himself said I don't want to
listen to because it's I don't need to
I've been told what it says it's tough
stuff on there and they have reports
that NBS was in direct contact I think
during the killing what do you think is
the durability of this supposed
anti-iran alliance that they keep trying
to salvage in under all these
discussions well I think there I think
that the durability of the anti Iran
there they didn't have to put it
together you know the Saudis were
already in the Israelis I mean this is
not this alliance there's no holding
this alliance together the the issue is
can they bring the Europeans on board
and how will they ever convince anybody
to to strike Iran they could give the
green light to Israel but they know the
American public is gonna be like we're
not getting engaged in that there's no
way but they have a deep abiding
interest in keeping not just Saudi
Arabia as a close ally but MBs I I mean
I think we're gonna hear a lot more in
the next couple of weeks about the
relationship between the Trump
administration and the Saudis
I I just think there's a whole nother
story line that we are about to hear
shortly I don't know why I I think it's
gonna happen soon but I don't know but
Jared Kushner apparently has moved on
and I'll let the gonna let the Intel
people assess it and then he's not going
to listen to what they say that makes it
much easier we touched on this briefly
and and for the life of me I have been
trying to follow what's going on with
brexit my understanding is essentially
that the that Theresa May is trying to
make a decent deal for the British exit
of the EU and it's not it did not
satisfy most conservative members about
a hundred of them of the British
Parliament so they pulled the vote or
they failed in the vote yesterday
bottled it was the Brits yeah they they
essentially pulled the vote and I guess
what we would do and she's gonna go back
to the EU to try and get more
concessions seems like a bit of a sticky
wicket I think is what they would say
and honestly it's a real mess and I mean
I've read some pretty you know dire
projections as to what can happen to
society Jamie you may have your
opportunity to see what happens with a
complete failure of government but here
is the EU Commission spokesperson saying
yeah we saw what happened and sorry
you're gonna have to work this out with
regards to our to our reaction we take
note of the Court of Justice judgement
today on the replica revoke ability of
article 50 we have an agreement on the
table which was endorsed by the European
Council
article 50 format on the 25th of
November as president young Cosette this
year is the best and only deal possible
we will not renegotiate our position has
therefore not changed and as far as we
are concerned the United Kingdom is
leaving the European Union on the 29th
of March 2019 that's only about three
months four months away that's it's a
little bit scary because they don't seem
to have a plan that they can agree on to
exit and here is Theresa May she is
getting out of the vehicle to to meet
Merkel in Germany and I don't know if
she's just like I don't want to go out I
don't what I don't want to do with it I
don't want to deal with this or what I
hope that's not a Jaguar this happened
this morning yesterday okay and here it
is would be inevitable that confidence
boat would be called if tourism I
couldn't pass this vote she's holding
the door to come out I mean now at the
chancellor's office and waiting for her
Angela Merkel who's been flying the
Union Jack the German how do you say in
German you're
because I have a feeling that's
basically what what she said when
Theresa May came out of the car yeah III
don't I don't I'm not gonna pretend to
understand what's going on there enough
to make any type of projection but it
looks like it's not gonna be good that
is the safe assumption and like I don't
welcome this kind of decay obviously
breaks it's going to be very bad for a
lot of people but this is the kind of
 that's gonna keep on happening if
we if the people in power try to
maintain this kind of neoliberal
government in this consensus you
gonna see a whole lot of crazy stuff
happening and a lot of it's gonna be
pretty bad and a lot of it's gonna come
from the right and things are going to
collapse one way or another yeah I know
no I don't know I mean I think long-term
deprivation is also possible that that
is also always an option not a shoes but
I don't claim to know what will happen
but in a lot of my travels in a lot of
my studies I have seen when things
collapse and I don't want things to
collapse I'm not an acceleration aspasie
this happening and there's not a lot
that any of us can do to stop it when
things collapse people tend to help each
other out like we've saw in Puerto Rico
I did an episode of that we saw after
Hurricane Katrina I think people really
underestimate how the human capacity for
cooperation yeah but those places I
haven't recovered well first off I would
say I think certainly natural disasters
to have a tendency to bring people
together unless of course you the people
in New Orleans who were trying to cross
that bridge and head to the wealthier
part of town and there was a row of guys
with guns who were saying you will not
pass you will stay in the flooded area
of New Orleans in Puerto Rico there was
a tremendous amount of suffering and on
the other end of that what has happened
is moneyed interests have come in and
bought up the assets and we have classic
disaster capitalism and those people are
not going to be better off no I'm not
saying that they are yeah that's I mean
my suggestion is is that a after a
complete failure
those people with resources are always
going to do better and the resources
after a complete failure will involve
money and guns
and the working class probably doesn't
have enough of either in that situation
well I think money at some point in time
there's a chance that it won't have
value but I mean beyond that like big
picture I think is the job of the left
to be building networks for community
defense and for survival so that when
things like this inevitably happen that
we'll be more prepared I don't know that
it's inevitable that there's gonna be a
complete breakdown in society I mean we
didn't you did an interview with a guy
saying that we've got 20 years until
climate change cause it's major global
catastrophe I think I without a doubt
think that climate change is going to do
that but I think the the real impact
Pentagon twenty years around the the
impact is going to be in is not going to
be the I don't think our the US society
is going to disintegrate or the
apparatus of control is going to
disintegrate under climate change I
think that there if anything it's going
to gain more power and we need to be
ready to defend our communities from
that as well yes however we can rocket
launchers column from a 4-1 to area code
who's this were you calling from
this call is in reference to a YouTube
clip entitled drunken Columbia student
goes on racist tirade I'd like to if I
may defend my white brother you left us
have immediately pegged him as merely a
racist but what you don't realize the
young man's name is Julian vonabell I
don't want a guy any names brain genius
he has the author of two books in type
one entitled physics reforged not
kidding and time and the multiverse
selected writings on novel physical
theories so he has a picnic our universe
is my understanding that guy yes he's
still he I can't do that voice right
yeah the dude who's this totally started
his who's this where you can sees
himself a this is my name is Ryan I'm
calling from Pittsburgh PA I'm a
longtime listener first-time caller
hello right do uh
it was pretty good pretty good I do a
flashback to one of my what a might one
of my favorite classic calls old man
racist but it's just it's just too hard
to maintain over over a long period of
time
I understand but yeah I mean I really
think you buried the lead on that story
the guy is not only he's racist with
he's definitely he's one of those people
that uh you know he's uh for centuries
the notion of parallel universes hidden
reality is ruled by distinct laws of
nature has fascinated philosophers and
scientists alike the gates are truly
open for our understanding of reality
yeah but he did you know he did so and
when he was in high school like I the
the funny part to me was to watch
people's response to that was like he
didn't say anything racist he is proud
about being white and he is just yelling
at a bunch of black women on campus that
he's proud about being white now now we
don't know what happened before that it
could have been that he was being chased
by you know some black women who were
yelling about being proud about being
black and they may have said like hey
aren't you proud about being white why
don't you yell at us about it and he
could attend I mean it's possible we
don't know the context in which that
happened and people are like well he's
not saying anything racist all he's
saying is he's proud to be white and
making the point that apparently white
people were completely responsible for
marred initi which some people might
find is to be just a little bit too
boastful for
a company and and also grossly
inaccurate and and founded on white
supremacy principles but I again from my
perspective I mean I certainly I said
some inappropriate things I think
probably when I well I don't know I mean
when I was drunk in 20
I probably vomit on myself a lot but I
don't think I ever said anything that of
that nature but I still sort of feel
like what's more relevant is where this
guy's getting this information you know
I mean he's a student at Columbia you
would expect that he would have some
grounding in in reality although maybe
he's in that alternate reality that he
was talking about yeah he's geared to
overturn our understanding of reality
that's the thing he's ready to take his
place in the pantheon of white thinkers
stretching all the way back to you know
ancient Greece and the Middle East
there's there's amazing white places yes
so we appreciate oh I love you guys
thanks man wonder how many books you
sold a lot more now come from a four one
nine area code who's this where you come
from yeah it is you who's this oh great
Emmett from Cleveland how are you doing
I meant what's on your mind I'm calling
about the proposed changes to the Clean
Water Act I don't know if you guys
covered this but in the last few days
there's been a lot of movement from the
federal government about changing what's
known as the waters of the United States
cool yeah let me go let me just go over
let me just go over this with people it
is a 2015 rule that the Obama
administration promulgated the EPA was
deemed to have authority to do so they
do have the authority I don't even think
that the the the Trump White House is
arguing that and what it was is
basically saying in the Trump
administration to my understanding is
keeping part of it which is you cannot
use dangerous pesticides and
insecticides in areas where they could
run off into streams and tributaries
that go into drinking supplies I mean
because we want to keep about but want
to keep it our that's not technically
what well wait a second I'm sorry we
want to keep about 2/3 of our drinking
supply safe what the Trump
administration is proposing to do and
will do is say that on streams that are
like seasonal or aren't don't directly
go into one of these tributaries that
they're basically saying you get a pass
because I don't know I guess
insecticides when they're sitting in a
stream bed they magically disappear and
then when the water comes they don't
wash into somewhere I mean I guess
that's the thinking but that's not
that's exactly correct I mean what
they've what they've done is they
stripped away protections from ephemeral
streams and wetlands which is most of
the waters in the United States and I
mean one of the things that it's going
to do is it's going to increase the
amount of flooding in this country it's
going to increase the amount of like
subsurface runoff and they're really
just it's basically class politics
because I mean you know these laws and
also the thing that really angers me is
that every person has been covering
that's calling it the 2015 Obama or
clean water rules but these rules were
expanded upon by every single president
since Nixon yeah they're taking it back
to the Nixon era I mean this is it's
it's really a failure
I mean reporting in the way that this is
being come yeah I didn't I didn't know
that III didn't realize they were
rolling it back that far this will be
back to the original 1973
you know modernization of the Clean
Water rule literally only covering
navigable waters their tributaries that
flow into navigable waters and
physically adjacent wetlands now over
some some estimates are sixty to ninety
percent of the water resources in the
United States do not fall into that
category and just a few numbers for you
and the program came out in 1972 it is
estimated that of the 200 million acres
of weapons in the United States we had
been down below half of that less than a
hundred million acres and now since the
program and the no net loss tenants
instituted by George HW we've reclaimed
50 million acres of that wetland and I
mean this this this change is going to
see that going in the other direction
yeah I mean where what's the best
resource you have for this because the
reporting I've read has not
characterized it in that way well I work
in the field I'm the general manager of
a company which does wetland consulting
so I I mean I you know I might be
speaking from a place of personal
personal import as well but well I mean
the facts are the facts right I mean you
know and I just watched the EPA to a
press conference on this thing I mean
basically there's nothing official for
the next 24 hours the intercept had a
really good piece on it where they
quoted the head of the Cuyahoga River
reclamation project right now we should
say you know the Cuyahoga River actually
came up in the context of that debate
that I did with stefan molyneux but the
Clean Water Act came out of the
essentially the Cuyahoga River catching
on fire and literally hits her are you
catching on fire
and the joke was was that the Kyoto
River used to be whatever color Sherwin
Williams was making that day right and
now of course the libertarian philosophy
is well people take care of it because
they if they own it
unless it's more valuable just as a
dumping ground for them and then they
will take care of it insofar as it still
becomes something for them to dump in
and and that's what the the point of
this is right that those wetlands
those riverbeds that you know are
seasonal the value is to be able to dump
off their crap essentially it's to
externalize the cost I mean this is
nearly well all of it is I mean all of
it is to the extent that like what we
have is companies corporations who are
looking to externalize the costs of
their profit on to the rest of society
and so we have to pay for it we pay for
it in the form of cancer we pay for it
in the form of cleaning water we pay for
it in the the form of all sorts of
diseases and allergies that people get
and the treatments that are involved in
that we're paying we're subsidizing the
profit making of all of these
corporations and you can find these
questions of externalities when it comes
into the matter of fossil fuels but it
comes in in anything that you know we're
particularly in the environmental room
because it's so hard to track with the
naked eye essentially you know it's a
monopsony cost that are basically
shifted to other people but this is a
classic case of privatized the Prophet
socialized the costs and a walk away and
pretend it's not happening well I would
just like to I would just like to
beseech everybody to contact their
representatives and let them know that
this is this is a terrible move for the
government to make and also that this
really is not a partisan issue in 19 or
Ronald Reagan said that the purpose of
the Clean Water Act is to have all
streams in America swimmable and
fishable by 1985 and then George HW
would expand upon that saying that the
program should account for zero net loss
of water resources within the United
States so I mean if those two people are
in this paragon of conservatism then
they they you know this should not be
considered a partisan issue there should
not be any left versus right thing yeah
well
I appreciate the comment what's your
name again
and it Emmett I appreciate the column
thank you thanks elections have
consequences a lot of more things are
gonna be partisan issues going forward
cob from a 9-5 to area code who's this
where you come from
hey Sam this is Dawson from Minneapolis
Dawson from Minneapolis welcome to the
program thanks I've been listening since
the 2016 presidential primary but in the
first-time caller you start listening
about you know to be honest kind of
funny I was looking for a clip of Trump
and I stumbled upon an Mr video and for
like a split second I was like annoyed
that there was commentary like I just
wanted to watch the video but the more I
swore I looked a little more I kind of
became a fan of the show I've found that
exactly my experience in my personal
life - that's funny um so yeah I have a
question about organizing in sort of
arrow with what's going on in North
Carolina and stuff but since you
mentioned Laura Loomer and Ilhan Omar I
wanted to just clarify for listeners
that like Ilhan Omar her her base her
constituency is not conservative Muslims
it's actually largely young progressives
like people that I went to college with
are all her like highest level campaign
staffers and stuff and actually there's
a little bit of resentment from the
conservative Muslim community because
one of the first things a hon did was
come out as like a hijab' refugee woman
who very much supported the LGBT
community which was appealing to me
because like you know I'm a straight
person but ethnically identify as gay so
I thought that that was a that was a
good thing that she did but um yeah so
my TV wins like what does that mean
ethnically you identify as gay it was a
joke it was I was referring back to that
you covered this on your shelf
oh right right yeah well thank you
bureau ben shapiro is are you talking
about that oh yeah yeah I was I was
hoping that one wouldn't wouldn't drop
like a lead balloon or whatever anyway
so my question is basically so it seems
to me that like the scam that kind of
they did in North Carolina all of the
things that I it occurs to me I was like
an organizer that you could do to
prevent that type of fraud with impact
organizers ability to like legitimately
use the absentee balloting process to
basically go to folks get them to sign
up to vote absentee and then assist them
to the process especially especially if
those voters are in a community that you
know either English as a second language
or like you know like in organizing in
the Somali diaspora here like it's
really imperative to do that absentee
balloting process and when you do that
the only thing that's stopping you once
you have the information contained
unlike an absentee ballot application
and using that to vote for them it's
like your own morale you know code that
says that you won't do that
so I guess my question for you guys
would be what do you propose is like a
policy solution to this type of election
fraud that like wouldn't disenfranchise
voters and organizers ability to get out
the vote you mean in terms of like
absentee ballots yeah or in general just
like you know a lot of the work that we
do as organizers is to do to
legitimately get people to either get
them to the polls or to fill it out any
ballots and a lot of the dirty tricks is
just kind of up to what the organizer
wants to do or not do or want you know
the risk that in order I want to take I
see what you're saying so in terms of
picking up the ballot at the absentee at
the home and then transporting it is
that where the so it's a the depressants
goes like this you go and you you
identify a supporter you have them fill
out an absentee ballot and then
essentially submit it for them knowing
that then they'll get the ballot in the
mail and then you go back and make sure
that they feel that their ballot and if
they want you can send it for them or
they just say that they'll basically
send it themselves but the information
that you collect during that process is
in
information to go and like let's say you
changed the address he walked about to
be sent to like you know some campaign
office and then you could with that
information if you wanted to get that
ballot fill it out for them and submit
it and then the church needs like that's
basically didn't look Carolina my I mean
I can tell you that III don't know how
it's done in North Carolina I can tell
you in New York that I often vote by
absentee ballot because I'm out of
County yeah where I'm registered and the
elector of the electoral commissioners I
don't think they would send multiple
ballots to one location I just don't
think that would happen my experience
has been like they there's been times
where they said like this signature
doesn't look like the one that we have
on file now you know that's it's a rural
situation there and so they maybe you
know have the resources or the time to
be a little bit more specific but but I
definitely think that there is some
obviously some problems with absentee
ballots the way that they're done and
securing those right but I don't know if
there is a blanket fix for this because
there's no consistency in the way that
any of these states do it I mean that's
part of the problem frankly is here's
how I would start like I don't know if I
know the the answer to your specific
question I am aware that there are in
certain circumstances questions as to
like a secure chain of control or
whatever you call it for the ballot but
here's where you would start
you need to make voting a federal right
and then once that happens the federal
government can normalize the process
across all the states and come up with a
solution for the
you're talking about that will be that
whose implementation can be judged
according to a set of actual standards
across the country so right I don't I'll
have the specific solution but I know
the process that has to happen and I
know the way that that process needs to
start and that is we need a federal
right to vote and we don't have one and
right the gutting of the Voting Rights
Act goes in the complete opposite
direction that we need to be headed to
so I completely agree and I guess I just
have one more comment on that which is
like you know prior to this story
breaking the kind of narrative has been
like okay on the Left people are
concerned about voter disenfranchisement
and on the right people are concerned
about voter fraud and so if you're like
a you know somebody who's like
especially dedicated to being fair
minded you could look at that and see if
it's kind of like you know two sides of
a coin but now with this North Carolina
situation that battle theory has been
dismantled because you know the right
has shown basically a willingness to
commit election fraud in order to
achieve their own end of course but but
but you know look I've done many
interviews over the years about about
voter ID and I would say in 20 percent
of them at least the there has been a
comment from that person like if you're
going to you know the thing that really
needs to be secured is absentee ballots
and right and you know because there was
a certain amount of integrity in
discussing the issue the the Republican
Party this whole voter ID thing is a new
phenomenon it is 15 to 20 years old
and it is a response to a concern on
their part that they are going to lose
based on demographics and look they're
right I don't know if it's because of
demographics but if you look at like the
actual vote tallies of the past 20 years
midterm on your elections
there is a very clear trend that
Republicans are losing in terms right
how people vote them it's just the
bottom line
and so you get all these things to
mitigate that gerrymandering voter
suppression etc etc I mean this has been
a long-held tenant of the Republican
Party
Paul Wyrick I think it was right was a
Paul Ryan could the other guy I can't I
get them confused said specifically
Republicans do better when less people
vote yeah appreciate the call Dawson
yeah Paul Wyrick I don't want everybody
to vote was a Paul Eric but see the the
direct mail King what I call the goo-goo
strong good government they want
everybody to vote I don't want everybody
to vote elections are not won by a
majority of people they never have been
from the beginning of our country and
they are not now as a matter of fact our
leverage in the election quite candidly
goes up as the voting populous goes down
hmm
there you have it
oh he co-founded the Heritage Foundation
moral majority free Congress foundation
American Legislative Exchange Council
mm-hmm and continues the hosts weekly
Wow yep it's done some good work it's
like the David day and of fascist yeah
you just use that now for everything
call from a 6-1 Oh area code who's this
where you come from
Mike from Pennsylvania what's going on
Mike hey I just wanted to talk a little
bit about mccrone situation if I could
and analogize it to something I don't
see talked about much in left-wing
politics but as Jamie rightfully pointed
out like society is going to be facing
economic catastrophe very soon and we
don't really have a coherent idea
of what policies will need to be
implemented and I look at France and I
see the kind of you know Leo liberal or
eco fascist mentality of put all the
costs of complying with you know
environmental costs onto the working and
middle class while the top gets tax cuts
and the truth is we're going to need to
pay a lot more for fuel like fuel taxes
will need to go up and it's true that
the protests are in some part associated
with that and people's are feels a
little accept that we can't use fossil
fuels the way we have then and and so
you know we have this this is something
Michael is pretty good on talking about
is there is a certain flavor of green
who believes that we need to focus on
like population reduction or really
authoritarian right policies versus a
kind of more socialist mentality of
reforming our structures to be more
equal any of that yeah no I mean I I I
understand what you're talking about
your I mean you're suggesting that we
need to restructure our society in such
a way that the when when society absorbs
these externalities they are not
absorbed by a narrow set of or a wide
set of the least powerful and least
economically advantaged I mean on some
level you know that's what's happening
now and so what's happening now is the
environment is accepting it and it's
reached the point where it can't accept
anymore well and now it's going to reach
down unpredictably on the human species
I mean and the people and the people too
I mean you know yeah it's just that it's
you know I mean if you look at where you
know
the the dumps tend to be and where the
the former toxic sites used to be and
where the water is the worst it almost
always is with people who are not only
without political power but without any
type of economic resources to I mean so
the problem is that the where I should
say yeah the problem is getting large
enough now that it's it's encroaching
upon people outside of those circles
that's what's happening yeah and I would
only add like if the price of fuel if
the price of gas is going to go up you
can't do that without also providing
public transit services or money for
green energy like the idea the
neoliberal idea that you can just tinker
with the market and by raising the price
of fuel people will use less fuel
without getting at the underlying power
structures and the influence that these
companies have on the government in the
first place is putting people in an
impossible bind because they still need
to get around right yeah I know that's
exactly a great point is not only do but
not only do we have to do more transfers
just from the social point of view of
like what makes society work better we
also have to provide the alternatives
because if you tell people you got to
pay 50 cents more a gallon and gas and
that you don't have any alternative they
just got a lot poorer so it's not a
surprise that they're going to repeal
like and this is unfortunately like the
the problem with centrist like McCrone
is that's the alternative they offer and
then the right is going to come up and
say it's not your fault it's the fault
of X scapegoat and we will have a Eco
fascism like the fact that they want to
build a wall like that's a long-term
plan people laugh about it but I I there
are walls and places like Hungary there
are walls around the world to keep
people out
and when the global South is hit with
the lash of climate change and how fast
it like there's gonna be billions of
people trying to move around in the
world and unless we stop climate change
that is going to be horrific
slaughters like this is this is the fit
world that we face and you know Donald
Trump is just the beginning yep
I mean the good news is Society so
unequal know that we have a lot of room
to hack away at it like I I think you're
exactly right like every single like
cent that's gonna come out of like lower
middle or lower classes should
correspond to austerity of ten cents for
the for the higher classes and this is
we needed to hack away at inequality
anyway but it absolutely will not be
able to be maintained throughout the
next 50 years if we address climate
change because this is what's going to
happen and that's that's I mean that is
I mean that is what that's what that's
what the right says what that's what
they mean when they say you're just
doing this because you want a you're
making up the hoax of manmade climate
change because you just want to bring
about a communistic or a socialistic
society because on some level but they
to a certain extent they have I mean
depending on who's talking the the cause
and effect goes the wrong way like the
the the the reality is there is only one
solution to deal with this problem it is
to figure out how we absorb we've had a
lot of cheap fuel and the cost of that
fuel has been narrowly distributed it is
in the deaths of hundreds of thousands
if not millions in the Middle East
the displacement of hundreds of
thousands not millions in the Middle
East it has been on the backs of people
who have had who have contracted
diseases because of the
Ellucian and it's on the back of the
planet that is rapidly becoming you know
problematic and so the those costs are
going to have to be more evenly
distributed and distributed to where the
resources actually are so that we can we
can unravel this in some type of like
you know foamed runway as it were and
the really only efficient way to do that
is through more socialistic policies I
mean that's just the bottom line
and but it also has to be imposed Sam
okay that's what I can spontaneously
Hathaway up there that was it on the
world yes someone is burning fossil
fuels anywhere it hurts us all yes it
has to be a global coordinated enforce
regime where you're not allowed to do it
did or else yeah I don't know I don't
know what the mechanism for that is I
don't know you know but the only ilysm
well I don't know what the mechanism is
to impose socialism on the world well I
mean if you want to talk about a more
reformist solution like Bernie Sanders
and you out of not Yanis fair focus
they're talking about forming a
progressive international that hopefully
I mean I mean they're their goal is it's
really only going to work if every
single country in the world signs onto
it right because they're still gonna be
right actors somewhere so in that way I
think it's about as utopian as my
solution which is to get rid of
capitalism entirely shut down the oil
industry and democratically aside to
impose all their standards on the world
that are going to save the human race
yeah I mean I don't know I live in
Pennsylvania you guys live in New York
it gets cold up here like we
need heat so you know if we shut down
the oil industry a lot of people are
gonna freeze unless we have put in
electric heaters or whatever and
everybody's house first yeah you don't
get it you don't get electric heat you
get electric heat by
by power plants that are too often
burning fossil fuels right I mean well
like I said we have the technology like
we have the technology to get this done
for the first time in history and the
barriers are not technological they are
political right exactly we need a
Manhattan Project world war two type of
mobilization the but the the problem
remains that there is no mechanism to
impose this globally I'm sure there is
only a mechanism maybe I don't know if
China there's only a mechanism there are
only mechanisms to try and convince
societies to go forward and you know to
the extent that because a war would be
the alternate solution which guess what
those are pretty bad for the environment
right well true but we don't need to do
that say like you know the economic
incentives are there you know the fact
is we're allowing people to externalize
externalize these these costs and then
but I'm saying use our political power
to say hey you use fossil fuels to make
it robbery
guess what you got to pay three times
the cost right another we can't
necessarily do that internationally
right I mean so we're the biggest market
right I agree I agree I mean I if it was
up to me I would tomorrow
nationalize the refineries and then you
know sometime later in the week
nationalize the oil companies that I had
access to and begin to wind this
down and I would then expend massive
amounts of money in at first suck what
subsidizing the development of and then
subsidizing the use of of other
technologies I mean and then we got a
hope that the force of our country doing
that under my benevolent rule will
implicate the policies of other
countries which I think to a large
extent will yeah you know and I think
about the Manhattan Project is it was
going on the same time as we were
fighting the big
war in history doing a lot of at
the same time you know we can chew gum
and do something else at the same time
this is why this well that's the way
McCrone is being lashed by his own
politics like P politicians are seeing
what's happening to McCrone and that
neoliberal strategy they're going to
become more gun-shy not less right we
need and that's why we can't have
somebody like Kamala Harris or cory
booker be the president we need somebody
who has the will to carry on and get it
done we need somebody who is going to
welcome the hatred of the right-wing and
we need to stiffen our lips and increase
the contradictions because there's no
way that we can carry on the way we're
doing it appreciate the call might have
a good one right all right we're out of
time here but we should close with the
scatter mooch who's he on here with so
uh Anthony Scotto Moochie he really
talked about a guy who has made the most
out of that week he was in the
administration should have lasted longer
this is just sort of bizarre and you see
this I mean there still seems to be in a
significant portion of the right that
believes what is really going on with
the Muller investigation is that Donald
Trump has teamed up with Muller and is
secretly rounding up all sorts of
indictments on the Clinton people it is
an insane theory that is promoted by a
hoax that started on fortunate I think
it was q and on that is supposedly about
some high level place
intelligence figures within and without
the Trump administration who are
anonymous elite letting people know
what's going on through their internet
bulletin boards very opaque signs right
there very hard to read and the reason
of course you would do that Matt if you
were queuing on would be because crypto
cryptography right there is no reason
why you would do that if if their entire
theory was true it would the fact that
they knew about it would disprove its
existence we've got to let the craziest
people online know what we're up to
because they're the ones we can really
trust to keep it to themselves right
yeah it's a lot of interpreting the
signs after the fact it's happened to so
you know what that actually meant when
December 5th was supposed to be a big
day for queuing on that's that's way
so here's Anthony scare Moochie saying
oh he's completely doesn't buy into
those completely ridiculous conspiracy
theories except for one occasionally
does be a final question if I can this
struck us because you were speaking at a
conference this weekend and you talk as
this gets it to the truth issue you
talked about this group kook you and on
which is the source of many of the worst
you know conspiracy theories going back
to pizza gate and a whole host of others
week but you said that they're accurate
about so many things well okay this is
what I love about the media so this is
sort of what happened to me with CNN
right where I said to these guys okay
you're being dishonest if you're gonna
report that I'm gonna have to come after
you and of course the three CNN people
got fired so I don't even remember this
reporter's name and so I'm not even
gonna bring the guy's name up and give
him the but on this issue I mean let me
let me say what I said I said that there
was a woman there she had a t-shirt on
that had Q wanted I laughed I said what
is this whole Q thing she started
listing things for me the reporter
didn't hear the whole thing of what this
guy is apparently predicted I said wow I
didn't realize that he he had gotten so
many things right
focused on cue you're not a no I am not
endorsing cue I don't know anything
about cueing on the reporter thought he
had me in a gotcha moment because that's
what reporters do he didn't declare
himself as a reporter he didn't say he
was interviewing anybody I was teasing
the woman when I said well wait to find
out who the guy is I have no idea who
the guy is I'm not a quote-unquote human
on truth or I could care less about you
know Nam but it's what I don't like
about the media okay they set me up let
me finish well I asked you the question
I'm accepting your answers I appreciate
you bringing it up so that I can clear
it up I'm not gonna respond to this joke
or on Twitter where these other jokers
that hang out with the guy but this is
why the American people strongly dislike
elements of the media that they think
are being unfair and you're a very fair
guy and I appreciate you bringing it up
but I just want to say for the record
I'm not a cute and non truth or I don't
know anything about you and on and but
but according to what this woman said if
it's true some of the things that the
guy put out there turned out to be true
maybe there's 95% of things that turned
out to be false I had no idea I don't
even look at this stuff question asked
and answered and I appreciate you take
if you understand why that would be
something that would upset me I'll get
it wait wait wait wait why at the end as
he had to say but you know some of it's
true
I like all apologetic Jim shooter who
goes yeah exactly I'm really really
sorry I mean I just want to get in there
though I do think some of it's true that
means money to scare Moochie right
absolutely
like that's a good audience you're
tapping into just that little figure
that dynamic is the entire dynamic of
the Republican Party
it's not about kyun on it could be about
something else some other that
they sell but they all they're all in on
the on the grift and so you cannot
disavow it totally because he knows that
when I say some of us right then all the
cue and on people are gonna be like of
course you can't say it's all right that
means he must be tapped in somewhere
that with a high-level source giving
good information even if some of it's
wrong I just hey how much you want to
bet he gets off the set and he just
calls up and he goes like we just get a
surge in sales
all right great we posted on what what's
it's Karamu Qi dot now you know what's
happening on his podcast scare
what you posts scary Moochie and wife is
that what it is what's his splits his
podcast he's doing a podcast with his
wife that was I think the conditions of
the of when they got back together yeah
all right folks I'm sorry we don't have
time to take more calls we didn't even
get to IMS today we had a long free show
tomorrow on the program Adam Koch Esch
will be here and we will do a
libertarian debate is that right I said
what the plan is all right great
all right folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
no sir
I was I just got
[Music]
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made
though the option will get paid
[Music]
break
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
