[Music]
there too he meets with Pelosi and
Schumer and it doesn't go well he keeps
trying to say I want border security and
then they say oh we're willing to pay
for border security goes well it has to
have a wall in it and they go we don't
want the wall and then he's coming up
with all the you could see it's his mind
working like I've got to get all access
all those reasons why we need the wall
again and it's like the caravan and the
drugs drugs and the murderers and of
course the really sick people and
apparently he really enjoyed that one
because I don't know why he's surrounded
by a a member you know some type of like
like a bishop in this thing but he's not
Mike Pence's Nouveau no he he's in the
Oval Office later and he starts he's
really really stuck in the medical
problems border security you know
Republicans want very strong border
security and honestly the Democrats of
most of them it's hard to believe but
most of them want open borders and that
leads to crime and leads to other
problems and you know one of the
problems that people don't talk about
you have a tremendous medical problem
coming into a country communicable
disease tremendous problems people don't
want to talk about it I don't like
talking about it but these are because
they can't remember the disease you want
to do so we want strong borders we want
people coming into our country legally
through a process we want people that
are going to love and help our country
and I don't think they feel the same way
or maybe they just don't want us to get
a vote you know it could be that too
because it's hard to believe that they
don't want some form of protection well
you know it's so weird
III increasingly I look at this and it's
like it's like watching a cosplay but he
thinks everybody's taking it seriously
and I get that there's a there's a
subset of people out there who he feels
need this reinforcement and will believe
what he's saying but increasingly it
feels like they they're they're just
they'll they're behind you you you got
them and just saying stuff like
communicable diseases over and over
again I don't know that it really is is
is gaining it just it's starting to feel
a little monotonous is the problem I
think he's he's just got it losing go
read and just come up with a couple of
names of diseases at least right because
you saw him look down when he's a
communicable diseases just take it to
the next level you could just say like I
don't know we have tuberculosis coming
in or diphtheria or meningitis I don't
know I it makes you at least me want to
go on a very like typically liberal
rants in the sense that like the notion
of this guy commenting on other people's
contributions to this country it's just
right on inspiring we are living in an
era where crime all sorts of crime are
at the lowest in generations more than
likely a function in my estimation of
getting let out of gasoline but that's
just a theory that has gained some
credence but the idea that somehow we're
letting in more crime there's no data to
support that immigrants are anymore
after commit a crime than the native
borns and actually in some respects less
but it's you know I understand why it
needs to keep saying that but I just
feel like mix it up a little bit yeah
and and how about all of the people who
have committed crimes and have changed
and reformed themselves and are
contributing to society like I don't
care what metric you use he's below it
like he's just the worst well the other
problem is is that we have right now
like you know on top of all the crimes I
think that that arguably the president
has committed and Jovanka has committed
the most recent is that they were
they were actively promulgating a tax
cut that they are both taking advantage
of to the tune of hundreds of millions
of dollars I'm not talking about a
capital gains I'm talking about those
opportunities owns that they're gaining
money synergy because of their real
estate holdings but that's that's a
separate thing but so Donald Trump again
I think is is in for some problems and
there seems to be at least a heightened
confidence by the Democrats in some
respect and I think you know part of
that is coming to a large extent from
the heightened confidence by the
progressive caucus we've had
