as a Jewish constituent of Chuck
Schumer's hello hello this is Chuck
Schumer finally borsch Epstein speaks to
me I am ready to hear this as you know
the Democrats in the Senate have said we
will move no legislation until the
government shutdown is over one of those
pieces of legislation is a larger
package of aid and this net for Israel
and other Middle Eastern countries but
buried in that is the Marco Rubio plea
to some of the elderly and wealthy Jews
in West Palm Beach basically saying that
is it criminalizing if you are an entity
that participates in the boycott divest
movement of Israel I mean this is I mean
look you can disagree with the idea of a
boycott but the concept of criminalizing
a boycott in this instance I mean I
don't know if it's unprecedented but
it's shocking how do you even enforce
that I think it has to do with federal
contracts in a federal contract I mean
so it's you're not I don't know that
you're actually criminalizing it per se
but you're basically saying you're not
eligible like you're blocking their free
speech I'm gonna say it's very explicit
yes destroying their free speech yes
legally it is unconstitutional I would
argue it but they're not criminalizing
the speech but they're the government is
acting in unconstitutional way but you
can't even I think the the Trump
administration has rolled back the
regulations that the Obama
administration put in that you would
rescind government contracts for
employers that have stolen their
employees wages so you could literally
steal the wages of your employees but
if you avoid buying israeli-made
products then you're ineligible for it
that's that was that's legislation is we
really as the savings to invest in a
settlements perfect but I want to hear
boorish Epstein on us before I really
make my mind out here's the bottom line
I do wonder for example how the Jewish
constituents of Chuck Schumer in New
York or of Nancy Pelosi in California
feel about the direction that the
Democratic Party is taking honestly it
is disgusting to me that this is not the
first time I've had to say this on-air
anti-semitism has no place in our
country period well speaking as a
constituent of Chuck Schumer's and as
Jew I would say FeO borscht in fact I
think if you find I don't know if they
allow you to Google anything outside of
the Sinclair studios there but I think
if you did rent alone you would find
that about 75% of us Jews actually
support a more skeptical look at Israel
and I don't know what the support for
BDS is but I think it's probably I don't
think anyone majority of Jews who are
the most reliable democratic voting bloc
or maybe number two I think it is don't
have a problem with the direction I
think most of them would also want the
Democratic Party to capitulate less to
right-wing Israelis which you know sadly
is increasingly it describes
increasingly a larger portion of the of
the of the body politic in Israel to be
more humane and stop imposing a an
apartheid regime in regards to the
Palestinians like some really
internalized anti-semitism you got going
on there well I guess so but if it is
line bought the Porsche asked and so I
wanted to answer
his line bottom Sam Caesar hate Jew self
Donald Trump has different approach
strong Israel president does
unconventional approach which many find
controversy but Israel will be strong
that's the way it is
 you meant like you do nothing on
Twitter I hate you
there's borscht how much does he get
paid do we find that out 300 300
thousand dollars a year Jesus Christ do
you think he writes his own stuff yes do
you think so yes all right well in that
case it's like almost the league minimum
so I didn't realize I didn't realize he
was actually writing his own material I
thought he was just a talking head well
in that case ya know you should be
getting four four and a quarter got you
it was too good it was too arrow diet
for him to have written it himself and
it's quality stuff Donald Trump makes
decisions that are hard liberals don't
like but hard decisions will be made
that's the bottom line
