oh this is um this is sort of cute Matt
can you put this up on the on the board
here this just came across my transom as
it were I just I am do you
this is really fun
y'all recall that Harriet Tubman was
going to be placed on a $20 bill it was
supposed to coincide with the hundredth
year anniversary of the 19th amendment
which granted women the right to vote
and looks like that's been punted to
2028
just because according to uh Steve
minuchin we couldn't get the the
drawings done pretty stunning that I
mean supposedly it is a function of some
I don't know trouble honey wouldn't
anniversaries fun too yeah maybe it'll
have Trump on the other side when it
comes out
this was the Tubman design was announced
in 2016 which I followed like a
year-long process maybe maybe it was a
about a year of people pushing this now
I I don't think it was going to
completely its Jackson right on the on
the 20 now I don't think it's completely
gonna get rid of Jackson I think it was
gonna be along with Jackson although why
not why not have a did they take any
pictures together maybe we could just
put the picture of both of them oh that
would have been very sweet but it's nice
you have somebody who was sort of you
know known for really I mean known for a
lot of things but really his genocide
skills right and and then someone who
was was working for the rights of people
who
were denied rights in this country um so
it's a nice supposed to like balance out
Negus we're just gonna have to wait
another eight years cuz it's so hard to
find a good crowd graphic design person
apparently it's a lot of reason by a lot
of people that work for me didn't get
paid gotta wait for the right right is
there is there any is I mean is there
any doubt that if it was the opposite if
if if Tubman somehow was already on our
twenty dollar bills and they were like
you know we really act you know we
really need to put Jackson on our bills
that they wouldn't have gotten this done
under the trump administration what are
you implying I know what I'm implying
venusian says he's focused on security
features not on imagery here is here is
representative jana presley from
massachusetts from my old hometown of
Somerville and she is questioning Steve
minuchin on this decision you understand
like you know it's US government this
day they had no idea this was coming
down the pike so as it were here let's
play this see this exchange and to play
this exchange and currently our currency
does not reflect the diversity of
individuals that have contributed to our
great American history he followed the
announcement by directing the Bureau of
Engraving and printing to accelerate
plans for the redesign so the final
design concepts would be unveiled in
2020 the 100 year anniversary of the
19th amendment which granted women the
right to vote which we celebrated
yesterday as you know 2020 is only one
year away and since secretary Lew's
departure we have not heard anything
regarding the status of the currency
redesign will the redesign meet the 2020
deadline yes or no so let me comment
that the primary reason
looked at redesigning the currency is
for counterfeiting issues based upon
this the $20 bill will now not come out
until 2028 the $10 bill in the $50 bill
will come out with new features
beforehand so the answer is it is my
responsibility now to focus on what is
the issue of counterfeiting and the
security features the ultimate decision
on the redesign will most likely be
another Secretary's down the road I'm
sorry I just want to be clear for the
for the record so you're not so yes or
no will you meet what was originally the
2020 redesigned deadline yes or no again
to be clear the redesign that we are 20
no we will meet the security feature
redesign in 2020 the imagery feature
will not be an issue that comes up until
most likely 2026
and I'm just wondering if you could
explain that to me because after an
exhaustive community process where
people who organized for quite some time
and you said you you do share my my
sentiments and opinion that our currency
should be more reflective of the
contributions and diversity of those
contributions and so why the delay no I
didn't say that the currency should be
reuse that imagery I said imagery not
referring to okay so do you believe it
do you support Harriet Tubman being on
the $20 bill I've made no decision as it
relates to that and that decision won't
be made in as I said there was a there
was a national there was a community
process yeah I really I just don't know
what it is about Harriet Tubman that
makes those $20 bills so insecure so so
insecure
