[Music]
alright lastly let's talk about this lou
dobbs not terribly relevant but fun to
laugh at and it is Friday here is he's
getting very upset that the pretty
picture of the new Air Force One has
been ruined and he's taking it out on
its producers I'm starting to worry
about Lou Dobbs a little bit not really
worried but president Trump unveiling a
new patriotic paint job for the new Air
Force one and this I think you will like
we can't wait to hear from you as we
zoom in on the pictures I think it'll be
even more impressive we are going to
zoom right folks this blue base from
white top and no we're going to just
keep that thumb right in the center of
the picture apparently you know what I
hate to think that we're going to we're
going to do such a disservice to this
rendering I think it's beautiful the
blue base the red stripe I bet you know
what most people can't see that so I
don't know who what's producer did this
because no we're gonna have a special
bonus for you involves a blue base a
white top a thin red line through the
middle isn't it better for me to
describe it and actually show you a
close picture revealing this new design
I apologize for that
the jet would be much bigger than the
existing presidential aircraft by the
way Boeing scheduled to delivers the two
new aircraft by 2024 the president will
be in well heeled it's just in time for
his second term I can looking forward to
that up next and thanks so much and it
didn't have anything to do with those
graphics Wow look crouch if I was a
producer I'd be like it's a paint job
you dumb Nazi yeah who cares
Jesus far as this producer I be like you
know what let's include the thumb again
tomorrow and maybe shoot some more
cortisol through this old bastard's
system
