[Music]
speaking out out of fear
speaking of racists let's see what's
going on over at fox nation oh well at
Fox nation there's a big green screen or
is that a video backdrop I can't quite
tell and tell me Lauren she's still at
it
I didn't realize she's in New York now
though isn't she she New York where's
she living these days and she have a
problem with those cosmopolitan types in
New York anyways here she is now
we're gonna talk more about what's going
on in Tijuana obviously there's there's
some nuance into the reality of what's
going on there it is funny to hear the
various right-wing apologists trying to
justify our policies look caravans
aren't new migrants at the border trying
to get in aren't new the idea that many
migrants that the majority of a caravan
could be male is not new but most
importantly none of this is threatening
we at the majority report are willing to
offer a migrant caravan insurance policy
the idea was Dean Baker's I don't know
if we're licensed to do this so it's a
little bit under the table but for 300
bucks
we will insure you up to five thousand
dollars if the migrant caravan in any
way hurts your home or property or
person if you live in any of the non
contiguous states to the actual fence
but even then
we'll do it good enough people to call
it I don't know if we're license to do
it but we'll try it but meanwhile here's
Tommy Lauren
it's just searching desperately
searching for something to criticize the
migrants for and are you ready for this
they're rude said them it's an invasion
in an ungrateful one at that in a recent
trip to Tijuana a DW Espanola reporter
interviewed a woman living in a migrant
encampment and she stated the food she'd
been given in the camp was fit for pigs
and that she would die of hunger if she
didn't eat it huh apparently tortillas
and refried beans aren't good enough for
these so-called asylum seekers imagine
that what she's so dumb not only is it
Sarah Palin ex but here's a very similar
con here's the thing being stupid I
don't hold that against people it's more
it's not just being stupid there's a lot
of stupid people who are perfectly nice
who are perfectly aware of their
limitations but she is a mean stupid
person she's a mean stupid person who
who makes up for her own stupidity by a
sense of superiority that really is
unearned we should say I mean honestly
if you're still toiling away at fox
nation I mean it's one thing to go off
and do something independent because you
have problems with authority and you
can't work for people I understand that
but it's another to be in this the
basement dweller I believe I terrible
I believe I called the top on her career
a while ago and people were unconvinced
that she might have a future at Fox News
well that's a thing as you would think
but really there must be something like
we we may only see the best of her I was
right about her top but I think you also
said that she might be going centrist
though which was the I don't remember
saying that
I think I said she wasn't choose to
howling but the problem is these my
glutes through that was he's super at
removal ease my Greta recall the wrong
call I made I do recall saying the
correct thing the issue is of course
that the migrants are rude and are
unhappy with the food that you get the
point is that it's it's not only an
invasion but it's an ungrateful invasion
super ungrateful invasion I don't
appreciate the pepper spray for their
nachos meanwhile
