[Music]
CEDA
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any ELISA
they are unanimous in their hate for me
hey we must guard against the
acquisition of unwarranted influence
whether sought or unsought by the
military-industrial complex the majority
report with sam cedar it is Wednesday
January 23rd 2019 my name is Sam cedar
this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we are broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn USA on the
program today
so she ate professor Tracy McMillan
khatim author of lower IDI the troubling
rise of for-profit colleges in the new
economy and her latest thick and other
essays also on the program today
two votes in the Senate hopefully will
start the road to opening the government
but don't count on it meanwhile food
pantries for the Coast Guard IRS
walkaways domestic violence shelters
understaffed and more meanwhile Li la
teacher strike ends Denver tees up
there's and protests turned violent in
Venezuela is us fomenting a coup Trump
is at an all-time low now and Medicare
for all is at an all-time high
good polls in while Payne Maine Governor
rejects former Maine Governor LePage's
Medicaid work requirements
and finally it makes sense rudy is drunk
I knew there was something beyond just
in being a terrible wife had to be
something else New York State
reproduction Reproductive Health Act
passes signed and protects a woman's
right to choose no matter what those
a-holes on the Supreme Court do one
state down 49 not to go Joe Biden made
some paid speeches to support a GOP
candidate that will not be taken well by
people in the Democratic primary and a
new study corporations use charitable
donations to help themselves deregulate
you don't say all this and more cuts
energy on today's programs I'm smart
ladies and gentlemen that's right it's
because you know there we have talked
about that a little bit in the past
there have been various I mean I just
remember a very explicit example sticks
out in my mind
the n-double-a-cp I think came out and
was fighting against the soda
regulations in New York City and there
was an argument I guess that perhaps you
you know you have food deserts and I
mean it was a you have food deserts so
it's tough to find non sugary drinks in
bodegas and but it was always rather
strained and now there's been a
researcher who has sat down and taken a
and done a massive study that to find
the correlations between non profits
which sort of oddly weigh in on
regulatory questions that they have
seemingly no reason to and the massive
contributions they get from those
corporate
there's a consulting firm called a Dewey
Square group and there used to be really
big I mean I think they're still in the
mix but they used to have like all of
their principles worked for the main
Democratic candidates and like oh four
and oh eight Michael Ali I think is a
guy who founded the group and he's like
a field guy from Boston but one of the
techniques that they pioneered was
getting people who had like community
leadership reputations to lobby
officials essentially like an astroturf
capacity so it would be like a second
order like I'm from the community of
Concerned whatever and I want to talk to
you about the soda ban but really
they're working an indirect contract for
the beverage manufacturers right and so
it that was like the corollary of that
where they were had a goal almost of
like you know frontward the
n-double-a-cp endorses something that
doesn't make any sense and then on the
back end you might be being lobbied but
not even necessarily realize it as a
public official right it's so bad yeah
and but there's it it was very upsetting
for some of the more philanthropic to
find out that that's why they spend
their money but we will talk more about
that shout out an angio darkness yes we
will talk more about that as we get
later in the in the program however you
know we've mentioned of top line there
look there's there's tons of stories out
there I'm sure many of you have seen
them there are individual stories of of
federal workers who are you know
deciding choosing between insulin money
and electricity or food for their kids
the you you have IRS employees who are
skipping work because of hardship and
they need to either go work part-time
somewhere else or they can't they can't
get to work
Coast Guard commandant
said that members of the Armed Forces
should not be expected to shoulder the
burden of a partial governmental shut
down there is Coast Guard folks having
to go to food pantries I mean that we're
seeing this across the board and never
mind like you know I don't know how you
measure the the anxiety that's created
by this and the just the the ripple
effects the Sarah story the other day
talking about how the damage that's
being done in some of the more sensitive
areas of our federal parks just it will
take decades for it to recover because
some of these there's a reason why they
tell you you know only walk on the paths
but the Trump administration and family
they care ladies and gentlemen here is
Lara Trump she is Eric Trump's wife on
sitting down with Kerry Sheffield of
course is the founder of bold TV and on
bold talking about that very very issue
Oh in terms of the workers who are
coming to work and not getting paid what
would you say to them listen this is
it's not fair to you and we all get that
but this is so much bigger than any one
person it is a little bit of pain but
it's going to be for the future of our
country and their children and their
grandchildren and generations after them
will thank them for their sacrifice
right now I know it's hard I know people
have families they have bills to pay
they have mortgages they have rents that
are due but of the president easily
imagine every single day to come up with
a good solution here and the reality is
it's been something that's gone on for
too long and been unaddressed our
immigration problem if we do nothing
right now it's never gonna get fixed
this is our one opportunity so I would
just tell them please stay strong we pre
appreciate everything that you're
sacrificing we are behind you and we're
gonna do everything we can I know the
president is doing everything he can to
resolve this quickly yeah yes just
important that everybody remembers that
this is not about one person that's
right that's the takeaways that
this has nothing to do with an
individual highly disturbed persons
individual needs and whims I honest not
be further from what's happen look
you've got 800,000 people right and then
plus you have a I don't know how many
tens of thousands of contractors maybe
more that have been impacted by this
that that probably be impacted even more
severely in some respects because they
may never get repaid for this for the
loss of work and I'm trying to figure
out some type of algorithm of how many
of those people actually would if they
were sitting as the third person in that
group right there with the founder of
bold TV and Eric Trump's wife if they
would they would nod their head in
agreement yes I understand it's bigger
than me and it's really about the future
my grandkids are probably going to thank
me so much because there might be 160th
funding for a wall that will never get
built if this ever gets resolved they're
using this she's using the sense of
urgency that should be used right at
this moment for climate change to talk
about demographic oh yeah all right
Chinese yeah way to give up the storm at
totally sad totally unfair
there we do I mean I know Barbara
Ehrenreich is now on this and obviously
you know it's been in the air for a
while but I mean we got a look at some
type of general strike action it's I
mean it's in well yeah a lot of there's
been a lot of people actually been
calling of that particularly for the the
TSA and like just across the board thing
is just totally unacceptable it can't
replace them with scabs because there's
no money so who's gonna work for no
money that's right and and they and and
it's also checks in the mail
theoretically you're right you need a
little bit of training right like the
whole theater of I was gonna say that
part I don't know about right I think
anybody I don't know I guess a training
would be like hey you want to be really
annoying I
flute LP air traffic controllers huh
exactly not that this definitely I can
do that I I flew this I flew this
weekend and I made a point of you know
saying to the tsa folks I saw thanks for
being here
if I was you I just walk out and there
was a little bit of like you know
they're not going to talk that way but
there was a little bit of a little head
nodding a little bit well thank you so
much it's still happening I'll thank
them and say like where's the future
right like guys commandeer the sound
system at least guys they do that in
some airports I'm pretty excited about
this ad read because this is a company I
have been pining for some of their
furniture in fact I have designed I mean
look a little bit of act but I people
know I do a little bit of woodworking
and I have designed some pieces of
furniture based upon this stuff there's
a lot of mid-century modern type of
furniture you can find here I don't know
if you've heard about joy bird it is the
company behind the revolution in online
furniture shopping joy board offers
one-of-a-kind furniture made to your
unique taste you can turn your ideas
into reality with hundreds of styles and
options from mid-century modern to
contemporary classics all customizable
in an amazing array of fabric choices
from rich buttery leather plush Velvets
to every color imaginable there's even a
wide range of kid in pet friendly
upholstery available you can also use
their free personal design consultants
to nail down your perfect design and
with joy Birds 365 day home trial you
can skip the furniture store and bring
the showroom home sit on it
sleep on it break it in and if you don't
love you joy bird return for a week full
refund refund in-home house a delivery
is hassle free they'll even remove all
the packing materials and returns are
free within two weeks of delivery
see how joy bird is revolutionising
online furniture shopping create the
furniture that brings you joy today at
joy bird dot-com slash majority go to
joy bird dot-com slash majority and
receive an exclusive offer 25% off your
first order by using the code majority
head over there and just check out I
mean
you check out the the couches obviously
and all the other and they've got some
pretty fun to those like spinning seats
but like the mid-century modern media
centers those are the ones that I love
the sliding yeah I know it's your mat
yeah they're pretty cool alright we're
gonna take a quick break when we come
back professor of sociology at Virginia
Commonwealth University author of thick
and lower IDI
treci McMillan cotton when we come back
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it's a pleasure to
welcome to the program assistant
professor of sociology at Virginia
Commonwealth University faculty
associate at the Berkman Kline Center
for Internet and Society author of two
books Thicke and other essays and lower
IDI the troubling rise of for-profit
colleges in the new economy trustee
McMillan cotton welcome to the program
thank you for having me Sam so I you
know the the the for-profit college
stuff fascinates me and and you the way
in which you came about to to write of
the for-profit college university world
is also pretty fascinating just I mean
just let folks know you know how how you
decided to focus on that well yeah the
story is probably less about how I
decided to focus on it and why and it
was possible for me to be doing this
project and I probably started this in
like 2010 that I seem to be the only one
who kind of wanted to do this project
and I think that is about my personal
experience of the for-profit college
sector but I also think that speaks to
the fact that there are so few people
like me who had ever touched that sector
of higher education who were also in
that traditional academic world and so
what happens I was in graduate school
and listen Sam I was going to do
anything but this project I wanted to
actually study Ronald Reagan if you can
believe that and instead end up doing
this project because as I was working on
my doctoral work what profit colleges
were experiencing this phenomenal boom
of enrollment they were taking in
billions of dollars every year from the
federal student aid system and when you
start talking about numbers in the
billions people tend to start paying
attention and there was a lot of media
scrutiny there was some growing
political scrutiny of the for-profit
college sector but to my mind there had
not been sort of a critical engagement
with not just why for-profit colleges
were so profitable or so popular but
about who they were enrolling and I
knew a little bit about who they were
enrolling and why that matters because I
had before I go into graduate school I
had worked in a for-profit college
sector myself as an enrollment officer
and so my experience of it was shaped
very much by understanding that not
everybody was vulnerable to the
for-profit college machine and also that
it was a machine and that we probably
needed to better understand why millions
of people all woke up at one time and
decided that they wanted to pursue a
college credential at all car and when
you went to the for-profit college
sector at all cost was the teacher and
in and it was almost I mean literally at
one time in 2000 you had about 400,000
people enrolled in these for-profit
colleges by now it's over 2 million is
my understanding so let's just give us a
sense of what what we're talking about
because you you you know you have two
different types that broadly speaking
that you you discuss the the and you
generalize it by calling the beauty
school and the the technical I guess it
is right here and so tell us what this
is and and how their funding mechanism
works right so yeah I do I usually does
two archetypes and I had experience and
actually what I call both of the sub
sectors of for-profit colleges so one of
the things that I think kind of got lost
and are lumping all of the institutions
together was a misunderstanding that two
different sort of phenomena were
happening so on the one hand you have
what have been the sort of historical
role of for-profit colleges which was
they mostly provide a career technical
certification and training right and so
that was the certificate that you need
that were just probably below a college
degree maybe even below a two-year
degree but that you needed to become a
certified in occupation so that is a
mechanics training cosmetology school
those had grown out a little bit into
things like what we want you to call
maybe secretarial programs and now tend
to think of broadly it's like you know
administrator for business assistant
program and then this growth into the
healthcare sector and so things like
certified nursing assistant that's all
of these sort of short-term credentials
usually take you less than two years to
complete them but that are necessary
requirements for work I group those
under like the beauty college paradigm
in my book and those are a little
different and the incentives that people
have for attending those schools are a
little different than those that are
happening in what I call the Technical
College System which is the sector that
I think most of us were more familiar
with in the mid you know first decade of
the 2000s because these were the ones
that had all the television commercials
great Strayer University the University
of Phoenix capella and all of those so
these were programs that were starting
an overreach that was historically new
they have started reaching into the
4-year degrees and beyond they are
offering graduate degrees and things
like clinical psychology and nursing and
healthcare they were offering bachelor's
master's doctorate degrees and the
incentives for people to pursue those
degrees will relate it to the other part
but they were not exactly the same and
the real growth in the sector while a
lot of it did happen in that beauty
college sector the real growth and the
real money real money the investment
from the private sector the investment
from shareholders and private equity
firms the financial sector was really
interested in the growth of that 4-year
degree in beyond the Technical College
sectors that call it in so on one hand
we have sort of what I you know you one
could consider it sort of almost a
vocational school on some level and the
other is this sort of new animal that
and we're talking about fortune 500
companies here we're taught right I mean
we're talking hundreds of hundreds of
millions of dollars per you know in
terms of revenue per you know year on
these country and these companies and
and that's really where on some level
like the the the action is right I mean
right in that sector and it's
fascinating to me because you really I
mean I I'm quite familiar with sort of
some of the the dynamics but you look
beyond the dynamics and look and what's
going on in
that sort of like bringing us about but
before we get to that part walk people
through the the business model of a
place like one of these technical or
what you call technical side schools
because it is its I want to say it's a
criminal syndicate in my estimation but
it's it's it's close its I mean it is
the it is close to being the underside
of financialization which is what I
would kind of think of it you know it is
it is not unlike what we saw happening
in the mortgage crisis yeah
not unlike what we are starting to see
in the student loan debt crisis and
those things are very much related and
that is that capital looks for something
to invest in and as consumers become
stretched and can't do as much consumer
buying right what becomes profitable are
the things that people have to pay for
now that's the social part and so one of
the things I'm looking at in the book is
you know why did all of a sudden
everybody need or want a college degree
what was it that was so attractive to
the investment class about this
four-year degree in beyond sector that
made it so very profitable that system
looks like looking at what is going on
in the economic system and the economic
structure over here we talked about the
labor market but also people how how
comfortable or how safe people feel in
the economy what the system is really
preying on its how vulnerable people
feel in the labor market vulnerability
became extremely profitable to the
for-profit college sector as a solution
to positioned itself as a solution to
workers who are feeling economically
vulnerable in the labor market if you
thought that your wages were stagnant
which we now know to be empirically true
people's wages have stagnated over the
last 25 years if you thought your
consumer purchasing power had declined
well you weren't crazy
it had decline but instead of responding
to those things with what we maybe would
have done you know 40 years ago with a
sort of social policy response what we
told millions of people was this is your
fault this is because you're not
competitive enough for the new jobs of
the 21st century the only way to prove
that you are competitive is to get a
degree
and to keep pursuing credentials and
degrees and to do that at your own
individual cost and you call this the
education gospel that is correct
it is the gospel that says it doesn't
matter what the reality of the economic
relationship is because it is predatory
as you point out it is preying on
predatory in the true sense of the word
which is that is preying upon people's
economic vulnerabilities the education
gospel says don't worry about those
details don't worry about what the
economic relationship is or the details
of the contract you're signing education
will always pay off because it has
always paid off
we were so invested in the gospel that
education could never fail you that I
think on the social policy and certainly
on the political front we fell down on
asking tough questions about whether or
not this specific type of education
actually paid off for people and what we
know now is that the picture is not very
good for whom that for whom that
educational investment has paid off for
for-profit colleges are more expensive
than you know most of your not
traditional
most of your traditional not-for-profit
college options students tend to bear
more of the individual costs their
student loans as opposed to say grants
and scholarships or employee benefit
they take longer to complete those
programs and as it turns out the labor
market doesn't seem to reward it in
higher wages alright so let's talk about
about well we should also say that
something like when you talk about the
the schools that you mentioned these
these bigger for-profit universities
which are also predominantly online
right we're talking about nine something
a 95 percent of their tuition costs are
paid via student loans from the US
government right and about legally is
supposed to be a we have this 90/10 rule
right what for-profit colleges are held
to as a standard that not only up to 90
percent of their tuition can come from
the federal student aid program and the
other 10% is supposed to come from
direct tuition payments from either
employers or from students what this is
supposed to do
is you know what this is how this is
described is a check on the school's
value to the consumer but ninety percent
first of all is still extremely high and
it's only ninety percent in theory
because what we have found is that money
school that doesn't include things like
GI Bill money is usually counted in that
ten percent and so some institutions
when you count up all of the government
subsidized payments coming to them
approach something far closer to as you
said to that ninety five percent coming
from publicly subsidized dollars all
right and so give us a sense of
demographically who these students tend
to be their age their background because
they're they're there a lot of these
students are similarly situated right
there they're ambitious but they also
don't necessarily have the the social
the the social cash cash or the the
networking - you know enter into what we
you know traditional higher ed schools
or be aware or they they can't they
can't afford to because they've got to
take care of children or their other
responsibilities exactly I think the
real telling statistic in the for-profit
college sectors demographics is in
gender actually and then the book I talk
a lot about race class and gender I
really think gender is the biggest piece
of it cells I think exactly that story
Sam which is this about sixty eight
anywhere between succeeding seventy four
percent depending on which year you take
it and this hasn't changed much over the
last ten years of those enrolled in the
for-profit college sector are women
right this is really a gendered problem
that I think really speaks to why people
would attend V schools people are
attending them mostly because they are
one have already been disadvantaged in
the paid labor market we know all of the
general statistics and trend lines of
how much more credentialed women have to
be to be paid equal salaries in the
labor market how much more difficult it
can be for them to have upward mobility
into higher income positions but we also
know that bigger story that women tend
to be the ones more likely to be caring
for children and when you're talking
about the age range of the student this
is we tend to think of them as
quote-unquote non-traditional but that
just means doesn't always necessarily
mean they're older it usually just means
that they are caring for also caring for
a child what were you talking about
people in that position they're also
more likely to be caring for parents
this is a very familiar story for many
of us trapped between caring for
children and caring for aging parents
and their economic position then not me
need to not only take care of themselves
but they are really trying to take care
of a whole family right and so when they
are having problems moving up or getting
secure employment in the labor market
they are especially vulnerable to a
message that sounds like this call today
start school tomorrow get a degree fast
get a better paying job almost
immediately because that's the message
right call today's start tomorrow change
your life well that's the message that
would be more attractive to people for
whom changing their life means changing
the lives for their children for their
elderly parents etc and that's women and
then when we move from there of those
enrolled in the for-profit college
sector they are more likely to be
african-american Hispanic low-income
students it's not to say that men don't
attend and they certainly do and let's
say the white students on a ten but when
we're looking at like the typical face
the next time your listeners are maybe
looking at those commercials it's a
really good indicator when you look at
who they put in the commercials right
there are only women who are talking
about they're going to do their homework
while their kids are asleep that's what
that tells you who they know their ideal
typical student is and those those
people are particularly vulnerable to
that message and are especially
vulnerable to taking on student loan
debt to pay for that kind of chance and
and we should say that when the my
understanding of it is and-and-and-and
walk me through this but the there's a
quality that reminded me in the way that
they get paid that reminded me of
working in commercial radio the key to
commercial radio was always you want to
hold people over the first you know the
next quarter hour if you get it past
that and there's a there's there's a
dynamic in these schools that is like
this based upon the schedule
which student loans are dished out is
that right that is correct so the goal
of the input of the enrollment machine
that I talked about and described in the
book is to get students enrolled as
quickly as possible the idea being that
the more time and the more opportunity
students have to reflect on their
decision the more likely you are to lose
them right so you want it to get them
when they call you want to come in
immediately to sign their paperwork and
to get their federal financial student
aid application completed as quickly as
possible
and I mean we're talking in many cases
within a week which sounds very odd to
those of us who went through like the
traditional college system so that's
what I want to put some numbers on this
we're not talking weeks or months we're
talking you call on a Tuesday you visit
on a Wednesday you're enrolled when you
leave Wednesday and your financial aid
paperwork is done by that Friday then
the next goal there is to get them
started in a class as quickly as
possible depending on when you make that
phone call what we call rolling
enrollment dates are going on meaning
that's almost always a new class
starting you're rarely waiting more than
two weeks to start in the next class and
that was important because the federal
student aid system will not pay the
tuition until they have what we call
button seats right students let means to
be in the seat they've got to show up on
that first day of class and the
attendance during that first three weeks
of that first month of school is
critically important because that's how
the student is then counted for student
aid purposes before the check is sent
right and then the money this lion's
share of that tuition enrollment comes
up front there's there's certainly other
dollars that come as the student
continues on in school but the student
is quite valuable they are at the
earliest part of that profit for that
reason and then and then the retention
becomes an important metric for these
schools right because they want that
second check right right not even so
much completion because there's no bonus
for like different students completed it
there can be a penalty for them not
completing but it is about making sure
they are there through the the deadline
to cut off deadlines for the student aid
payment and so when you were working in
in admissions
like how much what kind of dated that
they provide you with in terms of return
on investment that's what sort of
fascinates me because I mean I feel like
I feel like if these schools they my
understanding is they take a tremendous
amount of of data about their students
and as a way of sort of like how do we
market to them how do we keep them in
the seats how do we get them in the
seeds and how do we keep in we're being
we're being metaphorical with the seats
right because they could theoretically
are you doing it online but but what you
never see is 75% of our students end up
making thirty percent more two years out
after graduation or some figure like
that would be that's the key metric
isn't it mm-hm
it is and now this is where I kind of
want to be fair we don't actually have a
good metric on that for any of higher
education the problem is it's probably
less of a problem if you went to a
traditional not-for-profit college right
so we haven't had to be as dogged about
that kind of data that's actually I
think one of the weaknesses in our data
system that for-profit colleges have
exploited is the fact that we have not
had great data unemployment returns for
all students has made it pretty easy for
the for-profit college sector to say
well hey it's not like we're falling
down a job nobody has its data they're
right they're just not being they're
just not they just don't have the right
motivation when they say that we do not
have excellent data on how much a
student earns after they graduate some
of that is the federal systems fault
some of that is the for-profit college
such as fault what I will say is I talk
to people who manage the marketing data
at for-profit colleges and they have
better data than what it's often
publicly available to us about how these
students are doing it is that they are
not compelled to release it and if they
do not release it and use it in their
marketing materials to the students what
was more common was for us to slide this
disclose your agreement across to the
students that the the US Department of
Education has required for-profit
colleges to do they have to usually
provide things like disclaimers about
your student loan debt they have to
provide disclaimers about the graduation
rate and there
placement data but that usually looks
something like this it was usually about
how much people in this type of job
would earn what they didn't usually
break it out to say was this is how much
people in this job who got their degree
from us
have earned so for example you would say
hey I want to get a certificate in you
know electrical engineering and we'd say
all right we offer that degree program
here's what people with an electrical
engineering certificate earns last year
according to the Occupational Outlook
Handbook that's what we would tell them
but we did not separate out and break
out but this is how much students who
earn their degree with us are making
inset jobs and that's a level of like
finesse that very few people have to
push back against the college to ask for
that level of detail and in and you say
that you you're convinced that these
institutions as it were have data on on
what the return on investment is at
least to some extent and I mean I think
it's fairly obvious that if it was
gangbusters we'd know about it right
yeah that's what I've always said to
them if it's great awesome
right like you should definitely lead
with that information I've certainly
said the same thing right and they are
admittedly there's some smaller programs
and some for-profit colleges that do do
extremely well often because they are
attached to other type of arrangements
right right they have a direct line for
example like they're training people to
work at AT&T and AT&T has agreed to hire
X amount of people that's just but those
are anomalies for the most part most of
the students who are going through these
sort of generalized degree programs are
relying on employers to decide whether
or not there's their degree means
something and because of that they're
usually competing with people who have
degrees from other places and their
wages often do not look comparable and I
suspect that if the for most for-profit
colleges had data that says that they
were doing that significantly better
than average they would certainly
advertise it I would imagine even if
they're doing an average they would
advertise it is my guess but I mean I'm
not a marketing guy so I don't know but
but but and we should say I mean just to
be fair
I've heard of some programs where you
come in and they will your fee you don't
even pay until you make back a certain
percentage of your income I mean there
are programs that are set up better and
and I think some of these I think folks
associated with it are striving to in
certain instances I mean like give me a
sense of what the people working there
like how much was your awareness as you
were sitting there saying like you know
this seems a little weird that we're not
talking about a return on investment
which is why everybody walking through
the door is here right like you know had
a not-for-profit school some schools you
know some liberal arts schools you know
people are there for citizen you know to
be I want to be a better citizen or you
know I I don't have to worry about my
finances or whatever it is but clearly
most of people walking through that door
are like I'm here because in two years I
want to be making 30% more than I'm
making today whoa there's absolutely
fair I mean the for-profit colleges
themselves say of their marketing data
that the number one reason that their
prospective students and enrolled
students tell them that they enrolled in
school or start out school with them it
was to earn more money immediately right
so that I mean that means the students
tend to be making a very sort of
rational economic exchange when they
attend a for-profit college in a way
that is less true in traditional
especially on campus four-year degree
programs that we have this sort of
broader like you said liberal arts
mission and where the value of college
can then be a bit more subjective
I remember feeling I mean I had gone to
traditional colleges myself as did a few
of my colleagues there in the enrollment
offices so we knew it was different than
our own experience and I remember being
troubled by it and I talked a little
about that in the book but having
absolutely no words for describing why I
was uncomfortable right so these words
about things like you know social
inequality and you know who can who can
make the sit out the take on the
opportunity cost of sitting out the
labour market to go back to school none
of us had that language I will say some
of us were less concerned with it than
others
but I do like to point out I think
everybody they are saved for a few sort
of extreme cases fundamentally thought
that the education gospel worked and so
if we were offered an opportunity for
people to better themselves if it was
costing them a lot of money that was
still better than nothing
what we're did get stickier is that
there were admissions people who would
say things like I myself would not go to
college this way right I wouldn't go to
school here or I wouldn't allow my
children to go to school here but this
is still a good option for quote-unquote
other people and that's where I thought
when people felt uncomfortable over
wrestling with those ideas that's where
it usually manifested
okay and this is I mean I mean that's
fascinating because I think there is
this sort of of quality of like you know
I don't know the both an ignorance to
the sort of the reality of what's being
offered and sort of predisposition to
presume there's nothing else that can be
done for these folks right and that is
let's talk a little bit about that part
because the Obama administration started
to crack down on some of this by
basically saying you're not eligible for
student loans and correct me if I'm
wrong on this but you're not eligible
for student loans unless you use
specific accrediting companies or
certain accrediting values and and you
know they said - I think it was
Corinthian and ITT like your creditor
your creditor that's not real we don't
buy it and then their loans dried up and
their business dried up overnight and
they had to close but that was
insufficient because why
well it doesn't solve the big problem
right so you know we can think of this
in our own lives you know the grocery
store closing down this the grocery
store you really like closer to your
home close us down that doesn't solve
the problem that you need groceries
wrecking the problem the real root of
the problem was the demand not the
supply
and yeah and I went point about these
schools that that did rely significantly
on federal student aid dollars and once
they lose their accreditation you tend
to lose then your ability to offer
student aid and that's pretty much the
end of usually any for-profit college
school as it would to be fair for all
schools but the accreditation fees the
Obama administration was becoming more
particular about the data they were
requiring the for-profit colleges to
provide to judge whether or not they
were meeting the threshold of providing
a quality education
now the for-profit colleges to say
debate to the death whether or not
that's a fair assessment of them whether
they should be held to that standard or
not and whether the metric is fair but
that is what the Obama administration
was doing what I will say is that what
the Obama administration and really what
no administration has done in quite some
time is really wrestle however with that
bigger problem there was a recent report
that just came out a couple months ago I
think from the Center for American
Progress that said the job skills myth
the job you've got may have been a myth
right yeah well that's all I was writing
about what many of us have been writing
about for some time that what we have
been telling people the social
inequality problem in the labor market
was not about people not having the
right skills and instead of solving that
problem and being honest in our
political rhetoric to say this is not
about employers not having the right
skills this is about employers not
wanting to pay fair wages this is about
us not holding employers to task for
their tax responsibilities there was a
lot at play and I will say that nobody
had really hit on the political rhetoric
that I think solve the problem of demand
and that was why for-profit colleges
remain somewhat popular with people
demand has not dried up because there's
still a demand for a good quality of
life with good wages and they're still
making that promise and we should I want
to be really explicit about this so
people understand so the the the myth
was that there was a mismatch in our
workforce with their education and all
the research now shows a big report came
out very recently and I think it was
from the Center for Economic
my daughter's but I'm not regardless
regardless it basically showed that in
fact what was happening is as it became
more of a buyers market for employers
they just got more narrow in what they
would accept from people rather than
certain skill sets being needed but but
we're also talking about people who are
already employed more often than not
right when you're going to these sites
right these are people just want to get
better wages and be able to care for
their families so we have a right not so
much of a lack of employment situation
but rather poor pay for people who are
doing decent work in editor and so we we
had this I mean on some level I feel
like the educational story in in this
sector is not terribly different than
when we see education in the context of
K through 12 insofar as we're looking at
schools to deal with societal ills but
really not a portfolio that is correct
and what these that I mean that is
really the big story and the tougher
story frankly right people don't like
the story when I say people is you know
I think it's hard for politicians I
think it's hard for policy people to get
a good story with just so deeply
invested in the narrative but the real
story here is that it is not just
possible but now I think we can
empirically argue that it is true that
colleges cannot in school K through 12
or K through 16 cannot solve these
larger social ills that the real problem
of wages was never about the human
capital of the workers working in jobs
and so when you told people that story
all you did was make them very valuable
to the financial sector who were able to
exploit that fear by selling credentials
but that does not solve the problem that
what workers are really facing is a
really tough path to not just a good job
but what we would call internal mobility
the promotion's over time for your wages
to increase over time when you work at a
job and after five years that you should
be earning more than when you started
those kinds of problems are not human
capital problems and we should say I
mean there it's interesting what's
implicated here because the the the the
access to government loans clearly drove
up the prices of these places right
because they're just they're basically
fixing their tuition as a function of
that 90/10 rule we're gonna make our
we're gonna make our tuition cost 10%
more than whatever is available for
people in terms of government loans and
that dynamic of course would be fixed in
many respects reversed if we instead of
having a massive loan program we we
provided at least one or two free
options per state and that may be a
separate issue but I want to know I
don't think it's a separate issue I
actually think it's a super-important
once I was wondering ones that I argue
for that the real competition we thought
that the competition that needed to
happen in the higher education
quote-unquote market was that you needed
more institutions and that's what we saw
happen from 1990 to 2010 when we created
tons of new institutions but as long as
a student aid system its underwriting
all of those institutions the same
that's not actually creating more
competition they would just increase the
size of the pie just taken more students
that's what the for-profit college
sector really was real competition would
come through true accessible affordable
options and the only people who can do
that the only entity that can do that is
the state and so I actually believe
that's the real solution interesting and
so let me ask you this in just as we
broaden this out because I want to just
touch on your and and I will confess to
not having read thick yet but I will
also say it is it is right on the top of
my list of things to read how all right
I appreciate that thank you but I mean
how the the the issues that you talk
about and think of me to the extent that
I know what it's about is is addressing
your experience largely and also I think
the experience of other people who are
within our society who are
in you know folks who are similarly
positioned who may you know may be
targeted because they're the most
vulnerable particularly when they feel
this pressure economically or by race or
by gender
what draw the the connective tissue
between these two books for me you know
that's a great question actually because
to me the connective tissue was always
there and I and I laugh sometimes when I
have to I did have to do this with a
publisher one note to me this is all
part of the same story when they asked
me to sort of position the book in many
ways my thinking about lower edge
started with asking a very basic
question which was wow a lot of these
for-profit colleges have a lot of black
women enrolled why is that and by
starting from there you got to all of
these larger issues not because there
was something unique about black women
but there was something unique about
when a predatory system is built it
almost always starts with the most
vulnerable people in a society that's
how that's how predation works and so if
for-profit colleges were a predatory
economic arrangement which I argue that
they are it made sense that it would
start by serving parts of the population
that were poorly served by other
institutions so that means women and
people of color disproportionately so my
questions start there and one of the
arguments of the new collection of
essays where you know I take that
through looking at technology I take it
by looking at popular culture and policy
and media isn't that that story is true
over and over again and that was what we
learn when you pay attention to who is
most vulnerable in a system you
understand the system better one of the
reasons why I think I was able to write
lower it and it hadn't been written
before by someone else is that you do
get a clarity about how a system is
working when you look at its weakest
point right so I was able to say look
there's something here about the
relationship between student loan money
and economic insecurity and labor market
changes there has to be something here
because look at what's happening
with this subset of people and in many
ways all I'm saying across this
collection of essays is that that
reveals a lot of important information
about our system no matter what part of
the system that we're looking at to what
extent do do do black women in
particular because manok you you note
that they are in many respects the most
or at least a one of the groups that is
most susceptible to these type of
predatory specifically because they're
not being served by other institutions
right what extent is is there an
awareness of that as a systemic problem
and I and I ask only because I've you
know I've talked to people have done
ethnographies of people who've like lost
their homes in foreclosure in the in the
way the foreclosure crisis and there
wasn't necessarily a big understanding
that their experience was not unique
that it wasn't a version of the
decisions that they had made but rather
it was function of decisions that have
been made by people they they didn't
know right right what what is your sense
of that of that of the awareness of
those folks as as as being in this
predicament because of the system rather
as opposed to decisions that may have
made yeah I think that just overall we
have a real paucity of language to talk
about systems thinking right in our
culture and that I mean we see this over
and over again when we talk about oh you
know who are these stupid people who
signed up for these bad loans right and
then it'll take us ten years of
excavating the whole mess to find out
that one didn't mean to be stupid
one needed to just be there and need a
home because there was all of this other
stuff happening around them that that
foreclosed upon good decisions right
there's not the people often just making
the poorest decision available it's got
lots of decisions are foreclosed upon
for you the reality is if you want to
for example go to college in the United
States of America today it helps a lot
if you have always had people who are
pushed
you to go to college if you had access
to well-funded equitable K through 12
schools if you had access to a safe
secure home in a safe neighborhood if
you had good nutrition and then if you
could make it to the finish line with a
high school diploma knowing about all of
your college options and have all the
money in the time in the world to apply
well those types of decisions if you're
24 and you didn't have those things
nothing about your decision making at 24
is going to override the 23 years that
preceded that year right it's right
don't certain options are foreclosed
upon for you and that's what I mean
about systemic thinking and that's not
having a really good language to talk
about it in popular culture it is an
easier story to write to say oh X person
right Lisa decided X and look at how
horrible her life is that's an easier
story to write than it is to write this
big sprawling story but that's where the
reality is and where we can usually
affect the most change by understanding
why do some people have some options and
not others right and and but but I
wonder how much of an awareness is there
of that within within amongst let's say
black women but that it is yeah I don't
know that we are different than most
Americans in that we don't have much
language to talk about that either I
think one of the stunning things that
came out to me in the interviews I did
for lower IDI was how many of the
students absolutely blame themselves
even when we would then talk in detail
about you know their biography and what
it brought them there and this shows up
in lots of social science work over and
over again poor people for example writ
large tend to blame themselves for their
own poverty right over and over again we
see that kind of language I think that's
precisely because black women like most
people in this country just don't have a
language to talk about the
systems-thinking
and if actually if we look around I mean
there are not a lot of politicians
certainly who are good at talking about
it well I don't there are plenty of
politicians I mean at the very least
there's there's
I mean we have at the very least one
party that is completely hundred percent
committed to making the argument that it
is a failure of a personal
responsibility but the fact is that you
know the Democratic Party even Barack
Obama the idea of personal
responsibility you know took the
forefront a lot more than any notion of
a systemic failure absolutely absolutely
I mean I take that detached that's
actually quite a bit in an essay in the
new book about it the Barack Obama
administration was not a departure from
that language he embraced wholeheartedly
the idea of you know cultures of poverty
that create people who abdicate
responsibility for themselves and I want
to be cleared of course there's always
some individual choice and of course is
always individual agency what I argue
and what lots of people like me of argue
is that we overstate how much that can
change people's circumstances while
completely obscuring all of the
structural stuff there's like you said
one party who is just ideologically
opposed to the idea of a system or
structure and then on the other side
there's a party who has to sometimes
give lip service to it but that
increasingly feels the need because
they're chasing some mythical center
party you know Center voter feels the
need to double down on the idea of
personal responsibility so really don't
have a political party a major political
party that is dedicated to using very
precise language about some of the
horrible predatory behaviors that happen
to us in our system treci macmillan
cotton we author of lower IDI
the troubling rise of for-profit
colleges in the new economy and thick
and other essays I want to have you back
on after I read the thick I help you I
hope you'll make it I will do that i'ma
hold you to it effect yeah well I
appreciate that thank you so much for
joining us today really great great
stuff thank you thank you for having me
all right folks gonna take a quick break
heading to the fun half of the program
want to remind you again joy bird check
it out
joy bird comm slash majority joy bird
offers a one-of-a-kind furniture made
for your to your unique tastes you can
turn your ideas into reality with
hundreds of styles and options from
mid-century modern to contemporary
classics all of which are customizable
in an amazing array of fabric choices
including kid and pet friendly
upholstery options
see how joy bird is revolutionary
evolution izing online furniture
shopping create the furniture that
brings you joy today at joy Bird dot-com
slash majority go to joy bird dot-com
slash majority receive an exclusive
offer of 25% off your first order by
using the code majority just a reminder
this program relies on your support
it's our members who make this show
possible every day we get some
advertising not a tremendous amount
we're working on getting more we try but
when you become a member not only you
supporting the free show we give you
extra content every day you don't have
to you don't have to listen to it every
day you can listen to it one day a week
the extra content you can mix and match
I don't want to listen to the first half
of the show today well this is the
second half people do people sometimes I
just want to listen to the middle part
of the show and I have that option
because I have the first in the second
half plus it comes to you a commercial
free so check it out join the majority
report calm also just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
Michael last night was Tuesday I'm not
sure if you were aware of that but in
the event that you were what happened
drinks were had there was a major mess
in here that we sort of dealt with I
don't I don't uh I'm just kidding
none of that happened no Matt was that
wait did I miss out I was completely
oblivious to this Daniel Bester and I
talked about what a left-wing foreign
policy looks like
if say there's an example in a Sanders
presidency we touched on the
breakthrough of the Michelle Alexander
column on Palestine the launching of a
free Lula movement Cory pine on the RSS
BJP we connected that Tucker clip with a
broader history of MLK and Cohen cell
Pro a lot of stuff happened the postgame
for patrons I think we gave you the
right map for how to handle and respond
to the Harris candidacy and reminded
everybody of just what total trash Joe
Biden is patreon.com slash T mb/s get
your tickets to live show Jamie on the
Intifada so out today folks we have the
second ever edition of history as a
weapon featuring a special guest Matt
Chrisman of Chapo Trap House I can say
who it is now
and in this special episode Sean and
Matt go over why this question why of
all advanced capitalist countries is the
United States unique in its historical
failure to form a bonafide labor /
Socialist Party that is organically tied
to the union movement as an
institutionalized political expression
of working-class interests
the answer may surprise you hmm also
sorry what good also Sean and I went on
Alex protects weird anime podcast it's
called fallen out super we talked about
our childhoods anime and Marilyn Manson
so that was pretty weird if there's any
crossover between people into leftist
politics and anime I'm told that there
is check it out some reason I I laughed
when I said the anti Fattah because I
remembered Brandon Brandon Straka
[Music]
what is what is that thick that girl has
but she's with the Intifada
you're just a pathetically steamroll
rolling over his gotcha question yeah
anti Fattah and empty Fattah beauty man
he really could have reached from
lavender at any number of moments in
that range that was a disaster on
literary hangover the House of the Seven
Gables probably the best nathaniel
hawthorne novel it's about a corrupt
politician i also get into how the Whig
party was sort of a zombie version of
the Federalist Party that had to stop
being explicitly prohis II so maybe
there's some interesting parallels I
mean obviously the Democrats and Whigs
don't perfectly match up to modern
conservative or modern Democrats and
Republicans but there's some interesting
through lines other than I just got to
say no we're gonna go on the phone half
and we'll talk about this but like this
is happening really fast in Venezuela
the major military figure has just
affected who was head of Chavez's
presidential guard has defected to the
opposition and basically we're
encouraging the head of the assembly
this guy Guido to just say he's
president and affirm his presidency so
we're basically mid coup and Rokon is
the only Democrat in Congress so far to
criticize this I so we got to give props
to Roe for continuing to speak on these
types of issues I sorry I would I would
bet you that a full 80% of the members
of Congress don't even know it's how
aren't even aware of it I agree although
now they're starting to tweeted at
frankly so they're not gonna have that
excuse much longer si IVA Gallinger say
something about you know they're kind of
waiting on the us to basically announce
it so this could be who by a trump tweet
this could be literally a coup by a
Trump tweet definitely and this has been
coordinated with the ball scenario
regime and of course this is all coming
on the heels of confirmation that the
gang that killed Mary le Franco might be
literally in business relationships with
bowls and arrows family well coincidence
I'm sure it's a coincidence I'm sure
whatever it is it's good for
and and the I guess the the good news is
it doesn't look like we're gonna be
invading no until after we need to be
brought into for peacekeeping right
it's that basically the way that works
yeah we'll see um all of the problems
that are legitimate about Maduro are
gonna be worse by like a combination of
like cartel military defectors and US
backed austerity bots right like there's
nothing that's not gonna go what its
gonna be done in service of essentially
the IMF principles I am basically
getting us oil companies totally back
encumbered by the way then as well as
oil was made public well before Chavez
and his critique was not we're gonna
make the oil was not already not
privatized he just said we're gonna take
this public oil and distribute it for
health care and education and that's
what taking the cash we're gonna take
the cash from what is already a public
resource and invested in people and
that's gonna be first on the chopping
block with this yeah
so the suffering of the Venezuelan
people will not end but it will will
come for a greater good and that is to
enrich the the wealthiest in that
society and no longer you know a big
part of the problem has been essentially
the way that they the what was happening
with their currency and largely because
we had shut off their opportunities to
engage in the international finance
financial system and so you ended up
having a tremendous amount of I don't
know if I would call it corruption as
much as thievery because it opened up
the opportunity for people to steal
large amounts of money from the
Venezuelan government and from different
agencies so this will I you gotta wonder
if this will even make the news will
make Fox News because it will fit into
their narrative but III would be
surprised if there is more than three
seconds on this on TV cable here's an
angle Ava Gallinger just tweeted this
and this is very possible and this will
get it into the MSNBC matrix which is
it's possible right now that Venezuela
might have two governments one
recognized by Russia and China and
another recognized by the United States
so if there's some type of Russia angle
I can imagine it'll Russia Russia Russia
right it's possible I was like but it
won't fit then because if Russia if
according that narrative trumpet then I
have to be like Maduro is a great guy I
just got off the phone with Putin be
exact my mistake
you should be back in control of the
President Putin released me on this one
this is a vote I can write like I
understand a month world doctrine
imperialism right go for it go next one
how would I say a president Bernie deal
with this situation as a left
internationalist I could have already
stopped sanctioning members starting to
strangle the Venezuelan economy like
that would have been the first step I
mean he he easily could have been in a
position in fact a better position to
stop strangling the economy and say
actually I share a lot of your goals and
you need to stop messing up an x y&z and
I'll do direct aboveboard diplomacy
about it I mean that one would be easy
stop by interfering stop creating the
problems that yeah precisely what
concept all right we got a head into the
fine half six or six to five seven
thirty nine twenty is the number see you
in the fun half
you
you
we are back it's the fun half ladies and
gentlemen of the majority report hey do
we still have those AOC clips from
yesterday we have two of them and then
we have a new thing what happened to the
old ones well I got rid of one of the
Colbert ones cuz it was kind of flat and
I think I got rid of another one but we
how many times how much how much
promotion does Colbert need from us yeah
exactly
give me a break but we also have one
that's sort of Ryan Saavedra he's some
sort of fascist propagandist saying
here's aoc suggesting that algorithms
are racist but algorithms are math which
so I sub that one into for a new one oh
my god it is really all right let's
serve it freak out is taking something
that's like objectively true would be
like can you believe that
that's what ben shapiro does whenever a
ose talks about climate change - it's
ridiculous she sell irrelevant let me
just say that for the 15:30 debate me
you stupid Oh Dave Rubin the Dave Rubin
I've crossed the Dave Rubin line the
Rubin Conn I'm not allowed to I'm not
allowed to debate anybody I called
stupid that's rude that's Dave Rubin
line what is the Rubin Conn that's like
what did Ben Shapiro crecer Rubin Conn
when he said he wouldn't bake a cake or
his no I think he might have no no root
well Rubin gets to define the really
Dave Rubin will not debate somebody who
had an associate column stupid but he
will endlessly promote somebody who
won't recognize his relationship there
you go Galaxy Breen called from a to 0-6
area code who's this where he called
from hi I'm mrs. Priya and quantum
Seattle
Priya is that your name yes hi Priya
what's on your mind yeah um so I guess I
was calling because I've been listening
for a long time but I had to like take
us like a year off after Tom collected
because I was so upset
but like with politics in general but I
did I subscribe to you and cyc but I
actually unsubscribe for a while or like
I'm like so sometimes in my membership
because of jimmy dore cuz i was just
like so like aghast at his response and
all everybody thought once Trump got
elected he would come consensus or I
don't know like be like I'm wrong or
something like that but I was just
wondering if anyone has kind of brought
up to him or technically people who
still are trying to like still trying to
like go with the electability and like
oh you're forcing us into like voting
out of fear if anyone has really brought
up points as their privilege is kind of
taking over their common sense in this
like it's that it's a privilege
privileged position to be able to kind
of deny all the rights that are being
taken away or that are being you know or
all the hate that's being fomented and
stuff like that like he's saying that
you say it's a moral position to you
know have like you know like the perfect
candidate or whatever but he's not
looking at the immorality of like
everyone that's being hurt by it right
policy I mean let's be on if his if he
was Haitian and his his his son or his
dad or his mom or his sister was being
threatened with being sent back out of
the country to go back to you know a
place where maybe their house was
destroyed in an earthquake he would
probably have a slightly different sense
of this if he was you know it was a
federal worker might he might have a you
know a different I mean and everyone in
between right okay
yeah I mean it's been mentioned to him
let me just check in with my work life
at sorry yes democratic that's it that's
it inside joke that I'm not quite sure
where it comes from but it it's funny TV
oh it comes from a youtuber Oh Democrats
like with the whole Social Security and
you know how people unlike a alright
like quote unquote entitlements which
actually started out welfare but really
their Social Security Medicare Medicaid
whatever why do we go along with that
messaging well I don't I mean its social
insurance and and everybody pays into it
everybody gets it back out
Medicare is an extraordinary deal in
terms of what you put in and what you
get back out Social Security is a decent
deal you get back you know more or less
what you put back in with maybe a slight
bump in interest payments but it's there
for you at the end it should be expanded
but yeah why do some people do that I
don't know I don't do that but oh
because you know Republicans is it
George Bush that has was it Karl Rove
that had all the I can't remember the
messaging you know and like the talking
points and whatnot but why I mean
because Obama didn't wanted to do the
whole social security and like you know
the over like entitlement reform and
whatnot but it's like why why are we
even doing that and why are we going cuz
saying someone's entitled something like
we're not entitled be paid for it and
like you know Jenkins thank you her and
the TYT like kind of the the commercial
where he goes you know I'm dammit they
failed us we you know we paid for that
and they're taking they're stealing it
from us and we they talk about you know
the you know they're trying to
reallocate resources they're trying to
whatever it you know like transfer money
to the poor people whatever but it's
like really they're transferring it to
the top nobody really talks about that
like when they're reforming what we paid
for it they're also stealing it to give
it to big companies without a doughnut
hat you know yeah I don't know I don't
know I don't know how old you
I don't know if you remember Al Gore in
the 2000 election everybody was making
fun of him talking about the lockbox and
what he was basically saying is that we
have we have set aside we have borrowed
from the Social Security trust fund
cannot statutorily add to the deficit
it is its own funding mechanism that
runs in parallel to the rest of the US
government and we borrowed from the
Social Security trust fund and he wanted
to create a lockbox so that that money
that you cannot dip in to borrow from
that to pay for other things essentially
usually tax cuts for the US government
now despite the fact that there are io
u--'s there and George Bush in 2005 when
he was trying to privatize it said you
know I just went down to like some
basement with some file cabinet said no
money here just just pieces of paper
that say I owe you those are actually
promissory notes from the US government
we've never defaulted on those in the
entire history of the country and when
there's no reason to believe that we
would default on them now Isaac goos me
I'm trying this is yeah but Haitian
Jimmy Dore needs to happen Priya was
good to hear back from you thanks thanks
for calling in try as we can start the
soup remember that is better
then you had the evolution the
moon can fall into the the
port-au-prince such a Haitian hotel
that's awesome you could be flooded
again
you never know but you fear
no fear about this for me that's
why you are a salad did you say
it wasn't kappa ativy oh my god she's
being a surge of sugar in my blood when
I see her in bikini suit but she opposed
 war I said see the democracy is
a sellout that is a very strange
Haitian accent it's bad I'm sitting
there really gonna be not that you would
know what that I know I do and I do I do
well I'm gonna like - I do talk to
people's from Haiti before maybe are you
repeating what I'm saying people
listening broads it was I did for a
moment say like wow I don't remember
anybody from Haiti ever sounding like
that like people know that's like a
slight French one that's right and
people with no impression capacity
should not be critiquing improv excuse
me no no no you do Bush that wasn't
target well I'm just saying when it's
you have one proposition you have one
admission you have one in my sounds like
she I like what somebody said saw me
Chyna nobody somebody said unto discord
this character needs more work
preferably done on air every day all
right
ALC was on Colbert show the other night
and you know we alluded to this
yesterday but it is stunning that for
certainly at the very least I mean I
have been paying attention to politics
every day in a way that I think would
make most people physically ill for
almost look for 15 years and I cannot
all anyone on cable television
certainly not network television making
the point that the typical top marginal
tax rates from the 50s through really
until Reagan we're anywhere from 90 some
odd percent
- I think 70 75 percent and and that's
on the the top margin if you're making
what would be equivalent to about three
million dollars a year now and yet it is
all over the place now and here is a
network television show granted not a
new show it's on a on a talk show where
you'll hear it again I got I gotta get
into one policy issue with you here is
that you have proposed a 70 percent tax
on rich folks no I have no dog in this
fight I'm just curious what how would
that work
no and want to say here's one say yay
what some of the money's in the Cayman
Islands yes how would that work I so I
think this is something that we often
see too with Fox News it's like they
want to take all your money and when we
talk about a 70% marginal tax rate it's
not on all of your income it's on your
10 millionth and $1 so after you make 10
million dollars in one year your dollars
after that start to get progressively
taxed at a much higher rate and really
what that is is that it's the tax
interpretation of one answer to the
question of how much is at how at what
level are we really just living in
excess and what kind of society do we
want to live in and do we want to live
in a city for example do we want to live
in a city where billionaires have their
own personal uber helipads when people
so do we want these kind of you know
folks with helipads in the same city in
the same society as people who are
working 80-hour weeks and can't feed
their kids and these this this kind of
tax rate was the norm up until the early
eighties and why is it was this is not a
new idea in fact you know people are
yelling you know she's a socialist she
wants 70% marginal tax rates under
Republican President Dwight Eisenhower
we had 90 percent marginal tax rate well
I want to point out that she's a
socialist she wants senators and tax
rates those are both accurate right
[Laughter]
there you go
I mean that's I don't think if you six
weeks ago had lined up every news anchor
in television and asked them to explain
marginal top marginal tax rates that
they could explain it to you and now
people who watch late-night TV get it
well it also has a viral component too
like you could maybe have tried to
crowbar it into an interview but no
they're gonna be like we're gonna cut
this from the show obviously right I
mean the yeah the interesting thing was
like you never had conversations where
it would be appropriate to mention that
more often than not I mean certainly you
know maybe back when you're having
arguments about about you know tax cuts
but yeah it's super healthy for the
country this is something that the right
has done for a really long time when
they're trying to push the Overton
Window to the right right like they talk
about things that sound crazy first and
they just keep talking about them on
whatever platforms they have access to
until finally it becomes like a
mainstream acceptable position and
that's what she's doing on the left and
I think it's great i-i've told the story
before but Janeane Garofalo and I I I
think I was like hosting and she was
aghast sensibly and we were doing like a
comedy show like a talk it was supposed
to be a light thing at the Aspen ideas
festival and one of the guests was a New
York Times reporter I can't remember who
it was the other guests was Grover
Norquist Club for Growth and this was in
babe this is before I was doing this
version of the show so it was probably a
2010 2009 and I swear T it was supposed
to be a light thing wasn't videotaped
there's no video of it was it just going
there was maybe I don't know 200 people
300 people in the room and it was
supposed to be light
as much as I loathe a grover norquist I
was sort of interested to see you know
just like what this guy's like and he I
would ask him any question literally any
question and his response was public
sector workers are doing really well
with their pensions and it's unfair to
the rest of us
so he's workshopping his public sector
pensions material he was workshopping
and ice and and if you go back to 2009
start listening to Rush Limbaugh in 2010
they're pushing on this and then of
course it ultimately ends up with like
tax on these pensions and we saw public
sector workers I mean part of that
thrust was ended in the Janis case
frankly but yeah it's nice it's nice to
see this stuff being mainstreamed and
while we're talking about aoc explaining
to viewers of late-night TV on CBS
what marginal tax rates mean and
probably explain that to the vast
majority of of Americans probably maybe
even in the news department here she is
with Donna hasty coats and what was this
function I'm not exactly sure what this
was this is a at a MLK Day event MLK now
this was at the venue where MLK gave his
herself Riverside Church okay yeah it's
up at the Riverside shirt Church uptown
in in New York City and when we talk
about the and you don't hear this too
much just the idea of one person
hoarding the world's wealth and the
other day I think we reported 26 people
26 people it's the new Oxfam have more
wealth than 3.8 billion people in this
in there with contemplate this for a
moment
26 people we could fit 26 people in here
without and they
a problem we could I don't think we
could fit three thousand on the floor of
this building and to contemplate what
3.8 billion people is it's just absurd
there is no way that if you have any and
I generally don't talk in terms of
morals you know because I'm but there's
just no way that you can hold on to any
type of moral system and says and say
that makes sense that that's right no
it's like the Grand Canyon of inequality
it's yes what you hear by the way they
don't release that report each year
Oxfam does to illustrate this dynamic
and it's like each year it's
unbelievably obscene and each year it
gets worse and actually what this
represents - it represents a tremendous
amount of suffering that any one of
those 26 people could alleviate and or
that society could alleviate by not
allowing those 26 people to own that
type of wealth every billionaire as a
policy failure and that's without even
addressing the political implications of
that because I Got News for you those 26
bill and 26 people have far more
political power than those 3.8 billion
at this point because of the way that we
have structured things here is Donahey
see Coates speaking with AOC do you
think it is moral for individuals to for
instance do we live in a more world that
allows for billionaires is that a moral
outcome it's not it's not it's not
I think it's important to say that III
don't think it's not it that necessarily
means that all billionaires are immoral
it is not to say that someone like Bill
Gates for example or Warren Buffett are
immoral people I do not believe that but
I believe kicks his dog right yeah I
don't I don't I'm not saying that but I
do think a system that allows
billionaires to exist when there are
parts of Alabama or where people are
still getting ringworm because they
don't have access to public health is
wrong and I think it's it's wrong that I
think that it's wrong that that a vast
majority of the country does not make a
living rate wage I think it's wrong that
you can work a hundred hours and not
feed your kids I think it's wrong that
that corporations like Walmart can and
in Amazon can get paid they can get paid
for the five guck by the government
essentially experience a wealth transfer
from the public for paying people less
than a minimum wage
it not only doesn't make economic sense
but it doesn't make moral sense and it
doesn't make societal sense what's
stunning about like like these two clips
right with AOC on Colbert and and
sitting there with Tana hazy coats in
what looks like a has done like almost
like with a Broadway drop you know drop
back is that these ideas which were
considered so radical that you could not
you could not access them except for
like on a YouTube show are now in like
being released in the most mainstream of
contexts and that's what's so stunning
about all this is that not that anybody
saying these things that's great that's
she saying them but it's what's amazing
is that it's being said in calm tones on
highly produced sets broadcast out to
millions of people as if we were talking
about you know you know the way that on
a Sunday morning talk show like we must
go in and attack this nation or whatever
it is all right like it's all getting
like the idea that this has equal
billing to some of the worst ideas ever
is I think is extraordinary
and you know there's good had to be
somebody it was inevitable I think to a
certain extent with the context that was
going on I mean Bernie opened the door
to a lot of these conversations I mean
frankly occupy open the door to the to
the conversations about wealth and
equality in a way that we hadn't seen I
mean it was out there this show started
in in November of 2010 and I think the
first
guests that we had on when we started
having guests in November was
winner-take-all about that very dynamic
of wealth inequality but it wasn't in
the mainstream conversation until a year
later would occupy and you know one
thing builds on another so it had to be
somebody but certainly in terms of like
you know ALC is I think sort of busted
through just because she's incredibly
well spoken in telegenic and and then
come in this stuff is it's nuts it's
nuts
yeah it's the combination of her amazing
personality and poise and her good ideas
ideas that people really like alright
lastly let's just hear this last one
because the right wing it's fun to watch
them try and find anything and their
dream their desolates that ringworm
while she's bringing up ringworm why
would why would such an ugly term come
out of such a pretty mouth and she never
experienced socialism well this is the
thing is that you do get the sense that
the right is just not sure what to do
like like this guy Ryan asseverated now
I I saw that he yeah he's blocked me for
whatever reason I'm not sure why he's
quick on the block let's quick on the
block I I don't I've never heard of him
in my entire life I was using a creative
visualization exercise for his career
arc and he hit a couple of metrics and
he's like oh this is what I have to
dodge debate exactly at one point one
point theater may come after me so I'm
going to since it's like pre what is
that the pre car that is in a pre pre
car
pre pre block in free block Priya
pre-emptive I I don't want to look like
a totally he cling like steven crowder
or dave rubin here is the problem that
they have and i imagine that they
probably sit around the office and go is
just a good idea this makes sense
like are we doing are we doing are we
doing more harm than good
I mean at one point they have to ask
themselves because they're so desperate
to find something that is going to stick
and it's not and and every time they do
there's almost this like cellphone where
it's like oh wait a second that's an
interesting thing I should look into
socialist rep Alexandria Acacio cortez
claims that algorithms which are driven
by math a racist hmm does she really
let's hear you know IBM was creating
facial recognition technology to target
to do kind of crime profiling where you
see over and over again what it's face
time they always have these racial
inequities that get translated because
algorithms are still made by human
beings and those algorithms are still
pegged to those two basic human
assumptions and they're just automated
and automated assumptions it's like
you're autumn if you don't fix the bias
then you're automating the bias and that
gets even more dangerous
so really what this guy should be saying
is Socialists here it turned out
socialist it I'll fix this socialist rep
Alexandra Acacio Cortez explains to me
the very basic principle that your
outputs are a function of your inputs in
math and thus if you start with some
racially biased inputs into an algorithm
your output is necessarily going to be
racist I'm and here is a heceta no out
Navy I think you pronounce it um he has
fun some old tweets but Ryan Oh
complaining about algorithms and
algorithms that's funny
tech companies tend to be liberal and
something is off with their algorithms
because they won't show a lot of content
I find by manual search Wow breaking
they Facebook algorithm is targeting
Trump's page significantly more than
Democratic politicians most people get
their news on Facebook which allows
advertisers to target their customers in
certain zip codes
who's to say Facebook isn't altering
what news people see in specific voting
districts there needs to be open
oversight of Facebook's algorithms
operations and news distribution it's
just math right yeah they're literally
driven by math well that's you know
here's what is which is totally
different Ryan uh I don't want to burden
you and I'm sure if I haven't been
blocked that word he'll be blocked for
this but a couple years ago on this show
we interviewed an author called Cathy
O'Neil who wrote one of the best books I
think one of the most important books
kind of under the radar that Matthew
goes by math babe on twitter and it's
called weapons of mass destruction and
she explains how it's not only race it's
poverty and it affects everything from
policing employment home loans insurance
advertising that actually all of these
algorithms are driven by essentially
social hierarchy and a historical
bigoted and class structured inputs
which leads a really bad outcomes even
worse than uh you know stories about how
bad Donald Trump's skin tone looks on
Facebook but anybody so I would check it
out anybody who knows math knows that
your outputs are a function of your
input I don't know math because I stick
to the core brand of the show it's
better just to say math is on your side
than to actually know man exactly think
the math backs me up on this one
meanwhile there the obsession of the
right about AOC is stunning it is always
creepy to have Ben Stein comment on
anyone oh you serious who we got Ben
Stein out of the crit yes so remember
her the last time we heard from Ben
Stein he there's some controversy about
his approach toward women remind my my
forgetting that oh I'm gonna look that
up I think there was there was there was
some type of financial domination yeah
he made a whole show around that so is
he out today to thank you see for giving
another couple years in life expectancy
because he's so thirsty for new show
withhold Ben Stein's money
well little did those people know they
were all involved in his fiend on
fantasy here is here is a pin down Ben
Stein talking about ALC now how she's I
mean I guess she's what is it she's she
came shaming him by calling for a 70
percent marginal thanks there we go was
learning that I mean they've tried right
they try and Igor Chavez had all kinds
of promises just like Alexandria Cassio
Cortez Maduro had the same kind of
promises in fact and we're going to show
this a little bit later the former vice
president
delcie Rodriguez I say former because we
no longer recognize her regime there
with Maduro she'll sit there and tell
you with a straight face
was it wait a second I guess we should
just also add like apparently Fox got
the notice early fathers let me just say
I guess I mean I recognize Nancy Pelosi
is President there you go certainly new
editorial guidelines and I'm hosting
she'll sit there and tell you with a
straight face that Venezuela is the
model of the world despite the fact that
ninety percent the people live in
poverty Venezuela has figured it out I
just hope then we don't go through the
same kind of incarnations and challenges
that they have had to deal with it wind
somebody happened in the clip well that
was we did have the oh here we go
an education I mean we have a society we
got a real problem with Ben Stein it's
okay Ben Stein was so boring that he
actually ruined the algorithm because
the inputs were off the vents teen input
ruined the whole process education I
mean we have a society in which they're
an awful lot of people who have no idea
that Stalin Hitler Mao Zedong all came
to power promising the same kinds of
things that missile codes do Cortes is
promising and it led to mass murder led
to dictatorship and let the genocide
these promises are all promises and they
invariably
things the promise of just saying to
people do what you can within the law to
make your life better your family's life
better that system works extremely well
capitalism is a system that allows
people to make something of themselves
instead of oppressing other people it's
incredibly good sense of making money is
one of the most harmless thing series to
do in the whole world and that's what
it's not about ordering people around
putting them in concentration camps what
do you do if a person is a richer person
a poor person what you do you take him
away to shoot him well that was a
positive you know you could do you could
just tax him you could also just talk to
tax a lot of Stalin's purges though were
driven by disagreements on marginal
rates I love the fact that somehow we've
gone to seventy percent tax rate going
to a tax rate that was in existence just
prior to Ronald Reagan well it must have
been in existence during Reagan before
his tax overhaul is the functional
equivalent of concentration camps if Mao
was alive today he would be playing
Donkey Kong with H bomber as you support
transgender teenager as DHS is
requesting more beds absolutely yes but
the fact that these folks even have to
feel the need to defend capitalism right
now is so cool it means that they're on
the defensive well not only doesn't mean
they're on the defensive I think is also
great about is I think that they did
talk about like getting high on your own
supply they actually really thought that
when this stuff was actually put forward
that most people were on their side they
would just innately go oh well that's
crazy because you know Venezuela and
Hitler and now they're doing it and then
it's actually most people were like what
she's not I think she's talking about a
marginal tax rate that will get people
health care you lunatic I mean all the
war is over it's it's reminiscent on
some level of like when they used to say
like Obama practices Chicago style
politics and everybody above you know
like below the age of like 65 is just
like what what does that mean like pizza
or a random or in a smaller scale as I
always say I guess you got to give them
props now for universal daycare and
health
here in NYC proposal but the coolest
thing about DeBlasio when he's running
for mayor was like okay he ran as the
liberal against centrist who's already
the pic and then the New York Post tried
to make a whole life he would hung out
the Sandinistas an eighties I was like
oh okay if big goofy Bienstock you might
be a lot cooler than I thought well it's
like what Jamie said about the Cold War
they're really operating with the sort
of Cold War training wheels all right
arguments right now those aren't doesn't
work on people anymore that strong
emphasis on training wheels just just in
defense of Ben Stein this is the only
way he's gonna get on TV again though is
if he says stuff like she's basically
advocating concentration camps yeah he
should only be on TV for like Ferris
Bueller's Day Off like repay it was
thirty years ago this movie came out
calling from a 607 area code who's this
where you come from
607 p.m. hey my name is Dan I'm calling
from a cow country New York cow country
New York hi Dan what's on your mind well
I'm just wondering if you guys have any
thoughts on the Elizabeth Warren
candidacy and you can either talk me off
my cynics ledge or reinforce my deepest
darkest fears because I feel like it
came along at just the right time to try
to maybe suck some wind out of the hole
AOC fandom going on well I I think I
mean III have thoughts on her candidacy
but I will say this that you know Warren
people were there were a lot of people
who thought that she might run in 2016
so this is not this is not coming out of
the blue I I'm quite sure that Bernie
Sanders was waiting before he entered
the race in 2016 to see what Warren was
doing so I I think there may be people
who are excited about a Warren candidacy
because they do see it as a way of you
know foreclosing maybe a bernie run or
you know but I don't I don't I don't
think that her candidates
is a function in any way of the some
forces trying to steal the Thunder from
AOC
it's like now and Joanne well no no I'll
think of a don't necessarily mean right
I don't necessarily mean steal asunder
from ALC but I mean as a Bernie
prophylactic oh well I don't listen I
also I think she may be being used in
that way by some people they some people
may see her that way but she's she's not
running to be a bernie prophylactic
there's no doubt in my mind I mean I
think she's very sincere with her
politics and again Bernie was waiting in
2016 to see if she was gonna run and if
she was going if she had run he would
not have are you saying you think that
she's specifically a candidate of like
some type of you know sort of interests
in the Democratic Party that want to
undermine people like Bernie and aoc is
that what you're saying well I'm saying
that I I believe that she is I think
sincere because she has been saying the
right things for a long time but I'm not
sure how much he's actually willing to
do and I do think that he would be the
perfect shiny bauble to dangle out to
sort of draw people over to a candidate
who may never actually be able to get
some of the things done I mean look I
I think she's incredibly competent and I
don't know what Bernie's going to do in
terms of entering the race but if if if
if our worst-case scenario is that
Elizabeth Warren is president we're in
great shape
yeah if the right wing of the party were
trying to find someone to be a Bernie
prophylactic it would be someone to the
right of Warren I would say like a
Kamala Harris type they would only get
more if it seemed like the only other
choice was Bernie right I think though
that these people aren't unintelligent
they know that people who really want a
progressive agenda aren't going to fall
for a Cory Booker or a Kamala Harris I
would be sad but he's put up with them
too much credit
look I don't know I know I'm not sure
how much legs warns it has but I don't
think I don't buy a sort of conspiracy
about why she's running yeah I agree I
appreciate the call I'll let me I'll
remind you this and I think you you
spoke to the guy right there was a
reporter from Politico who called me in
twenty-fifty remember that you spoke to
him yeah but didn't you give me the the
yeah I think the guy's name I can't
remember I don't remember it was a
reporter from Politico called me in
early 2015 and he said I'm doing a story
on Martin O'Malley and the angle is he's
trying to figure out how to get steel
the progressive Thunder from Elizabeth
Warren and I was like Elizabeth Warren
she's not even running he's gonna worry
about Bernie and the guy I promise you
laughed and I'm like I'm serious Bernie
is Bernie is what Martin O'Malley should
be worried about not Elizabeth Warren
that's how clueless they were well that
tells you two things one it tells you
how how much sentiment there was out
there that Elizabeth Warren could run
and genuinely challenge Clinton and two
that's how clueless they were to the
appeal that Bernie had in the in that
sector totally and I think that you know
there might be I think it's actually
tricky for her because the map is so
different now but I actually think like
even like I don't necessarily think
cynically of the Obama people that have
signed on with her because I think there
are some people in that orbit that our
Center left and the proper definition of
that word and they would find a
candidate like her pretty appealing well
they also know in front how effective
she was at it and they said and and if
you go back actually to some of the
things definitely not all of the things
but some of the things Obama talked
about in oh seven now he was reading
Elizabeth Warren he was actually talking
about these things so there are people
in his orbit obviously pointed her but
she was definitely fighting a lot of bad
against the dominant economic team but I
think there's people around her that you
know they're not as left as Bernie they
don't have a sort of robust of politics
but on the other hand they're not beta
or Biden people they're center-left and
she represents that uh let's go to the
phones calling from a four seven eight
area code who's this where you come from
Sam some parts I'm just known as awesome
Bob from the county cab of course call
me Jeff and Jeff in Georgia how are you
Jeff are we gonna see you in a week or
so yeah man I'm super except this week
next Thursday I'm I'm all right
LaGuardia is that morning it's amazing
well being we'll be in touch and we'll
get you into the studio yeah absolutely
kind of jump o joking about your
performance I was you have me on hold
ninety minutes yesterday you didn't even
say my name I know you know that was me
my there's honestly like today 29 people
on the line and I there's no way I can
raise all those area codes I try to be
quick because I really just have like
one sec Edie I freakin love your guests
i frickin love your interview I really
did uh I really like asking a lot of
material analysis about how this extra
slack sprung up I want to talk a little
bit about student loan debt generally
speaking I went to a public university
of course I do hold a bachelor's degree
but III do still have student debt not
not as much son but you know some and
almost everyone I know my age does uh
and what's insidious about it to me is
you know I'm thirty obviously for this
year I I grew up you know everyone told
me my grandparents on both sides my mom
my dad all my friends all my teachers
you know you go to school you try hard
that's the only way for using a
politician's talk you know about poverty
on the Democrat Harry focus are there's
huge consensus the answer is education
right now some of them want a mouth
about technical colleges and two-year
degrees or trade schools or
apprenticeships where they put it but
it's also in sauce to education right
but what what breaks my heart is I
really want to believe that knowledge is
don't war that education is you know its
own treasure and that my education
experiences may be Who I am that's and
that's great I wish you know I like to
like Who I am that would be good and I
think most people feel the same but I
feel like this is a trap I do because I
feel like a lot of my education helps
with you for me and a lot of people my
age it hasn't gotten us to life that we
wanted right yeah and not all of us are
cut out to be good in school I was good
at school but you know what a lot of
people are not even talking about but
look I think listen I think there is
value to going to college that is not
one that can be measured in terms of
return on investment that comes in
dollars but with that said I think the I
think it's also the case that that that
return on investment may not be worth
the cost of essentially what we you know
some form of indentured servitude to the
bank that lent you the money and
therefore as a society we should be
providing that experience for free
because the return on investment frankly
I think has as much of a return and
maybe more so to society at large than
it does the individual like I think like
the idea of college broadly speaking for
as many people as we can have go in
terms of them being exposed to an array
of new ideas right where we have people
who are exposed to new ideas as a
citizenship not not even like being
taught civics necessarily but just the
idea that people are going to college
and you're going to be exposed
new ideas and I think that's important
for your population the main reason you
go to school
I think you mean you go to learn but you
also go to be socialized is there any
education that Professor that will tell
you it that's through the primary
function of schooling in in this country
at least I'll just throw out one more
thing you know we talked on this show I
know and a little bit of the Democratic
Party not as good I like about three
college it's suit load for goodness
they'd be great I would love to throw
out there uh you know if this uh this is
such a great societal good as you say it
I absolutely agree we shall be paying
these students just just to study you
should be able to afford to go to school
full time live a decent life not have to
worry about doing a job on the side I'd
say that yeah I mean our majority for
Alex gets more people yeah I've done now
Jeff from Georgia folks Jeff is so wise
we don't like this is the problem with
no drop this the problem with this
prevailing neoliberal approach to policy
like if you can't talk about something
in dollars and cents
it doesn't deserve to exist so you know
they still insist that education is the
answer to like raising wages fixing
economic problems blah blah blah we know
that that's not true like people have a
right to an education because they have
a right to an education and when you
talk about it in that way it puts it in
a totally different paradigm yeah and I
think it's just frankly it just benefits
society to have an educated population
like just not even you know like
economically sure but just in terms of
like citizen yeah well that has no value
under capitalism like its value is zero
it used to its value to human beings is
real
my answer is education education
education well there's and democracy in
Chains Nancy McClean quotes Milton
Friedman being like these kids these
college kids in the 70s it getting out
of hand we need to have make
some skin in the game right right that's
right
that that was the key right I mean there
was a lot of Tom Hartman one of his
books I can't remember what it is talked
about this that you there was such
economic stability and security
amongst the middle class in the 60s that
the idea that you could go out and get
arrested for protesting fine I'll just
then I'll go find another you know find
a job like none of this there was no
there there was no sense of like to the
extent that there were consequences the
consequences were not you're going to be
punished economically by society and
that scared a lot of people that you
know in the Greenspan hinted at that too
to a certain extent not so much in terms
of social control but he said that as a
member of the Fed a part of their job
was to create a certain amount of
economic insecurity so the markets
worked more efficiently as it were so
I'm good you can't solve market problems
with market solutions here is the here
is a different show than ours apparently
one that is now is this on TV is this
the HBO version of the show or is this I
don't know because I know they have an
HBO show and I wonder if this is just
their this just must be their podcast
set I used to listen for impressions but
I haven't come the only thing was a good
signal here yeah all right so let's uh
this is sort of interesting
Kristin Gillibrand goes on to the wrong
show after announcing that she's gonna
run for president in terms of what she
wants you know greater exposure and
whatnot and here is one of the hosts Jon
Favreau and not to be confused with Jon
Lovitz who's like the comedy guy right
yeah fabrics really funny he's very
not to be confused with the other jon
favreau well i thought was the same
person for a long time that other Johnny
the guy was a guy ran o's where he
played a film director that's right yeah
that guy that I took food for about I
don't know 150 bucks one night poker
what happened why did you stop your run
did he spray some lavender no I just
there was only we only played one game
played one night anyways the jon favreau
whose money I did not take at a game of
poker interviewing senator Kirsten
Gillibrand and good for him for asking
some rather pointed questions at best
you as president would have a Democratic
majority in the House and a narrow
Senate majority certainly not 60 votes
right after this election so there are
no Senate Republicans in favor of
Medicare for all
probably very few in favor of a big
program like green new deal or something
like that as president would you push
hopefully Majority Leader Chuck Schumer
to get rid of the filibuster so you can
pass something like Medicare for all or
a green new deal the filibuster is
mostly gone no I think well yeah that's
why I'm sort of thinking like it barely
exists it barely exists there's pretty
much a 51 vote threshold now for
everything right the only part we had
left in place was for Supreme Court
justices and maybe just took that away
so I think it's useful to bring people
together and I don't mind that you have
to get 60 votes for cloture because
you're trying to get people to a point
where and that's a that's a term of art
from your listeners it just means that
you're done with debate and so you will
urge people to have at least 60 votes to
say we're done with debate that's not an
unreasonable goal because if people
don't feel like you're done with debate
and that they haven't been heard enough
maybe you should debate a little more
and I think government only works when
people who care deeply stand up and
fight for what they believe in and I
know how important their voices are and
so if you're not able
to get 60 votes on something it just
means you haven't worked hard not
talking to enough people and trying to
listen to their concerns and then coming
up with a solution that they can support
so I'm not afraid of it one way or the
other
but you'd be oh you'd be open to getting
rid of it for something big like
Medicare I don't think we should have
gotten rid of it for the Supreme Court
justices because their lifetime
appointments and I do think you should
be able to earn at least 60 votes yeah
but you know think about it I you know I
can I believe I can work well under
either system because if you don't have
60 votes yet it just means you haven't
done enough advocacy and you need to
work a lot harder alright I gotta say
look that that's bad that's bad this is
a question that US senators have had to
wrestle with for at least five years
right because there was a lot of
pressure on Harry Reid to get rid of the
filibuster because the Republicans were
stopping every judicial nomination that
Barack Obama had they were also not Nam
they were also not confirming the
executive positions the cabinet
positions they refused to do it they
refused to do it
so Harry Reid got rid of the filibuster
he didn't do it alone he did it with the
Democrats but they get rid of the
filibuster for those things Mitch
McConnell got rid of the filibuster for
the Supreme Court
and what remains is the filibuster for
legislation if and I don't think that's
unreasonable for a senator to say like
there needs to be time for debate that
is a very important aspect people need
to be heard I think that's perfectly
legitimate which is why if that was your
concern and it was your closely-held
thoughtful belief then you would have a
proposal that would be in the forefront
of your mind because one of the biggest
issues that you face in the context of
the process in the Senate that would go
something like this
I favor a plan where you you need 60
votes to shut down debate for the first
48 hours
and after 48 hours automatically you
know it goes down to 50 you can do that
you could do that
it is incredibly undemocratic the
filibuster the Senate is already a
horribly undemocratic institution okay
there is no reason with all due respect
to Matt why his senators from North
Dakota should have the same power as
senators from New York State who have
millions more people I had they
represent um kuva and the filibuster is
even more undemocratic his stopped every
every attempt to move this country
forward in terms of progress that we
have seen undoubtedly we would get bad
legislation under a Republican Senate
but the fact is the reason why people
don't want to get rid of the filibuster
is twofold
it's either one their institutionalists
which is I mean a really unreasonable
thing to be in this day and it exactly
it's absurd you cannot you cannot Harry
Reid just you know the other day had an
interview where he said basically the
Senate's gone the Senate is not what it
was it's not coming back it's done it's
been blown up if you're a Senate
institutionalists you are it's time for
you to give up the ghost and the other
reason why you do that is because you
don't want the Senate to be responsive
to the people it's because you do not
want this desire for medicare-for-all or
for increased Social Security payments
or for free college all these things
pull very well you do not want these
things to happen and you want to be able
to rely on the other party to give you
the fig leaf so that you can go back to
your people and say good and do it
sickly in Gillibrand case
I mean I think this is very appropriate
to remind everybody that a couple of
weeks ago she was making the final Wall
Street rounds before she announced I I
think you know I think especially in the
interim period before this started going
it was very useful to give people props
for going in the right direction and
embracing things like Medicare for all
but as the rubber hits the road and
that's a great example of the rubber
hitting the road right like you clearly
are not committed to this agenda you
clearly do not have the political
commitments be and incidentally even
like in terms of the fear of Republicans
theoretically if the Democrats actually
did implement an agenda like this this
might mean that the Democrats are in
control for a significantly long longer
period of time well then people have
health care people delivered on these
promises then there would be without a
doubt a different electoral landscape
not even making that argument oh she's
just she's not even she doesn't even
have her spin well planned let me just
say I mean I said this the other day and
maybe I should stipulate I know there's
some people that were not even gonna
cover probably who have gotten in the
race like I guess that Delaney guy or
something but of the mainline candidates
of the people at profile Gillibrand is
the first one that's out there's no
there's no reason for this candidacy
well I think she's gonna be out pretty
quick she's the one who's supposedly
like pandering to the left by pivoting
on all these issues to be more
progressive and like oh I guess we
should say that that's good you know
give her props for it but yeah like
Michael said uh this is not sincere and
she's really bad at it if that's what
she's trying to do if she's trying to
pander to progressives right now like
what is she doing she's still talking
about the Republican Party like they're
not a homicidal death cult that needs to
be checked every chance we get
I also think I also think if you're
going on pod save America and you're
you're you're explaining to people what
cloture is you're not quite aware of
where you are you're not yeah and that
and precise and that's like exactly
where you should be aware of where you
are cuz that's your home that to me
exactly you're that to me suggest maybe
not the best campaign you know
infrastructure that's another advantage
for Kamala Harris I think because one of
the things that I've noticed that I
actually think is really smart that she
did out of the gate is I think it's
actually I mean it goes without saying
it's not my politics at all but I think
she she grabbed medicare-for-all which i
think is gonna become I mean whether
they'll follow through in off as a whole
third question but I think that's gonna
basically become like a democratic I
think that will be a litmus test but
she's everything else she went on was
like Clinton 1992 class tax cuts and
that is so smart to say basically like
it's a combination of bio health care
and an appeal to a center-left
constituency that actually still really
exists and Christian Gillibrand has done
all of these moves to try to be like a
full progressive which she just is not
the case and it can crumble like that
right on one question because it's not
coherent to her at all
Harris is gonna have to write all much
more adaptability yeah Harris is
definitely the one to beat at this point
I think and the one that the
establishment is going to rally behind
yeah it's I will just caution it's early
and who knows I only can tell you that
in 2015 we did that to remember that
Hayes had that rotisserie candidate
thing yes and I got it was a it was on
air and it was like a game because
people were just laughing like the
Republicans are gonna lose and this is
way before Trump add to the race and I
had gotten just by the you know picking
off a board not even seeing it was all
hidden like I had Jeb Bush Mitt Romney I
can't remember with two or three others
it was like a complete I was like I was
I was so convinced I was gonna win there
was no money involved but I felt like
you know I felt like there was in my own
mind and it obviously none of that
worked out I think I had Scott Walker -
who was the sleeper at the time
it turned out literally the sleeper if
he ever for some crazy and sane reason
is able to become president like Shawn
and I are actually going to move to
Mexico because his Union will be a thing
of the past
Scott Walker I think he's done and thank
you guys I hope orderly said that's yeah
this is a great clip of Reverend William
barber and oh this is incredible I could
vote for this guy for president finds
exactly what we said last night
why can't he run yeah I mean this is and
the beauty is like this is a guy who
understands a where his power comes from
and B how much he has and he's going to
use exactly as much of that power as he
can without losing it I mean that's
what's what is that is what makes such a
powerful leader is where no he's not
putting he's not saving any of this and
that's why he's so successful in these
moments there's no reason why he has to
be there right there's no reason why
he's on he's at the Tennessee State
University on that stage with the
Tennessee governor and a couple of
Congress people I guess the reason like
he they didn't have to invite him no I
was eating from Tennessee's from North
Carolina but he has become such an
important figure and he's gonna use that
power to basically just shame these
people and this is pretty amazing so
politicians know positive one say I
should just say that he's there
obviously he was speaking this is on
Monday and it was a celebration of
Martin Luther King's
life so politicians can't say they love
dr. King and how he stood for love and
unity but then you deny refused to
support his agenda right government I
[Applause]
mean since you came
right congressman so let me show you
what I mean governor
dr. King would not have been for a wall
and herded how many of y'all are not
against a wall everybody here is not
against a wall politician everybody and
will tell dollar truck you don't need to
be building the wall to separate people
we need to be spending money to get me
by health care stand on your feet now
anybody that doesn't stand on your feet
you get to see to have what Teddy
Roosevelt a Republican ask for a hundred
years ago you may be seated
I'm just saying I'm too old to play now
[Applause]
and preachers don't just think I'm
talking to politician just because you
can talk about it from the pulpit but
then you up you I'm gonna say it like I
feel it they can find you for your
pastors anniversary but they can't find
you in the street with these students
and these other folks fighting for
justice
[Applause]
if you are a preacher of the gospel and
you are asking your people to tithe but
you are not fighting for them to have a
living way you are lying that guy's
amazing
where do I write well that's another
argument against all that wack New
Atheism nonsense
no no MLK was in favor of getting more
black CEOs at fortune 500 companies and
that was that was it right that was the
point I want to see about a 13 percent
ratio on the Apple board
it's commensurate with our population
I'm going that's achieved ands a rap I'm
gonna make a prediction and that is that
Governor Bill Lee will never go on a
stage again with William barber for the
rest of his life I appreciated what he
was saying but I thought it was very
uncivil you know President Trump is
pausing the whole discorso rules so rude
so on one hand you have Steve King being
unfortunate in his rhetoric within
Rashidah to live using a profanity and
by the way I'm no support of a president
Trump but you can't speak that way so
important so yeah the Democrats be the
party of not being stupid you got a lot
be stupid and you got to think not only
who will feel your love tank who looks
at me and bill kristol
[Laughter]
I'll see you in the fall o'clock block
as well thank you Andrea Mitchell still
girls apparently Joe Rogan is had an
interviewed Barry Weiss
oh yeah and boy oh boy you know like
again Joe Rogan's podcast very very
popular incidentally I'm usually popular
animal positive it seems like she
actually convinced him I think to have a
OC on I was all right working on it that
I believe that
that'll be good that'll be very good but
you know and I and I'll be honest I
haven't watched the whole thing I don't
know that I could watch the whole thing
with Barry Weiss but here's an instance
where a New York Times columnist just
simply validates something based upon
what Joe Rogan says and Joe Rogan
validates it because somebody sent it to
him on the Internet again you know you
have hundreds of thousands of people
watching you really if you have I mean
from my perspective like you know two
thousand people a thousand people five
hundred people you have a responsibility
just if you're gonna impart information
to do some measure of due diligence and
I tell this to all of my elderly
relatives who hear something and they
get it in an email and they email me
like is this true and I got this from my
in-laws and and everybody and I just say
Google this for EUCOM exactly what you
do is you just take if you get an email
from somebody and it seems a little bit
wacko like do you remember when when you
know John Kennedy said the following
that like taxes were bad and this and
that and as social justice warriors
you're gonna ruin the country you take a
phrase and you google it because more
often than not it's gonna lead you to
the truth here is Joe Rogan not having
done that behind this errs and there's
no understanding your mind right I don't
think they do understand their
implications when you have a spectrum
right the far right and the far left
they have a very similar reaction as
they drive a person to the other side
the person that sees the far right and
sees repulsive racism and and bigotry
that did you know build that wall
these Mexicans those little kids
they should have known better they're
all illegals that kind of person that
pushes people towards progressivism it
pushes people towards much more liberal
even socialist ideologies like that
gross Ness part influence I said now I
you know what's fascinating about this
and this a little bit off
topic of this clip is just that I don't
I don't think that's the case frankly on
the left
I don't think a a socialist or a
progressive perspective comes from
seeing bigotry because I think you know
largely it's a it's a I don't think
people are reacting to bigotry and they
become more left I mean I think thank
you so I think a little icon I think
that's true on the right I think I'm the
right when people get uncomfortable with
with the sort of like broader inclusion
and it threatens their social status
I think they move to the right I think
you're right about that I'm not gonna
debate that but where I think you're not
entirely right is I think that he's
speaking in a way in fact look he's
literally self diagnosing himself right
when he plays a clip if you stand him as
like the average centrist wherever we
went to find him
if you throw him clips of what's
happening with ice or somebody saying
something obscene about detained people
he goes to the right place and he's like
that's disgusting we played that clip of
him saying you're not on trying him
right right I think there's a lot of
normal people who actually whatever you
want to call it progressive liberal
socialist wherever I think they actually
do react very strongly against that's
different no that's what he's saying no
no that's what he said no he's saying it
pushes you to the left and I don't think
that what he was doing there was being
pushed to the left I think he was just
simply saying a wait trump and you
people you're not on the tee you not on
going by the modern definition that
would put him in the left I mean I can
get pedantic I don't think you adopt an
ideology on the Left a you know a a
progressive ideology you may become you
know more attuned to you know racism and
whatnot but that doesn't necessarily
mean you move to the left right I mean
you know why I think I think in the
parlance he's using it yes it does mean
you
to some sort of left and I do think that
there are people all right well whatever
I mean whatever it's getting pedantic
but I think that there's something to
what he's saying that's actually
relevant for us to learn for him frankly
maybe people towards progressivism it
pushes people towards much more liberal
even socialist ideologies like that
gross Ness and the same thing could be
said for someone like I'm gonna send you
something Jaime this is a real poster
that auntie feh is sending they were
putting on on wall on walls and and
fence posts and in the Pacific
Northwest and it's actually kind of
hilarious because it's so stupid I see
it I'm gonna send a jam Jamie's gonna
put it up on the screen here but uh it
it says oops wrong wrong Jamie sorry
Jamie kills Dean I just sent it it says
when you date a white it's not alright
and it's like it's telling people to not
date white people see the propagation of
whites is propagation of hatred and
homophobia sexism transphobia racism and
ableism now if I was so are we supposed
to get sterilized white people there it
is we can see it up on the big screen so
it's even cruel that's large but see
this this is the thing racism is racism
is terrible right so how do you stop
racism well racism is can only be
perpetrated by white people oh well the
problem is white people we gotta stop
white people
well now you're racist like you're
literally being racist to stop is this
really everywhere I've never thought
well there people are finding it and
posting it online just one right
do you someway the print but the person
exists right right except for the person
doesn't exist because it turns out I
mean it could be one person it's
probably it's probably someone who wrote
that you know when we say left is best I
don't know if people remember where that
came from
but it was a graffiti that was written I
think and somewhere in Connecticut
Connecticut at one point that one town
right it was in your hometown yeah and
it turned out by some right-wingers who
wanted to make it look like about was
sort of a
little bit ham yesterda let's play on
that playground oh wow I didn't want to
make it look like like these leftists
were ruining the playground did an tyfa
and that's how he he introduced it right
put up this poster in seattle this is
yes sorry we might have gone a little
overboard on that one
this is Snopes and this is a two year
old incidentally it was two years ago
this hoax was up there on December 5th
216 a photograph purportedly showing a
poster warning against the propagation
of whites was published to the website
in murder this is this is uh like weeks
after the election right when in fact
the left is best thing happened I think
if I'm not mistaken it was around that
exact same time and the the local Anti
Fog to the extent that there was you
know a an organized Anti Fog group and
yeah I imagine that would have been they
said UK it's signed by Emerald City an
tyfa there and if you go down keep going
like she decided they posted to on
December 6 2016 mmm rolled city and if I
posted a Facebook message saying they
had nothing to do with either the
creation or the distribution that poster
it also respond to several comments
explaining that the message expressed in
the poster was not in line with their
views so clearly somebody was pretending
to be them so this is this all I would
say is like look and I didn't watch the
whole Barry Weiss thing but if you have
if you do this just do like take some
just feel the responsibility of what
you're doing
specialist like dude you could totally
find I'm sure some really stupid
examples of the kind of things you're
looking for that are real from Twitter
or wherever else and if you really want
to I mean I feel time choices or
politics in and of themselves but is
that really what you think is so
important to spend time on it find a
real one but God said right exactly
I mean manure in America Silent Night is
sung without mentioning Jesus and that's
why
there's a war on Christmas but but but
honestly there's no for real I mean most
of the merry Weiss I think yeah the New
York Times columnist for crisis right
and and I would say this and I don't
know where he was going with this but to
equate the implications of something
like that poster with the institutional
and systemic racism we have in this
country they're not the same things the
power makes a difference the and the the
power dynamic means everything and to
put it in terms of fighting right you
could say well they're both fighters one
of them weighs 90 pounds and the other
weighs 230 pounds but they're both
fighting both fighters when the black
Israelites who it's one of the greatest
things that happened out of this whole
story in DC is more people finding out
who they are which I really appreciate
in terms of my comedic base but I like
but if you live in on New York or
something they're nothing new to you and
they actually you know what look they
they they're hateful and they yell a bad
 there they trigger white people and
if I walk by them and they call me like
a devil and they're particularly upset
but you know I has zero implications for
my life it makes no difference it has no
interaction I'm going to have with a
bank or a cop or anything and so you
could just generically say like you know
yeah I think nobody should be involved
and um you know cults that are hateful
I I sure as a generic proposition I
agree with that but that has there's
zero stakes it doesn't mean a
thing well for me the stakes are I get
exposed to new ideas if they found a
poster that was real like they do this
all the time and this is their bad faith
sophistry because you're supposed to
argue against your opponents strongest
point steel man they regularly in
addition to just pure
 straw man arguments they this is
why they're so obsessed with college
campuses because they want to argue
against children on their way to class
whose politics are not fully formed yet
well what the is it still mad about
why people should have kids I don't
think I don't think there is something
necessarily wrong with the pulling out
of one example if you have if your
argument is this is where it germinates
in the hat and that's how it extends
like you know back in the day on on air
america i would do a story about some
you know a lunatic in indiana who is
introducing legislation to say like you
know fetuses should have the same rights
as a human being you know as people
howard well wait a sec but but but you
know your back bencher in the state
legislature you don't have the power and
that they put it up for a vote and it
loses you know whatever 50 to one but
the fact of the matter that guy it turns
out to be like you know the vice
president ten years later there is a
track record of those ideas progressing
and within the context of of the
republican party if someone could show
where you know this idea like how this
is going to jump outside of the narrow
colleges a the narrow colleges that it
exists in be that it's actually even
taking place in colleges more broadly
speaking right I mean I can't remember
who wasn't made the point of you can
talk about ben shapiro is not allowed to
speak at you know some college up in you
know upstate new york but then he goes
on to the next 1000 colleges he's going
to go that was um well that was for
charles murray eddie cloud made them
yeah yeah exactly out yeah like charles
murray god protests it away Middlebury
that maybe was excessive and then he
went the next day to another to Columbia
we many more RC college and went
right promoted racism and social
Darwinism and uninterrupted right and if
you complain that your you know there
are certain audiences that don't think
your stuff is you know funny anymore
let's say like well then okay go to a
different room you know I didn't you
play at a Chinese restaurant on Route
one outside of Boston there there's no
there's no one you can go and complain
to that they didn't like the fact that I
made literary references what's not
allow you told me it would when all of
the extreme examples of the left that
they can find are either made up or like
come from college kids well yeah because
there's a there's there none of those
you know you can find immense rights
activist who is denying the existence of
date-rape online and then all of a
sudden two years later he's pictured in
the White House and getting retweeted by
Donald Trump jr.
I mean that's that's real the you know
AOC is up there and all she's talking
about is a marginal tax rate twenty
percent less then a Republican president
had in nineteen fifty he's not up there
talking about you know walking around
with um you know people who are talking
about X appropriating you know people's
uh BMWs or something
yeah and people like Barry Weiss need
there to be extremists out there so that
they can stay in quote-unquote the
middle even though I think her politics
are actually very reactionary yes in
many ways she wants to she wants to come
off like the reasonable person and she
wants to have her opinions legitimized
in mainstream outlets because that's the
other thing about them and also why
they're so obsessed with college is
because they're all a bunch of little
 hand razors the I the the IDW is
completely reactionary it is completely
reaction he is selling a a power
structure a vision of what the world
should be which
is virtually identical to the way that
it's been for years it has been
oppressive of various numbers of people
for centuries in some instances and they
are packaging it as if it is new unheard
of taboo ideas and it's not it's the
same the it's literally your
grandfather's IDW it's literally your
grandfather's ID double then there's a
reason why your Grandpa's wore hoods at
the time because they also are in the
IDW but then they play the game of like
oh I'm I'm liberal on social issues in
the US while supporting you know like a
white ethnos day it's abroad well yeah
and I think it's also just sort of like
this I'm liberal not you're not liberal
you're just completely in the mainstream
you want to smoke weed and not pay taxes
right it doesn't make you terribly
liberal but you know I'm sorry the idea
of saying like I you know people don't
say I am NOT against black people
marrying white people therefore I'm
liberal people are not going to be you
know saying I'm gay as a credential for
being liberal in another 10 or 15 years
it's just not going to it's just not
gonna stick it's gonna mean like oh you
mean you're not a total a-hole for being
against gay marriage you're not some
type of retrograde dave rubin
might still be trying it people don't
say like i'm liberal because i believe
the world is round i believe in the
heliocentric theories I'm a classical
liberal alright I think we're gonna have
to yeah it's we're running too late I'm
sorry I get time for one more phone call
I got a bunch of people have been on the
line for over Wow over 80 minutes just
gonna take the next one 804 you come
from an 804 area code who's this where
you come from
hey Dan this is will how are you I'm
actually from Virginia will from
Virginia what son I want to talk to you
about some of the stuff that's been
happening at the General Assembly and
Virginia it's been really interesting
all right first of all Persian quick
person okay so I guess that the most
relevant thing is going to be on coming
up Monday there's going to be a huge
teachers walkout that's pretty much
going to be every teacher from every
school in the state or like I don't know
you know if all of them are going to be
there but it's going to be a statewide
marches as far as I know and I know
Randy Weingarten is going to be there
and well I think RNA ne8 the head of RNA
in Virginia is going to be there okay
maybe pretty cool and when's this
happening
wow that's pretty big that could be
timed Denver teachers could end up
striking around that time as well
they've just voted to authorize yeah and
actually we're not the teachers aren't
allowed to strike in Virginia because
it's one of those it's a right-to-work
state
no and it's up but you know it's you
know consider the power of you know
happen in West Virginia last year so and
this one seems like more organized
because there's actually you know I
found that I get the emails from the NEA
that's basically what Randi Weingarten
is going to be there and I know some of
the DSA people are going also from the
local dsm-iv there as well well that's
cool we'll keep our eye out for that and
yeah all right well thank you for that
update I'll play appreciate
oh yeah call back in let us know
appreciate the call I'm a classical
Muslim alright that is all our time for
today for calls folks see you tomorrow
[Music]
I'm going
I was
[Music]
feel any better
yeah
[Music]
I guess somewhere the choice is made so
the option get paid
[Music]
laughs right
[Music]
teacher takes
[Music]
[Music]
