[Music]
Gowan from a six-30 area code who's this
where he come from hi this is Ryan from
Chicago hello Ryan from Chicago what's
on your mind I got two quick points the
first it's about the national emergency
I don't think the Dems will be able to
threaten anything with F of course
uphold it I don't see why the
Republicans just wouldn't change the law
and not allow them to do this in the
future like if he declares this is a
national emergency to be the last time
this national emergency bill is used
away what makes you think that the
Republicans are in a position to
unilaterally change the law now because
Democrats are the Quorum elementals that
this could be abused again yeah you're
breaking up we got a problem with what's
that yeah I think so well I mean look
III guess it's conceivable
it just seems highly unlikely to me that
a Congress that was controlled by
Democrats would in the wake of a Supreme
Court ruling in favor of the president
doing this would then turn around and
pass a law because that's what you'd
have to do in Congress you would have to
pass the law that there would be enough
Democrats who would pass this I guess in
conjunction with Republicans to shut the
door on this well it could be like a
bipartisan two wrongs don't make a right
commitment to norms kind of thing like
we need to make sure this doesn't happen
again
that's conceivable but I imagine they
would if they did that in the wake of
the Supreme Court finding that then it
would prevent Donald Trump from doing it
too right I mean that would be they
could make it retroactive if the
argument is that the Supreme Court could
find that there is you know
room it's possible that they could
address it in such a way I mean the
reality is is that I don't know that
Donald Trump is gonna get the funds even
under the auspices of what he's doing to
to build anymore of the wall to the
extent that he was trying to get five
billion dollars he was gonna get twenty
five billion dollars a year ago and
nobody was worried about it in terms of
actually being completed
so because once you get past his ability
to say I'm going to re-appropriate money
that's been appropriated other places
then you move into the stage of everyone
whose land is being taken for eminent
domain is also gonna go through a series
of laws so the first question is will he
be authorized to even attempt to pretend
to build the wall and then as he
pretends to build the wall will he
actually be able to build the wall
because of all the other legal
challenges to it that will exist outside
of whether he was authorized to
reappropriation the first place so I
mean it's conceivable to me that that
Congress could right now pass a law that
would prohibit the president from using
a declaring a national emergency in this
way I think you I I wouldn't be
surprised if we see that in Congress now
in the house anyways because I think
that is I mean I that would not surprise
me it'd be mighty bold of them well I
mean the question is that the the
Supreme Court would would address is
whether there there was constitutional
authority and I don't know that Congress
can necessarily limit the president's
constitutional authority I mean it may
be worth having a legal expert on to
talk about what issues would come up in
this in this context well the legal
experts are really topia so Joe they're
gonna compromise and have some kind of
border security package where there's
well they did
I mean they've expanded look they I mean
to the extent that they've expanded
funding for ice they
expanded and included a soft cap on the
actual beds that that the the the custom
borders can patrol can have I mean I
don't I don't think there's anything in
particular that from a material
standpoint is particularly good about
this deal frankly I mean I think from a
political standpoint there's a sense
that Donald Trump lost it may have it
may have made the Republicans more
allergic to shutting down the government
in the future maybe but no I don't I
mean I don't think this deal is any
great shakes in that respect but
speaking of the emergency powers of the
President to declare a national
emergency Mike Pence came out against
that ability right on c-span wonder for
his sake that Donald Trump doesn't see
this I think it would be a profound
mistake for the president in the United
States to overturn American immigration
law with the stroke of a pen issues of
this magnitude should always be resolved
with the consent of the governed signing
an executive order giving a speech
barnstorming around the country
defending that executive order is not
leadership and I would implore the
President to reconsider this path and
end to and to demonstrate the kind of
leadership that the American people long
to see and that is that this
administration would sit down with this
newly minted Republican Congress and and
find genuine common ground border
security there's a series of piece by
piece reforms that I believe could be
advanced in this Congress that would be
in the long-term interest the American
people on this issue now of course he
said the newly minted Republican
Congress and that's because this was
from half a dozen years ago when Barack
Obama had basically by executive order
just just essentially
changed the prosecutorial discretion of
ice at that time and said we're not
going to pursue daca or dhaba folks and
we see this prosecutorial discretion all
the time Ronald Reagan called in the
other day immigration lawyer who said
that ices ice will detain people based
upon the space that they have that there
is no set threshold in which they will
detain somebody it's just a function how
much space they have so in other words
it is their prosecutorial capacity that
dictates who they will round up so
that's ultimately what daca and DAPA was
all about now I don't know Donald Trump
sees that it's gonna care about it that
much oh you thought because I was in the
golf simulator you could get oh that was
Obama time okay we show it to him at
Jacobs yesterday and get Mike Pence
fired I think that would act
I think that's honestly the blue reason
why people dug it up and read put it on
but it's not gonna be on Fox Oh cuz I'm
in the simulator you think you can go
twist your mouth the toxin trash here is
Nancy Pelosi explaining the Democratic
strategy to provide legal challenges
against this declaration of the national
emergency what's happening at the border
it's manatorian challenge to us the
president that has tried to sell a bill
of goods to America but putting that
aside just in terms of the president
making an end run around Congress here
he said let's respect what the committee
will do and then walks away from it but
in event president is doing and running
about Congress about the power of the
purse you've heard me say over and over
again article one the legislative branch
the power of the purse the power to
declare war many other powers are listed
in the Constitution and of course the
responsibility to have
oversight so the president is joined and
Rhonda round that she's right the the
changing you know an executive order in
terms of dhaba and daca does not involve
any reappropriation of funds this is
it's highly problematic just in terms of
setting precedent it is you know
fundamentally anti-democratic and it is
for clearly something that is not an
emergency
the crazy part is he doesn't even need
to do that like like you just said they
have a compromise they're getting tons
of money for this border security thing
they're they're still gonna clock some
kids in cages just not all the kids it's
like I'm certainly most of the kids and
and it's also like they tried they
rolled out the whole thing where they
say we're building you know that we're
finishing the wall right they changed
already from build the wall to finish
the wall why can't they just said
mission accomplished it's pure dick
swinging at this point - well yes that's
a little inappropriate not cozy
