[Music]
well we've had a sort of a victory here
ladies and gentlemen as you know some
days ago we were commenting on the
announcement of Exodus and that's thank
you for calling in to the majority
report let's just please use no
speakerphone and give your one comment
or question ready listen while out your
area code that them will join up around
here robot voice drop it some knowledge
alright so as we said about a week or
two ago I think it was maybe less
because I can't because time is dilated
we called out the founder I think her
name was Elizabeth pip Co of Jack
siddhis and said hey that's ridiculous
because why do you have to call it a
Jewish exodus the first one was exodus
was Jewish
the first Exodus was Jewish why does
yours have to be Jack siddhis and it was
equivalent to calling it like jizz rail
or world
Jass over you know that Jewish Passover
so are johm Kippur a Jewish Yom Kippur
that type of things it's like exactly
it's not a Shana
Josh Hashanah it all been a little bit
redundant well ladies and gentlemen
after a after pushing and
behind-the-scenes machinations we have
some good news reported in Haaretz today
jack siddhis we hardly knew you
right-wing Jewish movement changes name
to Exodus just to Exodus they have
dropped the J you're welcome now here's
what I'm confused about how do we know
this is about Jews well I think
obviously without the J sort of to
clearly state what we're doing here now
confused about this project this can
mean young people leaving the Republican
Party it could mean people who in
general were concerned about a more
aggressive foreign policy I mean I'm I'm
at a loss unrooted Cosmopolitan's this
could be a Bob Marley reference that's a
great Bob Marley album how is this
different from walk away why where is
the people who are gonna stand up for
Brandon striding destruction rokka rokka
Ron and strong and destruction who who
was the first person to patent and
trademark walk away this Exodus is just
what is Exodus mean it means walk away
they should bring back the Candace on
its formula and call it Jackson the
Jewish brexit that's what it should be
Jegs it but and then of course they'd be
stepping on breaks it but but and like
what is brexit it's just basically some
type of pre-emptive knock off of walk
away I would like to say send a message
out the brand it's rocking him that he
should be suing all of these people for
copyright infringement patent
infringement trademark infringement
personal space violation microaggression
infringement all of them all of it new
case law and microaggression
infringement all of whatever i think
that whatever you think of Londen and
we've had our differences
clearly particularly on the use of the
word apathetic specifically the proper
usage of the word apathetic they're just
sort of incredible disrespect of him and
the broader conservative movement is
kind of stunning it's really a shame
well maybe if he Sue's the brexit that
will keep it from happening when they
get the name back and then they get to
all of it all of it Jags it would have
been great I think but I think they
should have all go under his leadership
they should incorporate under Brendan's
trekkin and you know business model to
be struck and strong and oriented right
unity so where is the motivation of
course for things like Jegs it and
exodus and Exodus and jock away the
Jewish walk away movement from the
Democratic Party what is coming from the
the lover of of Jews the great white
joke that would be Donald Trump here is
responding to the fact that now we up to
four I think it is candidates bruh
Bernie Sanders Elizabeth Warren bet
O'Rourke Kamala Harris are there others
who have decided to to a boycott muda
judge oh and Buddha judge who are what
is it boycotting that actually I
actually do need to know I guess
apparently how to pronounce this guy's
last name
well eventually and boycotting the right
wing group called a PAC which is a
supportive of the Likud government in in
Israel it's a right-wing organization we
know this is the case people have known
this for years
here is Donald Trump providing analysis
as to the Democrats who are not
attending the AIPAC conference
the Democrats have very much proven to
be anti-israel there's no question about
that and it's a disgrace I mean I don't
know what's happened to them but they
are totally anti-israel frankly I think
they're anti-jewish mmm there it is
defender he does have a lot of Jewish
mannerisms but he is not Jewish down
general right there is Donald Trump
proclaiming that the Jews should just
jock away you mean I just wonder I don't
know if I have no proof but I am sure I
would be very curious to know what
Donald Trump's dad was thinking of the
Holocaust
while Bernie Sanders family was a victim
of it be very curious Fred Trump Fred
know where that question asked in the
debates where could Donald Trump
possibly have gotten the idea that by
not going to the AIPAC conference which
is a conference that is specifically
dedicated to supporting the right wing
in Israel where could Donald Trump
possibly have calculated the idea that
this makes someone like Bernie Sanders
who has spoken of the fact that his
family fled the Holocaust where could
they have possibly gotten the idea that
this makes you anti-semitic I'm trying
to think oh look what happened this
morning on Fox and Friends AIPAC also is
not an extreme right-wing pro-israel
group this is the group that plays it
down the middle as best they can trying
to create a bipartisan consensus of
Republicans and Democrats if you won't
go to AIPAC you are at some level
anti-israel or anti or maybe
anti-semitic we've seen the comments I'm
not saying they are but you're you're
willing to step you're not willing to
stand shoulder to shoulder with our most
with our strongest ally all of them
boycotting it shows you how afraid they
are of the fringe left base that well
and the part of that fringe left base
includes the majority of Jews in this
country incidentally we should just say
so that fringe less based the that does
not support a pact or the right wing in
Israel so Pete hagseth
your rabbi is calling on line one
playing identity politics people
