[Music]
poor Michael Brooks at the helm here
joining us now is the legendary
proprietor of the informed comment blog
he's also teaches history at the
University of Michigan and as the author
most recently of Muhammad prophet of
peace professor Juan Cole thanks for
joining us thanks so much for having me
professor Cole let's start with Israel
what's actually happening there an
election has been called a prime
minister sitting Prime Minister has been
indicted a left-wing parties been banned
from running even as a even further
far-right extremist and overtly racist
parties enter the political process
what's your kind of broad read on the
electoral landscape of Israel right now
well Israel for the past couple decades
has been trending not just right the
really far right and it's politics and
you know in some ways some of these
trends are similar to what's happened in
the United States there's enormous
increase in inequality a handful of
billionaires really are running the show
it's getting hard for ordinary people to
pay their rent in places like Tel Aviv
and then on top of everything else you
have a severe racial divide in Israel
between Jewish Israelis and Palestinian
Israeli is about Oh
close to 25% of Israel is probably of
Palestinian heritage often you see a
statistic of 20% but any case is very
significant and their party the party
that tends to represent them ballad
which has also Jewish Israeli supporters
as you say is a far left party and it
has just been banned from running by
people like
Lieberman the former Israeli defense
minister on the grounds that it's
insufficiently loyal to Israel that is
to say that it's largely supported by
the Palestinian Israelis so this will be
overturned by the Supreme Court but the
Palestinian Israeli really are
increasingly checking out of the Israeli
political elections and this will will
probably also further hurt their turnout
which is what Lieberman wants so is it
it's it's a little bit like voter
suppression in the United States where
laws are passed like ID laws and so
forth to keep african-americans from
voting in Israel the the the right has
the luxury of just announcing is not
going to let their party run at all now
some people who will defend the kind of
resiliency of Israeli institutions and I
and look I don't really see a
contradiction between acknowledging sort
of three things that there's an
occupation there's a siege on Gaza
those are both unspeakable violations of
every kind of principle that you would
hold if you had even just kind of basic
democratic and liberal values then
there's the you know the growth of
Israel as an extreme far-right state in
the last decade even and then there's
the fact that there are still some
mechanisms certainly of democracy that
work I guess in some ways and apply to
specific things robustly so how do you
kind of balance out that calculation in
terms of how to read and understand
exactly what Israel is as a state
embodying all of these contradictions
sure well as you say things are on a
spectrum within Israel proper there are
regular elections and however there's
increasing signs of them not being
entirely on the up-and-up
so I would say that you know the freedom
house has those three categories of not
free
partially free and free
and Israel is only partially free for
many reasons one is again these steps
that are taken to limit the franchise of
the Palestinian Israelis but also within
the the Jewish Israeli majority the the
corruption charges against Prime
Minister Binyamin Netanyahu are not in
my view just corruption they're about
the destruction of democracy it's it's
far beyond you know monetary corruption
he has yes charged of look you know
taking gifts from rich people to do them
favors so which is ordinary everyday
corruption that happens everywhere but
but in addition to that the casino mogul
Sheldon Adelson in the United States has
started a newspaper in Israel which is a
cheerleading instrument for Netanyahu
himself and gave it away for free you
could just get it on the street corner
and just pick it up for free and it's
it's a full newspaper it has a staff it
does reporting and so it was competing
with real newspapers that were founded
just to do news and not just to support
Netanyahu and Netanyahu is accused I'm
going to one of the real newspapers and
saying look I know your business is
being hurt by this free rag we're giving
out we can print more of it or we can
pretty less of it if you're nice to me
we'll print less of it so you know
Netanyahu is accused of shaping the the
reporting on him in the national press
by blackmailing the newspapers with
bankruptcy and using shows Sheldon
Adelson's casinos as a piggy bank
essentially for his muscling of these of
these newspapers and and there's more of
that kind of blackmail and and pressure
put on these newspapers you know
because the government is in charge of
Licensing and so forth so I mean that
that's that they they're calling it
corruption charges but they're really
dictator charges yes so can you that's
right that's really important and I'd
like you to actually compare and
contrast former Israeli prime minister a
hood Olmert was released from prison
about a year ago on corruption charges
all mert is a I mean certainly a much
more charismatic and appealing
personality than Netanyahu he certainly
presided over his own great crimes
against Gaza and Lebanon as Prime
Minister but he also recognized
rhetorically and if you believe in a
two-state solution framework he probably
he certainly put on the table the most
substantive offer of an actual two-state
solution to the Palestinian leadership
and he suggests they won he had a funny
line that he felt bad for Netanyahu
because of his delicate mental state
which was a funny like he knows he still
knows how to throw a jab but he said his
claim is actually that the corruption
charges that took him down which were
purely of the you know money in a in a
shoe box to do a favor variety were
actually spearheaded by Sheldon Adelson
and far-right forces in the United
States because he was willing to buck
the extreme right in Israel so I mean
maybe he's just justifying himself but
can you kind of compare and contrast the
Olmert saga where this guy actually did
go to jail and then the the actual state
the much larger stakes of what Netanyahu
was accused of and then all Mertz
claimed that he essentially was
corruption charges were the engine to
move him out of the picture because he
wasn't appeasing not only the Israeli
far-right but he actually really points
the finger at the American far right
which is fascinating
oh sure well the american far-right is
extremely influential in in israel and
indeed you know now there's this big
issue over AIPAC and its lobbying and
Giving Campaign or directing campaign
money's directing other
organization to give campaign monies to
American politicians to get them loyal
to to Israel and the fact is that AIPAC
doesn't represent you know the American
Jewish community the American Jewish
community leans laughed at 70 percent of
them vote Democrat the AIPAC is you know
represents a handful of extremely
wealthy very far right-wing Jews and and
and cooperates then with the with the
right-wing evangelicals to generate you
know messages to Congress and and and to
the media and so forth so you know the
the fact that that the the mechanisms
for the Israel lobbies are in the hands
of a right-wing group in the United
States is then has this enormous impact
on Israel itself I think that all there
is just crowd I mean he was taking money
from as you say for favors even going
back apparently to when he was mayor of
Jerusalem and I think the Israeli
Israeli police are some of the last
unconcerned Israel in this regard and
they really are willing to indict a
prime minister which you know as you
suggested it shows the Israeli democracy
is not completely gone and the fact that
the the Attorney General who was
appointed by by Netanyahu is willing to
go forward with these charges against
him is also a sign of the continued
robustness of elements of Israeli
democracy but there there are starting
to be as I said these severe constraints
on it that you know between the
manipulation of the press and press
licenses and the the corruption and and
and the this the this enfranchisement of
large numbers of voters and and then the
ongoing occupation I mean this is a very
complex
situation and just calling it a
democracy is would be a misnomer how
does this play out in the sense that you
know I mean again all mert I'll just you
know referring to him he quite
confidently predicted that all mert that
uh Netanyahu will lose the election he
said that you know parties from the
center-right through the left have been
asking him for advice which I guess is
probably his stand-in for being sensible
but you could have a situation where it
seems to me just as likely if not more
likely that another even more extreme
far-right coalition wins Netanyahu's
returned to power with these dictatorial
aspirations and his response to these
charges so far in my read has not been
to deny them I mean he has denied them
but he's almost been asking for like
them to be crushed in an extrajudicial
sort of process I mean how does that
sort of how do you see though that
dynamic playing out right well with
regard to the upcoming election the
polling suggests that Netanyahu's
right-wing coalition will get 61 seats
which is a bare majority and that lue
code will be the largest party in the
coalition and and that would mean that
Netanyahu gets another term as Prime
Minister 61 is a very slim margin in a
parliament of 120 and whether whether
the the far-right will get that many is
of course impossible to actually predict
and so there's uncertainty about this
there is a strong a center-right
tendency which is offsetting the
far-right to some extent but you know
it's been pointed out by my my colleague
mark tesslar that in the last few
elections a center-right always emerges
and does relatively well but then
withers on the vine after the election
and doesn't quite get to a majority and
it's it's it's there's kind of now you
know some of these things are
ethnic but there's kind of a
constituency for the far right of
various sorts the ultra-orthodox the the
the the Eastern European Russian
immigrants the Mizrahim or the Jews
originally from the Middle East itself
all of them tend to relatively far-right
politics so it's it's hard for the
sender right to end what is the center
right now is it is that is labor
considered center right now we're
talking like Kerala pedes party like
what would be sent to me yeah yes I'm
tolerant calling Gant's and yeah yeah he
does center-right and I think it's in
Israel they're called centrist but I
think they would you know in American
terms they would be center-right or in
European ones no labor is is on the left
but there's labor as a shadow of its
former self it doesn't amount to much
right and I said what about Moretz they
know you know oh that's they're duds you
know yeah they're done they're done
I met Shulamit Aloni years ago and we
got along fine and I was joking with
Israeli colleagues years later that if I
were in Israel since I like to limit
maybe I'd I'd vote for Moretz but these
were these were Israeli lefties so they
called me a running dog capitalist and
imperialist forever that's it but but
Moretz which which is center-left is
those parties really just don't are able
to get significant representation and
that's important to underline right
because Moretz is by Americans you know
I I would deem you know labor to me is
definitely in very much the center as it
were and particularly with regards to
things like the occupation but Moretz
you know could be fairly deemed I agree
with you a center-left party and in the
current Israeli context I mean they
might as well be communists who want to
live in one state I mean that you know
that's how far the pendulum has swung to
the far right in Israel
yes oh absolutely that's what I'm saying
that yeah well you know it depends on
how you
these things if you're looking at issues
in wealth distribution which is
traditionally the way you judge whether
something is left to right then labor is
left you know their support labor unions
and things but which lucu does not but
if ya if you get outside of internal
Israeli politics and look at issues of
occupation will labor engineer the
occupation and so there's not that much
difference between them and the right on
that issue
Ilan Omar has been speaking out on this
in and so what's your what's your read
on that yeah well before we move to that
we should just mentioned briefly that
that one of the ways that Netanyahu
hopes to get his 61 seats and a majority
and the new parliament is that he's
encouraged one of his coalition allies
to bring onboard a terrorist
organization you know the the oh it's my
yahoo dieter the the Jewish power
faction of kahanists who you know
various forms of kahana's and going back
to Rabbi Meir Kahana I have been term
terrorists by the US State Department by
the Israeli government banned them from
from running for office they some of
their members celebrate the massacre at
the tomb of the patriarchs in 1994 by
bauru Goldstein who shot down 28
innocent civilians and a little bit the
way that the that the Trump machine has
you know authorized support by the white
supremacists in order to get a margin
over the Democrats so Netanyahu has
authorized this coalition with the with
the kahanists
and one of their their leaders who
couldn't get into the United States for
for being considered a terrorist or a
member of a terrorist organization has
just been allowed to run by the Election
Commission which is controlled by the
Likud the ruling far right-wing party so
this is a very distressing development
you know Israeli politics is far-right
but these people are crazy and even the
American Israel lobbies are upset and
and I think they're afraid that this is
increasingly a hard sell to the American
public right and I well and and this is
the other actually maybe we should put
this on the table too I mean this is the
thing that when leaders again like in a
hood Barak or in a hood Almer would talk
about the need to end you know they
meant it in different ways but some form
of ending the occupation having a
two-state solution they would couch and
they used the word apartheid before
anybody else a lot of they would they
would couch it in those terms they would
say look American Jews by and large are
you know frankly pretty liberal they
care about things like civil rights and
this just isn't edible but the new
Israeli leadership has clearly made the
calculation that first of all there's
plenty you know there's an extreme
far-right that opposes civil rights in
the United States there's resurgent
neo-fascists in Europe and then there's
governments that you can do business
with that don't even have you know of
course in the United States case it's
obviously hypocritical and contradictory
but as an example in China or Russia or
something there isn't even a kind of
pretend human rights discourse so you
can just you know go about your business
and if the Liberals don't like you
anymore then you know so be it seems to
be the calculation that's right well I
think the calculation is that wealthy
far-right billionaires are the ones you
need to please and they don't care about
things like occupation in fact they're
looking for ways to profit from it
