this is Bernie and aoc talking about why
she endorsed him I mean these questions
are mind blowing like aoc and ela no
more have politics that's why they
endorsed Bernie Sanders Bosh Carson Carr
wrote a great piece and Guardian if you
like a OC you should like Bernie if you
don't you have to ask yourself why you
treat politics as you know a prestige
drama and not politics a ocaml on Omar
treat politics as politics here it is
what do you say to people who look at
what happened with regard sheer heart
attack look at the fact that you're the
oldest candidate in the race I wonder if
you have the stamina for four years in
office so what I say is you look at the
totality of a candidate this is a record
based on 30 and 40 years of fighting for
the working families of this country
that's my record congresswoman I know
when the senator was in the hospital in
Nevada you called him
is that when you offered your
endorsement yes why in that moment I
think it was a gut check for me you know
it was a real gut check and it's saying
and by the way neither me nor the
senator cannot do this by ourselves as a
woman of color why back an old white guy
and is this the future of the party and
I I mean that is just hella kind of
question that's a legitimately
disgusting question on many levels I
mean one again I will say and I don't
want to get too much down this road it
does erase him as a family of Holocaust
survivors and - the real question is is
you're a self-identified Democratic
Socialist who credits the rise of your
political career to the 2016 campaign
that you did grassroots organizing for
Bernie Sanders is a leading candidate
carrying forward a democratic socialist
vision
why didn't you endorse him in February
would be a coherent I mean it's actually
kind of offensive to presume that
somebody is going to endorse somebody
else just because they're a woman of
color well I mean that's what all of
that's the subtext of all of it no one
has any I mean in yeah I mean they don't
take a Oasys politics seriously at all
but the one thing they can't do is act
as if this is matter-of-fact because
they need it to be mystified for the
audience so the audience doesn't see the
easy connection because of ideology and
reality exactly it's like last thing
they ever want to talk about is real
stuff like I wish that's the worst like
when I when I was taking math courses
and a teacher would preface something
like this is really complex versus
preface seeing the exact same thing with
I'm gonna this is gonna be simple we're
gonna walk you through it I think
completely changes the way people go
into a learning explains it for some and
I think like thereby you know mystifying
by starting it with intimidation it's
yeah it's meant to keep people in the
dark
exactly right why back an old white guy
and is this the future of the party and
actually
excited about this partnership because
it shows what we have to do in our
country is that we have to come together
across race across gender across
generation did you meet with other
candidates before making your decision
senator Warren yeah what was that
conversation like you know I think and
so frankly senator Sanders senator
Warren and myself are all on the same
team in the party if you are the nominee
senator would you consider the
congresswoman as your running mate well
I'm too young for that what you work in
a Sanders administration of Sanders
white house yes you would all right
Nikole Killion i mean the question that
will stick with me is why endorse an old
white guy and she said with a straight
face
they both answered the question yeah
right Warren said after the end or what
I feel like something was edited out of
that answer right there was like a weird
cut there is a emergency need to read
Adolph read in this country I mean it's
an emergency
I mean his you got to read the myth of
economic reductionism in the New
Republic I mean this is halfway through
her sentence when they cut her off right
she was like people need to come
together across lines of race and gender
and age to cut like Oh to do what to
fight for the working class and I agree
with aoc it was a gut check all right
look I still frankly I'm I look I think
everybody should have endorsed Bernie
immediately this is a really important
election there's no other candidate like
him Warren does not represent that
argument possible she was waiting until
he needed a boost like now yeah arguably
it did give him I wonder if I don't
attack if I had the endorsements
immediately if I would have had to deal
with all his nonsense of this
campaign but I mean no I I really that
fusion of essentialism and neoliberalism
is always gonna be the enemy of
liberation of all and of course
ironically in a way that radically
disproportionately affects people of
color I mean that that's the sort of
double grotesqueness you know Cory Reid
has a new book coming out where he's
like look if you if you base it if you
if you did a new new deal in and
dismantle and continue to formally
dismantle American apartheid and then
have aggressive affirmative action boom
like on the material level you know I
yeah I mean it's it's it's so it's it is
disgusting treatment of Bernie and I do
care about that because Bernie's held
the torch for forty years while most of
the modern political class was either
doing nothing or terrorizing poor people
and working people but it's so
unbelievably disrespectful to people
like aoc who are actually showing that
they have politics they actually care
about what a straight face they're here
they're doing real things and the real
people are showing up for the real
campaign let's play clip number three
why not that's fun I guess
this is road Ron Dayne hollow report I
guess it's a montage of people agreeing
with Bernie Sanders
yeah it's correct yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
Bernie Sanders is running out of this
right you know I saw Bernie's message
and I said this is the right direction
if he ran great four years ago had
enormous energy and new ideas maybe push
the party he's out there he fights
really hard this is food for an
experience and he has put the right
issues on the table I agree completely
with Bernie about what the fundamental
challenge were facing is countries I
want to give credit to burning I'm a big
bonus and of supporter I support Bernie
Sanders to be our next president
commander-in-chief
I love Bernie supporters I love Bernie
Bernie's a national hero
that's how move the country in the right
direction you know I also want to
recognize the work that Bernie has done
on this you brought us this far in
Medicare for all I support Medicare for
all I always now yes I was burning on
Medicare fall I support senator sander
you go for universal healthcare honest
here and saying oh my god I can't I
can't even take this between like the
people dishonestly associating
themselves with them and then like I let
go Amy Klobuchar is like being a teacher
any help people
I don't like Ashley say you all don't
deserve um it's primal
seriously primary Clovis char that
should be a big priority folks
I like how yang Yang is my favorite you
know sort of I guess we could call them
cranked candidate yes and like it's
frustrating because gang supporters
could be Bernie supporters and hopefully
they will be after yang drops out yeah
yeah Doris Bernie seriously I mean I
have to say like obviously first and
foremost look if you identify on the
left you support Sanders not Warren
that's obvious and that's like the big
conflict there but that two three four
or five percent that you're wanking off
with Gabbard or yang stop this election
matters get what Bernie stop
around
yeah you want a thousand dollars a month
you yeah he's not gonna win no matter
what but you know the stuff you're gonna
get from Bernie hopefully will be better
than a thousand dollars a month his word
this is beanbag this workplace democracy
plan actually could translate to several
thousand a year these people don't have
jobs Wow Jamie with the very reactionary
joke there
