[Music]
meanwhile the 2020 elections are
happening Joe Biden is up in New
Hampshire and it's interesting in this
office there has been a slight role
reversal
whereas I for an extended period time of
course have been on my blame the voters
bailiwick for several years now there
are others in this office who have been
on the other side of that and now it
feels a little bit like things have
reversed I think I've charted a third
way the whole time between your complete
discrediting of the people and Jamie's
blind faith in them
what is yours Ben it's that I both
respect and disrespect the electorate
simultaneously in a way that synthesizes
the contradictions the way that's
convenient depending on the argument I'm
making at a particular time I fell I
will say that you have mastered that bad
ability ability called synthesis your
team blindly ideologically committed to
your resentments and emotional agita and
Jamie's utopian visions ask me today is
there a poll that's bad for Bernie the
electorate is looking very bad however I
have confidence in them in the long term
I'm potentially that is what I've been
saying about Joe Biden my my confidence
in the electorate is rather limited
however I do think and and look I'm not
even saying this from an ideological
perspective I mean I feel like I have a
decent understanding of partisan
Democrats and I just think that those
partisan Democrats have a little more
savvy than they used to and have a
little less patience than they used to
a little less desire for compromise I I
don't know that the west wing could
succeed today in today's environment the
TV show but here is Joe Biden saying
something that I think many of you will
find in some ways incredibly stunning
because you are all aware of what has
taken place over the past three years
and you are aware of what took place in
the eight years during the obama-biden
administration and also are aware of
what happened from 2000 to 2008 during
the George W Bush administration and so
on and so on
this is such a shocking thing to hear we
will talk about the potential
explanations for this which range from
medical conditions to deep cynicism but
here is Joe Biden at a place apparently
that serves yogurt in New Hampshire by
yogurt sign answering a question
suggesting that all you need to do is
get rid of Donald Trump and then magic
happens and Republicans turn okay here's
the night King I just think there is a
way
[Music]
is with Donald sure about the White
House not a joke you'll see an epiphany
occur among many of my Republican
friends and it's already beginning this
year in the house now we've seen people
that in fact we're not willing to vote
for any democratic initiative even if
they agreed with it because they didn't
want to be the odd person out of it
wasn't going to pass no sense and get
incredibly beaten for something is not
going to happen put another way if we
can't change we're in trouble this
nation can not function okay so there's
there's two parts to this the first part
is Joe Biden claims that the Republicans
are going to have an epiphany if Donald
Trump gets out of office if this sounds
remarkably similar to the idea let's say
that their fever will break that makes
sense because that's exactly what Obama
said about the Republican fever breaking
he said this back in 2012 right before
the his re-election he argued my
expectation is if we can break this
fever we can invest in clean energy and
energy inefficiency because it's not a
partisan issue he says that if he
expects the gridlock to end after the
election if he can win the election
because then that after the election now
it turns out that the goal of beating
Obama doesn't make much sense because
I'm not running again
we can start getting some cooperation
again now maybe Joe Biden was asleep
during those years or as Paul Waldman
writes and the Washington Post maybe
there's some type of blow to the head
that took place
in fact he writes if biden's thinks it
is he says though this is something all
of us would like to believe is true it
just isn't
and if Biden thinks it is we should
check to see if he recently suffered
some kind of blow to the head and then
he goes on to say it's possible of
course that Biden doesn't actually think
that Republicans will be joining him in
a spirit of openness and compromise he
may know what the reality is but also
believe that it's worthwhile to at least
pretend some other future might be
possible and Walden Waldman goes on to
say the only problem with that is
there's no evidence there's must be
gained from being seen as reasonable and
moderate voters don't reward you for it
it doesn't get you any closer to
achieving your policy goals so what's
the point so either we have someone who
is deluded or just posing in a really
really unhelpful way because I actually
think it's not just what's the point
there's great detriment here because if
Joe Biden is setting up this basically
built-in excuse for the Republicans and
why they are following Donald Trump in
lockstep how do you explain what
happened in Alabama yesterday how do you
explain what Mitch McConnell has been
doing for years how do you explain the
empty seat how do you explain Mitch
McConnell going on and saying the best
part of my career was looking Barack
Obama in the eye and saying you will not
get that empty Supreme Court seat this
is this is really stunning and it is my
contention that the Democratic primary
voters this may have worked ten years
ago but I just don't I find it very
very hard to believe that this is gonna
work with people today how much delusion
do you need about the Republican Party
and if he does believe this like I say
if he doesn't believe it he's just
piss-poor at trying to set up a
political context in which in which he
can get anything done right because I
mean if you're just saying Republicans
are fundamentally reasonable they're
just under the throws the hypnosis of
Donald Trump and this is your political
strategy what happens when they say no
to you as president when you have
already basically given them the
imprimatur of being reasonable well then
I guess it's reasonable to deny you any
supreme court picks
I guess it's reasonable to deny you any
you're too to sign off on your hearings
for to staff your administration
I guess it's reasonable to not allow you
to have any federal court picks I mean
this is this is this is what he's doing
is extremely dangerous and that's
assuming he thinks he knows what he's
doing he may also just believe this
stuff he may be so insulated from what's
going on that he believes this stuff
which is even scarier but I will remind
you that when Barack Obama made that
deal that extended the Bush tax cuts
when they capitulated to the Republicans
when the Republican when they did not
need to do any of it I'll remember the
fiscal cliff well there was no fiscal
cliff those Bush tax cuts did not need
to be negotiated because they were had a
sunset provision they were going to go
away on their own and there was one
person in the government who understood
that and it was Harry Reid which is why
he was so angry when Joe Biden
essentially slid back into the sin
and made a side deal with Mitch
McConnell to say we're gonna give you
some of the you keep the the Bush tax
cuts and we will get what we would get
anyways Joe Biden and you can see it in
the second part of what he says which is
if we can't do this the country is in
real trouble well we haven't been doing
it for years and years there's a reason
why Barack Obama the best things that he
did and the things that were so easily
unwound were because they were all by
executive action and the reason why they
were all by executive action is because
we're already there we've been there so
the question is how do you respond to it
do you continue to go back to the
Republicans and expect them to be
moderate when they haven't been and they
have been successful in not being so or
do you make them pay a price and he is
basically saying there's no price to be
paid I understand you just were under
the hypnosis of Donald Trump I mean this
is just absurd and it is dangerous
and it is particularly dangerous at a
time now where that judiciary all of
that scheming by Mitch McConnell has
paid off and Joe Biden is just basically
saying you're gonna get a free pass a
free political pass and you and and
what's gonna happen is if he becomes
president they're gonna take that pass
and they're gonna slam him over the head
with it he's gonna find out it's a club
really stupid and frankly I think
Democratic voters are just gonna be like
what Republican party are you talking
about this is something that makes Joe
Biden look incredibly out of touch
delusional yeah I hope that you're right
I mean it is a nice bedtime story right
like Trump is the night King and as soon
as you kill him his army of ghouls is
just gonna fall on the ground and play
dead exactly we'll see I mean we'll see
if people are dumb enough to buy it I
feel like I have to defend myself for a
second though
I did not say that I do blame the
electorate I said if I were the type of
person to blame the electorate and it
sounds like you're learning like yes I
would say that if you vote for Joe Biden
in the 2020 primary you deserve
president Andrew Dice Clay in 2024 there
you go
