[Music]
so speaking of repeating lies that
seemed to not die and we went through
this who was it the last time that said
it was a Mike hints yeah past this lie
we looked it up there's no truth to it
whatsoever there's no reports to
substantiate this a complete lie steve
scalise famous in his words for being
like David Duke with David do it without
the baggage in promoting what he would
do for his constituents presumably I can
get rid of the black guys without having
to have all the baggage around of being
KKK secret message received
so yeah exactly not so secret that's not
even a dog whistle that's really just
sort of like a dog encouragement it's
like here boy it's pretty explicit he
was on Fox and you know one of the great
things about being like David Duke
without the baggage is you can go on Fox
and Friends as a high-ranking Republican
official and say huge lies with sort of
a racist xenophobic undertone and nobody
even questions you this fights going to
continue on and clearly what we're
battling over is to make sure that we
can fund our border security properly
build the wall give President Trump the
money he needs to keep America safe it's
not just about the wall that's real
important it's about safety across the
border and you see with this Caravan
coming over 600 confirmed convicted
criminals in the caravan every single
day in America and why do we need to
secure the border every single day in
America on average ten known terrorists
tried to cross our border this is real
it's a serious threat president Trump's
fighting to secure our border we need to
give them the money you need well he'd
be able to get the money you need yeah
oh my god you sold us ten known
terrorists are trying to cross the
border every day are we arresting these
people were just simply saying like oh
hey why did you walk up to us and just
announce that you are one of the known
terrorists that we have on our known
terrorist watchlist it's weird
come up at the border very strange yeah
but you can't do anything about it
you know such a team the caravan census
where everybody was super honest about
all the convictions they had I'm an
economic migrant looking to make more
money through crime in the United States
I'm an associate of Hamas well I also
have a military age and I've got to
write down on this form you're giving me
mr. Republican census taker that I also
have a criminal conviction I'm is a
bigot doesn't even occur to like the
reporters there to say how do you how do
you know that isn't it weird that we
never hear about all of these terrorists
the 35 the 3600 terrorists who've tried
to enter the country just this past year
no terrorists listen you've already
stopped the Trump administration he
stopped over 7000 known terrorists yes
we're coming into the country inside 24
yeah how many are getting through if ten
are trying to cross the but we are
batting 1000 man we've stopped 7000 this
year alone betting the shouting 3600
this year alone batting 1000 1000
batting 1000 thank God baseball humor
and he is turning over the tables in the
swamp there you go
