[Music]
now see the outlines of the tax that
people are going to take and if I'm Joe
Biden and I'm on Joe Biden staff the one
thing I'm doing every day as I am
praying that Joe Biden is not on the
same stage as Bernie Sanders but
particularly I am praying that I am not
on the stage with Elizabeth Warren
because of Elizabeth Warren's profile
because of what actually drew her into
politics as opposed to policy largely
Joe Biden in his agenda and so if I'm
Joe Biden everything I'm doing now is
trying to I'm getting voodoo dolls I'm
getting I'm doing to all the things that
youth do to like throw salt on your back
everybody's all mark Greene oh yeah
so that Elizabeth Warren is not on stage
with me in here I think what we're
starting to see is going to be a preview
of what she's going to be doing during
the debates and we're gonna see a lot of
people start that train their fire on
Joe Biden in one form or another but the
question is how explicit is it going to
get how quickly and here is Elizabeth
Warren at that same California
Democratic state convention only changes
we can get are tweaks and nudges if they
dream at all they dream small some say
if we all just calm down the Republicans
will come to their senses but our
country is in a time of crisis the time
for small ideas is over so that's the
beginning hi Joe she sees you Joe also
incidentally not only the time for small
ideas or delusional thinking about
Republicans maybe also being a bagman
for the credit card industry for decades
wasn't so hot either bro that's coming
go at him by name Liz you know no I know
she's sequencing it i that's very fun to
watch her
that out I want to skip to the part
where she's actually using his name
exactly yeah for size
