so Matt obviously we are in the wake of
the largest combined mass shootings that
we've seen in this country for quite a
while and one of them at least I mean
obviously there are two separate issues
here over the course of of these two
shootings one that runs through both the
common one or the one that they have in
common of course is the ease in which
people can get weapons that allow you to
kill multiple human beings in less than
a minute right the the second shooter
from Dayton was dead within 30 seconds
of shooting his first shot but by that
point he had killed nine people and had
injured a couple of dozen and the
shooter from El Paso was able to kill 20
people injuring more and in that
instance they both shared this access to
weapons they both shared the ability to
get large amounts of weaponry but the
and and we don't really know what
inspired the the Dayton shooter I don't
know if we'll ever know for sure but we
do have a very very good sense of what
inspired what drove the El Paso shooter
to determine who he was gonna shoot and
and and why obviously I think we start
with a baseline that - that there is
something psychologically wrong with you
if you have the ability to kill that
many people or to kill anybody really
for that matter and you know in you know
people can argue about in the context of
the military but but gunning down
civilians in a mall I think we can all
agree that there is a baseline that
there's something wrong with you but
what drives you - that can be a very
specific
thing and in this instance the El Paso
shooter like we know what he drove him
we saw his his screed right yes I mean I
think you know he stated quite
specifically why he was carrying out the
attack that he did he was very angry in
this manifesto that he published a the
web form a Tran about the quote Hispanic
invasion of Texas he thought that there
was a cultural and ethnic replacement
going on with you know this sort of
Hispanic invasion replacing white people
in that state and he you know thought
that there were really dire consequences
from this he said that you need to
reclaim my country from destruction and
you know these are very consistent with
the long-running it white supremacist
narrative of the sort of great
replacement as he called specifically in
that manifesto and at one point these
ideas had been largely restricted to
these sort of fringe forums we're only
the sort of hardest of hardcore white
supremacist would congregate but that's
changed quite a bit in recent years with
the rise of Donald Trump and with some
pretty severe shift in Fox News's
programming and at this point as I wrote
yesterday you don't really need to read
this guy's manifesto if you turn on Fox
News on a random weeknight there's a
decent chance that you will encounter
these ideas which are being spread night
after night to an audience of millions
of people this is really a mainstreaming
of very as we've seen dangerous white
nationalist white supremacist ideas both
on a major cable news network and of
course by the President himself who has
been you know staying in speeches and on
Twitter that we there is an invasion
happening
migrants are threatening to overrun the
country and that it's an emergency and
something needs to be done and this guy
decided that something needed to be done
- I mean the the the term invasion is a
it's a very specific one and when we
even saw a clip I think it was from May
right where the president was at a rally
I'm not sure where I guess he was in the
Panhandle Florida and he specifically
said there's an invasion there's an
invasion in other countries they can
shoot him but we can't do that so what
can we do and someone yelled out we can
shoot him and he said uh you can only
get away with that here in the Panhandle
and I mean that person called out we can
shoot them because that is really I mean
that's what you do when you're being
invaded right I mean this is that
there's a reason why they used the term
invaded and it's not you know I mean
that that's what they're trying to
elicit right this this notion of you
should be afraid and you should fight
back and I think finding the intention
in some of these cases can be kind of
tricky but certainly that is what is
happening and this represents a pretty
major change certainly at Fox News in
the discourse around this you know we
did a study on this a few months ago and
we found that while Fox News people were
using terms like invasion or invaders or
intermittently earlier in like 2015 and
2016 and 2017
they used it more times than in all
three of those years just in the 30 days
leading up to the midterm elections you
were called this was when the caravan
became major story it became a major
story literally because Fox News wanted
it to be one you know in mid October
there was this Caravan it was a couple
of
months away from getting to the border
that was moving up through Central
America and Newt Gingrich went on Fox
News and said this should be the
president's election issue it should be
the caravan and Cavanaugh and nothing
else
from now until the election and you know
as I've documented pretty extensively
the president watches hours and hours of
fox news every day and he takes his cues
from that network he really does you
know pick up political strategy and
policy ideas from what he's watching
there and the Gingrich segment was one
that he picked up and tweeted about
almost immediately and from that point
on you saw this drumbeat on both Fox
News and from the president pushing the
idea that these migrants were coming and
that it was an invasion that was the
term that they started using over and
over again often alongside you know sort
of a role of columns of young Hispanic
men moving towards the border you know
trying to create this idea of an
invading force when I think we know that
this is mainly you know lots of women
and children young people trying to get
here trying to be Oh become refugees
trying to find a better life but they're
being portrayed as people who are coming
to your house to kill you I mean that
was basically the implication the Fox
News was putting out over and over again
and you know I think that that's that's
a pretty dangerous thing how about those
sorts of ideas over and over again
pounded into people I mean look I have
spent a lot of time watching Fox News
over the years I've been doing this for
12 years now and this stuff has a lot of
power I mean just the repetition of it
and the way it can really sink into
people's heads it has a ton of influence
and it can be a very dangerous thing all
right Matt let's take a break and when
we do we'll come back and I want to talk
about maybe some specifics so that
people really can
here that point that you made at the
beginning which is that if you had not
read this guy screed and you had watched
Fox you would know you you would have
you don't need to read it we gonna take
quick break
I'm Sam cedar this ring of fire radio
we'll be right back I'm back answer
