[Music]
so as we all know and is my board up NRA
TV Sippi and so NRA TV was I mean what
it was embarrassing because it was like
even in an ample II generate like if
you're in right-wing media you're in an
amazing position because you could get
funded by any type of corporation or
oligarch because you're there to be a
mouthpiece for their agenda and then you
have a pretty significant amount of
rubes and idiots who are easy marks to
you know sell to or whatever the
fact that even in that ecosystem and the
NRA is the interim Nana raised is still
for all of its major internal problems
is the domestic arms industry lobby
group and something that you know I mean
an array has played a role in the
resurgence of the far right in Latin
America they were so bad in our ATV that
we did I don't know like a handful of
clips on them I mean like it just was
boring the talent was not it was it was
it was one step above those guys who
just record themselves in their SUV with
like a Packers head hi this is Hank I'm
here much suburban her that Barack Obama
wants take my hunting knife well you
know guess what not today or ever Barack
Hussein Obama those guys at least have
more charisma look I saw this thing on a
website I what's it called again oh we
project very top it says ill on Omar
married her brother to get into America
now we're gonna look into this I'm gonna
read it slowly for forty minutes well
you know acaba Rawls ahead was there in
in in toom toom so sorry that was the
other paragraph so those guys are
actually
more charming and so then NRI TV so
basically NRI TV is done and what is
this tweet this is just the announcement
now this is just the announcement so
very sad NRA TV has shut down production
oh man what a bummer so you know this is
hilarious who cares maybe maybe we'll
get some of their equipment and what we
saw and so Megan McCain who several
years ago Megan McCain it's it's
interesting because you know her big
brand was like you know it's always
obviously been 98 percent my dad as John
McCain but it used to be like hey like
as long as you don't like like tax my
trust fund like I know like gay people
and we can like go shopping and now I
think under Trump and because you know
at the end of the day like you know
clearly like on her panel it's like I
don't want to be bothered with dead kids
I want to be given money as that
position has become less tenable just
around and and people like joy who were
not radicals but are just like Jesus I
can't how much longer do I have to like
indulge this megan mccain is
reaching out i think in making sure that
her bona fides are strong with you know
the the always you know hard fanatical
right people like dana loesch who I
think was dana loesch was on NRA TV and
as an NRA spokesperson
she's also big Vince Foster conspiracy
theorist denill oh she's very smart
so uh she's got a great brain so megan
mccain tweeted at dana loesch at dana
loesch is a brave fighter who believes
in who is ibly the way excuse me is a
brave fighter for what she believes in i
look forward to whatever she does in her
next endeavor she also has a husband I
respect greatly at Chris lush IO just
like the ad Megan McCain Cassidy ball
easy now and secondly uh I believe Chris
lush if I'm not mistaken has
collaborated with steven crowder on one
of the most unfunny things i've ever
seen in my life
look at that facial hair oh wait no
that's not him I don't know Chris I
thought I thought chrysalis
somebody else all right I don't know
Chris lucious he's just a man devoted to
Jesus his wife the wilder his children's
freedom and his country he's definitely
he's a wife guy he's got the facial hair
of a wife guy indeed all right well
sorry Chris Lucia is a nice guy and by
the way I Megan please you're not gonna
be able to pull it Chris lush okay
yes she's already got a what's his knee
on stick to stick to sama now stick to
some sad bent down man what is he a
federalist writer Ben Domino's is if
Fred Rose play yes yes stick to some
plagiarist who you had like a nervous
breakdown that like she was probably
scared Trump was gonna actually lead us
to like nuclear war and her trust fund
would be taken away that way so she
married him because of an anxiety attack
a dalit like oh my god and he has a new
killer war than like my money will go
elsewhere so then uh so that's what she
tweeted Dana Loesch responds not step
the off of my husband no Daniel oh
she responded this way go back okay but
Dana Loesch we're gonna regional threat
but Dana Loesch responded politely but
with this but not a lot of interest I
appreciate your friendship over the last
couple years in your fighting spirit I'm
glad I got to know you and then and love
how like the right-wing clearly has
their own like Twitter pests I don't
even know if this is a right wing who
knows who this person is it's just
classic Pettit testiness yeah it is very
which is hoodie because and in fact to
app go go SF's
credit this is super funny uh dana
loesch we're not the only ones with
James with we're not the only ones with
Megan McCain impressions around here not
just Jamie and I know look I think my
Meghan McCain impression is good but
this is also the I had no idea dana
loesch had any talent check this out all
women because they're women criticism
effects
and I told her I was impressed that she
actually picked up on the fact that I
was insulting her did you search her
last name
she replied had you lash that's not what
I'm saying I'm saying that we're both
Republican albeit very different than
underserviced a marvel of support who
have continued to say negative things
about me I'm not like tickets you shot I
don't understand
[Music]
as I told her I'm not a Republican
concern and I also brought up all of the
past instances where she has taken
potshots at Sarah Palin and Bristol
Palin and Michelle Bachman any other
woman Meghan McCain seems to view as a
threat to steal that Republican mantle
from her why do we why okay all right
they're both bad yeah but the impression
was so fun she nailed it was but I like
how much like being on the top of the
top woman in conservative media like
important brands mickushina
does make it very easy for people I
gotta say it's a good impression it's so
funny to that Meghan McCain's doing what
like all media people do and like
they're all their friends get laid off
and they're like hey this is a great
person you should hire them like dana
loesch is gonna have any trouble finding
another right wing like funder to just
bankroll her yeah she's being so
generous and helpful with a fake friend
hey pay her Meghan hire her as a
research assistant wait is there more oh
okay at Calvin okay so you know this is
one where like I'll obviously say
whatever but I don't like I would never
at Meghan McCain right look I just have
a dedicated about things but this guy
Calvin who actually is a check mark so
that's really escalating Jaclyn says I
am an annoying gay Internet person well
you know what Calvin you're living up to
your name here because Calvin jumps into
the thread with holy your
impression of McCain McCain of Megan's
voice is actually spot-on Oh Calvin
you know messy now Meghan McCain
who I would frankly not be surprised if
she responded to gogo SF
is dragged in and she says the following
remember when you publicly begged me to
have brunch with you I still haven't
forgotten - JA and you look at this and
if you have any empathy you just think
damn the poor producers on the view
might have an even extra annoying day
with this brat oh what a bummer
all right you're calling from a three
one four area code who are you where you
calling from
