what's up family Christians I want Chris
from Taiwan what's on your mind well
first of all shout out to the LGBT
community in Taiwan because Taiwan just
became the first country in East Asia to
legalize same-sex marriage that's not
the show far expand actually I was
calling cuz I want to talk about the
Tiananmen Square incident you guys
brought that up yesterday because it was
the anniversary yep
yeah so the Tiananmen Square movement I
think is consistently misrepresented in
the Western press and what I mean by
that is the movement is always referred
to pretty much exclusively as a
democracy movement and that's actually
true like the protesters were calling
for greater democracy they wanted
elections they wanted you know more
civil liberties due process and so forth
but more than that the the movement was
actually largely a movement of
resistance against neoliberal economic
reforms that were happening in China
which is the part that always gets left
out in Western reporting about the
history of the Tiananmen Square incident
so well I think what people need to
understand is that you know what was
happening in China in the 1980s leading
up to the Tiananmen Square massacre was
that the Chinese Communist Party was
starting to embrace global capitalism
more than it had in the past Milton
Friedman himself actually visited China
multiple times in the 1980s to advise
the Chinese government on how it should
reform its economy I did a number of
Friedman's Chicago School acolytes and
on this advice what the Chinese
government was trying to do during that
period was integrate China into the
global economy by instituting neo
liberal you know quote-unquote reforms
like they were eliminating price
controls reducing wage supports for
Chinese workers privatizing various
parts of the Chinese state sector and
thawne and so once resistance to those
economic policies started to emerge
which is what was actually largely about
that's when the Chinese government
started to crack down hardcore and I
actually think that the Tiananmen Square
incident is one of the best examples of
how Friedman I claims about capitalism
and democracy going hand-in-hand is a
total lie and a historical fabrication
and the same was true almost everywhere
that the neoliberal economic
neoliberalism quote-unquote tiger
economies or the former Soviet countries
at the end of the Cold War or Latin
America which by the way it's crucial to
understanding both tomorrow and Brazil
for example which Michael you know talks
about a lot you know Bolton ro is the
direct descendant of the Brazilian
dictatorship which awarded Brazilian
democracy in the 1960s for the purpose
of implementing new liberalism the same
kind of nailer that provoked the
Entenmann's rising I would read actually
just real quick all right because we
talked about how this word is thrown
around too much and not defined there is
a great book by David Harvey called
neoliberalism and it's his history of it
which I think provides actually a very
sensible sound definition of it and on
the cover there's several leaders
including Thatcher and I think maybe
also Pinochet and Reagan and one of them
is dung Xiao ping yep you know don't
Xiao ping dung shall be essential person
to understand and it was also that not
only was Tiananmen Square a lot about
labor and preserving those rights it was
definitely also about opening up and
democracy and that other thing that the
China
his leadership was really concerned
about obviously was the fact that the
Soviet system had fallen and the fact
that they perceived what Gorbachev was
attempting to do as exactly what the
protesters wanted he was trying to turn
it into a more like Finland style model
which was liberalized and open up but
still have universal benefits and worker
ownership so yeah they hit it from both
sides and it definitely in the Chinese
leadership from what I've understood and
there's a great book called what does
China think that really a lot of the
people who've been the biggest market
intervenors are the ones who are most
comfortable with authoritarian state
apparatus I know that's exactly right
and you brought up Michael you mentioned
I think it was yesterday by the way the
way you pronounce his name is Zhao the
young German is the doubt the young man
is he next to each other yes yes
important but he wasn't he was he was
part you know he was high up in the
Communist Party but he wasn't the only
one there were a number of people who
were purged by Jung Xiao ping who was
the premier of China during Tiananmen
Square and they were purged largely
because they they were advocating
offering concessions to the protesters
on the economic front that they were
saying like oh hey listen we should slow
down these neoliberal you know
capitalist reforms and that's you know
why they got purged from the party so
but I mean but you know the point is
again and again neoliberal economic
policies can only be enforced down the
barrel of a gun whether it's in
Tiananmen Square or anywhere else you
know because the truth is that when you
give people Democratic power and that's
why you know the Tiananmen Square a
movement wanted democracy so much
because they wanted more democratic
power in order to have more economic
power but when you give people
Democratic power they will use that
power to improve
lives economically and they will reject
neoliberal policies you know whether now
I go back to this Gord me but Philip
more what's the hallo poo
no more witrosky murasky in his
intellectual history of neoliberalism
mates makes the point quite clearly that
you know it is lays a fair except for a
narrow set of interests that are
supposed to control this and it is
fundamentally anti-democratic and if you
couple that interview with and I his
name escapes me now to who was talking
about the International neoliberal
project quince Ababa Slovakian yes those
two will make it quite clear that you
can see the anti-democratic nature of
neoliberalism there has to be
specifically narrowly tailored it is not
as it's not accurate to say that it's
sort of like just that it's just free
market it's it really is a market that
is set up for a specific subset of
people to win and let's just keep it
that way and that will take care of
everybody and that's where it's sort of
like almost gets a little bit Strauss
Ian but not quite but appreciate the
call Chris yeah thank you
yes yeah thank you and one more thing
real quick anyone listening to my voice
right now should read the Shock Doctrine
by Neyman by Naomi Klein I think that's
one of the most important
english-language books published in our
lifetimes and she explains really well
I'm a lot better than I am right now you
know wide neoliberalism is fundamentally
anti-democratic and why it is an
inherently violent and oppressive
ideologies but thanks for taking my call
good point and the Shock Doctrine it
also helps you understand like what
happens with places like not just Iraq
but also places like New Orleans after a
major catastrophe or in any area really
that suffers any type of major
catastrophe there's
always a a rush to get in Puerto Rico in
many respects similar type of order
Rico's of vintage well that's
obscene what they're doing to Puerto
Rico and it's always facilitated and it
goes back even before this latest crisis
the Obama administration was abominable
in Puerto Rico too that's another great
example of like you know the federal
government fighting cases in the Supreme
Court to keep arcane laws on the books
concerning you know Puerto Rican
sovereignty that goes along with selling
off the public sector to hedge funds in
Boston in New York yep I would also
recommend Robert Brenner the boom in the
bubble if you want sort of a Marxist
political economy of the neoliberal turn
as well as I hate to be self-promotional
but history is the weapon this week Sean
and Matt break it down in turn like I
learned a lot from listening to it
called
