[Music]
we need to get to this there is a huge
amount of inbuilt cynicism about Donald
Trump about his racism about his bigotry
the three lines here of response are
actually really basic to just the racism
in of itself there's a group of people
that crave it and want it an affirmative
ace that's the Republican Party there is
a continuum of people that spans they
might sound rhetorically different at
times but there's a lot of quote-unquote
never Trump Republicans there's Chuck
Todd types there's democratic leaders
like Pelosi and so on who might you know
moralistically condemn or Hector or you
know strongly wag their finger at it but
do nothing of substance or seriousness
to actually combate it strategically and
then there's those of us and right now
you know obviously the lead is these
four leaders in Congress Bernie Sanders
has obviously also been incredibly
unequivocal about this and I and I say
Bernie Sanders because he's talking
specifically about these four liters I
mean that's a really distinguishing
thing that you can find all of the
Democratic candidates and so on we'll
put out statements against xenophobia
and against hate and so on but this has
this has a face this has a specific
target list it's Rashida to Lib
Alexandria Acacio Cortes Ayanna Presley
and most significantly and most
drastically and most grotesquely Allen
Omar this is Bernie Sanders yesterday
starts exactly with the simplest point
hashtag I stand with Ilan and I'm proud
to work with her in Congress Trump is
stoking the most despicable and
disturbing currents in our
and that very hatred and racism fuels
him we must fight together to defeat the
most dangerous president in the history
of our country now again and it's not
just because I support Sanders if other
candidates were leading with the hashtag
or congressional leaders for that matter
I would give them the same props but it
just needs to be very clear that that is
how we start we don't start with some
broad big picture and you know certainly
none of this isn't who we are Joe Biden
pablum we go with this is a this is one
of America's most important young
leaders someone who's incidentally
incredibly physically courageous
Elizabeth Warren this is really four
minutes ago 30 minutes ago and I was
saying this because as of last night
Elizabeth Warren had not done this but
she did it so now I'm very happy to give
her props right now it is Elizabeth
Warren hashtag I stand with Al is excuse
me hashtag I stand with Ilan against
attacks from this racist president and
we should all remember this definition
of patriotism and then she quote tweets
an excellent video from now this by an
excellent congresswoman in leader Ilan
Omar from now this arm so but it's maybe
we could play that later but that the
point is is great so Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren the of the candidates I
am aware of now have been the ones that
have used the hashtag and have spoken
directly and clearly mm-hmm I'll just
say and earlier in the week before this
before Trump really went in on the Ilhan
stuff when the squad stuff was going on
Cory Booker also said something about
the four and it's amazing what running
for president can do to a Democrat these
days it's pretty amazing because let us
never forget that the Democratic
leadership the failed sclerotic utterly
unfit for purpose Democratic leadership
people like Nancy Pelosi and Hakeem
Jeffries have spent more time and oh my
Gundy just unbelievably odious and
grotesque rahm emanuel manages to pop up
in this as well I guess
he's not house leadership obviously but
they've spent more time backbiting
briefing against uh and trying to damage
these four leaders than actually even
taking on Trump let alone you know
seriously pushing a progressive agenda
so and now it's circled against Elan
it's circled against Elan both because
look incredibly easy source of extreme
bigotry and racism
she's a Somali refugee she's a Muslim
she wears a headscarf these things are
really obvious and I think it's also
because and I don't mean this this you
know all four of these leaders are
incredibly important and courageous and
they all bring different distinct things
to the table I think we actually saw
yesterday or the day before the way I on
her the way I Anna Presley was able to
synthesize her attack on Trump with a
very clear indirect articulation of of
how Nancy Pelosi was playing and what
she saw and how she was gonna follow up
on it
Rashidah to Lib has always been someone
I've been a huge fan of and has a
grassroots background and his DSA and
has been very clear partially obviously
as a result of her you know heritage as
a Palestinian about you know being clear
about the occupation and the abuses of
the Palestinian people and AOC obviously
has an extraordinary amount of star
power and has used her platform in a
number of incredibly important ways on
climate on credit cards on the green new
deal and I would and to me frankly most
significantly and all of them now kind
of coherent motion if ax contrite now on
the concentration camps and the issues
of this Gestapo tactics at the border
but L on Omar in addition to her
fearlessness on calling out the coup
mongering of this administration in
Venezuela with the complicity in the
support of democratic leaders like Nancy
Pelosi and angle and so on she does not
flinch she does not back down and best
believe
that this woman's life is endangered and
this is you know this is the clown
fascist in chief this is the idiot he
knows what he's doing and you know
generic rejection of it isn't gonna work
here he is in North Carolina yesterday
saying some people did something I don't
think so some people did something yeah
some people did something all right
she pleaded for compassion for right she
meant some people did something that not
every single Muslim should have to
answer for that was precisely the point
exactly he's referring to a statement
that Alon Omar made in the context of
talking about Muslims civil liberties
and civil rights after 9/11 and her
point was precisely that yes a specific
terrorist group committed a specific
terrorist atrocity and then the policies
that flowed out of that in terms of the
invasion of civil liberties not to
mention the millions of lives taken
overseas has spilled out into a into
many of the world's Muslims who had
nothing to do with that event it's quite
simple but obviously Donald Trump's
gonna twist it Isis recruits attempting
to join the terrorist organizations
who's looking for company
Omar left that American speak of
al-qaeda in a menacing tone and remarked
that you don't say America with this
intensity you say al Qaeda makes you
proud al Qaeda makes you proud
you don't speak that way about America
wasn't I
if I understand what he's referring to I
think this is actually her point of
saying your pride and your energy should
be in your country not a ragtag
terrorist group and I'm gonna do red
white and blue and agree with her on
that I think you should have a lot more
intensity and excitement about the
potential and possibility of a
complicated flawed but also very
promising place that Elon omar has done
more in her life and even just her time
here then Donald Trump I mean not only
then Donald Trump has ever had Donald
Trump is doing everything he can to harm
and undermine this country and the
planet obviously so III agree with her I
think it would be much better if you
want to build an identity in
relationship to your country to have a
positive and proactive one and one that
isn't neurotically obsessed with a
disgusting terrorist organization that
almost certainly none of the idiots in
this audience will ever have to deal
with and by the way you know L on Omar
groups like Isis and al Qaeda nobody do
they hate more than an L on Omar in fact
if you look at their strategy documents
there's a really I think it's called the
management of savagery I'm just a
strategy document that I think it was
emerged from al Qaeda in Iraq but it's
been a blueprint for Isis a big part and
I know sama bin Laden as well a huge
part of their game plan has been
empowering george w bush's Donald
Trump's the European far-right that is
precisely the tactics along with lone
wolf terrorist actions that they see as
most effective
for growing growing their toxic ideology
and enhancing their influence so if
anything you know Donald Trump is an
incredible incredible benefit to these
people and we also have this picture of
a speech a couple days earlier where
Trump was spelling al Qaeda al CAI da so
he's clearly an expert on him yeah that
does not sound to me like he takes al
Qaeda as seriously as he needs to
buffoon alright let's finish this and at
a press conference just this week when
asked whether she supported al Qaeda
that's our enemy that's our enemy they
are a very serious problem
that we take care of but they always
seem to come along somewhere she refused
the answer she didn't want to give an
answer to that question all Maher blamed
because he shouldn't have to the United
States for the crisis in Venezuela we
think of that one and she looks down
with contempt on the hardworking
Americans saying that ignorance is
pervasive in many parts of this country
[Music]
just one other thing to say here I mean
one is the obvious point that somebody
who's the co-sponsor of Medicare for all
student debt cancellation wants to
investigate Amazon warehouses and so on
obviously is doing infinitely more for
working people of every single
background in this country then Donald
Trump who's the enemy of the working
class white brown black and everywhere
but this is the other really bizarre
dual impulse of American white supremacy
and racism because there's you know
there's an even you know even though
Trump you know obviously is you know
kind of a you know sort of an idiot and
off in some ways despite his you know
instincts for demagoguery his sort of
backroom chat is I want haikyuu people
and there's sort of you know the the the
the pseudo-scientists a smart person
test the you know the the charles murray
the the genteel pseudo-scientific racism
that i want people from norway stuff but
then on the flip side there's this you
know you're an uneducated you know
you're probably not particularly
well-read and so on and again it's very
interesting because those are those are
frankly the quality i judging people by
where they went to school judging people
by their cultural currency what they you
know what how they present themselves
and certainly judging people by some
dumb test metric trash rejected period
but obviously we can make estimations
about people's intellectual curiosity
what they choose to investigate and
inquire about their own i mean i mean
you know just a hand the example but the
gentleman had called in last week he's a
farmer it's like yeah i farm and i i
like to watch and learn things that has
nothing to do with any kind of like
nonsense social capital game which is
what repulses a lot of people about what
is called like the coastal elites right
because it's all it's it's
about genuine intellectual inquiry it's
about where you went to college and all
this crap which is in fact crap and how
you can prevent that at massive income
and how you can exactly but this is but
this is speaking to to an attitude of I
don't want to know I don't want to talk
to people I don't want to read books I
don't want to enlarge my scope of
understanding the world which anybody
can do and most of those elites by the
way do not have an enlarged scope of the
world at all they just have a narrow
elite one but what he's speaking to
though is that is that duality we're on
one hand were were white were racist we
dismiss other people and then on the
other hands you know look at a lawn like
she's global she's sophisticated she's
clearly hyper articulate she's well-read
she's got it intelligence she has a
savvy to her well to hell with that
she looks down on you and that's the
duality and there's no contradiction in
these people's minds because both is
filling a well feeding on the historical
continuity of the mythology of essential
ization and race and white identity
politics but it's also just filling
enormous psychological and emotional
vacuums in these people which need to be
filled by either inflation or deflation
because of their identity but anyways
finish it
[Music]
and obviously and importantly Omar has a
history of launching vicious
anti-semitic screen floods life
is what fascism sounds
and she talked about the evil Israel and
it's all about the Benjamins not a good
thing to say
so that's Omar that's Alma
and by the way many other things all you
have to do is press the right button on
your beautiful screen so yeah they
chanted send her back send her back been
saying for a while now obviously Trump's
2016 campaign was dishonest racist
xenophobic misogynist everything and
then there was a scam and hustle about
protecting people's economic interests
but because he's a Republican he governs
against the 99% economic interest so all
he has left is this and not the people I
absolutely think that there was a small
but statistically significant percentage
of people who voted for Trump because of
those economic things they're gone you
actually can measure that in the
midterms particularly the Midwest but we
got to be real that a significant part
of the Republican base this is what they
want and it's also what the system is
has been sent up for centuries to
deliver precisely and it is disgusting
and it is you know it's every adjective
expressing moral condemnation you have
is all appropriate for that and as many
Hasaan tweeted today they're trying to
get her killed we don't need to flinch
about what this collective action is and
the only response to it there are no
side lines you are 100% with L on Omar
period obviously it doesn't mean you can
have political debates you can disagree
whatever that's fine but the fundamental
thing that this is a leader this is a
congress person this is someone of an
immense courage and integrity that we
support 100% we fight against the lies
and smears about her you're gonna be
hearing a lot more about a lot of
crackpot theories that you know just
like birtherism began in the worst of
the right-wing swamps they're gonna get
spread through those networks they're
gonna correlate with the president
obviously you have a you know you have a
troll as president there's no difference
between him
and and anybody you know anybody
spreading a lie on social media and then
the broader struggle here is getting an
acquiring power and using that power to
materially defeat the conditions of this
politics and then also understanding
that in fact your role as a politician
is actually also a cultural one and
that's why there can be absolutely zero
ambiguity about ruthlessly fighting the
back against the stuff every shape or
form every shape and form and there is
no room for ambiguity right now in clear
anti racism and in the very specific
character of support for these four
leaders as they're terrorized and ill on
Omar has always been you know precisely
because she has been willing to
criticize Israel precisely because there
are a few comments one you know from
2012 which you can you know take out of
context or distort and also precisely
because she's actually shown her own
willingness to evolve and improve which
you know Nancy Pelosi and Donald Trump
certainly sure as hell don't sure ben
shapiro for that matter
I know Ben Shapiro is another one don't
let you know Ben Shapiro we got to go in
a second but Ben Shapiro watch him very
closely right now because his move right
now is oh well that's ten you know the
president can't say that she's a vicious
anti-semite so he's gonna continue to
lie and smear about her and set the
context for hate while he tries to pivot
his brand against the actual incitement
against he's neutral he's doing the same
thing in reality whether he knows it or
not that's what it is and there's a
reason why whatever his intentions are
huh there's a reason why you know he's
up there on those grids when some
terrorist attacks a mosque so let's be
clear about this and have her back we're
gonna take a brief break we'll be right
back
