okay so let's let's do this for a moment
I don't know when we did this some us
you know a video of Matt Walsh this is
the guy from The Daily wire Oh is he the
the minimum wage guy the minimum wage
guy and this is I mean I refer to him as
like the not funny Matt Walsh cuz I know
Matt Walsh who is actually successful
and funny and he's a he's an actor and
in a community was used to be guy and
this is the not funny Matt Walsh and we
did a video about uh I guess a video he
did on the minimum wage and he listener
sent this to us I guess I don't know why
it took so long I don't know when he did
this on his show maybe a couple of weeks
ago or something and and so he
apparently was very upset because he
felt like I was just mocking him the
whole time but we did like something
like a twenty minute video on him and he
he said that Santa steadily steamrolled
yeah Sam says I'm irrelevant but he
spent twenty minutes on me making fun of
us and I just want to be this is more of
a cogeneration oat we do three hours a
day and when I see someone out there who
is saying is something stupid about the
minimum wage that doesn't mean that I
think you're relevant it just means that
I think your point was stupid and you're
just copying some right wing talking
point and you're a good vehicle for me
to discuss it we're not on the Matt
Walsh is turning people beat here I want
to make that clear definitely did not
remember this guy's anything until today
sound sheet I know I know that he talks
a lot about abortion that's the only
thing that I associate him with I just
know I remember the minimum wage stuff
but that's like people should have
babies let me just preface this up with
this because this is gonna get a little
bit weedy cuz he he was
very very upset all we did was make fun
of them saying that he his work was
worthless that he'd looked like he
didn't prepare like we do that hockey
well we do support the minimum wage but
if anybody's not gonna get paid for
their work maybe it should be this guy
well no he was trying to make the
argument that you are always paid what
you're worth that that's what happens in
a minimum wage is wrong and I was
suggesting that he that what you what
you deserve you're always paid what you
deserve and what you're worth to the
employer and I was suggesting like no I
think you the work you're doing is an
example that you don't get paid what
you're worth assuming you get paid
anything and to be doesn't maybe it's an
elaborate internship it's it's possible
but and then he was upset he he was
upset that I compared him to my 14 year
old daughter and he said that was rude
of me to do to my daughter and that's
probably true because that's good times
where I think she's more astute than
this guy but my point was daughter son
any junior high student and and and I
have to maybe amend this early junior
high like more like sixth or seventh
grade as opposed to like eighth grade
when things get a little more
sophisticated so here's and then he
complained because we didn't really
address his argument and so let's let's
play some clips from this but this is
gonna get a little bit weedy it this is
such a basic concept that I I didn't
think I'd have to do it but but Matt
believes that workers get paid
exclusively based upon their value to an
employer in other words how much do they
make for the employer so let's just keep
that in mind let's let's listen to what
he's saying here at least someone who's
gonna be fired that's someone who's not
gonna have a job anymore so Sam is
exactly right about that oh wow
apparently I think that was like where
Matt also thinks that you can make
theoretically zero as an employee but if
you're not
making any money then you're not really
an employee now that's a sticking point
but it's it's relevant because having a
job is not just about like well you know
it is you're setting aside your labor as
a commodity and you're also having to
deliver that and provide for it to the
employer but good I think he's getting
it maybe he's maybe he's catching on the
people who are on the minimum wage
the real minimum wage in this scenario
are probably going to be the people who
mostly don't have jobs they have zero
worth to any employer thus they have no
job thus their wage in effect is zero
and that's the starting point okay the
least amount you can be worth to an
employer is nothing pies no wrong
because if you're worth nothing to an
employer you're not an employee they're
not an employer this is a relationship
between two people I don't walk around
in my life as an employer you do it's
very confusing I've seen you at uh don't
say to me like if I go into the
supermarket would there's one of our
employers I've had some coffees with
salmon it's so bizarre when he says he
just will look up and say you offered
nothing to this situation because he
doesn't understand what work is and he
doesn't understand how employers when
they are employing people make
assessments about their worth and the
easte
amount you can be worth to an employer
is nothing right what's hard to
understand about this have you ever
heard of the concept of zero Sam it's
possible to be worth nothing to an
employer for instance right now I am as
an employee I am worth nothing to Subway
because I don't work for them so I get
paid zero from them I'm worth nothing to
my wage from them is zero all right what
I'm saying is that a minimum wage of
15.5 of him on this but he's doing this
from notes notes the old we all work for
everybody and nobody argument
yeah what I'm saying is that a minimum
wage of 15.7 up well because people like
Sam struggle with it
so I feel like I have to you know he's
someone on a remedial level here which
is fine you know I'm not making fun of
him but so I've got to just slow down
and spell this out for what I'm saying
is that a minimum wage of $15 an hour
doesn't make sense because it assumes it
commands really that every person who
has a job must necessarily be worth at
least $15 an hour to their employer just
by the fact that they exist and they
walk in the door I don't think that's
the case so Sam of course goes for
another person will dig there as you saw
says that I'm worth a zero to my
employer but again not an argument
that's just an insult a lame one and
here's the thing Sam it's also not our
act is actually credible because I'm I'm
not worth the zero at the my employer
I'm not even worth a zero to you because
you're using me for content that's true
all right well look I I don't know the
prop the the basic problem that that mat
has is that he assumes that wages are
set based upon the value that the worker
produces for the employer and if that
was the case if that was the only thing
now obviously I'm not gonna hire workers
unless I think they're gonna provide
value to my business that's obvious but
if it was the case that there was some
type of very specific algorithm that a
worker has to produce X and they are
worth Y to me then you wouldn't see
things like this chart this chart is the
gap between productivity and a typical
workers compensation that gap has
increased significantly since 1973 now
let me just before we go into this this
make it clear you'll see that as you go
up to like
1973 from this starts in 1947 that
dynamic is used as the baseline there is
necessarily there is necessarily a delta
between a difference between what a
worker's productivity is and what their
compensation is this is ultimately out
of that chunk of money comes paying for
capital improvements paying for
technology paying the rent paying for
the goods that come in and then profit
now your rent may be fixed your systems
costs may be fixed to some degree maybe
you can improve the efficiencies the
investment you have to make in your your
you know your equipment may be more or
less fixed your labor costs maybe you
can fudge those and your profit okay now
so understand even though it looks like
these two lines are are equal there's
still a that's just because it's indexed
in 1947 well maybe the workers just got
lazy starting around 1973 well if that
was the case in 1973 you would not see
productivity continued to rise in the
same fashion
however hourly compensation goes
flatline their while productivity goes
up so that Delta grew significantly
during that period of time now which is
not to say that there wasn't a delta
before then but again it was static
because it's indexed at nineteen
forty-seven but just the existence of
the ability of hourly compensation
versus the productivity to change
disproves all of Matt Walsh's theory
that you are paid what you are worth to
an
because the value of those employees did
not go down from 1973 until 2000
whatever 17 when that chart was finished
it continued to go up in fact I think it
went up slightly steeper than it had
gone before which means that
productivity got even more efficient and
there was even more productivity but
compensation barely budged Sam I I do
have a question for you though what
would you say the relative value you're
providing as an employee to north end
motor sales I would say you it's a used
car dealership in Worcester zero right
right so you can kind of see how that
sort of attention of Wilson saying he
doesn't understand this concept that
it's really just a question of how much
profit now there are instances of course
where you run a business where you're
barely taking any profit whatsoever and
a minimum wage you can't exploit you
can't create that much of a Delta as
much of a Delta as you want between the
productivity of your workers and what
you pay them there are businesses like
that now of course what is also
problematic with those is things like
your rent maybe your rent is actually
the problem here maybe your other fixed
costs or maybe you have a bad business
idea or maybe you don't have access to
other forms of capital at the point is
you shouldn't be allowed to ship that on
to your workers and not only that which
is true but we know that the minimum
wage as it has been historically there
has been able to create productivity and
economic growth in the past here is
where the the value of the minimum wage
well here do the other one that one yeah
so if you go back to the 1960s you will
see here from this chart that the
minimum wage kept pay
with where where the economy was and
then starting somewhere probably around
that same time 1970 some odd it dips it
doesn't keep pace with productivity it's
just another way of looking at that same
chart except for instead of this being
the Delta between productivity and
compensation now we're just looking at
it relative to the minimum wage if the
minimum wage was maintained from where
it was last in 1968 the minimum wage has
been around since 1938 I think it was
and has been raised periodically maybe
maybe about a dozen times over the years
if it had kept pace with productivity in
other words if that dynamic which worked
for so many years from 1944 in this
chart I guess through to 1973 worked and
I would remind you we had great massive
economic expansion during that period of
time and we had it broadly shared at
least amongst white people Oh largely
due to Wars but it's beside the point
well there was also a there was also a
just a broadening of the middle class
you could you could argue that's a
function of like the rest of the world
rebuilding there's there's an argument
you could make for a bunch of those
things but that starts going south in
1968 I guess it was where you start to
see the minimum wage is not keeping
nearly at the pace of of what
productivity is and let's look at the
other chart which again just simply
proves the point that there is no
dynamic where an employer says like well
you're worth $12 to me in terms of my
revenue here and therefore I'm going to
always pay I'm going to pay you 10 we're
always going to have a dynamic of five
six that's the
iron law of compensation you're gonna
get I'm gonna get you know you're gonna
get 5/6 of the productivity that you
make and the problem with that is that
that's a fantasy it doesn't exist
because we have seen evidence that it
has moved instead of five six two five
seven again at eight five ninths just to
be intellectually honest and fair how we
correlate this though with the fact that
no offense Brendan that Brendan is a
worth nothing
to McDonald's as an employee right now
how do we sort of figure out that time
there's another way of looking at that
same thing the ratio of minimum wage to
average hourly wage for private
production and non supervise it works it
has basically steadily dropped
significantly over the years now bumps
up in times of economic peril 2008 you
can see there's a little jag there but
still significantly less than it was in
the late 40s so there it is I mean there
it is with statistics this is not for
Matt Walsh this is for everyone else who
has a more than just passing rudimentary
notion high school junior high school
notion of how people are paid in his
earlier video and I noticed he didn't
address us here maybe we missed it he
said if you work at McDonald's and you
do a really good job you'll get a raise
as if there are people do we have that
okay ooh there's more how much you know
how how much you're worth your employer
my contention about that fast-food
worker is that based on the effort and
the skill he brings to the table his
financial worth to his employer is
minimal and the reason it's minimal is
that almost anyone could do what he does
almost anyone could replace him they
could fire him and there's a 99% chance
that whoever walks in the door next
however old they are they could be six
years old they could do what that guy
does so he's just not worth that much
financially
to his employer and importantly here the
automated things that McDonald's that
they already have set up that thing can
do what that guy does and do it better
actually
now that could change here's the good
news he has the power to change it he
could come to work tomorrow energetic on
the ball helpful involved engaged on
time ready to work you know making the
customers feel good upselling doing all
this stuff that he could do that
tomorrow and instantly just like that in
an instant he could be worth
considerably more than a dollar an hour
posit we last week we had on the show a
woman who spent time working at Amazon
working at McDonald's working at a call
center and she wrote the book what was
in it was on the clock on the clock
Emily Gunn Dalls burger can I fit
anything else into this box
I just want to upsell it she worked at
McDonald's and there is no first of all
not only instantaneously do you become
not more worth to your employer the last
thing an employer would do like you know
what yesterday you were lazy today
you're great I'm giving you a raise to
do the same job that doesn't happen at
McDonald's that it doesn't happen at all
in McDonald's it doesn't happen over
time at McDonald's you don't get there's
no people two people work in the
frialator and who have been working
there for the same time and one's
getting paid more that's not the way it
works at McDonald's and it's also not
the case that they're paying just for
the skill set they're paying based upon
how much labor is available to me not
the quality of it how much labor is
available to me that can do this and how
much control do I have monopsony over
their wages one of the big dynamics that
we have that's problematic in this
country and I know this is a little bit
far afield from minimum wage is that we
had such a we
such concentration of corporate power in
this country you have far less fewer
firms starting up far less employers and
what happens is you get single buyers
for labor in localities and then to some
extent nationally and that drives down
wages which again is more proof that
wages are not a function of the value
you bring yes there is a baseline that
you have to bring in terms of value to
someone to get hired but wages are not
merely a function of the value you bring
to employer there is a lot of other
factors so this got his whole argument
about why a minimum wage is wrong is
fallacious I've said it before and I'll
say it again there's nothing worse than
unearned pedantry indeed in deed
