Marcee welcome back to the program oh
we're gonna be on so on October 30th you
wrote a piece in The New Republic
entitled if Trump fires Muller
anticipating that perhaps after the
election we may see some action on that
front and we did but it started with
Jeff Sessions let's let's let's start
with with that but but what is the what
is the top line that we should be aware
of at this point of following the
election in regards to Trump and Trump
Inc I guess in terms of their legal
jeopardy we don't know we don't know and
I don't think we'll know for about a
week or so about what happens with
Muller and it may be within that week
that we actually learn a lot more about
what kind of legal jeopardy trumpism so
this is going to be a busy week all
right well maybe or maybe you know
Muller will get fired and wanna go to
the beach or something right okay well
right let's start with this then let's
walk through the the firing because I
think the the the piece that I think is
most instructive of yours at least for
the moment the most comprehensive is the
question didn't Abbott flood means
create a legal morass or is he off his
game so Donald Trump so okay so Emmett
flood was by your reckoning one of the
few competence that Donald Trump brought
on board he was he helped Cheney
deal with the special counsel in
Congress back in the day he's a longtime
Washington I guess
lawyer defending politicians and various
things I think he was involved in maybe
even Clinton's impeachment yeah
all right so okay so let's start with
this question of what is the relevance
of
whether Jeff sessions was fired and/or
resigned and when okay so really quickly
to go over what happened is starting at
11:30 the day after the election Trump
gave a press conference lied about how
well the Republicans had done when that
was going on Trump had already had John
Kelly call sessions and say we want your
resignation session said can I have
until the end of the week Kelly called
back later and said nope we want it
today and he replaced sessions with his
chief of staff a guy by the name of Matt
Whitaker and Whitaker on paper is sort
of qualified he was US Attorney for one
of the districts in Iowa under Bush so
yeah he's a lawyer at least which you
know you might not get that from Trump
right but he's really a hack I mean he's
kind of the quintessential Republican
hack he spent much of 2017 saying here's
how to get rid of the Malheur probe he
was interviewed that summer for a job as
part of Trump's White House Counsel
defense team and then in the fall he was
he didn't get the White House Counsel
job he was made Jeff Sessions cheapest
at sessions chief of staff was given a
big promotion creating an opportunity
there the White House forced sessions to
hire this guy Whittaker and so he has
been a senior DOJ official for a year
and under some interpretations of the
law that means that if sessions resigns
you can replace him with somebody a
sufficient seniority in a temporary
appointment and that's what the
government that's what Trump claims
happens now it's on you know it's clear
that sessions was forced to resign he
made that clear in the front the first
line of his letter and the Democrats in
the house in are just be clear on that
in the first line of his letter he
said you've asked my resignation here it
is right paraphrasing but he made it
clear that he didn't offer this except
for upon the at the very least the
insistence or the request and there may
be no difference right when you're
talking about the president that here is
a right and also frankly you know if
Kelly says can we have your resignation
he says Friday you can have it and Kelly
says no we wanted today that makes that
seems to me it's a coerced Rezac it's an
even more coerced resignation and the
Democrats in the house are making very
clear that they believe it was a firing
if he was fired if sessions was fired
then Whitaker's appointment is not legal
because you can only have him in place
rather than somebody who's Senate
confirmed if sessions resigned basically
the idea is the president can't fire
somebody to then put in place somebody
who was not Senate confirmed in addition
there are a couple of other questions
about whether he would be a legal na
appointment as well including from Neil
Koch out who is the guy who wrote the
special counsel regulations and George
Conway's Kellyanne Conway is husband and
they argue that for one because you have
a senate-confirmed person right there in
the form of rod Rosen Stein who is the
person who would take over if the
Attorney General was gone or disabled
you got to go with him you can't go with
this hack from Iowa and you also there
are rules that say you can't do this in
India J touch all has written another
piece that says even if his appointment
is legal he can't supervise Muller
because then you have basically an
inferior officer supervising an inferior
officer in other words there's a bunch
of reasons to think that his appointment
is not legal and that his supervision of
Miller is not legal and we know
everyone's talking about well we don't
know and we won't be able to decide
whether that's true or not you
lest somebody gets standing and
challenges his appointment in court but
that's actually not true and um this is
one of the most interesting things from
last week CNN did this great Buy thus
far like one of the only really good
reports on the firing and it describes
how as soon as John Salley called
sessions he and Deputy Attorney General
Robert Stein he's the guy who ever
seeing Miller right now his principal
deputy who is also involved in
overseeing Muller and this is really key
the Solicitor General
Knowle Francisco who's the third ranking
DOJ official assuming sessions is still
there on that day he was the third
ranking and then also Steven Engel who
is in charge of the office of legal
counsel who again Senate confirmed very
senior DOJ official all of them with the
exception of Rosen Stein's deputy all of
them were senior twit occur and they're
sitting in a room with Jeff Sessions
going what do we do and how do we
protect the Russian investigation and
according to CNN's report somebody in
that room that they don't name said we
don't even know if this constitutional
just like the rest of us are except the
difference being that in that room
Steven Engel is the guy who for DOJ for
the entire executive branch is the one
who decides whether these things are
legal so I had least suspect that those
people said okay seed give us an opinion
give us a memo and how soon can you have
it done because if he comes back and
says no it's not legal under under the
vacancies Reform Act you can't have you
know you can't appoint Whittaker when
Rosenstein is available then it's not
legal and DOJ is is arguing that it's
not legal and one of the one of the
things I point out is that the sessions
resignation is not dated much less
time-stamped okay hold on hold on with
sessions not being data I just want to
get into that dynamic about the OLC so
the OLC for people who don't recall was
the agency within the the Department of
Justice
you know the sub agency I guess that
lets say the Bush administration went to
and said we need legal justification to
torture John you wrote this up and and
and whatnot
if the OLC writes it up is it
necessarily binding like doesn't it
still have to go to court at one point
or or is that just a way to basically
say the OLC is saying to the Trump
administration like you have no legal
standing like you'll have to come up
with a theory on your own because the
government doesn't have one as to why it
would be legal for you or constitutional
I guess may be legal because this is
under a statute right to a point
Whitaker in this instance right yeah
they're pointing to the no they actually
are pointing to an old OLC opinion
written by Ed Whelan for those of you
who remember a treelings Roland
Cavanaugh confusion sometimes but but it
isn't exact it doesn't exactly follow to
what we're looking at here and the only
time you know that that people who know
this stuff can think of where you had
somebody in charge of DOJ who wasn't
confirmed for for more than ours was
during Watergate after Bork was firing
people and so you know it it's never
happened before there's no precedent and
you know with the White House is saying
whether as I said 'we'll in opinion but
if if Angelo is really though did or is
revisiting the issue then that poses
other legal problems and it also gives
Muller an opportunity to say and he's
writing a memo about this right now as
we speak by the way but it gives more an
opportunity to say to say the DC Circuit
oh do de has told me that Whitaker is
not a regal appointee and therefore I'm
still reporting to to the person who in
the absence of an attorney general in
the absence of an attorney general who
can do this I'm still reporting to the
guy that I'm
according to images Rob Levenstein and
so this is one of the reasons I say we
don't know what is going to happen I
just have a hunch that something like
this is going on and like and then there
are the other questions about even if
Whittaker was legally appointed he's got
all these conflicts he's run a political
campaign for one of the grand jury
witnesses he had all these statements
before he was appointed both attacking
the Muller investigation but also saying
oh sure everyone would take the same
meeting that Don jr. took and he as I
said and he was interviewed to be part
of Trump's defense team so that is also
problematic so there's all sorts of
conflicts not the least of which he was
part of a company I guess that was
investigated by the FBI you sort of
didn't times these things slip slip the
mind and you forget about those things
but the real so the the long and short
of it is at the very least regardless of
how these questions would be answered
what they do provide is a grounds in
which Muller would contest any actions
that Whittaker would take that would
slow roll as investigation that would
defund his investigation that would do
anything else because he would then go
and correct me if I'm wrong I'm just
trying to understand how it sort of this
practically goes forward he would then
go to the the DC Circuit and I guess to
a panel of three judges and say you know
please enjoying him from doing this
because a all of the things that are so
public that we know about make his
hiring invalid and then and be there's
also and there may be this is
hypothetical and OLC memos that suggest
that his his hirings not valid that he's
not really the guy so I mean is that how
it would work
that's how it would play out if it goes
down that route yeah
and it may not go down that route I mean
it may be that it may be that on
Thursday Rosen Stein said you guys blew
the resignation and we have until Friday
to put stuff in place it may be that
Muller already has indictments sitting
waiting to be unsealed and he's just
kind of finishing with jerome corsi
among all people it may be that you know
so there are a bunch of possibilities we
you know obviously Miller's not telling
we'll find a couple of hints as I said
he's writing a brief you on Monday a
week from today in subpoena challenge
somebody close to Roger stone and that
subpoena challenge was heard the hearing
was heard last Thursday and there were
some interesting things that Michael
Dreeben who works for the Solicitor
General that he said he basically said
well we can indict somebody on our own
we can you know give somebody immunity
on our own we can do CLE agreement on
our own we can't subpoena a journalist
don't know so you know he was sort of
laying out what he thought what he
thought they could do without going to
their superior which maybe Whitaker
maybe Rosenstein still we don't know and
and that by itself was interesting but
the judges on that panel said you know
that they started that hearing by saying
let's pretend that what happened
yesterday didn't happen and then we're
gonna ask you to give us more briefing
on what you think what did happen
yesterday has an impact on this
challenge and so we'll learn on Monday
if not before
what Muller thinks his legal status is
and how Whitaker's appointment changed
it so you know we may not know until
then but we should learn on Monday okay
so just to be clear we are pre taping
this on Monday the 12th between now and
then there's there could be you know
Muller will have a better sense of his
status is quite possible that by you
know midway through this week because of
the nature in which they solicited
sessions resignation that the statute in
which they're operating under which call
which applies if a guy like sessions
actually resigns rather than is forced
to resign nullifies Whitaker's
appointment and makes it too susceptible
to legal challenges so they have to
basically do it do over or just give up
the ghost on this on this plan you
mentioned the idea of Muller already
having indictments we walk us through
that like you know like it's almost a
fail-safe type of mechanism at least to
the extent that you that that it exists
that we don't know that it does but that
Muller sort of may have anticipated a
day like today or probably did and so
what does that mean there are sealed
indictments just walk us through what
what what would have happened up to this
point if today there are X number of
sealed indictments who would they be
sitting with who could unseal them who
could stop them from being unsealed if
anybody so we don't know whether this
happened or not and there's a lot of
folks you know there's a lot of rumors
on the internet claiming there are you
know 100 sealed indictments I would
distrust that but it is in fact true
that I mean obviously Muller anticipated
something like this might happen the
Friday before Election Day
he was really pressuring to get some
witnesses against Roger stone on the
record so just for example it's possible
he finished an indictment against stone
had the grand jury vote to approve it
and then left it sealed and if that's
the case once the indictment as far as I
understand it once the indictment is
done and sealed then it no longer
belongs to DOJ it belongs to the court
and in this case it would belong to the
to the judge overseeing the grand jury
which is the chief judge in DC her name
is Beryl Howell
Obama appointee she has been totally
by-the-book and I can
vision her being you know the the next
incarnation of John Sirica so so it
would be up to her and and you know
Muller could go and ask to have it
unsealed one of the interesting things
that happened there's been a lot of talk
about how Miller sent parts of the
investigation to other places most
notably the Michael Cullen hush payment
stuff to to Manhattan basically and
that's a really independent US
Attorney's Office and that's going to be
as hard to fiddle with as fiddling with
Muller is just because that's the
culture of SDN Y so that's one way that
he we know he protected parts of his
investigations we know that Trump is
being investigated in that Trump
committed campaign violations in that
case Wall Street Journal reported out
the other day the other thing that he
did is three of his team members have
already been spun back to their home
department and and they they're just
there as as protected employees of DOJ
and it's something hey we're went went
to go on and and and there's the reason
to believe that they're continuing to
work on related issues they could then
go to the court and say we want these
grand jury materials because they
pertain to our day job so they could
free them
you know once the house once the
Democrats take over in the house if
things went really haywire they could
try and go get those grand jury
materials there are ways to get that
I'll be very different let me just recap
though so the people aren't lost because
a lot of information there so okay so so
we don't know how many indictments
Muller has we know that there's it's
been reported that there's a one or
10.we
isn't there hasn't there been reports
that there's at least one sealed
indictment maybe from a couple of months
ago I mean is it possible that he would
have but but let's just assume that we
don't know it could be anywhere from 0
to I don't know whatever number let's
just pick a number 25 indictment yeah
we're emphasize it could be 0 though
okay really when I put aside that so it
could be
zero and but if there were anything more
than zero they would be with the judge
you mentioned Soraka I didn't know how
to pronounce his name but this was just
recently revealed that there was a
basically a plan
the is how you're referring to the judge
from the Watergate case all right okay
and so and these were recently released
by a I guess it was a FOIA what and and
I want to ask you what you think about
the timing of that but just to cover
where we just covered so these
indictments are there and they could be
unsealed if if Muller was fired tomorrow
by hook or crook could your suggesting
that people from his team who have been
reinvented back in the DOJ could go to
the judge and there is basically a
almost like a thread hanging from there
from other stuff that they're doing that
would unseal these indictments or could
could Muller
maybe not unseal it but maybe pick up
the prosecution's in their home area so
one of the prosecutors has been spun
back as a woman named Kyle free and
she's a money-laundering specialist so
she's back I think in New York
and if Muller was fired tomorrow could
she then pick up bribery and money
laundering
yeah maybe and she'd be in New York and
it'd be a lot harder to screw with her
so that's another possibility is that
you've got these team members who know
their portfolio they're part of the
portfolio and even if you fired the
entire Moeller team today they'd still
be there with the knowledge and with the
ability to free up grand jury materials
for further prostitution okay great and
so okay so assuming all of that is there
and they how would Muller could Muller
do anything with those things or is it
just up to the judge at that point to
say like okay I'm watching this go down
and it's time for me to unseal these
these indictments
well somebody from DOJ have to ask to
have them down field so you know it
could be somebody from Miller's team
most of Muller's people
our DOJ employees so they're actually
harder to fire and they could go and say
we need to until these indictments again
if there are any and I want to stress
that there may not be that that they
could then I mean basically somebody has
to go to the judge and say we gave you a
good reason to seal these back on
November 2nd when we got when we handed
them up now it's time for us to unseal
them we're going to go arrest these guys
and that's how it would work but
ultimately it's Beryl howls it's the
judge it's her decision to unseal and
it's her decision what happens with the
grand jury materials and that's
something that could be litigated
forever but that's something that's kind
of the real failsafe that if everybody
is fired the House Judiciary Committee
is going to come after those materials
and it would be up to girl how to decide
whether or not to share them all right
so let's let's just go down that road
for a moment - is it possible that the
House Judiciary Committee comes in
whatever January 22nd or something they
convened there first you know they have
their staff and let's say Muller is
fired now could they could they hire
Muller as a staffer I mean what they're
not going to they won't they you know
they they different committees in the
house are going to do different things
shift is going to pick up a lot of the
threads of the Russian investigations
that were dropped by under Devin Oona so
you know you should expect some
attention into the finances you should
expect witnesses who avoided testimony
like hope Hicks she was allowed to not
answer all the questions and she
obviously knows a lot about the response
to the June 9th meeting for example so
they'll bring them back and they'll
flush out certain other areas of the
investigation it goes to the house I
mean the reason the House Judiciary is
important is because if there were an
investigation of the president that
might turn into impeachment if that goes
through the house
sherry committee and they're important
you know that's where the Watergate
precedent is is worthwhile in Watergate
what Jaworski did what the prosecutor
did was he said okay here's what I would
do if I were going to impeach the
president can't do that so let me take
the actions but I would impeach him for
put together basically box up the
information the evidence I have for all
of the actions the president took that I
would impeach him for and have the grand
jury vote to share that information as a
kind of freestanding report that makes
no accusations it just says here's what
the president did and here's the proof
have a grand jury vote to be able to
share that with the House Judiciary
Committee that's what happened during
Watergate and I would imagine one of one
of Miller's attorneys actually worked on
the Watergate team we imagined that
Miller is taking certain lessons from
Watergate and I would imagine that he
would at some point and possibly did
before the election thinking something
like this might happen at some at some
point do something similar have the
grand jury give him permission to share
information with House Judiciary if it
comes to that so that's how House
Judiciary would get the information
Trump is worse than Nixon Nixon actually
okayed the sharing of that information
back in the day and you know Trump I
would imagine would fight it because
Trump is Trump but you know then then
Brett Kevin I will get to decide or
something like that I mean look
ultimately some of the arguments the
trunk is already making and that the
appointment of Whittaker makes is that
the that the judiciary has no role he is
in the free but isn't it isn't isn't a
third branch of government with its own
power to keep people in line and enforce
the law and that's the kind of stuff
that pisses off judges and justices
regardless of what party and the Nixon
precedent I think is a pretty solid
precedent I don't think you know even
this Court is going to overturn it in
substantial fashion so that's sort of
where we could be headed if things go
really haywire but who knows
Miller will be able to work out the week
he'll go indict Roger stone and then
we'll be in business
