[Music]
all right I'm gonna play this next clip
is obviously in reaction to what we've
seen over the past couple of days this
is the I'm playing this clip because
it's aspirational for me it's
aspirational in the sense no hit the
other one that oh it's aspirational in
the sense that this is this is the
moment where we're going to see and I
think to a certain extent we've seen
bateau O'Rourke's humanity right like I
think he's clearly moved by this this is
the community he grew up in he has a lot
of attachment to it and I think he's
been clearly moved by it and look
politicians there's an element of
politicians that I think is inescapable
that they have some distance and they
can see how they're being perceived at
any given time I mean I think to a
certain extent even doing what we do I'm
conscious that I'm on camera I'm
conscious that people are looking at me
more often than not there's a couple
times I slip and you know pick pick you
nose or you do something like that but
for the most part you're aware of it and
so I am sure at breaking today that he's
also aware that this is a moment for him
as a presidential candidate to show his
leadership I think it's not insincere
what he's doing but I think he's also
aware of that moment was it the
Kaepernick thing or remember that video
of him in the church when he was running
I was half dead so like he is good at
this thing yes and but the other
question is at this point like to what
extent does his humanity where he
genuinely cares about this and his
understanding of the political moment
make him realize that he should drop out
of this presidential race and declare
for the Senate because he is in a
position now if he didn't do it before
because he didn't think he could take on
John Cornyn
there's every reason to believe
particularly when you have half a dozen
Republican Congress people who are
dropping out and running for re-election
so their machines are a little bit
dispersed you're gonna have a lot of
energy a lot of money's gonna pour into
that state to take congressional seats
which is gonna help you in your run for
the Senate
this can help you run for the Senate
this is good it's gonna be interesting
to see what he does but in the meantime
you know like what he's saying I think
is his heartfelt it's important to be
said and this is he could if he believes
all this he could do far more as the
first Democrat who wins in the state of
Texas a Senate seat in decades by
winning that seat and he did say white
supremacy is hate and should be treated
as domestic terror yeah
important for you then to say that this
is the same man who called white
nationalists and Klansmen and neo-nazis
very fine people who asked for more
immigrants who look like those in Sweden
and Norway that the whitest places on
the planet while describing immigrants
from Haiti as full of AIDS or countries
in Africa as nations this is
the most racist president we've had
since perhaps Andrew Johnson in in
another age and another century and and
he is responsible for the hatred and the
violence that we're seeing right now you
cannot leave that just to me to say that
it's got to be you and and those who are
helping this country understand what is
happening in our name
I mean thing I like about what bet I was
doing too is he's making a critique of
that that goes beyond politics right
I mean he's making a he's making a
critiquing and this is a dynamic that I
think has been very encouraging we saw
this during the debates I just don't
remember a time where Democratic
candidates for presidency for any
position for that matter are making a
they're not making a structural critique
of the press I mean I think Bernie has
done that in the past and we've had
politicians who've talked about media
concentration why not but they're making
an operational critique in terms of the
way that things are framed in the way
that they are educating the American
public and it's helpful I mean remember
the Republicans last year the whole
thing and they did this they have done
this many many cycles where they will
call out the debate moderators and it's
like the it was almost like the first
one to do it in there during the
Republican primary last time it was like
a race but now you have them making this
critique of the press saying like you
know we're gonna demand more of you and
a more fan and I think that's very very
important that the Democrats be either
begin as individuals but reflect I think
a change in the Democratic Party that we
can question the because I think
specifically with this the fact that at
least among the candidates the
Democratic leadership isn't there yet at
all
where they need to be but the candidates
are all saying on stage like Sanders and
his closing statement said the guy's a
racist and so on
but the next pivot is to do exactly what
you're saying that is the next layer to
not just say like yes I'm gonna come out
and call him a racist and I'm not gonna
let him off the hook but then I'm gonna
say in some sense how can you even be
asking like giving me a positive quote
right you're ignoring the entirety of
the guy's career in politics right the
answer is not by the way to talk about
how we need to step up law enforcement
Bernie had a lot of good takes on this
issue that wasn't one of them and it's
it's a weird week when Vado's doing a
little bit better than Bernie on
something I don't know about betas
policy prescriptions but I'm giving him
a pass from saying these this ship
belongs on the battlefield so
battlefields don't belong anywhere
