[Music]
TGIF hey guys could you have someone on
to talk about the influence of religious
values and today in today's society the
write always talks about so-called
judeo-christian values even though it is
clear every day that we really live in a
society with values centered on
capitalism and neoliberalism which are
somewhat incompatible with
judeo-christian philosophy I really
think that this was just Islamophobic
dog whistling and I'm getting pissed
every time ben shapiro or even dave
rubin talked about it love the show left
his best um yeah i mean i think that's
true and again i think that it's this
whole one of the things that was so bad
about new atheism as a discourse and
please understand that this is not this
is attack on individuals and people that
don't believe in god indeed and even
though i don't identify as an atheist
which i understand still triggers some
people I you know I especially I'm
reading my this book I get a sense of
like who a lot of my prime intellectual
influences are even if I wasn't
conscious and a Cornel West is a
Christian calls himself Christian
socialist so he is religious and he's
probably the person I admire most but
you know I don't know marks it off read
I mean atheists are great is the point
and critical a good work the Atheist
have done a lot of tremendous work which
more and more people are noticing I mean
historical tasks of atheism to actually
explain how religious narratives track
other societal political hierarchies or
block the inquiries and discoveries of
Sciences is uh Naik correct but like
noble but the new atheist narrative that
was basically a proxy for anti-muslim
politics and Western chauvinism and was
also so just empirically inaccurate
about religion and this is an
anthropological statement again I don't
care
believe whatever the hell you believe
but the notion that you cannot
understand that there is not one version
of Christianity there's not one version
of Buddhism there's not one version of
Islam this is both literally true
geographically in terms of how these
things change from country to country
and culture to culture
but in terms of the ideology that they
promote and I want to give Cory Booker
some props here because the reality is
is that even though things are changing
particularly in certain parts of the
country candidates are still going to
have to pay their respects to religion
and and a lot of people also again I
take I tend to take people at their word
I don't do I remember Christopher
Hitchens did a lot of like I secretly
think Obama's an atheist I don't know
why I'm doing a gorica for him but it
was like I don't know Chris like I I get
that that's your way of complimenting
him but Barack Obama says he's a
Christian so I'm gonna just I tend to go
with what people say about themselves
right so I think Cory Booker is a
religious person I don't even know if
he's actually necessarily I thought he
almost seemed a moment more like a kind
of like general New Age guy but maybe he
identifies as a Christian I don't mean
that as an insult I mean he's a you know
he's a he's a he's a positive quotes guy
but this answer on what religion means
in public life I will never sport Cory
Booker all the usual problems with him
blah blah blah let's index those if more
people could answer this question like
this this would do a lot of good in our
society I am a pastor here in town and
in my faith tradition we keep partisan
politics out of the pulpit yes sir but
as a citizen and a person of faith I do
have my own opinions and I find
president Trump's whole demeanor and
most of his policies to be abhorrent or
should be to persons of faith so I'd
like to ask you can you share with us
how your own faith would influence you
as president god thank you for that
question
so I just want to say up front that I'm
a person often says it before you tell
me about your religion show it to me and
how you treat other people logic and
frankly before you tell me about your
atheism show me how you treat other
people
[Applause]
and a church where my mom taught Sunday
school and I'll never forget learning
that verse that faith without works is
dead and and I'll tell you what I feel
like I'm in church right now and I'll
tell you what this is what often bother
I would rather hang out with a nice
atheist and a mean Christian any day of
the week and so so thank you for asking
me about my faith you asked and I will
share the foundation of my life was our
raising with a faith in God but I was
taught that faith demands first and
foremost humility before God that you
look at your brother and sister
regardless of their faith regardless of
the background with a conviction of love
love thy neighbor and love is not easy
and it really bothers me that when folks
think that being loving or kind I tell
you to be strong you don't need to be
cruel to be tough you don't need to be
mean it's great
and that's exactly right and I mean look
at anybody it just just is a very basic
example do you think Pat Robertson and
Desmond Tutu are doing the same thing
again and again you can have a broader
objection to religion that's fine in
some cases again even heroic but if you
can just reduce that either - well it's
all Christianity and it's all false or
even just do kind of like mental
gymnastics another Christopher Hitchens
had a great excellent debate line that
was also totally empty and vacuous where
he would say I respect dr. King enough
to say that he would be like a great
leader even if he wasn't a Christian the
only problem was is that he was a
Christian and his entire intellectual
infrastructure as well as the physical
base of his social movement was in the
black church in the south and then it
was a inner faith coalition with people
like Abraham Joshua Heschel one of my
heroes that did the actual work and then
his intellectual infrastructure and cos
king was in fact as we forget many
things about him in addition to being a
shrewd strategist and a political
radical was an intellectual was a
Christian intellectual with secular but
also Gandhian and
influences so I'm not gonna do a counter
thought experiment it's like hey if
Martin Luther King wasn't a Christian he
would be a terrible person no he
wouldn't have had the prominence and
acceptance from media that he got well
the irony is that the material reality
which should be the Atheist focus in my
estimation the material reality is he
objectively would not have his
prominence or success because the social
base came from the church but the rest
of it is just pure speculation it's like
okay that's a nice sounds like a
compliment but it doesn't mean the
guy that we had in this world once a
Christian the other thing we should say
about judeo-christian values as a term
is it just a transparently bigoted
propaganda term because you could have
just said Abrahamic but they want to
exclude Muslims
that's the TEL that's right that's right
