[Music]
so speaking of witch hunt
Steve minuchin has denied a request from
Congress Richard Neal d√©mocratie
Massachusetts chairman of the House Ways
and Means Committee mr. Neal has been
asking for a Donald Trump's tax returns
not a big story here this is well this
is a big story but we're gonna this is
going to go to court you have minuchin
responding that the request lacks a
legitimate legislative purpose now that
is an interesting response since there
is in no way do you need a that
legitimate purpose that's just the fact
there is a statute that says Congress
can request at for any reason the taxes
of of an individual so they have power
to do this since the it's just the law
but this will go I imagine this might go
to the Supreme okay I was staying in
this position because we didn't want
things to go off the rails okay okay I
was leaking write the press that Donald
Trump was actually an in-state unstable
wannabe dictator and people said that I
was staying in power just to reward
myself money and corrupt deals from my
own position but I was really doing was
protecting democracy okay Oh his tax
returns now you remember the guy that
was wrote that New York Times op-ed
about how he's a mole inside the Trump
White House and is protecting them from
the yes I do remember that actually
incredibly undemocratic the one person
that Donald Trump actually should drum
out of the White House is it may be time
for the New York Times to explain what
was going on with yeah what the op ED
yeah yeah he's just hoping everyone was
gonna forget and move on we did but do
you write exactly but do you remember
specifically the story was was that
Steve minuchin and Gary Cohen and mattis
right they have this dot yeah right so
Cohen why
you would invite minuchin in on that
pact if you're the other guys I mean
that's the thing right I mean one is
almost certainly a war criminal the
others like a goldman sachs guy but at
least they're like quasi credible people
right I mean minuchin is not minuchin
should be in jail if not for common law
harris choosing not to prosecute him
like that story I mean the rounds of
just like bully like it was like they
got together and they said how about we
all leak that we have public values
together okay how about we do all cover
each other in a PR sense there's no
doubt my mind they did that in the
moment it's really just like that that
they don't they don't they just didn't
they just basically say yeah Kevin I
mean we we had that agreement but well
it's less screw it we're done
I mean whatever people change they can't
be rigid and this was the this was the
Teapot Dome the law came out of the
teapot down yes bring that back up it's
like some Wyoming oil rights the
corruption scandal yeah it was like
Mellon and some other guy and I think
Mellon was bribery scandal involving the
administration of warren g harding from
1921 to 1923
I feel like the tax thing maybe I'm
mistaken but I feel like that this law
came out of that RG Harding was totally
unfairly targeted I saw somebody else
make the point that the Republicans
forced acorn to give over those sorts of
documents and grasses like well that was
actually that was meaningful and right
it was about black people getting money
for for preschools and helping people
register to vote that was not about the
president United States being a criminal
there's a god Gary years
very very I think strong argument to be
made and I haven't seen anybody make it
explicitly but there's a very strong
argument to be made that the destruction
of a corn was very much responsible for
you know losses in places like Wisconsin
definitely in Michigan strategy
Pennsylvania allowing that organization
was a big organizer for people of low
income and you need to have resources
and you need to have these type of
networks if you're gonna bring people
out to vote at the very least and the
Obama ministration just like major
Network on behalf poor people and are
getting out to vote efforts or a video
from an obscure disturb right wing kid
on them walk cut it down I listen to the
most recent rumor that it's with the
James O'Keefe talking about the media
and that's still the feather in his cap
is like you know yeah we got Obama and
their Congress to take action it is a
big feather in his cap because they had
to do something about accord we just
hope that Dean did he like squirrels
don't know that was just a joke calling
from Anaheim what was that what was that
what was the word saying before the show
the so I have a theory though Dave Rubin
is micro dosed with LSD before every
interview that's why it blows his mind
so I suggest it's really where it's a
Zoolander situation zoo and Dave is just
he and would if he ever if we ever get
the microfiber get dennis prager away
from him was clearly the Will Ferrell
character in this scenario he'll just be
cute people live in a new state my old
friends and when you're here to kiss
period hates me so much
I thought you meant like a state where
everybody gets along and there's day
care for all the kids who come I almost
think we you've literally just written a
movie that could be a huge hit
