so Heather in the first hour you and I
were talking about some of the elements
of this really blockbuster testimony by
Michael Cohen on Wednesday which some of
it was just pure oh we got an insight in
a validation for for what we imagined
Donald Trump is like in private turns
out he's just you know a slightly more
vulgar version of himself as we see him
in public no surprise there there was
some stuff that I think you know opened
up a lot of legal jeopardy frankly for
Donald Trump we will get to that but
before we do this this moment with
Michael Cohen where you know I think
this ties in his folks were survivors of
the Holocaust and sometimes with with
guys like this it's not until they see a
side that in some ways implicates them
before they start to sort of have
empathy with other things because
obviously Michael Cohen was exposed to
Donald Trump's racism for a long time
and but maybe it was watching and Nazis
marching around you know basically
telling the Jews to go home or whatever
it is that no Jews are going to take our
place or whatever was blood and soil
that he started to sort of maybe expand
his sense of empathy but here he is in
his testimony this week talking about
Donald Trump as a racist mr. Trump is a
racist the country has seen mr. Trump
court white supremists and bigots you
have heard him call poorer countries
shitholes his private in private he is
even worse he once asked me if I can
name a country run by a black person
that wasn't a this was when
Barack Obama was president of the United
States and while we were once driving
through a struggling neighborhood in
Chicago he commented that only black
people could live
that way and he told me that black
people would never vote for him because
they were too stupid and yet I continue
to work for him I mean there it is and
this ended up basically not just
something that was revelatory of Donald
Trump but it was also something that
revealed something about the Republican
lawmakers right mark Meadows then goes
ahead and basically puts on what
congresswoman Talib said it was racist
and I have to agree with her just have
her walk us through what happened well
well you know when this came out
obviously the Republicans had prepared
for this you know that Cohen had
released his testimony the night before
and so it was obvious that that there
was you know going this question of
Trump's racism was going to come up but
it had been reported earlier that he was
going to talk about this as well so they
may have had some more lead time than
that
what Meadows did and I just thought it
was the weirdest thing I've ever seen I
think everybody was taken aback you know
like what what the hell he had Lynn
Patton who is now with the the Office of
Health and Human Services doing
something I don't really know what it
was and she used to be a party planner
who was part of the Eric Trump you know
orbit of the Trump family I think she's
good friends with his wife Lara in any
case the camera turns to Meadows who was
the head of the freedom caucus you know
probably everybody knows that but he was
he's an extremely close confidant
congressional confidant what I call one
of trumps major henchmen in the in the
house where he is he's very very close
to the family and he brings up did Lynn
Patton and the camera turns tournament
Lynn Patton is standing right over his
shoulder which I mean if everybody
didn't see this if you picture the
committee hearings which we've all seen
a million times it's a big row of people
and there's all the staff members
sitting behind him and there is Lynn
Penn just standing there what's very
strange he goes on to make this big
speech about how you know the fact that
this woman was part of trumps you know
circle and she wasn't part of his
inner circle she was kind of on the
periphery the fact that she was part of
his inner part of his circle meant that
Trump couldn't possibly be racist I mean
this is the old you know is it Trump
himself on the campaign trail look at my
african-american out there because he
had one black guy audience so I mean
this is how they think and it is racist
it's old-fashioned it's the kind of
thing my dad back in the 60s used to say
you know I mean it's it's it's this just
very you know kind of antediluvian
attitude that you expect politicians on
the national level at least to have
understood by now clearly recent events
have shown they don't but nonetheless
you would expect someone in this
position to know that this is a this is
a this is a conservative tick on some
level I mean it really is I mean I I I
remember going to Glenn Beck's uh you
know nine twelve rally or one of those
rallies you know six seven eight years
ago and and literally the there was
virtually no people of color at this
rally that's not necessarily something
surprising but I I I saw one and he was
with a white guy who had a sign pointing
at the black guy saying do I look racist
and because they're friends and I was
just like this is unbelievable
I mean this is like this person is being
used as a prop and there were people
lining up and then folks can go look for
this this video I think it's on my
youtube channel you know it's I can't
remember what it was titled but they can
search around for Glenn Beck Sam cedar
do I look racist or something and there
are literally like half a dozen people
taking photos of the guy with the sign
standing next to his wife right and I
was just like this is I've never seen
anything like this before in my life and
the idea that this that meadows would
would you know and I you know a
best-case scenario
the woman was happy to do it worst case
scenario
she's worried about her job right and
she is pulled up there as a prop and
later in the in the hearing
congresswoman to leap you know recently
elected from Michigan she said look as a
woman of color I I'm I found that to be
racist and he took offense Marc meadows
and you know said to Cummings you know
I'm not racist I have nieces and nephews
who are people of color and you know
Cummings was in a you know an odd
position I guess and he sort of like
tamped everything down but the there
it wasn't very weird and III was I
couldn't believe it
well I wish I could say I couldn't
believe it but the old you know hey you
know that's a good one there it's the
rest of them that are bad among
conservatives is not that unusual and
and of course it's that they're
obviously very you know a upset at the
idea how can I be a racist because I
like a couple of black guys I mean I
know them and everything they don't
really understand the big picture there
and it's very hard to penetrate that but
Meadows is a little bit more of a
cynical operator than just that I do
think that's part of what he is but this
is a guy who said back in twenty
thirteen or fourteen he was tweeting
stuff about sending Obama back to Kenya
right he's on there's multiple videos of
him out there saying that and apparently
he's responded to it and said well I was
in the midst of a heated campaign oh
okay then I guess that was you know I
mean yeah it's ridiculous and not only
that I do think and I noticed this I was
tweeting it during throughout the the
hearing Meadows was working himself up
into he wanted to have some kind of a
meltdown this was part of his plan and I
think he was kind of adopting the
Lindsey Graham you know sort of get
gambit from the Cavanaugh hearings where
he was trying to find a reason to start
right
his fists and declaring the Democrats
are an American and saying that you know
you'll pay for this and doing all that
and he wasn't really given an
opportunity to do that quite the way he
wanted to so when when congresswoman
Khalid brought this up this was the
closest he could come and he ended up
just looking to me anyway he looked you
know very red face but kind of weak and
Peary and and then of course Cummings
who I actually think he was put in an
odd position but I think he handled it
well I think he just kind of yoake all
right you know it's just sort of like
everybody pull yourself together mark
okay right you know take it take a chill
pill because this is really stupid and
it was at the end of a very long day and
it was you know it was as if he was he
seemed to be more whining than indignant
which was the Lindsey Graham thing that
caught everybody's attention so I don't
where that was cynical yeah right of
course so rare for conservatives to get
whiny and quasi indignant all right look
we have to take quick break when we come
back we got more to talk about there was
a lot of reason to believe that that
Michael Cohen offered the beginnings of
of what will ultimately see will be
criminal offenses and of course we still
have to talk about the big collusion
question we'll be right back Sam cedar
ring a fire radio right back more with
Digby
