[Music]
on the majority report on the phone
ladies and gentlemen it is always a
pleasure to welcome to the program
Heather Parton a writer for salon but
hopefully well I don't know hopefully
but I would imagine many of you know her
as there you go
Digby from the blog hullabaloo hello
Heather hey I am well I know you stayed
up late last night to watch the debate I
know it's a little bit early to get up
on the west coast
I appreciate your joining us get give me
your just overall just like top line if
you've got to write the headline I'd I
wouldn't say for the Washington Post cuz
I it might be a different than what you
would write but I mean what would you
say the top line is well okay I'm not
going to be a good Washington Post
headline writer I don't really
understand how to do that but I will say
that from my perspective as you know
sort of a semi activist writer lefty you
know of long-standing observer of
politics that you know this this field
that we have of the Democratic
candidates for president is pretty
impressive it certainly compared to what
they're offering up on the other side
and compared to what we saw in 2016 on
in the Republican primary you know these
were pretty it was a substantive debate
I think more than they had been in the
you know previously and you know I felt
like I learned something and that this
is actually a pretty good process this
time among the Democrats now maybe I
sound like some kind of a Pollyanna but
I feel like like this is going okay and
I'm not one to be I've never been one to
say you know hey everybody's got to get
out of the way and
everybody needs to quit whatever it's
only September I think there's time and
I'm sure that we're gonna see some
dropouts very soon but I got a lot out
of it to be honest I didn't find it
particularly boring I thought that they
were they were good and it was good to
see the frontrunners all together and
kind of you know exchanging ideas with
one another so I mean I think there's a
pretty good reflection of where they're
reported where the Democratic Party is
right now what was the stuff I mean well
I I'm just curious as to and you know
certainly I think I learned more about
some of the specifics of plans but what
jumped out to you that you were like I
had no idea I'm glad that I watched this
debate I heard that well I mean I think
that they gave well with the exceptions
and we can talk about the front-runner
Joe Biden in a minute but I think that
they were pretty articulate about where
their values are what their belief
system is I mean you know you had this
famous moment with better O'Rourke which
I thought was really excellent I am
always impressed when somebody sounds
like a real person instead of a
politician and I felt like he did when
he was talking about you know the guns
and and racism in America but it was
also just on the details I mean I felt
like I got quite a bit out of where
Warren's
discussion of her her of
medicare-for-all Sanders
I thought gave a really brilliant
exposition about what he believes to be
democratic socialism and I know it's not
new for him but to do it in that in that
particular venue and do it so well I
thought was was really excellent I'm
sure there were people who saw that who
went wow you know that's interesting how
he put that and you know did giving that
a second thought that they may not have
have thought about before you know I
felt that Amy Klobuchar who is not my
favorite candidate she's a little bit
more centrist than I am but nonetheless
I think she gave a good rendition of
what the centrist position is on a lot
of these issues particularly on Medicare
for all I think if you wanted somebody
to articulate it she did hurt that
position I think she did it quite well
so you know it was just you know as they
went you know uneven on foreign policy
you know I mean I was yearning for
or foreign-policy in the in the debate
and we got some questions and about
Afghanistan it's pretty clear that you
know where the Democratic Party is on
that even Joe Biden even you know even
Amy Klobuchar you know they're all
saying that it's time to get out now
they have a different way of thinking
about that than Donald Trump but
essentially I think we're in a place of
of consensus on on that issue which is
new I mean that has not always been the
case so you know I just I I felt that it
was you know that that there was a lot
of substance there you know even for
instance but calmly Harris's discussion
about trade I think what she said was
kind of the sort of mainstream view that
most Democrats probably would sign on to
about trade which is you know I I want
to have a trade policy that lets us
export our stuff as she put it not our
jobs you know that's sort of simple but
it is a it's an it's a reasonable way to
explain that sort of thing so you know
as I was watching instead of usually you
know zoning out as I don't want to do
anything I was kind of I was interested
in how they were articulating a lot of
these ideas and by the way you know I'm
sure you've pointed this out already
yeah this party has moved I mean it is
it is unrecognizable from where it would
have been a decade ago in any kind of
debate like this I mean they have really
moved and I think for real I mean this
is not you know just some kind of
positioning saying that you know placate
some faction in the party I mean this is
this party has moved in our direction
let me put it that way
and it's quite impressive I mean it's
been it's been a long time coming I mean
you and I both we've been talking about
this stuff for years I mean twenty years
really just kind of pushing pushing
pushing come on you know you got to get
out of this post you know Reagan you
know tour that the party had been under
and let's move I mean let's become you
know become Democrats again and I think
it's happened I mean I I just I was
stunned by how far left some of these
you know issues were from people you
wouldn't expect it from right III mean I
think that's true and I think it's I
think it's sort of I I think it's hard
for people you know and we got a lot of
young people in the office and I think
it's hard for young people to really
appreciate I'm not saying it's
sufficient but to appreciate the
movement that has taken place the idea
that Biden is defensive let's say and
even Klobuchar is defensive on some
level as to their moderate posture you
know which which relative to ten years
ago would have been the left right I
mean you know short of like Kucinich on
stage
someone like Klobuchar would be
considered like she's sort of you know
cent you know to the left it probably
where everybody would be on stage on
some level and it's it's it's stunning
the other thing then this is sort of
this has nothing to do with the debate
but Elizabeth Warren came out with her
expansion of Social Security which is a
great proposal it involves a doughnut
hole but it but but the benefit
increases are substantial substantial
across the board for everybody but super
substantial for people living in the in
the lowest 25 percentile of income in
terms of what it does in shoring up
their retirement I mean it would
literally take ten million elderly folks
out of poverty you know like right off
the bat and then Ron Wyden and and I I
may be you know like I just remember Ron
widens Medicare Medicare proposal or
whatever it was like I can't even
remember one that was five years ago ten
years ago or something where it was just
people were like you're undercutting
everybody like you know like how could
you do this
and the guy kind came out with it with a
very robust expansion of Social Security
you know a whole idea of like basically
getting rid of the the way the
preferential treatment that the capital
gains get over payroll I mean
this that you know and and they're
thinking you know when a guy like ron
wyden does it he's not doing it because
you know he he's running for president
he's doing it because he wants to be in
on a conversation that is definitely
going to happen
and you and I you know we're following
the social security thing throughout the
Obama years we would talk it seemed like
every time that we would talk we were
talking about how Obama has been
planning on cutting Social Security
since day one you would make that you
know you would cite the the interview he
gave and in oh nine on and on and on and
then at one point they gave up and then
the Senate basically voted on a
non-binding resolution to or the caucus
did to expand Social Security and it's
it's it appears that that is an earnest
really genuine earnest agenda item for
the Democrats in the Senate it really
does and and it's you know I mean let's
talk about a popular kind of popular
program I mean this is the kind of thing
I mean you know I think it's brilliant
for Democrats to come out with this I
mean you're talking about first of all
that ten million that you're talking
about probably more you know when it
gets right down to it people who are you
know elderly people who are really
living in poverty and it's not like they
can go out and you know get a job or
something I mean they're old and many of
them are sick and they're living on
virtually nothing I mean it's just it is
not enough money I know some of these
people you know it's like oh my god you
know they are and they're dependent on a
bunch of services anyway which would be
you know alleviated by just basically
giving them a fairly decent safety net
income in their you know in their golden
years and on a political level this
makes sense because you know there are a
lot of poor elderly baby boomers out
there many of whom are probably dumbly
voting for Republicans well this is
basically saying to them hey who's
looking out for you here it's not them
and it isn't them because I can
guarantee you and they're already
talking about it them if Donald Trump
wins
election that they are going to go after
entitlements again or what they call
entitlements I hate that word
and it's so they're already talking
about it because you know that the the
deficit you know will become an a you
know a new issue they are going to if
they especially if they win back the
house which doesn't look promising for
them but nonetheless they're going to
try to do it because they you know are
going to be facing tremendous blowback
from their you know rich donors over
this deficit and that is going to be the
kind of thing that we're going to have a
major battle for so the best way and the
best political way to go about this is
to you know put this in to go ahead and
put this into the into the campaign and
let these and let's have it out on that
because I don't think you know Donald
Trump has said he says a lot of things
and he this is one thing you know I will
never touch Social Security or Medicare
but you know nobody believes a word that
guy says anymore
and they've got people like you know his
cronies Kevin McCarthy and and Mitch
McConnell they're they're definitely
talking about about doing something with
entitlements again and you know if the
Democrats can get that into the campaign
it's politically smart because I think
that it does show that they're you know
people have always trusted Democrats on
Social Security more than they trust
Republicans and for good reasons because
Republicans have been trying to repeal
it since the day it was enacted so they
have a lot to go for and I think that
you know that's the kind of thing we've
been down this road that fights been had
over and over and over again and the
smartest thing the Democrats did was
take the tack hey we're not going to be
fighting this defensive war anymore
Social Security is inadequate we're
going to start talking about expanding
it and I think that happened right
during the or perhaps right after that
assault on the program in 2005 right
after the election George Bush's
re-election and they went hard after it
and you remember that battle yeah and I
think that they that that wisely the
Democrats and the activists on that
issue decided hey we're not going to be
defensive on this anymore it's time to
go the other direction and I think
that's starting to pay off
yeah well
I I mean I remember just like how absurd
the idea was considered and and folks
can go over to Atrios his blog - he
still I think his he had written a
couple of USA Today opinion pieces I
think at one point that you know really
set some people off on that but that's
alright
but right so let's turn back to the
debate
