let's do a little bit of funny here
let's start with laugh at and then we'll
go to with Ted Cruz video of him buying
beer warning has always fault Ted Cruz
clips there's any children around you
might want to take them out of the room
[Music]
[Laughter]
watch the way he says hi to people who
didn't say anything what are the guys
say I don't know but we have a victor
ger at it it's mainly thickburger let's
shall we say enhanced the sound so
[Music]
[Applause]
that's how Ted Cruz should be already if
I ever I mean I don't understand how
even if you're voting for him you don't
see him and go lying Ted like what other
way would there be to greet Ted Cruz
besides lyin Ted I mean I missed those
days when the guy I did you've got to
replay that clip some time with I'm
looking for this man this compute those
biker dudes who supported Trump and then
all of a sudden out of nowhere we're
just like you're talking about killing
innocent people in Syria I don't think
that's very decent of you lyin Ted you
got damn immigrant
