I mean while on the hill yesterday the
House Judiciary Committee heard
testimony from former White House
Counsel John Dean was obviously Richard
Nixon's White House Counsel went on to
write extensively about Nixon and about
authoritarians in our government that
was 10 15 years ago he saw that the
Republican Party was actually turning
authoritarian saw the indications of
that happening and he's been you know
brought on various capacities as a as a
commentator I'm not sure I fully get why
I understand the sort of the thinking
but it really is one dimensional
thinking and clever too clever by half I
think by the Democrats to do this but it
may be the best that they could do with
Nancy Pelosi and we will talk about
Nancy Pelosi we have that clip of her P
Peterson god
anyways so in lieu of of impeachment
hearings we're getting this which is
apparently just to set the table now of
course it did create some attention and
wherever there's attention there is milk
shaped Mack gets Matt gets loves a
slushie on a hot floor today he is from
the Florida Panhandle and here he is
questioning John Dean he doesn't do a
terribly good job but he does get
humiliated and how do we know that Matt
Gaetz
felt he got humiliated I will tell you
after the clip do you have personal
knowledge regarding the truth or falsity
of a single material fact in the Moller
report I think if you recall the first
thing I said
I'm not here as a fact witness you're
here to provide historical context
exactly and throughout history you
accuse presidents of acting like Richard
Nixon and you make money off of it right
not all presidents now but a few more
those who do act like him I point it out
let me ask you this question how do
Democrats plan to pay for Medicare for
all I'm sorry
how do well I figured if we were gonna
ask you about stuff you don't know about
we'd start with the big stuff so do you
know how they plan to pay for Medicare
for all who the Democrats or which
candidate or probably more specific
let's get specific to Nixon since that
appears to be why you're here do you
blame actually Nixon did have a health
care plan good good well do you believe
if we if we turned the lights off here
and maybe lit some candles got out a
Ouija board we could potentially raise
the specter of Richard Nixon I doubt
that well it so now um sounded much
better infer in the mirror Matt right
Matt Gaetz thought he was and basically
he tried like three or four different
tacks so I'm gonna go to this Oh John
Dean actually may actually know how
these candidates are gonna pay for their
health care and I certainly don't want
that to happen so let's talk about Nixon
Oh Nixon had a health care and they all
laughed at Matt Gaetz and what's even
more important than my assessment that
they all laughed at Matt's Gates his
math Gates's assessment that they
laughed at Matt Gaetz
and how do I know that Matt Gaetz felt
they all laughed at him because there is
no intern in Matt's Gates Office who
would have made the decision on their
own to edit that video and release it
and hide the fact that John Dean owned
Matt Gaetz in this exchange here is the
video that has been put out by Matt
Gaetz
this is eerie folks eerie 50,000 people
have watched this and they're missing
the part where Matt Gaetz gets
metaphorically slushied how they plan to
pay for Medicare for all
who the Democrats or which candidate or
more specific let's get specific to
Nixon since that appears to be why
you're here
if we turn the lights off here and maybe
lit some candles got out a Ouija board
we could potentially raise the specter
of Richard Nixon there you go they cut
out that whole moment the minutes sound
as if people were chuckling in his week
Joe yeah exactly yeah they because they
got the tail end until after here's the
part again appears to be why you're here
if we turn the lights off here Suffolk
let's get specific to Nixon since that
appears to be why you're here
if we turn the lights off Orwellian man
let's get specific - skipping me
humiliating myself in a spectacular
fashion
calling Vick burger I'm well forget Vick
perjure this this should be all over the
news in Florida I mean that is pretty
stunning that he would edit it that way
doctor in the public record yeah it
really is and there's 50,000 people who
watched his version already 50,000
people and you can bet a lot of those
are his constituents
