all right let's do something serious for
a second the Chicago teachers are going
on strike there are and I believe
there's a tentative agreement with the
GM strikers from the United Auto Workers
just having a conversation 40 mb/s on
the global labor movement and the point
that my brilliant guests made chuka
Jackman a jackhammer and Jeckle excuse
me chuka chuka Jackman was that the uber
protests that took place this last
spring spring were global they were
across the United States but they were
also in Kenya Nigeria Paraguay France
the United Kingdom this is so powerfully
important between that and the Sanders
campaign the two most important kind of
broad macro trends and a major part of
this laying the groundwork was a 2012
Chicago teacher strikes and they're back
at it this is some video from Erick
Blanc we want to give solidarity and
support we've been playing this
[Applause]
[Applause]
solidarity that's amazing and again in a
blue city this should remind you of the
nature of what is still the mainstream
the Democratic Party its austerity its
corporate its anti-union yeah we'll have
a Eric Blanc on the show tomorrow to
report from the front lines all right
