[Music]
yeah yeah let's let's talk about this so
ya play this this is uh Bernie now
Bernie wasn't there right I wasn't even
asked while he Chi he'd was on MSNBC
with Casey hunt and Bernie apparently
has commented I mean what I didn't hear
the original comment but he's gonna be
releasing his tax forms I guess on
Monday is it he's releasing on tax day
on tax day among ant and there's
indications that his taxes are gonna
reveal that he has I don't know if he
has like a million dollars cash in the
bank but that he has assets it appears
to be about a million dollars or maybe
more that he may be a millionaire I
don't know but here is Casey hunt asking
well lead shaheed if that undermines the
premise of his running which is well
let's listen to this exchange hey Bernie
Sanders jokes about the fact he's now a
millionaire from his book does that not
undermine kind of his his premise for
running and his attacks quite I mean
he's attacked millionaires I can't even
tell you how many times I heard him
attack millionaires and billionaires on
the campaign trail yeah I mean the most
of the book is about attacking
millionaires and billionaires and I'd
like to remind people that FDR was very
wealthy and imposed some of the you know
most social democratic populist policies
to take on millionaires and billionaires
in this country I mean he's sort of
personally attacked a group of people
that now includes himself right but he
thinks that he himself should pay a fair
share that's most of what the book is
about
you know at the end the day he did not
you know he didn't we wasn't born with a
silver spoon in his mouth he didn't
marry into wealth he's the son of a
Polish immigrant who whose family
survived the whose families were
survivors of the Holocaust and it's a
very different story than someone like
Donald Trump who disinherited his wealth
from his father a fair point Jeff
Bennett Hualien
you know the weird part is is that that
to me is the least compelling point the
fact that he came from you know humble
beginnings and became a millionaire in
this case it was because of his book I
guess but the point that his policy
prescriptions are not a function of his
being a millionaire as opposed to the
way most millionaires and billionaires
function in the political realm which is
to make sure that they maintain their
their enormous wealth and the outsize
political power that it brings
there is no Bernie Sanders does not have
a any type of prescription that says you
can't be a millionaire ayoh sees a 70%
marginal tax plan I don't think I don't
know where that kicks in is it like was
it ten million dollars I think it was
over five five million but I mean five
Terry whatever the point is is that yeah
you can be a millionaire it's just that
you can't have such an excess of money
that it begins to destabilize our
society I mean I yeah I had a
conversation last night I was at dinner
with a guy who is a financial adviser to
two different financial advisors who
turned out to be Republicans and
as sometimes is the case I will get a
little bit heated in a political
discussion with them they did not
understand marginal tax rates they did
not like when I said like like the 70
percent proposal they're like are you
really going to take or 90 percent
proposal you're really gonna take 90
cents of every dollar if someone makes
three million dollars and I was like no
it's 90 cents of the first dollar after
three million they're like oh you're a
financial adviser that doesn't surprise
me at all but I also just think I also
think that like the other that is why I
mean look I think as like he should keep
saying billionaires and millionaires and
he can even turn it into a joke on the
trail and if there's a million yeah
exactly could do something funny like
that and I think you know and obviously
I mean I did like you know a long
segment on this yesterday including like
you know we discovered a lost tape of
Bernie's guide to intergenerational
wealth which you know it starts by
moving to Vermont and then you basically
work your way up to a dark horse
presidential campaign so that by the
time you're you know and the by the time
Union late seventies that's when you
write the best-selling book and that's
where the big bucks come in so I mean
anybody's talking about this in any type
of serious way is like self negating
because it's just so embarrassing and
stupid and you know I will say I mean
even us like as people I think
particularly me but you to all of us are
very fierce critics of Hillary Clinton
there was a point after 2016 especially
where it was like guys like you need to
like stop this personal fixation on her
and there's a contingent that has
exactly the same disorder when applied
to Bernie Sanders and they're the ones
who are obsessing about this but I get
more substantively to like I think that
is why at least you know it keeps saying
millionaires and billionaires but I
would say you know millionaires can
exist in our society as it is
constituted I think fundamentally like
billionaires can't exist as a
in a democracy right like you just I
can't do that and it is a difference
between like a thousand millionaires I
mean literally it's like it is that it
is if you can't understand the basic
analytic difference between like you
know you do well so therefore you're
gonna pay a lot more taxes so we have a
good society versus like the reality of
your wealth is a structural barrier to
us having a democracy that's a
difference right and and I think like
you know the the fact is is that Bernie
and is not calling for a society with no
wealth inequality no he's not he is
calling for a society without gaping
wealth inequality yes Alvar society
without billionaires in fact if you want
to use that its rightful right but I
think but I think there is a very good
argument that you should not be allowed
to accumulate that kind of money I
totally don't think you should be there
there should not be and I'm not sure
what that I'm not sure what that number
is but I think that we could probably
social scientists political scientists
could work out a number where the
wealthiest person should not own X
number of times more than the least
wealthy person in a society I know or
you know the some averages but this is
going to be a big talking point during
the primary and if Bernie enters into
the general election it's going to be a
big talking point that he's somehow
hypocritical this is basically like you
want you want Medicare for all but yet
you walk around with an iPhone I heard
the journey with he buys groceries he
has he has a winter coat
I mean it's Bernie has an Amazon Prime
account
well that's the thing knows like that
that's the more serious inverse of it
right like these attacks on
are stupid and petty and ridiculous and
dumb and embarrassing and we can debunk
them but the better way to read it is
that basically the subtext of what these
people are saying is like uh well Bernie
wrote a best-seller you can't have
health care now Bernie has a house no
college for you should have thought
about that burnin wish Bernie thought
about that because now we can't have a
Federal jobs guarantee or do anything
about climate change right and we should
also I mean the other the other part of
this too on some level is the idea of
like I think taxes should be raised well
why don't you just rate you know give
more to the government because that's
not taxes because taxes definitionally
apply everyone should be subject to the
tax structure we don't just have
voluntary giving to the government
because that's not taxes taxes are money
that you have to pay to the government
and Bernie lives in a capitalist society
and he is subject to the same physics
and whatnot as a capitalist society and
him giving all the proceeds of that book
to charity still would not be the
prescription that he would want he wants
that money to be taxed at a higher rate
than it is today
so maybe we actually have less of a
societal crisis that we need charity for
I mean that's it what sort of kind of so
breathtakingly cynical about it I've
also even seen the take and granted this
is less prevalent I don't I don't want
to drag Hillary in this but I have
actually seen the take that well how is
it different than the Goldman Sachs
speech yeah he's beholdin to people
buying his book which goes back to the
the onion headline which is like Bernie
Sanders totally in the pocket of the
high school teacher that gave him a
three hundred bucks
well
