a couple of weeks ago good old dummy
Dave Rubin who really I mean the guy
really is dear what you mean
conservative youtuber Dave Rubin Servat
of youtuber Dave Rubin I think we might
have sped up the process here a little
bit he came back from vacation and who
boy is our boy full of ideas now I want
to just say what I find interesting
about this I actually think there's very
few people at least I know and granted I
don't spend a lot of time on like
resistance twitter or whatever but I
don't I don't hear people calling Trump
Hitler and some of the people that I've
heard call Trump Hitler meant it as a
compliment and you could probably find
them in Dave Reubens YouTube chats but
at any room people were just describing
one of the books one of the few books
Trump famously owns yes right didn't
read it don't read anything yeah but
Trump coffee table book coffee table
book 9 comp or no is it was at Minecon
for a collection of Hitler's speeches
might've been the speeches yeah anyways
Dave Rubin I look as always I can barely
give you a sort of play-by-play of like
this birdbrain acid trip we're about to
watch but Glenn Beck is there and it
involves Hitler and Trump and what do
you know Glenn Beck and dave rubin
accidentally echo an old Nazi chestnut
you know if you keep calling this guy a
Nazi who's probably just kind of a New
York corrupt businessman yes you know
trying to you know get some power here
or whatever it is if you I mean the
acknowledgement that he's a New York
corrupt businessman like wouldn't you be
interested in maybe talking about that
occasion I'm gonna say yeah the
president is a corrupt businessman
that's interesting okay Dave you know
get some power here or whatever it is if
you keep calling him a Nazi it's not
what you're doing to him that's going to
be the problem it's what you're doing to
yourself because if you keep saying this
guy's Hitler well now you've really
painted yourself into a corner because
now Hitler does some good things right
the economy's kind of chugging along
get out of Afghanistan we're not bombing
Iran you know I'm sorry fuzzy okay if
we're gonna give Hitler real estate if
we're gonna give Hitler real estate
developer credit for not bombing around
okay all right let me okay
Afghanistan we are still in and we've
been killing record numbers of civilians
so we might get out of Afghanistan
Afghanistan's the longest war I believe
in US history at this point and still
hasn't happened kudos for talks with the
Taliban I guess but that might be a
little bit of a stretch to give Hitler
credit for that one and obviously when I
say Hitler I'm being facetious and just
following Dave's lead here not bombing
Iran what did real estate developer
Hitler do when he got into office well
he tore up an incredibly successful deal
that prevented that from actually being
something that was seriously on the
table so that would kind of be like
saying that someone went out driving
totally blitzed and drunk ran over a
bunch of mailboxes put tire marks
through somebody's lawn but at the last
minute swerved from hitting a group of
schoolchildren waiting for a school bus
and her still by the way threatening to
get those same school children on a
near-daily basis so I just want to say
Dave a little bit of a stretch I know
Dave hasn't been you know has been on a
media fast but he might want to check
out the Rubin report with Marianne
Williamson where she explained that
exactly so yes I would say that the
Rubin report with Marianne Williamson
explained to Dave a lot of things that
apparently he's forgotten and his media
cleanse out of Afghanistan were not
bombing Iran you know tax cuts we
regulated some stuff some things that
most of America I'm also sorry again so
you must like Obama Obama deregulated
some things gave some folks some tax
cuts and most assuredly did not bomb
Iran in fact the Iran deal is probably
the best thing Obama did we regulated
some stuff some things that most of
Americans think are
good well you can't suddenly be like you
know that Hitler guy yeah but yeah you
know Hitler did make a yachtie pod no
one credits Hitler for the auto-return
yeah some some people do and we'll get
to this in a second but I just love
because I had said this interview broke
on TMDs the other night we played a
little bit of this I just was like dave
rubin needs direction and whatever else
you say about glenn beck I think Glenn
Beck is clearly a more competent human
being than Dave Rubin in my view and I
just love that Glenn Beck with like his
history and his politics is the one sort
of being like yeah right but let's talk
about Hitler too long buddy and dave
rubin who a barrel dave rubin news a
couple weeks ago as being like yeah but
if we really talk about how bad slavery
was wouldn't that like jeopardize the
holocaust being bad so but this isn't
all this is actually great three arrows
did this video check out his youtube
channel it turns out people actually do
credit hitler for creating the autobahn
that is the number one point right there
is a group of people that have credited
hitler with the autobahn and one i guess
i'll just say up front not exactly true
and this idea that he created the
autobahn and the people who gave him
credit for it was a very specific group
of people certified as economic policy
but there were many that people
supported so we could simply dismiss his
argument because it's not factual Hitler
never promised employment for all and
getting unemployment down and the
economy rolling again was less due to
innovative Public Works schemes but I'd
like to combine this with krottas
other points regarding Nazi Germany's
economy the innovative Public Works
schemes that Carter describes weren't
really as innovative as you might think
in fact there's even a name for this
called the autobahn myth because the
idea of the Autobahn started circulating
long before the Nazis took over and some
stretches were even already built of
course those were then downgraded to
country roads by the Nazis because they
wanted to exploit the idea of the
Autobahn for propaganda so Hitler jumped
on the bandwagon of increased mobility
and wanted to build
thousand kilometers of Autobahn every
year which should provide 600,000
Germans with jobs in reality though this
girl was never met and at the height of
the construction not more than 120,000
people were given work through this
program in addition to that there were
numerous problems during the project and
strike leaguers who wanted better or
safer working conditions and the fair
pay was sent to concentration camps of
course who didn't hear about that in the
Nazi propaganda instead every newly
build strip of the Autobahn was
celebrated with the big inauguration and
lots of camera teams to circulate the
images in state-run media in fact these
images were still propagandized even
when the work on the Autobahn had come
to a complete halt they were successful
though in connecting themselves to the
building of the Autobahn in the mind of
the public often to this day as
demonstrated by crowdy while at the same
time sweeping under the rug that the
Nazis actually vehemently opposed the
idea of the car only wrote as they were
called in by my Germany because they saw
it as an instrument of Jewish capitalism
not just crowd irezumi
new Jewish champion that sounds good
nobody but a very specific ideology
credits the Autobots Heiner the point
that whoops mmm good luck on the blaze
day yeah enjoy yourself buddy
get that walled garden quick oh yeah
we're gonna do more on that Dave Rubens
Terms of Service and the coming days
Jesus too dumb in any speed and honestly
like that guy Lake that's incredible I
say this all the time
I don't idealize people who have
platforms right some of them are
brilliant some of them are definitely
not I think a lot of us are you know
just trying to put it together do the
best we can there but but there's
usually some kappa i'm een this this is
like I can't even I'm not gonna say a
single other place of employment or
profession because one it wouldn't even
be true and to be insulting people that
shouldn't be insulted like I I have
maybe never seen in either real life or
through television or any other form of
broadcast media somebody as stupid as
Dave Rubin
like I I'm totally serious like I that
is a dumb guy I mean he's you know what
he what he's really doing is he's he's
debunking a lot of so-called positive
racism and essentialist myths about Jews
because I could tell you see not all of
the Jews not all of us are smart some of
us are extremely stupid like me I speak
really fast but I'm actually a total
 idiot
all right I'm sorry I keep forgetting
yeah whatever so it's all gravy baby
we're not gonna win the profanity Wars
no we're not gonna win the profanity
words
