I am ashamed that I chose to take part
in concealing mr. Trump's illicit acts
rather than listening to my own
conscience I am ashamed because I know
what mr. Trump is he is a racist he is a
con man and he is a cheat hether that of
course was Michael Cohen the former
former consigliere to Donald Trump for a
decade maybe more actually and that was
part of his opening statement from a
really I I think the most substantial
committee hearing testimony that we have
heard for a long time regardless of
whether you are a Russia gate skeptic or
you are you know someone who is
convinced that Donald Trump is a
Manchurian Candidate what is really
clear is that Donald Trump has some
serious criminal liability and and and
Michael Cohen showed up with the
receipts Heather and I gotta say I found
the that that riveting and you know that
of course was bookended that that took
place on Wednesday of this week that was
bookended by a Tuesday and a Thursday
testimony to the respect of Intel
committee x' on the hill and the senate
which of course would closed-door but
that open door hearing from michael
cohen was was really something oh it was
really something i mean it was and i
think it is it was very significant i
mean there are many reasons why and I'll
just you know agree with you that you
know when you have these scandals
brewing as we've had over the past
couple of years with Trump or really
since before he even you know was was
actually elected normally the normal
course of events is that we would have
been seeing public hearings
this whole time I mean this has been
line after headline in the news we know
there's major investigation we know that
there are US attorneys looking into it
and yet the Congress has been you know
more or less silent if anything what
they've done is put throw up a bunch of
distractions about FISA courts and
whatever you know good taking on the FBI
in the Department of Justice were acting
as accomplices for Donald Trump rather
than doing the job that we would
normally expect the Congress to do even
if they were kangaroo courts you would
have expected some you know sort of fake
know you know bringing in people who
would refute all of it or legal experts
that would say it was all nonsense or
whatever but it's been silenced and that
was a mistake
because what is done is is that it's
built up this huge amount of energy and
interest in the whole thing it's not
just old news it's it's for real and
here comes Michael Cohen and Michael
Cohen you know for all of us I mean you
know he was a he behaved as as
Trump thug for 10 years but I think it's
important to remember something this guy
had an office right down the hallway
from Donald Trump he was an executive
vice president and special counsel to
the company I mean he wasn't just some
guy down in the basement he was waiting
for the call to go out and you know hold
somebody up and tell him to shut up he
did all that stuff but he had access a
very small company and it was not some
you know it's not some big organization
this is a small handful of people and he
was at the very top and involved in
things that as I think his testimony
made clear and more importantly I think
what he gave in that in that hearing was
you know a very very sharp insight into
the way that Donald Trump operates and I
think that that's extremely important
because what we're seeing is as these
cases are kind of you know turning
around and maybe the Muller
investigation is starting to you know
come to some sort of conclusion or
reaching some kind of you know peak the
we're seeing how Trump actually did all
these things and that's it that's very
very important I mean I think that the
his testimony
you know couch as it was with his
narrative of and I think this is really
really very compelling
was look I saw all this stuff I was
involved in all this stuff I did all
this stuff I knew what he was I'm
telling you what he was and I take
responsibility for the fact that I kept
working for him anyway and in the at the
end of it there were a couple of
questions that led him to say look I'm
looking at you people I did what you're
doing and look where I landed look where
this would look where I am today I'm
about to go to prison because of what I
did to help Donald Trump and cover up
his crimes and you know he didn't
actually point to all of them but he
pretty much said to the Republicans on
the panel think twice this guy will take
you down too and that's what's happened
to me and I take responsibility for it
but let's just say I did it for him as
much as I did it for me uh yeah I was I
was really struck by by both that and
you know broadly speaking look I don't
have any sympathies for for Michael
Cohen and and I have to say that and I
you know I certainly am NOT predisposed
to believing a single word the guy says
but I found his testimony to be so
credible because he was really basically
you know he was up there buck naked you
know what I mean I mean he was up there
basically just saying like I'm going to
jail I messed up I will take any
criticism you get at me because it's
really warranted and you know I you know
he lives on the Upper West Side of New
York City
I know peripherally the you know sort of
the the waters he swims in his kids go
to a private school up there and I
suspect that he is in a community where
when certain things happen like
Charlottesville and whatnot I don't
think you know necessarily there was a
problem like the tax cuts but things
like Charlottesville and whatnot I think
that he was under a lot of pressure I
think there was a lot of social pressure
at that time on him and I I
I believe that he had some you know
moments of like wait a second what am I
doing here that were probably spurred on
by you know those in his community and
want to protect his kids etc etc so IIIi
was I found his testimony compelling it
also and and when we've got I want to go
through some more clips of what he did
what he brought out but it also was
incredibly revelatory about both the
Republicans as you say them in the
position of doing what Michael Cohen did
for Donald Trump covering for him and
also the Democrats I mean the the
difference between the the members of
this committee on the Republican and
Democratic side could not have been more
stark and I will tell you this that not
only was it surprising to see a real
hearing like this because it's been a
long time right I mean you know the but
the Benghazi hearings when they would
question people even then it was all
pretty you know pretty lame stuff it
really looks like the Republicans are
out of practice at this and I was
shocked at the difference in like sort
of the quality of the work but we got to
take a quick break when we come back
we'll talk more about this there's a lot
to talk about with these cowan hearings
and of course we've got Donald Trump
failing in North Korea both to distract
and to sign a P a document we've got
some major legislation that has been
proposed across the board stories of
massive fundraising this week what a
crazy week we got to take a quick break
we'll be right back with more sam seder
ring of fire radio
