with Sam's Sita the destiny of America
is always safer in the hands of the
people than in the conference rooms of
any elite
[Music]
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Tuesday March 5th 2019 my
name is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we're
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today
Paul kill reporter with ProPublica on
how the IRS was gutted also on the
program today
Clinton Merkley dropped out of the 20/20
sweepstakes I'm not sure either was ever
in but they've announced that they're
out meanwhile NSA announces it's
shutting a program down that has been
analyzing your calls and texts the past
decade or so israel defenders are
pretending Ilan Omar is the problem
while representative Steve King has been
consistently promoting white
nationalists unabated Democrats in the
Senate look to go on the offense on
climate change some right-wing counties
are promoting Pro go gun ownership
sanctuary cities
for mo sexuals and up to 30,000
ex-felons in louisiana are getting their
vote back meanwhile in the House and the
Senate Democrats look to pass a
financial transaction tax scientists
report a second person with HIV is
reportedly cured
and lastly bad news folks
Trump's nomination for the Nobel Peace
Prize appears to have been forged again
all this and more on today's program
yeah I would like to just talk about the
Nobel Peace Prize all day thank you yeah
there you go
so Donald Trump apparently somebody
forged it we don't know hook if we could
have just been a fan of Donald Trump's
that forged a fan but it's very strange
but 400-pound guy and a pretty just
pretty disappointing pretty
disappointing I can tell you because I
was really looking forward to the Tim
not winning with a legitimate entry but
not happening
everybody's a little bit under the
letter Jamie is back a little a little
worse for the wear as it were my body is
dying but my heart is full there you go
that's the important thing
meanwhile Jesse Watters is really on the
case
has figured out that well we're going to
talk a little bit about Alana Omar today
because it's fascinating to me the
amount of concern over a lot Omar's
comments which you really have to take
in the worst light do
presume they are anti-semitic at all and
it is as if there has been a complete
mobilization of our government out of
concerns of what Ilan Omar is doing when
we have a record number of white
nationalist extremists actually killing
people in this country but yet well
there's no room for this conversation
because of Alana Omar but well then can
I just also add I mean not only that but
let's put a fine point on it I mean you
they're actually putting a target on her
back
oh how they're demonizing her and lying
about her and exploiting racism and
Islamophobia so they're not only being
mine well we will talk about that yeah
I'm sorry yes I've discussed it but yes
and so much of this is a means in which
to distract from obviously the the
problem of the Trump administration and
the racism bigotry and anti-semitism
that it is promoting across the country
it is a shame that Democrats are
participating in this we can talk about
that more but in the meantime this is
this is allowing for this this meme on
the right it's super important for them
to to push this everybody is on the same
page even our friend Brandon astronomy
at the CPAC was was calling the
Democrats to party of hate and here is
the Ingram angle Laura Ingraham noted
the promoter of of hate in a myriad hand
gesture enthusiast right Watters is
sitting in for her she got she got her
start by outing people in college who
were gay because you know it's against
the law at Dartmouth apparently to not
be subject to homophobia in that era and
so she was just fulfilling her civic
duty as a student at Dartmouth but
nevertheless she let Jesse Watters fill
in for her on the Ingraham angle that is
a perfect fit if you ask me
and
here is the argument that Democrats have
forced Donald Trump to be a racist all
right just told everybody that Donald
Trump has never said a racist thing in
three years these two people have just
said that do you believe that go ahead
okay leo it's clearly insane I don't
know how he managed to bypass the Booker
this guy's out of his mind I'm sorry but
Donald Trump there has never been an
allegation that Donald Trump was a
racist until he ran for president as a
Republican leo is nuts
he's race-baiting people on this show he
has no evidence of anything he's saying
being true and he just lied to the
audience saying that Muslims are banned
from the United States I was unaware of
that because if you're Muslim you're
allowed the United States like anyone
else he's making that up to bait me and
star it's with me because he has no
facts because he's been vaccinated
against facts at an early age like every
other liberal all he has is this garbage
nonsense that Donald Trump is a racist
it's disgusting it's disgraceful he
should be embarrassed for saying it all
right yeah you know it's like what what
possible evidence could you have that
Donald Trump is a racist I mean are we
supposed to have some type of affidavit
or some type of consent decree from the
Department of Justice oh wait here's one
this is actually a consent decree filed
by the United States District Court
Eastern District of New York United
States of America that would be the
country against Fred C Trump and Donald
Trump and the entire Trump Management
Inc because they were they were
literally breaking the Fair Housing Act
by keeping black people out of their out
of their their apartments in their
rentals and this is actually only one of
two consent decrees because they blew
through the first one then of course I
suppose you need to actually exercise
even the slightest bit of imagination
when Donald Trump took out a full-page
ad and then actually I hate for it and
actually paid for it suppose
saying the death penalty should be
bragging about it should be brought back
and our police should be brought back
because of the Wilding that was taking
place by black people in Central Park
the Central Park five they should be
killed and oh they turned out to be
completely innocent but put up the
apology that he he put up there oh right
which apology there was none yeah on
four so holding there is five innocent
teenagers there's there is evidence from
the Department of Justice and there is
just evidence that is in print because
of the massive expenditure that Donald
Trump wanted to expend based upon his
own racism I have another one if we want
to go into a sure a book by John O
Donnell former president of Trump Plaza
Hotel and Casino in Atlantic City quoted
Trump's criticism of a black accountant
quote black guys counting my money I
hate it the only kind of people I want
counting my money are short guys that
were yarmulkes every day and Trump at
first denied the remarks but later said
in the 1997 Playboy interview that the
stuff O'Donnell wrote about me was
probably true yeah and then of course we
just had testimony from sworn testimony
from Michael Cohen of numerous things
that Donald Trump had said that were
racist when Barack Obama was president
which I believe was before Donald Trump
was was a Republican so cuz I had to me
when he was president yeah except for
all that evidence there is no evidence
which is probably more evidence that you
would get from like the vast majority of
racists in the country I got the paper
traitor a pretty impressive stuff Dan
bond Geno walked right into that those
are probably all comments that mark
Meadows does not consider to be racist
right I would imagine folks we all want
to do the right thing to keep our bodies
healthy in the long run but even if we
kale salads and drink green smoothies
we're likely not getting all the
essential nutrients we need on a daily
basis enter ritual the obsessively
research
vitamin for women too easy to take
capsules provide 9 nutrients you need to
support a strong foundation for your
health from d3 to a mug excuse me
Omega 3 plus there no nausea capsule is
designed to be gentle on an empty
stomach and there's a mint tab in every
bottle to keep things fresh so you don't
get that fishy aftertaste a subscription
is easy to start and it's easy to snooze
just a dollar a day to have all the
essential nutrients your body needs
delivered every month no strings
attached I I didn't take these because
I'm not a woman but a friend of the show
reports arguably a friend of the show
reports that a they love the fact that
all the nutrients that are in the the
nine nutrients that are in the ritual
are sourced they tell you where they
come from which is a big deal I guess
for people who are interested in where
they're getting their stuff because
there are some sources of this stuff
that aren't particularly healthy
furthermore they love the fact that they
don't have to buy it
she writes every time I start a vitamin
regimen I am great
through the first bottle and then I
forget ritual sends the bottles to your
home and you can never forget to
continue to take your vitamins better
health does not happen overnight help
fill the gaps in your diet with
essential for women a small step that
helps support a healthy foundation for
your body visible visit ritual dot-com /
majority to start your ritual today
that's ritual dot-com / majority that's
why they it just hit me you want to get
you want to make sure you you make a
habit of it either guys what you could
have called it habit but know who's been
that interested in habit but ritual has
what connotations then have it I was
actually just reading and one of the
this stuff in there is both boron and
magnesium and there was a big study that
was out recently about mag
Museum and and bone health when you get
older like I'm I'm convinced I'm on that
and then apparent you need the boron and
the vitamin d3 so that the magnesium is
is absorbed I'm not a doctor
all right folks we're gonna take a quick
break when we come back we'll talk to
Paul keel about how the IRS was gutted
[Music]
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report pleasure to welcome to the
program Paul keel he covers business and
taxation over at ProPublica Paul welcome
to the program thanks for having me so
this piece it's there's a lot of talk
obviously right now about taxation in
the context of of mmt and as Democrats
talk about proposals for Medicare for
all and universal health child care baby
bonds etc etc how are we going to pay
for this at the end of the day it really
doesn't matter how much you tax if you
don't collect and that's becoming a bit
of a problem isn't it yeah so I think
it's probably best to sort out what's in
terms like where we are and how we got
here
and really starts with Republican
Congress coming in in 2011 X those big
midterms in 2010 and they start
attacking the budget across the
government but there's a special you
know emphasis on cutting the IRS budget
and early on it really has a lot to do
with the affordable care act and that's
because the IRS had a major role in
implementing the EPA and so going after
the IRS was seen as a way sort of
kneecapping the ACA which obviously they
weren't able to do through straight-up
legislation so the budget cutting starts
immediately as soon as the House
Republicans get in there and then 2013
comes and there's this big scandal
around you know their policing of
political nonprofits the Lois Lerner
scandal without getting too far down
that rabbit hole like you know the
bottom line is that was something to
begin a really big Republican issue seen
as you know you heard a lot of cedi of
the Obama IRS the Obama you know IRS
that's going after right living on
profits using the government as an
instrument of you know democratic
politics and that became a larger
justification for first slashing the
budget and so hey when there's a major
cut in 2013 is another big one in 2015
as this sort of scandal kind of kept on
going and so what we want to do in our
piece is sort of step back and say what
is the what is the cumulative effect of
all
and he load of affect is that the
budgeted down something like 2.5 billion
in today's dollars from 2010 which is
the peak they've lost a third of their
enforcement staff a third of their
enforcement staff right so you know I
talk to a lot people the IRS and they're
all like basically you know you start
out here at a cubicle that has four
people and then there's three people and
then there's two people that's basically
what's happening across here is so what
happens that you know they can't they
can't be good what happens that we
wanted to do is it can put all these
numbers together what are the human
effective and so audits are down 40%
they want to show that there's dollar
you know hits in terms of what's being
collected you know the government is
taking in our number was 18 billion
dollars less a year okay and just just
directly from the audits that are not
being done the collection actions that
are not being taken that's what the fact
that we were able to look at for a year
by a year which we say cumulatively
since 2010 we run it's about almost 100
billion dollars that's been lost because
the IRS is a shell of its former self
all right no one second I want to stop
here because I think we need to sort of
marinate and marinate in this just a
little bit and then I want to go back
you know a little bit to the 90s because
I was a little bit surprised to read
that that sort of the IRS recovered
during the Bush years but when we talk
about 18 billion dollars annually right
I mean this is not a huge amount in the
context of the u.s. budget but there was
just reported warned came out with a
universal daycare program that according
to Moody's would cost 1.7 billion
dollars over the course of a decade so
when we talk about 18 billion dollars
annually really the warren plan could be
funded for ten years essentially with
one month of the IRS being its former
self in terms of their enforcement
mechanism that's crazy I mean when
you're reporting
story we would like to sort of psych
ourselves out because like the context
is you know the IRS takes in about three
trillion dollars a year in taxes in
terms of everything that goes in the IRS
and so you're like you have a
conversation like 18 billion that's not
that much like what do you really get a
step back and like yeah these are
enormous numbers I should say the 18
billion is like just directly from
audits not being done the much larger
question is how much worse has cheating
got how many more people try eating with
scope of cheating we don't know that and
that's gonna be a much larger number
where this is just going to be kind of a
decimal compared to that but I mean if
you if you just figure as we say in the
piece these numbers get very silly very
quickly in terms of how large they are
I'm not hanging on that point did you as
in the course you're reporting did you
come across and I don't know if you if
you spoke to you know accountants and
and I don't know I wouldn't imagine
necessarily that like you know the you
know my accountant my accountant no
offense but but I would imagine that
like high-level accountants they must be
aware of this right like they don't need
Pro Publica to do this report because
they probably have enough clients where
they can just basically anecdotally say
things have changed and so I'm not gonna
worry about X or Y or Z in this instance
because I know there's not that much
scrutiny I mean do you do you have a
sense that that's happening out there is
there any way to quantify that yeah
absolutely I mean some of the most well
armed coats we got for people on the
other side who I mean the most egregious
examples are people who help people have
major tax debt so that's like then I'm
trying to hide the tax they actually owe
the IRS but they didn't pay and now the
IRS is not coming after them and you
know it seems like a six-figure tax dead
and then they are looks at expire
something's wrong there please please
so in here accountants know that you
know this didn't get out of the last
time you know one should go ahead you
know try that so in his research that
shows people who are audited you know
pay more tax in the future years like
it's not even the question the question
is how much how big the effect is any
has we the point we make is even if
there's just been a tiny bit of increase
in cheating which I would
it's very conservative assumption I
think it's very not true you get quickly
into the tens of billions and getting
100 billions very quickly in terms of
how much revenue is being lost the
problem is the economies are doing
pretty well or it's been it's been
growing since 2010 which was the depth
of recession so tax revenue has been
rising but that's just a reflection of
the economy made getting bigger we don't
know how much extra tablet X revenue
we've lost as a reflection fact the
people just aren't paying the taxes that
they owe so all right let's let's do a
little history for us here in and I will
say that you know there have been some
who have likened the abolish ice you
know movement if you will to what the
Republicans have done in terms of the
IRS by hammering away at abolishing the
IRS you know ever no one was like we're
gonna abolish the IRS but it apparently
made it much easier to to shrink it down
to the size of I mean the idea that
there's half nearly half the enforcement
mechanism that there was ten years ago
is just not but but walk us through when
did this start it started during the
Gingrich Iria era well yeah that's the
first time that I think I mean we
identified it kind of even back to
Reagan there's sort of this notion that
everyone could agree on that you know
yeah we've got to collect taxes we've
got to fund the government there's a
conservative argument to me for that and
then if you want to cut taxes you need
to know that what the tax is you're
cutting on paper is actually what's
going to happen as opposed to what we
have now or you just don't know in terms
of how much tax people are really paying
but yeah gingrich comes in in really the
senate hearings in 97 and 98 that they
have there's a very dramatic sort of
hearings with people behind like a black
curtain you know from the for our
employees you know it's only about that
and you know abuses of the IRS a lot of
it focuses on around collections but
then this reform deal comes up in a
passes almost unanimously in the Senate
clinton signs it and it had a major
effect in terms of how much revenue the
IRS was able to collect in the following
years because basically we organized the
entire agency
so let me to revenue hit from that I
don't think that was quite realized at
the time but you like you mentioned if
you look at the numbers in terms of how
much audits the IRS was doing how much
revenue was bringing in in terms of what
you would expect an enforcement revenue
it really does increase starting about
twenty two thousand two this like three
four years after this big reform bill is
passed it does recover those numbers do
recover particularly Democrats get in
the powers in midterm elections and in
2006 the budget goes way up so that the
peak is 2010 when you have a unified
control of Congress and the presidency
under Democrats the Democrats did an
increase the IRS budget quite a bit and
you saw that and the numbers there were
returns on that and that's that's where
the common sense case for funding the
IRS click the only or one of the very
few areas of government where it could
give them more money they will give you
even more money back right I mean that
is let's just make everybody should be
very clear about this there is no there
is absolutely zero debate in terms of
the return on investment on what you put
into the IRS it necessarily gives you
whatever you put in if you if you fund
them X you will get X plus maybe it's
plus one maybe it's plus two maybe it's
plus five maybe it's plus ten and and
just to go back to that to that Gingrich
era so if people remember there was all
these sort of like dramatic testimony
you know that people were afraid that
they couldn't show their face because
they were they were blowing the whistle
on this and and this was also during an
era where there was like a heightened
amount of anti-government you know which
every time we have a Democrat in office
we seem to get on some level right this
anti federal government sentiment and
then after these reforms are passed and
signed by Clinton the the Inspector
General comes out and says yeah
no none of that was true right yes the
GAO did reports and kind of went through
and looked at the accusations and a lot
of it yeah was was not true as well
vastly overstated but nevertheless you
know the reform bill was that too late
right and so and so during the the Bush
years in particularly during the
the late stages of the Bush years when
the Democrats take control of the house
they they really IRS budget and then
obviously tax receipts increase and
since since and you walked us through is
basically since the Republicans took
control the Congress again in in 2010
that things have sunk well here's the
question though is that is there a
material difference in the destruction
of and the assault on the IRS in this
era right starting in this you know
period in which the the the Republicans
controlled the the budget process with
the IRS versus the first one so in other
words is there an and is there a more or
less capacity for the IRS to bounce back
as an agency yeah so it's a much much
less and the reason is that what
happened back then is lucky basically we
organized everyone you had a whole lot
more requirements and processes they had
to follow so a lot of retraining had to
happen that slowed everything down so
everybody was still there right so once
they learn that stuff once they knew who
the repeat - or they know the new you
know the new rules they had to follow
they could get back to it whereas now
those people are gone what's been
happening is there was never like a you
know dramatic day where people were laid
off and math people been retiring and up
and replaced so that that's what's been
happening across the government so and
they've been cutting back on training
they're cutting back on travel so not
only they're vastly fewer people they're
the training has gotten worse and
talking a lot of IRS people the big
concern is like there's no one there to
train the new people so even if you were
to turn around you know tomorrow and say
like we're gonna give you a billion
dollars more it first of all it takes
time hire those people and then it and
they're not going to be the same people
that left and as I think we'll get to in
this conversation the people who have
left their most valuable are these
people who were doing the complicated
audits which is the people that you know
auditing corporations auditing you know
the billionaires trying to sort through
that it's extraordinarily complicated
and complex
they're investigators and they're gone
and you can you can't get back that
experience overnight so we don't have
that institutional knowledge and I would
also imagine that the the multiple
government shutdowns have also made it
fairly toxic place for people to work
and this is all presuming that the
Democrats in the House are going to up
the IRS budget address the first part
before you address the second part of
that in terms of yeah there was a good
there was nothing indeed one of these
job search sites was like sharing
something and showing that you know
government employees were searching for
jobs and higher numbers and IRS was by
far the highest but I saw I believe in
people are like I mean having talked to
IRS employees you know they think of
themselves as public servants that's
more or less to eat though so I was he
looking at making a lot more money
outside the IRS the ones were talented
and so there's already kind of a aspect
of personal sacrifice for the people to
deeds would be working for the IRS but
they usually believe in the mission but
now you're you know you lay them off
basically for so should them they on for
happened for a month they don't know
that we will pay their mortgage like you
know the costs start to outweigh the
benefits for some people and you look to
leave it that you know it's something
not going to help in terms of the budget
coming back so this year the Dean of the
Democrats cut that deal with Trump to
get government back open and it's
actually constituted to cut another cut
for the IRS so that didn't happen so now
we're talking about 2020 siskel year
2020 in which you know what started like
this
I guess it's October but you know that's
we're talking about next year maybe the
budgets is going to bounce back up but
there was some openness from Republicans
that we talked to in the hill on
background that's basically saying Trump
has got his guy in the IRS now and if he
comes out and says we need a lot more
money then maybe the Republicans would
come around and support a budget
increase but that hasn't happened yet
and there's some reason to be skeptical
that's never going to happen
so walk us through okay so and just
lastly all right we we reduce the
enforcement mechanisms of the IRS by 40
percent what
in a in a qualitative way what does that
mean
in other words who's what enforcement
mechanisms are gone is it is it are they
taking it out of the oh they're no
longer looking at you know low-income
people as to whether they're cheating
because they're low-income and if they
cheat ten percent and they're and
they're only paying you know ten
thousand dollars then you know why go
after a thousand bucks right I mean is
that or let me let me ask you that and
also ask is is it just a question of
like the cheating is the same and the
difficulty to find it is the same but
you might as well go after the big
dollar folks because there's more money
to be found there how does that work
yeah so I think the simplest way to
think about it as I as I worked on this
over time is basically if you are middle
income or down for the most part you're
audited by a computer so they just run
your w2 through there and other stuff
and the ends it's very high hard for a
wage earner to hide income from the
government all the studies that have
been done about this show that people
who are hiding income are people who are
on their own business because a lot of
that stuff is not separately reported to
the government and people have like
passed through you know like
partnerships and LLC's and that kind of
stuff so that that's who would benefit
the most in terms of audit rate going
way down because that sort of stuff is
not going to be caught by a computer
they didn't know how much your business
is making so those the audits that are
not being done because if you know the
skilled auditors someone has to go
through your stuff need to be some flag
for audit and then you have to take to
start going through your stuff to find
that kind of evasion
whereas in their studies that have shown
this that compliance of people who get a
w-2 is like ninety nine percent and the
big area where there's there's basically
cheating happens is hiding income so
and that's what Dodd is make a big
impact on that and so I would yeah I
would say sort of a built in I guess is
a regressivity of tax administration
other words like it's much easier to
catch like you know the bottom 85
percent of taxpayers then it is the top
15 percent and that's what you really
need the bigger resources for in terms
of just headcount of people trained and
trained personnel and and the fact of
the matter is though for every dollar
you spend there you're going to get back
how much so the the general overall like
ROI that's often excited it's four to
one but I think that's like way too low
basically like all the money that you
put into the IRS that includes like
everything right but if you were
narrowly to target to two enforcement's
you know I've seen them make Testaments
of ten to one on something and you know
I mean I've talked to IRS people who are
working on audits that have hundreds of
millions of dollars that are at issue
it's the most impossible to count the
IRA or Ida's on those cases you know
someone who's making one hundred twenty
thousand dollars a year and it's gonna
come out with an audit that results in
tens of millions of dollars in tax so it
sometimes it's just off the charts in
terms of what comes back all right well
it's it's fascinating stuff and it
doesn't seem like it's going to the the
I mean it's not going to be till 2020
and I would imagine every year or two
that goes by with less and less
institutional knowledge is that much
worse right yeah no it's it's going to
get worse before it gets better but I
mean it would be a really big deal for
that process to turn around and for it
to start to rebuild itself but that is
something that I think definitely has to
happen if you're looking at you know
these big you know tax proposal that you
mentioned are being put forward I mean I
guess the good news because there isn't
good news is that a lot of this is easy
money in terms of it's an easy solution
right it's like there's no there's no
downside to it funding the IRS so
there's something that you know the
Democratic administration if there is
one
20:21 could look forward to in terms of
increased revenue Paul keel ProPublica
we will put a link to your piece at
majority dot F M thanks so much for your
time today I really appreciate it yeah
[Music]
nuts you could pay for Elizabeth
Warren's child health care child day
care program in January of the year that
you reconstitute it the for ten years
January and the the when you
reconstituted the the IRS that is
shocking to me we don't have the money
for it though are you gonna pay for it
that's a great idea but how do you
afford it um just heard people don't pay
taxes anymore doing a tax Jubilee before
we go into the fun half this was pretty
disturbing to find out how hypocritical
Bernie is and I have to admit it was
that much more painful to hear it from
Sean Hannity because I'm not a fan of
shan't Hannity's but the idea that he's
gonna catch Bernie in this way it's
really upsetting it scared the type of
reporting resources of throwing that
Bernie it's nuts
they blew this story wide open and the
thing is I was at this rally and I
didn't even pick up on this here's Sean
Hannity breaking this story wide open a
time for Hannity watch our investigation
into the 20/20 candidates as well I
posit for one second this is a serious
investigation into the candidates 2020
its what did he call it it's Hannity
watch a time for Hannity watch our
investigation into the 2020 candidates
this weekend senator Bernie Sanders
kicked off his 2020 campaign in Brooklyn
wasted little time before revealing well
more hypocrisy Democratic socialists
open borders advocate held a rally and
was happy to greet his supporters from
behind a barrier why is the fence up
Bernie Oh a barriers acceptable if they
protect you personally they're only
wrong if they're used to protect our
border and the American people just like
how many celebrities in Hollywood and
politicians have armed security guard
wow it's almost it's almost too hard to
come up with like a an analogy to make
fun of this it's almost too hard it's so
dumb no it's but here's how hard cuz
they got us dead to rights first off the
amount of investigatory resources that
that handed he's bringing to bear is is
intimidating
it does make 27 million dollars a year
yes aside from the fact that Bernie is
not open borders let's assume for a
moment he was I have this to report I
also had my eye team the majority report
I team was there and within hours of
erecting those massive steel slats they
were taken down so I guess what Bernie
really believes in is just putting up a
border fence for a short period of time
and then taking them down if the
security at Saturday's event is any
indication of Bernie's border policy we
have a very humane policy shift coming
up yeah there was it was pretty laid
back humane to the point of like you
know guys this isn't just like a fish
revival show anymore exactly he's
running for president this is a real
thing I won that stuff out a little bit
I like looking around like going like I
don't even see any car I don't even see
any cops here I didn't like it was like
a I didn't see no cops security no cops
here
I smell swine reset the event but
honestly do you think I mean just think
I'm trying to piece this together where
Hannity is like is there a producer who
does this or just handy go like all
pretty simple let me ask you about a
burn on your door to your apartment
exactly like oh dear
behind you oh wow do you oppose the wall
tell you something I've got ants ripping
children out of their parents arms I've
had the intellectual decency and
consistency to never lock the door in my
building anymore it's pretty because a
lot of issues that pretty hypocritical
Hannity uses doors though that's true
right well why does why does Hannity not
about walking on pathways like this why
don't you like to move different places
but this Hannity let people in his house
right like oh I mean whoa all of a
sudden were just letting people oh wait
a second Hannity lets people in his
house right oh but he won't let people
in the country what's that about yeah
what's going on right breaking
investigation alert on Fox News
personalities so he doesn't want people
in the country but he has a door to his
house some people say Apocrypha other
people say well he's just lying hold on
for one second
does Hannity go to other countries has
he ever been to other countries oh but
he's against other people from other
countries coming here what oh what's
that about that's weird
I'm confused that's super weird that's
very strange i Hannity seems okay with
him making twenty seven million dollars
why can't we all make 27 million dollars
huh now you get to the crux of it
funny it's got no problem with that
that's weird that's super weird that's
really really I'm sure you guys already
talked about it but how great was the
point in the in the Bernie rally with
the first break of Bernie Bernie and he
was like genuine he's like though I'm
sad I missed it was adorable
so Hannity thinks everybody should have
freedom right how come he doesn't think
everybody should have money that's weird
yeah
that's so strange it's really
hypocritical you have the freedom to
starve to death that's freedom well no
he's saying everybody gets freedom but
I'm saying why can't I love that morning
your money that's that's really strange
we put we'll put the majority report I
team on that more hypocrisy from the Rye
yes unbelievable they believe everybody
should breathe but not everybody should
have free housing that's weird
I wish it was that easy and because he
because the awesome thing for Hannity is
that his audience is like that's right
it's true and if we actually said stuff
like that with a straight face like our
entire audience would just be like the
 dude but we're gone we're done
with this this is this is silly are you
serious actually get a bunch of concern
emails like gosh this is a really
serious time in our country what's going
on with you guys you guys used to be
really uh sound and now it just seems
like you're just finding these weird
analogies
alright we got to take a break head into
the fun half of the program wherein we
will have even more fun ladies and
gentlemen yes if it's possible we'll
have even more fun you can support this
program
and join us in the fun half we will
break down the barriers we're we're we
did this already didn't we the other day
the wall thing you can become a member
for just literally pennies a day I mean
more pennies you need want to carry on
your pocket in which case you're welcome
will relieve you of those you've just
got to put them into digital form and
send it to them or us or we could mean
if you really never mind join the
majority report com join the majority
report calm you can support the the the
first half of the show and then we give
you extra content every single day
ladies and gentlemen
also just coffee co-op Fairtrade coffee
tea or chocolate check it out we've
gotten a couple of emails from people
who are like they were compelled by the
story of the company and then they were
very very happily surprised that the
coffee is great I have told you this for
many years just coffee
it's great coffee but even perhaps even
more importantly they are really great
people and helpful to these farmers so
check them out just coffee co-op use the
coupon code majority today is Tuesday
which means that Michael has decided to
come back to where
and of course tonight is the Michael
Brooke show welcome back Michael thank
you
I don't have anything to say to that
tonight last Monday that you were in
office in this office well I think the
better question is how many mondays will
I be in office well I mean I think a
past is prologue believe me believe me
tonight Ben Burgess joins us he's the
author of the forthcoming book give them
an argument logic for the left we're
gonna be talking about how the left can
use logic we're gonna run some clinics
actually we're gonna use some clips from
some of our favorite awful personalities
on the right who sort of claim to embody
logic and we're gonna run through some
arguments so I think I think everybody
will be and we'll also talk about
Bertrand Russell and the socialist logic
tradition and so on so ever be
interesting everybody but I would
imagine particularly if you have like an
annoying roommate in college or
something like that or you want to get
somebody from away from falling down
that rabbit hole and then we've got a
whole bunch of other stuff to cover of
course seven o'clock on the TMB s
youtube channel get the whole thing
including our series on caribbean debt
and coos and a forthcoming show on
Puerto Rico by going to patreon.com
slash T MBS e tonight around seven ish
Oh
Jamie go ahead sorry yeah so listening
to the construction in the other office
oh yeah so this week while we actually
released it last week but it's still our
current episode on the Intifada I'm very
very excited about this one because we
interviewed our sci-fi hero Kim Stanley
Robinson he's won like every sci-fi
award he is a great utopian futurist we
talk about focus on his Mars trilogy but
other books as well we talked about
space exploration post-capitalist
imaginaries and psychedelic polyamory
holy
and sitting in because Andy is still in
Mexico we had will Monica who's also a
huge sci-fi nerd helping us interview
him so check it out and a mat up on the
literary hangover youtube channel
finally is the hans fall episode of so
I'd ground PO fans get that's three
hours long so you get the full short
story there and yeah Wakefield by
nathaniel hawthorne check that out
that's the most recent podcast ok folks
a quick break ed into the fun half see
you there Jamie and I may have a
disagreement yeah you can't just say
whatever you want about people just cuz
you're rich I have an absolute right to
mark them on YouTube frees up their
buggy whipping like he's boss I am NOT
your employer you know I'm tired of the
negativity I'm sorry I didn't mean to
upset you
[Music]
maybe you should rethink your defense of
that you're idiots we're just
going to get rid of you alright but dude
dude dude dude dude dude you want to
smoke this joint
yes do you feel like you are a dinosaur
good exactly I'm happy now so
win-win
it's win-win-win hell yeah now listen to
me two three four five times eight four
seven nine oh six five oh one four five
seven
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
I'm hoping that more moves to my
repertoire all I have is the dip in the
scroll fine we can double dip yes this
is a perfect moment no under a million
dollars all right take quick break I
want to take a moment to talk to some of
the libertarians out there dick whatever
vehicle you want to drive to the library
what you're talking about is jibber
jabber lastic I'm feeling more chill
already hood Donald Trump can kiss all
of our asses hey Sam hey Andy you guys
ready to I see some people Shitler with
such No
[Music]
it's a free speech issue if you don't
like me thank you for calling into the
majority report them will be with you
shortly
that is a ridiculous construction I mean
it'd be fun at a bar like would you
rather be would you rather live in the
1700s but have a level three skill with
a longbow or would you rather live in
the aughts of the the 21st century in
the odds and have a clubfoot so if you
can mix it up even be like what if you
could live in 1915 with a cellphone that
worked honestly that is the just the
strangest possible construction that one
could possibly make blind items you
can't you cannot situate yourself you
just simply can't make that assessment
it's it's so apples to you know that's
nuts I don't get that at all let's see
what we got here for our phone situation
[Music]
bear with us folks call them from a340
area code who's this where are you
calling from
Sam this is chanel from the US Virgin
Islands but I'm so excited that I played
on oh my god I love you guys and I'm so
grateful for the work that you do and I
just find your delivery so soothing to
my terrible anxiety oh I have been told
the opposite by many people frankly but
I appreciate that I think they're full
of because I mean I just find it so
relaxing by now you know I really as
someone who was born and raised in the
US Virgin Islands she was purchased by
America for twenty five million dollars
in gold it's been somewhat just shocking
and also just frightening with what's
happened since Trump won the election
and I really just appreciate the
coverage that you guys cried and I was
almost constant now and that's
definitely been I mean I I feel like
I've got to witness what happened in
Wisconsin during this election well so
let me ask you this I've got a couple of
questions about both places are you so
you're not in the Virgin Islands now no
no okay and do you still have family
there because I wonder after after Maria
how did how was the recovery there
because the Virgin Islands were really
hammered as well and we heard much less
about Virgin Islands than Puerto Rico um
being this in a very small island there
are four Virgin Islands and only two of
them have a population of at least
50,000 people one has a population of
maybe around nine to ten thousand and
it's been terrible there's still a lot
of trash that's hasn't even been removed
from the island the price is just to buy
basics like No
bread things like eggs are probably four
to five times with it when I would pay
here
Wow for example I wanted to get a pound
of strawberries I could get it for two
dollars maybe three in a grocery store
but in the Virgin Islands you're looking
at 11 maybe 12 99 the power company and
the Virgin Islands has subsidized all of
the debt that the Virgin Islands
government has incurred with them on to
the public and it's insane because your
power consumption may total to maybe a
hundred and fifty dollars but when they
add in your portion of the subsidized
debt because they tell you if we don't
collect this money there will be no
power there will be no electricity but
when they add that in you're now looking
over at a power bill of 700 to 800
illumines and my mother who has a
household of six people and my sister
and my husband actually moved in with
her after her yeah her seven to eight
hundred dollars a month because of that
that Lord and that burden it's I think
because the Virgin Islands is sort of
still such you know right there in the
Caribbean there's a very strong
Caribbean identity but you know we've
always been American my friends even my
little brother I served in the Armed
Forces and some of them don't come back
and they die and you know what I moved
to Wisconsin and I finally got a
Wisconsin seed ID this is the first time
in my adult life as an American even
though I was born in American but I
could actually vote for the President of
the United States and what was your
experience in terms of the the the last
election what was your experience in
terms of what was happening in Wisconsin
um I definitely saw it right away
because um I my husband never believed
that Trump would win and I kept winning
him that you know these people and by
these people I guess time were so mean
the average white lower middle class
possibly even lower class core sort of
struggling and they are very angry and
there is a rage against anybody who is
not like them you know when I speak to
women here about you know like
government and government assistance
their their thing is well you know
things are so hard because nobody cares
about us and there is very much a sin so
we have been wronged and we sort of you
could take back and sort of reclaim you
know what we feel has been taken away
from us and you know even though we the
conversations around college you know
when I when I spent time at a couple UW
systems and you spoke to people that say
well you know things are bad here
because there's too many people coming
to college and it's just too hard when
you have to be people getting accepted
to college and you know I don't think
these people are necessarily bad people
and tell me on some of them actually are
but they they feel as though their
misfortune or they feel as though the
shift of wealth is just not necessarily
the fault of who we know it is but they
think that it's from people who look
different and speak differently and I
mean I for example q from the Virgin
Islands and decided that I was into
hunting deer hunting and I can tell you
that trying to buy a firearm is not as
easy as it is for almost everyone else
and you know the first gun store that I
went to in Wisconsin was only about five
minutes you know this is right in the
middle of Green Bay
maybe only about five to ten minutes
away from this the Packer Stadium and I
went up to the comer looking for a nice
country
and the gentleman told me I shouldn't be
here and literally took a box of it was
some sort of waffle or pancake thanks
but it was a caricature of Obama as a
monkey and it's said on the label Obama
piece you can change waffles and he just
only put it towards me while I was you
know just like attempting to ask
questions and that I think the things
that people are missing is it's just
like you know the daily experience for
so many Americans right now I like my
heart goes out to them because when
you're in the drenching island you
sheltered from that part of America
right you really are wow that's that is
nuts let me ask you this is it your
sense like obviously that guy at the gun
shop who is sliding a Obama waffles bag
to you he's not going to not vote for
Donald Trump was it was it your sense in
Wisconsin because Wisconsin was one of
those states that were super close right
that was what was that seventeen
thousand votes I guess mm-hmm was it
your sense that there was a lot of
people who didn't go out to vote who
would have otherwise voted for Clinton
because a was it did you have a sense
that there were I mean could you be
would you conscious that there didn't
seem to be as many people going out to
vote for Clinton and do you have a sense
of why I mean that's a very hard thing
for an individual to have a sense of
like are there other people I just know
amongst your friends or yeah I would
definitely say yes because um I mean I
won't I'll be completely honest a I
accidentally tried to make friends with
as many african-americans as I can
culturally I just respect them so much
and then the other thing is you know I
actually am African American but because
I'm from the Caribbean there's a
completely different culture right so
when I speak to people from Chicagoland
they speak
two people from Milwaukee they did not
feel motivated or even reached out to us
to to to vote and it's not that be
rewarding for Trump you just felt as
though there was no candidate for you it
it was you know you're going backwards
or all the way backwards right and and I
don't feel that people are believing you
know the promises that American people
talk about jobs and no yeah we're gonna
bring jobs that like that sort of
rhetoric is not getting through some of
the people that are in most communities
that are the most interesting it's just
not reaching all right well I appreciate
the call fascinating stuff I'm sorry you
were going through that yeah I hope you
got your gun Wisconsin is that my
husband hoods action white I have opened
his eyes to hot and we definitely tried
to you know share knowledge and try to
influence you know people that are close
to us to maybe see a differently and
that's why were such big fans of you
guys and he actually introduced me to
you guys oh well good for him sounds
like a keeper I appreciate the call yes
yes thank you guys wait a second well my
room aboard it makes sense
thank you you're here oh yeah you're
here I know that's allowed see it turn
into room and board that's all I'm
saying in the Virgin Islands but I
appreciate the call I will see you and
yours in the Virgin Islands Wow block
that number thank you
it's all excited not a trip to the
Virgin Islands think oh this is
fastening oh wow is go what God really
fully four seven eight area code who's
this where you calling from lay my
refuge Jeff Jeff from Georgia how are
you sir hey mom - I'm doing farm animals
first oh you think us that very awesome
bird keeps coaster no pigs ground or
guard brother I didn't catch all that
but I got enough he just call you a pig
no he said something about kosher and
pigs no cops at the Bernier I said I
said you didn't see no cops are they oh
sure no sort of a formulation of it was
really weird you guys everyone was very
personable let me shake your hands up
close
take peers with step you Sam you the
only interactively through that large
steel barrier all right yes I believe in
a wall and so I employ it in figurative
and otherwise I own oh I don't believe
in a while okay yeah no that works the
other way I'm sorry I mean you really
overreacted when I went out you know
just want to take a little touchy and
review but you all are there and he got
real mad I'm next Easter man but it was
still really nice to me well it's nice a
message to you yeah I just will say real
quickly I'll jump off that's your
interview those whole Drive few people
Grumio that but you know what amazing a
spud Billy focus area don't care about
going at all there's a bit I just don't
know you're their vision of Gurkhas
it's it's really more like a in Republic
style right there realistic ludicrous
rates dude contracts there is it not
interesting in terms of efficiency or
justice or or even just like basic
competency you know they're just nice to
about 80 at the IRS sorry best favorite
organization but you know rich
people do he'd be separated further
money from their own good and the RS is
the organization that is do that I want
to talk about redistribution the
Republicans believe in redistribution -
they just want it in the other direction
just flows up all right all right y'all
have good now I will get back into
listening hard you know appreciate the
college yeah yeah I have good show
YouTube butter shaking man right I will
take one more call and go to some IMS
come from a six one seven area code
who's this where he come from
I'd like to speak to Sam please speaking
who's this hi this is Brandon Tartikoff
I've been seeing my mentions go up in
the past few months and I gotten all
sorts of accusations of being a
libertarian something to do with
debating you um references to Milo I I
don't know if you know who I am behind
the former head of NBC yeah I don't know
if this I don't know if this is some
kind of grudge issue because we passed
on you for the single guy back in the
90s or why you've been mentioning me in
association with the libertarian party
whoa whoa whoa you passed on me for the
single guy I don't think so
yeah I think we gave Jonathan Silverman
yeah single guy no I don't think I was
up for that yeah but close super close
suddenly Susan maybe then we now know
now I was all I don't know Merrick these
accusations of libertarianism or calling
me the new Milo or you know your your
steamrolling over my history in the
entertainment industry
I'm betting Liam
yes all I can tell you is walk away
buddy just walk away from your phone
I appreciate that that was pretty good
that was pretty good I mean I don't know
what branded tardy talk sounds like he
may be dead he's dead well then I mean
one can never stop besmirching one can
never nuts even worse Brianna's blue
check Sam can you give a concise
response to those that tell
environmentalists they should practice
what they preach
avoid cars airplanes meat etc because I
think the perceived hypocrisy when they
don't is an effective line of attack
like it or not the bottom line is that
individuals can do can do all those
things and it will have no impact the
bottom line is we need a government
policy to to plan out and to change you
know what we want to change in terms of
across the board I mean it is the same
thing in terms of like well if you want
to raise taxes just donate more money no
the idea of taxes is that it it's
government instituted and it's mandated
across the board
the idea of environmental policy is that
it's policy it's not behavior nobody's
going around protesting for better
environmental behavior people are trying
to get a better environmental policy and
this should be a fairly simple thing to
address like like for instance when a
teacher says to two toddlers in
preschool everybody wash your hands
before you come into the into the the
classroom people don't say like well if
you want your hands washed why don't you
just wash them no the idea is that we
have a policy because everybody needs to
wash their hands or hurt they're
bringing in germs that get people sick
so this is the bottom line is that
there's a difference between policy and
personal behavior and and really you
have to be super super immature to not
understand that concept right like
nobody would tell their boss like you
know the boss is like we need everybody
to get here on time
why don't you just get here on time to
put it it's actually kind of there's no
reason for you to get so yeah I put it
like that I think you know I think I
should have meatless and show this
Monday be the change you want to see it
be the change you see it's like
lifestyle politics concerns consumption
and the kind of broad sweeping changes
we're talking about are on the
production side and you're always going
to get more bang for your buck if you
change things on the side of production
yeah I mean take the opportunity to just
reinforce that message every time
somebody makes the dumb you know
individualist message I mean it's just
yeah that's what they're saying it's
just quite literally impossible that any
of your individual interventions and and
what's funny is I don't necessarily even
like when people bring that to me I
pivot quickly to reality that it
requires massive systems changes in
order to actually solve the problem and
then the secondary thing is if you want
I actually I do certain you know things
I do prefer to buy organic food as an
example I like living in New York so I
don't have to have a car like I think
that's great and there's no problem with
that but it shouldn't be confused in
either direction with solving the crisis
brave o matic
while visiting New York recently I
witnessed Sean Hannity using a sidewalk
constructed using public funds socialist
that's true wonder wonder too Sean
Hannity take his own a helicopter into
work every day or does he drive on
publicly-funded roads interesting
Winnipeg Craig I know it's kind of niche
but please consider doing a Canadian
political update interview it is a
little bit nice in the past week the
First Nations are so intense about
having their little politics cover it's
all love know it I mean a second
minister resigned in this Trudeau
scandal might or don't try and make up
for you've already said we this remind
you canadian this reminds me of how tony
blair covered for
yayyyyy with the bribes from the Saudis
and this is a very big Canadian politics
at the center actually Trudeau how about
Trudeau backing the coup in Venezuela
but in the supporting the regime in
Haiti how about that Canadian in the
past week the first person of color to
lead a major political party won his
seat the People's Party which is the
electoral equivalent of the proud boys
got over 10 percent a multi-party a
by-election the former attorney general
current president of the Treasury Board
were both resigned over corruption
scandal implicating the Prime Minister
Parliament went into an emergency
session to debate the corruption scandal
and new March polls are showing the
liberal vote is getting eaten by the
Conservatives in the NDP and it's an
election year I feel like we just did
our roundup fran from philadelphia kuck
request lest f-bombs my three-year-old
asks for more sam cedar when won a
majority report episode finishes I have
a sound drop of him at two years old
saying Michael Brooks show please trying
to raise him radical years and learns
words from listening to your show one
day he's really gonna have a good moment
of incredulity the system when he just
says F but I'd like to delay the eff day
just a little bit more love friend I try
and watch my language partly as a habit
from having young kids myself partly is
from being on radio for so many years
that you train yourself and I had no
reason to to untrain myself i I've been
trying to swear less on this show I love
the the and III think I have I think
I've been better but I love the drop I I
cannot promise as much on TM BS I will
try a little bit but I I'm also I'm
still kind of I mean I don't know maybe
I was just not raised with this but I'm
I'm a little like I understand why you
don't want your kid to like swear and
some public's what a setting and
embarrass you but are these words really
such a big deal I mean well I don't
think the words such a big deal I mean I
remember my my former wife had
instructed our child cuz we were living
upstate and
at the time and there was a lot of
Walder fee type of people who didn't
want to use better than other kids
learned to curse than that
well the
yeah no kidding in and so for a while
there was a prohibition in my home when
Milo was like I guess three or four from
using the word damn and I was like I
mean as a comedian in particular I'm
just the idea of words being specific
words without any type of context being
prohibited is silly to me frankly right
and Milo walked up to me one day and she
just looked at me and she goes
Pam kam-lam Ram Pam Cham and I just
looked at I was like oh my god I love
you such a good story
counterpoint swearing is cool do you
want your kid to be a nerd hmm
yes most parents do one take you
seriously you actually going to show you
you want them to succeed that means
either in this context but nerds is why
you don't want if even I as a home
schooler could tell you that you just do
not want to be the one kid on a sports
team or hanging out at whatever and not
be the one that knows that doesn't know
the words you don't want to be there you
can teach them the words but but you
tell it beauty nerds tell them not to
use it because it's a offend some people
yeah I think my second grade I was
probably swearing at a fifth grade level
and I a hundred percent I have my mom in
the car to thank for that
for me it's just a matter of like
explaining to them the dynamic of hey
that word doesn't mean anything really
in my mind but for some people it gets
them upset so just there's no reason to
use it I mean it's not like your life is
gonna be materially worse because of it
it's just that some people get upset
about it and they find it a little bit
rude that's all I do think in in today's
that concept sells perfectly fine think
you were if you were upset by profanity
at the state of the planet were in today
Wow
ya know I'd like to be living in that
head I agree but there
you know like the teaching your kids the
concept of you know there's some things
that some people for whatever I'm not
disputing that I'm talking you you said
specifically the people that actually
still get offended by of course I
understand that but I'm saying if you
really are walking around being like oh
ah the gutter mouth yeah what do you
knew your times I mean Jesus Jordan
Peterson sucks
hi guys I'm a huge fan of the show and
its spin-offs the core brand proposition
showed the anti huge viagra boner show
and the water boat audible just a quick
note to Michael do you have to change
the end sequence to your videos it makes
me uncomfortable every time it looks
like a random awesome ransom hostage
video loved the show left is best snow
fake a basic rule of logic is that you
can't prove a negative such as not being
racist train boy fun fact 90 seconds of
bad faith concern trolling from Hannity
was 90 seconds more coverage of the
Bernie rally than the Rachel Maddow had
last night really shameful but
unsurprising didn't they cover it live
on MSNBC though I'm pretty sure you know
I don't I know that I understand enn
covered the whole thing uninterrupted I
don't know if I'm I think MSNBC did to
CNN included like the old like Nina
Turner Shaun King the union leader from
Erie and the rep from South Carolina
hope Jamie recovers from her current
bout of Amy Goodman disease soon I mean
look the the reality is I mean it's I I
don't think I'm you know I certainly
don't know any information inside
information but if you watch MSNBC it is
quite apparent to me anyways as a viewer
that they're attempting to just be like
sort of CNN from the 90s wait what's
wrong with Amy Goodman
I think she's just her voice gets a
horse like that
JJ JJ cool the Elan Omar sensoring has
to be long-term strategy to undermine
her into an extent the progressive
movement the Democratic leadership might
catch heat this week but nobody will
would hold their vote for Pelosi just
because of this meanwhile the next
election will be filled with ads about
Omar getting censured for anti-semitism
the details won't make a difference at
this point it's just
that the irony of Omar's money point
money and politics missed by so many
yeah well look of course I agree with
this totally and I will remind you that
it was the Democrats who censured move
on when it was General Petraeus who just
coincidentally ended up being prosecuted
or not prosecuted enough for betraying
us by basically giving up government
secrets and it was also the Democrats
who voted to defund acorn there's they
are super weak in this situation and
there they will capitulate to either
I shouldn't say either I should say both
big-money donors and also a a perception
that the center is somehow offended you
know there was what was it Waldman we
were talking to about that Ben whittler
quote about just the the the Democrats
get very very nervous about what the
mainstream pundit talked recei says
whereas Republicans don't care in fact
they wear it as a badge of honor that
[Music]
yeah it's really what we're really
seeing I think in many respects is a
Islamophobia and you know this is where
uh folks like we you know we had
problems for a long time with with folks
like Sam Harris because they mainstream
this stuff and they make it sound like
it can be intellectual now of course I
don't know that he's responsible for
this but you know the general tenor from
just can I just read this quote really
quick from congressman Juan Vargas
though because he you know he showed the
ball he said it's disturbing that rep
Omar continues to perpetuate hurtful
anti-semitic stereotypes that
misrepresent our Jewish community total
smear and lie just have to always say
that
additionally questioning the support for
the u.s. relationship
us-israeli really Israel relationship is
unacceptable that's the bottom line he's
saying that any questioning of a policy
set around a sovereign nation-state one
that by any objective international
standard is in violation of any number
of laws and norms and abuses and so on
but frankly even if it wasn't I mean
just the premise that if you're in
Congress you can't criticize France or
India or Zimbabwe or Israel is utterly
demented well particularly when we're
giving them each significant Egyptian or
sadly you know yeah bring in groups
bring in countries that we fund and
subside that is the subtext all right
let me so let me just do this here that
is the subtext of what's going on the
text of course is that there's an
opening here for people who want to
launder a a policy of not questioning
Israel by arguing that it's
anti-semitism and they're being aided
and abetted because there's already a
healthy dose of Islamophobia in this
country here is an activist at the West
Virginia State House not a Democrat
maybe maybe she is I don't know but I
can't hear you so GOP sponsored event
yeah this is a Republican sponsored
event and so this is an opening right I
mean this is what we're seeing is the
Israeli Lobby and it comes in various
forms using Islamophobia in this
instance as essentially a way of
laundering ay-ay-ay censoring of any
critique of israel and i can tell you
that as a supporter of Israel this is
does not end well for Israel every time
you do this on a short-term basis these
tiny little victories that you get end
up hurting Israel in the long term but
here is this some woman at the West
Virginia State House and
this is really you know this is the
level 2 subtext of the criticism that
we're seeing of Ilan Omar she's got a
poster
never forget you said with pictures of
the twin towers and a picture of Alon
Omar
I am the proof you have forgotten so
this is I mean this is the worst of the
worst when it comes to Islamophobia and
it's just it's just stunning
I mean this is and it is being
perpetrated in the name of of anti
anti-semitism when in fact it is the
exact same response but just a different
flavour that's basically what we're
seeing the same amount of hate just as
different flavor and it's being
weaponized by those who do want who
don't want critique of Israel and like I
say as a longtime supporter of Israel's
right to exist this is the greatest
threat to the future of Israel these
people who think that they're helping
out right now and inoculating Israel
from criticism huge mistake
huge mistake well at least they're
saying the quiet parts out loud right
but it it it's a real problem I mean
because this is not going to end well
for Israel he's not gonna and I think I
think just to make a little distinction
I think it's not gonna end well for the
type of people you're talking about who
definitely exist and I fundamentally
disagree and I think this is disgusting
but I know people who have a what I
think is inaccurate and wrong but
sincere misunderstanding about this
issue but the broader kind of context to
where Israel's at right now I think is
just this does work for the current
iteration of Israel because this is just
like raw brute force to destroy any
opposition to it right but my point is
it's like saying and if you're building
alliances with you know or been and
hungry and the Chinese government
doesn't matter i that may be the case
but but i it is essentially like
ignoring
you know that you have an infection and
pretending that you don't and not
treating it instead of trying to pretend
like there's nothing wrong with what
Israel is doing because at one point
this stuff catches up with you
and and it has and that's why it's
reaching this level of desperation here
is a Barry Weiss who is reaching us into
a level of desperation yeah well I mean
she is you know it's quite clear whether
she's on you know Joe Rogan's podcast or
really anywhere except for maybe with
Meghan McCain on the view that the depth
of her understanding of these issues is
extremely shallow and she's joining on
the bandwagon there's no reason to think
that she's thinking about this any more
than she's thought about anything else
frankly which is sad because this is her
primary thing well yeah and this is this
is a twofer for people it undermines a
strong progressive voice in the house
and also supposedly protects Israel from
critique so we've talked about this
offline personally and now on this show
but it's easy to spot anti-semitism when
and it's a bunch of crazy people with
tiki torches screaming Jews will not
replace us yes what's trickier is tweets
like Minnesota congresswoman Ilhan
Omar's recently deleted about how Israel
has quote hypnotized the world to carry
out quote evil that is harder to spot as
anti-semitic which makes it more
dangerous you think how so does make it
more dangerous because as you said when
you see people marching with tiki
torches or use here the pittsburgh
killer writing on social media all jews
must die
that's very obviously elimination estoy
cent ism from the far left is that it
often coughed in times is smuggled into
the mainstream under the guise of
progressive values so it says about
itself i'm just standing up for the
downtrodden palestinians which they are
i am just standing up for justice i'm
standing against racism and so that kind
of language is a siren song including
two jews seventy five percent of whom
vote for
Democrats and so that's the problem with
it is that it's not as easy to spot
oftentimes because it says we're just
about criticizing Israel in the case of
El Monte Pelosi shut it down Nancy
Pelosi shut it down very aggressively
with Ilhan Omer the problem is that she
still has a spot on the set on the right
congressional Foreign Affairs Committee
right that's the problem is that this
made up anti-semitism that I'm seeing
has not even though it's been addressed
it's not been effective in trying to get
her out of a policy position where she
can actually do the things that Barry
White's we said we're legitimate which
was bringing some justice to people who
are being oppressed and sometimes things
are hard to spot because they're not
there now as one of those 75% who are
apparently not sophisticated enough as a
50 some-odd year-old man to be aware of
of anti-semitism I frankly am offended
by that how's that I'm offended and I
would like the New York Times to address
that columnist who's telling the world
that I'm not capable of it I my Jewish
education involved teachers with the
tattoo on their arm of with numbers so I
don't need to be told by Barry Weiss
that I don't know anti-semitism when I
see it
I was watching helicopters fly over
Caesarea on the way to bomb Lebanon when
Barry Weiss was maybe not even in
diapers yet so I don't need to be told
that I'm deluded about anti-semitism
that's really offensive and I want the
New York Times to censure her frankly
well if bigotry of the left is dangerous
because it appears like social justice
isn't bigotry from the center even more
dangerous I mean look at she's going
around from
loading people okay whoo it's
indisputable they are gateways to right
way to right-wing ethno-nationalism so
maybe she should be looking in her own
work for those people who are not seeing
where anti-semitism comes it may be the
case that dave rubin and sam harris are
not anti-semitic but certainly they
given a platform to people who have
spread these type of things and they
have given a platform to people who have
given a platform to so I mean honestly
the New York Times should really be
looking into Barry Weiss because this is
pretty offensive stuff this is her
primary thing too like all the stuff
about being a reasonable centrist it's
like oh you can seem reasonable and like
these social issues but no when it comes
to Zionism she is a member of the right
well of course like so many of these
other people I mean first of all if you
genuinely had a robust classical like a
ACLU style commitment to open society
and free debate and so on I could
imagine I can imagine people that I I
think I have more respect maybe for like
the kind of free speech absolutist
position then others do even though it
is in a slowly mine but I have a lot of
respect for it and if they were sincere
at all they would be all over literal
state legislation suppressing people's
freedom speech relative to a sovereign
nation state so not only is she
hypocritical on the face of it she's you
know structurally hypocritical in the
sense of going back to her college
activism trying to silence academics
that is what she did
so Alon Omar addressed on Twitter her
her followers and this is someone of
course who was caught in the Somali
Civil War her mother died when she was
young family fled the country
they spent I think it was four years
it's in a refugee camp I'm not sure if
that was in Somalia or I think in a
nearby country and they came here in the
90s as a refugee family probably not
available to many refugees these days
and so this was I
and you know a lot of this I think
frankly has to do with her embarrassing
a lot of people by calling out Elliott
Abrams
and they don't want someone who is going
to be in that position on that committee
and that Foreign Affairs Committee to be
able to sort of make people pay
attention to some of the incredible
failings and that's being generous right
the malevolent things that we have done
in the context of our foreign policy and
the failure as a as a society to hold
these people to account I mean that's a
lot of what this is about is foreign
policy establishment Democrats it's not
like Republicans can feel any
accountability anyways so I don't even
think that they for them it's just naked
Islamophobia and establishment media
types who simply don't want to have to
address some of these realities the
realities of what's going on in Israel
the realities of what we've done within
the context of our foreign policy she
also speaks out about what's going on in
Saudi Arabia as well doesn't get the
same amount of tension I don't know why
there isn't there aren't you know New
York Times columnist complaining about
Omar's criticism of Saudi Arabia it
feeds into some very destructive
stereotypes about the Saudi monarchy to
talk about right exactly
right you know we start thinking like
you know Saudi monarchs do this or that
that's really problematic yeah you know
maybe there's an individual case of a
contribution or dismembering and burning
a Washington Post columnist and a stove
right it's talking about that reminds me
Nate Lee problem Thomas Friedman made
exactly the same point exactly the same
well maybe Allah know Marcia come out
and say that a couple of Palestinian
kids or
justified and being killed by IDF forces
if she wants to earn the right to say
that that's right you got to give a
little to get a little unbelievable and
and it's also just I mean for what's
this the way foreign policy is now I
mean Saudi Arabia and Israel are quite
synchronized and there's no and if
you're an Israel apologist you're likely
to be a Saudi apologist and if you're
someone trying to critique some of these
outdated horrifying relationships in the
u.s. foreign policy you're likely to be
a critic of both Saudi and Israel as
Alana Maher is that being said I mean
you know the frame that she needs to
also do that in order to have a
forthright opinion on Israel as a nation
state is also that same as llama phobia
and problematic my estimation like just
as like if a Jewish Congress person
wants to speak out on balsan are oh my
first thing is not going to be well what
about the occupation you know like
that's it's totally inappropriate I'm
pretty proud of the TSA for releasing
multiple statements saying that we stand
with her I mean it goes without saying
but the national political committee
they just signed on to or not just a few
weeks ago the Jewish solidarity caucuses
statement supporting representative Omar
and justice Thames as well let's go to
the phone's call from a seven eight one
area code who's this where he calling
from hey guys Tim from Boston I've been
trying to get through four months oh
well congratulations then I think the
same libertarian guy that got upset
about us having
serving lunches for kids in public
schools called in a second time and beat
me to it recently and it's its own
special sort of punishment to have to
sit and listen to him with those sorts
of calls believe me anyway
hello to everyone uh you
guys are really a blessing thank you for
the good works that you do thank you um
I've been trying to call in about a
subject that I think is really important
and both you and Jamie had spoken about
about it from the sort of mirror image
side of the subjects so you had been
saying that you were concerned about the
humanization of Dick Cheney in the new
film right vice and I'm 40 and I lived
through all that and you know I I share
your fears of of Richard Cheney he's a
dangerous human being and then Jamie had
a similar stance she was saying that
it's sort of inherent conservative
propaganda to humanize those folks the
concern I had on the other side of
things was that I felt that humans
generally find solace in the idea that
we could spot someone like Hitler as if
they were some sort of supervillain and
we'd all know you know from a distance
we'd never let that happen because we'd
spot them and we'd know as if these
monsters throughout history weren't like
fully functioning members of social
circle that were you know you hear
people say like they're nice to their
kids and stuff like that if I get you I
get your point is that that it's
important to keep in mind that these
people are human and they do have the
ability to love their family and then
also do horrific things to tens of
hundreds or
thousands or millions of people and and
I think that's true
and I think it's important that III
think your point is is is is is well
taken
I guess my hesitation is just that there
are limitations to a a 90-minute film
and the medium itself I think is very
bad at capturing you know even what
you're talking about the sort of
banality of evil right and yeah and and
and I think films just don't do that and
because they compressed time because the
a you know for the most part it's about
milestones and life is not like that you
don't just see the highlight reel of
someone's life yeah yeah yeah and so I
just think that a medium like that is
really problematic when it comes with
some what for you know when it comes to
talk about someone's life
who it was so consequential in such a
negative way like I mean I think there's
there's flaws in the medium just to even
do let's say the Autobiography of
Malcolm X let's say you know like I
don't you capture really the sort of the
the essence of a guy like that it's
possible in the context of but if you
just want to give some historical beats
I think that's I think you know it's
it's effective in that respect but the
real the real essence of Dick Cheney's
life is the destruction he wrought and I
just I am torn about like yes it told
some of the sort of like historical
beats the people maybe who weren't
around at that time but the same time it
necessarily diminishes the the import
and the horrors that he unleashed and
that's that's the dilemma I mean I guess
in some level it's also like you know
that that age-old idea of like you can't
take my picture you'll capture you know
you'll steal my soul or something to
that effect or you know III think
there's some
I I think that that's a problem but I
get what you're saying that that it is
also important to teach you know yeah
that that that really horrible things
can be done by just average people and
we're not living in a comic book right
I rushed I rushed to try to call in one
day when you guys played a clip of Tulsi
Gabbard talking who I believe is active
duty reserves military talking about how
you know torture when there's a ticking
bomb and you've got you know that the
guy has placed it it's straight up out
of like the 24 TV series right and it
doesn't happen and the CIA and the
military reached out to Fox and told
them you guys need to stop convincing
Americans how useful torture is with
this brilliant TV show because because
because it doesn't reflect reality and
you guys are making Americans like too
excited about the usefulness of torture
and we don't we don't live in a comic
book you know we're not going up against
the Joker right you know where you can
spot that they're evil and there isn't
we don't catch people 48 hours prior to
a terrorist attack you know with the
knowledge to torture them to get the
info out that's that's only in films and
comic books and TV series and we need to
we have a dangerous inability to
separate the fictional from the reality
great well I appreciate the call Tim
that's a good point
thanks man all right god bless guys all
right yeah we can remember that they're
human when we're trying to defeat them
and then we can say you know what I'm
not gonna empathize with you when your
heart tries to kill you again how about
that Dick Cheney yes I think that's very
fair
I mean our hearts got to go its own way
critical support for Dick Cheney's heart
hearts gotta go its own way candy
cannot constrain the HUD calling from an
eight four seven area code who's this we
come from hey Sam how you doing today
I'm doing well who's this
Gary yeah Oh wonderful this is Brian
from Chicago Brian from Chicago what's
on your mind uh you know just wanted to
thank you guys for your coverage I want
to start listening to the other shows
that you guys have there like Jamie and
Michaels and even literary hangover but
I'm a little broke right now so I
promise as soon as I get some money I'll
become page where you can check our
episodes are free check it out on our
own iTunes or YouTube or any podcast app
okay yeah I'll definitely do that
because I love you guys you guys are
great contributors to the show anyway
so unfortunately I was I had to miss the
the Bernie Sanders rally here in Chicago
but I like I said like you guys coverage
of it I've been talking to a lot of
people online kind of about Bernie and
there seems to be a lot of a lot of
weird resentment still so I'm doing my
best to counteract that but you know I I
know you guys have talked about this a
lot so you know most I just want to
thank you guys for your coverage but
just wanted to say you know I'm a little
surprised by it I mean I shouldn't be I
guess but it's such a strange that's all
what will really get real litigating
2016 yeah I mean I think there's a
certain inevitability about that and
particularly online you're seeing the I
think the most you know you're seeing
the margins of that sentiment you know
so I think that in real life one I think
in real life like there's no doubt that
like I mean the actual grassroots
mechanics of like the type of campaign
he needs to run and people he needs to
persuade to cross the countries one
thing and of course that's real but
I think that some of the weirdness and
bizarreness like it it matters because
some these people have prominent
platforms and you know and narratives
get started on social media but I think
it's so disconnected from reality that
you could take some comfort in it oh
there was a piece in Slate where they
asked a bunch of Bernie supporters about
the idea of the Bernie bro and some of
them were you know kind of joking like
yeah I guess I fit that description like
I'm some you know 30-something dude in
advertising or something but there's
also plenty of other people's example
like this woman who's like a woman of
color and she's endured 36 years old I
think it works as a nanny in Upper West
Side and she's like yeah I don't even I
don't even know what that term is I just
contributed three dollars because I you
know I need this agenda like you know
and I think that has much more of a
relationship to reality yeah it's
definitely magnified by online and
Twitter people have a louder voice on
Twitter than they do in the real world
I think only something like 8 percent of
Democrats view Bernie in a negative way
according to one poll that I saw it so
that should cheer us up a little bit I
hope yeah I think I saw something when
people so yeah I wouldn't worry about it
too much especially the story was oh it
was distorted one of the ones I was
thinking of was that there was this
whole hullabaloo about Bernie not
calling Hillary for advice for the you
know 2020 campaign what I want to learn
how to lose the Donald Trump all thank
youing I mean look you know there is
there's there's there's definitely bad
blood between the two of them and you
know the the Clinton people recently
basically you know fed more or less what
you could call a hit job on on Bernie
ostensibly arguing that he wanted to
take private jets and when you start to
dig down into it there really was not
much of a story there I mean that
there's a certain inevitability that
that's this is what would it what's
what's going to happen so it's not
surprising and it's not
terribly you know it's not terribly
important in the final analysis but I
think the only thing that's relevant
maybe they asked thanks people and the
fact of Clinton orbit is the same
question that Bernie always gets asked
which is you know if Bernie's the
nominee are you gonna stop this crap and
support him you know you got a sport who
they put forward because Bernie's
already said unequivocally he'll support
whatever the Democratic nominee is
unprompted in interviews right let's go
to eight eight six I don't know what
this is
hate country code eight eight is that
what this is who's this yeah hey Sam
this is Chris from Taiwan Chris from
Taiwan what's on your mind
uh well first of all I just want to say
Ilhan Omar is legit you know Michael I I
know I saw on Twitter you donated to her
yeah I'm gonna donate to her as soon as
I get my next paycheck I think we really
need to circle the wagons around her
hundred percent she just she's a good
congresswoman she's a good leftist and
she's a good person
um so anyway that's not why I called I
was actually calling about Bernie so
just to set the context of my call I
donated to Bernie and I voted through
him in 2016 this year I donate him the
day he announced and I intend to vote
for him this time as well and so you
know I'm all in for him you know for all
the reasons that you guys have discussed
on the show but I do have one concern
about his candidacy and this is
something that has come up on your show
before and that's the fact that he's an
old white man and I I gotta say I've
talked to a lot of women in my life and
you know I'm not like talking about
centrist or neoliberal women who were
disingenuously weaponizing identity
politics or anything like that but I've
talked to a lot of women who were just
utterly traumatized by Trump's victory
and you know Sam I remember you were
talking on election day about having to
explain his victory to your daughter
right and a friend of mine with two
young daughters posted a similar
sentiment on Facebook the night of that
election and like it nearly brought me
to tears and so you know I've heard a
lot of women sincerely expressed the
sentiment that beating Donald Trump with
a woman would be a good way to reverse
the trauma of his 2016 victory and like
that's not just a question of symbolism
or representation that is something that
would have a very real very important
impact on the women that we love and so
I guess I'm just calling to say that I
think it's really important for Bernie
supporters particularly male Bernie
supporters not to scoff at or minimize
the desire that many women like a friend
of the show Mindy for example have to
run a woman this time and it just to be
clear I don't think I don't think anyone
and the Mr crew has been you know
scoffing at that quite the opposite but
I just I want to echo the concerns that
a lot of left-wing women I've talked to
you know women of good faith that they
have they have concerns about his
candidacy and I hope that Bernie wins
and I also hope that his victory
ultimately serves as a stepping stone
for younger people for people of color
and for women to follow in his footsteps
and I think it's really important that
we make that clear as as Bernie
supporters I I couldn't agree with you
more
I mean I I happen to feel that there is
you know and and frankly you know I I
think if if I was convinced that
Elizabeth Warren I mean like I if
Elizabeth Warren let's put it this way
if Elizabeth Warren
in particular was to do increasingly
well in the in the primaries it would be
it would be a hard decision for me
because I do think there is I do think
that there is a huge it's an important a
huge benefit and and an importance to a
woman becoming president and I and you
know we don't see the full array of
candidates yet but it would be very hard
for me to if if Elizabeth Warren was in
contention and she very well may be I
mean we're we're we're out of bounds
right now you know we're way away from
where things really begin to where the
rubber meets the road but yes I agree
with you I think that it's very easy to
easy to dismiss the things you're
talking about I just want to say really
quickly I here i I don't dismiss my only
problem with what you said i really i'm
not gonna indulge the formulation of him
just being an old white guy i just can't
i think if you've had family that
directly related to you that were wiped
out in the holocaust and having that
experience i think there is some real
erasure there that i actually genuinely
find offensive and i won't i point still
enough that point is totally valid and
i'm not going to dispute that point but
that formulation and that formulation
specifically has been deployed by the
people that are bad faith and i won't
stand for that everything else i agree
with you
well you have to be able to make the
distinction between when somebody's
using it in good faith and when
someone's using in a bad faith like if
this is like a democratic party
operative or like a real representative
of the radical Center and they're
deploying these arguments you can be an
 to them and you can say hey
guess what I know what you're doing and
it's not going to work on me if there's
a good faith person who just genuinely
he wants to see you know someone who
they consider to be like themselves in
high office then like don't be a dick to
them like talk to them the way we spoke
with Mindy the other day you know you
got to be respectful just just to be
clear
like the women that I'm referring to
that I've talked to about this were
almost almost all people who supported
Bernie in 2016 and so I'm I'm I am
trying to refer to people who make this
argument in good faith and not you know
and Michael what you said is absolutely
right about you know minimizing or
erasing his Jewish identity I find
really problematic anti-semitic and
xenophobic in some ways frankly like I
think it's really disgusting and it
doesn't undermine like the broader good
faith point I'm not debating at all but
I'm certainly not gonna sit and let that
line be thrown at him it's profoundly
dishonest well he gets it from both in
both ways right because there are
representatives of the radical Center
who say oh people won't vote for a
Jewish guy for president but then you
know when he or someone affiliated with
him criticizes Israel suddenly they're
anti-semites it doesn't make any sense
I do remember and yeah this was a
private conversation but I do remember
and you know I'm not in in this and I
think we should generally be more
tolerant and forgiving of each other in
general but I do remember an
acquaintance who and she was going at
Bernie hard for this and that and then
she just goes you know and he also
reminds me of a landlord yeah that
doesn't sound quite appropriate to me ya
know I listen III agree with you and I
think that you know you know saying he's
just an old white guy obviously I think
his
his sensitivities are and he's uh he's
you know are a little bit more nuanced
than that but from the perspective of
you know he's not they a woman he's not
a person of color and and I think you
know there's definitely an argument that
we need someone who represents a a break
from you know Bernie's not exactly like
you know obviously George Herbert Walker
Bush or Bill Clinton for that matter but
but III think you know gender is a big
issue you know at least for me in this
perspective I appreciate the call I I'm
gearing up to become big again
during this election cycle as a
communist they certainly have my left
critiques of Bernie but what speaking to
a general audience I'm gonna set them
aside for a minute
ah let's go to Khan from a 6:03 area
code who's this where you come from it
sends them that mace and I'm calling
from Texas hello Ben did you say your
name is said of it I said it was Matt Oh
Matt all right
I'm Matt yep hey Sam I'm just calling
it's sort of exploding I think but just
calling in because back in January the
US army finally released their history
of the war in Iraq and you know of
course in this army an army history it's
sort of fraught with the sort of biases
one would expect but I thought it had
some really interesting insights and the
sort of some of the planning for the war
that I thought you guys might appreciate
largely it just sort of describes sort
of how completely unprepared and how
sort of the army completely lacked any
sort of realistic perspective on sort of
situation on the ground
in Iraq you know we talked about how a
lot of sanctions and things that
actually increased people's reliance and
approval on the government and that sort
of thing and it just had some
interesting quotes from people like
Rumsfeld who really believed that you
know we could win the war with a hundred
thousand people and you know there'd be
massive liberation like this liberation
thing and you know the sort of the
delusion was so so powerful that the
actual invasion plans were called
Operation Cobra two and just so
everyone's aware the original operation
Cobra was the u.s. breakout operation
from Normandy that you know was okay the
liberation of France well you know yeah
here's the thing I mean in if you have
more specifics I'd like to hear him but
my sense is this I mean the the metaphor
for for all of this is when oh gosh what
was his name now Wolfe Paul well Paul
Wolfowitz went ahead and said you know
the one thing we could agree on was
weapons of mass destruction because I
think everybody had an agenda that went
in there I don't know that anyone
believed that there was weapons of mass
destruction in there for reals but they
all said this is going to be a good
catch-all for everybody and so I think
for Rumsfeld there was motivated
reasoning in that he had this notion of
a of a new military that was lighter and
could maintain itself and in in a you
know sort of like a series of smaller
Wars around right the world and I think
for a lot of those other folks it was
this imposition of democracy which went
hand in hand with this notion of like a
free market you know and and and Naomi
Klein wrote a great piece about this I
karemera something years zero or
something to the effect around that time
and I think that was the idea they
ignored completely
that dynamic what you're talking about
which is that the Clinton era sanctions
forced people to rely on
the Saddam Hussein government even more
and they just thought like oh we're
gonna come in there we'll free market
this whole thing and it'll take care of
everything I mean if there wasn't such
huge widespread horror in terms of you
know four million refugees to internally
and to externally and literally hundreds
of thousands of innocent civilian deaths
and and that may be an understatement
hundreds of thousands like it could be
up to like seven hundred and fifty
thousand to a million and I'm talking
about you know Defense Department
numbers on up it would also be a prime
example of the failure of a free you
know the idea that you can impose this
type of like free-market nirvana you
know but that is you know so far down on
the list of the list of failures that
that represents that it's almost not
even worth it mentioning on some level
right and you know to give you guys some
more perspective you know the Army they
they plan the whole thing in that like a
four phase operation phase four was the
sort of the aftermath right and to call
it an afterthought was generous you know
they like just a couple months before
the invasion they were just like just
creating the teams to sort of think
about what they were going to do to you
know to do with the country after they
destroyed everything and you know and to
talk about what Rumsfeld thinking his
thinking actually has a term it was
called the revolution of military
affairs and was the idea that technology
could replace the sort of the sort of
boots on the ground that it would be
needed in a thing like this and and you
know as we saw I was totally ineffective
it was ineffective in Iraq and
Afghanistan and unfortunately you know
the thinking didn't really disappear I
think the army you know you know not to
give the army too much credit but you
know they are trying to be like well you
know these are these are not this was
not a good idea this was not a good
experience
you know the book by the way is is free
its you know fifteen hundred pages but I
can send you guys a link you
great I pretty obvious yeah all right
thanks for the phone call all right well
thank you guys for yeah thank you for
taking my call I really appreciate it
and I hope you guys have a good day
I do do right yeah there's often some
good stuff in there I've read some
releases of Bay of Pigs official
histories and there's there's sometimes
news in there some Iams us in the UK did
I hear an idiot on the early fox news
segment say there's no ban on Muslims if
true it's certainly not for lack of
trying
indeed and of course there is a ban on
on travelers from various Muslim
countries and so in that respect Mighty
Max after the release of the mullah
report and after the house finds more
criminal evidence against Trump do you
think there's any chance that a
Republican or to try to primary Trump
well-built weld I think he's already
announced local Pizza historian it's
also possible to me that you know
someone like what's-his-face
former Ohio Kasich might do it but I
doubt it
level three with a long boat that would
make me a yeoman a medieval equivalent
to a sorry if middle class mercenary
like Robin Hood the middle class hero of
your so just so you know people have
been pandering to the middle class for
hundreds of years while stabbing them
Colleen from Connecticut Sam you think
you have the right to breathe but that
doesn't necessarily match tag parry air
to quote my fourth grade teacher cut
your damn get out your damn books we
built a miniature dams a few days later
one more Nick similar to Michael
I went from to Puerto Rico over the
break what an amazing island filled with
friendly people and diverse ecosystem
cannot recommend going enough Michael
you spend any time in San Juan was all
in Vieques a little bit of time in Old
San Juan fartface
does Michael have a Michael Tracy
impression try eating half of a 16 ounce
ribeye without chewing and breathing
around it while you say I'm with Jeff on
Tucker coffin talking about how stupid
the whole well our investigation with
what gives the Disco's we had an amazing
time in Puerto Rico curious where the Mr
crew would rank
inslee on the scale of progressives at a
glance he seems to be up there with
Bernie and Warren thoughts I you know I
gotta take another look at Inslee but I
I am I I like some of what I've heard
from him and certainly the greenio deal
is I should say climate change is is
high up on my list for someone who's
going to get active and I think like you
know you can't that's one of those
policies where it's like a lot of things
have to change for you to address that
properly and it's a good way to sort of
get that change in but I would say
Inslee is a good liberal Elizabeth
Warren is a great progressive and Bernie
Sanders is a legit class warfare Social
Democrat crazy liberal do you think the
Democratic 2020 candidates need to
answer for their cesta FASTA support if
you had a candidate on would you ask
that question I mean I would I don't
think that they to be honest with you my
guess is is that they the calculation is
either they don't really know that much
about it
and so on a on it they made that support
on a superficial level or the
calculation is like this is not the hill
that I want to expend political capital
on which i think is super unfortunate
yeah I mean I would if I were the kind
of show that had on elected politicians
her candidates for office that is one
big issue in fact in the debate that
we're having right now around how if the
DSA should get involved with Bernie's
campaign is can we do anything to push
him or hold him accountable on things
like cesta FASTA where he goes against
the mainstream DSA position and the you
know the Human Rights position on
something and I promise you he's aware
of this and it's made the political
calculation and one thing that I brought
up in these discussions too is like we
know that if he does the right thing
he's going to get hammered on it by
liberals
by bad faith actors and by people who
you know you've having an ordinate voice
but shouldn't actually be listened to so
we need to say like yeah we have a lot
of sex workers in our organization we're
in coalition with T creme and Y and
we're gonna be loud voices and support
you when people inevitably attack you
yeah I mean that's the that's the
dilemma right it's like do you know is
it worth it and it's not like there
aren't other issues where he has been
the lone voice you know and and
unfortunately to a certain extent a lot
of people have come around and just talk
about this sort of like you know
generically is it worth it for a a
candidate or politician in every
circumstance to be the lone voice on an
issue when they can't affect change and
it's one that could easily be used to
prevent them from effecting change in
other areas where they can affect change
I mean that's the is it true the central
premise coming forward to decriminalize
sex work is that true she said that she
supports something like the Swedish
model okay which is not what sex workers
rights organizations want what is the
Swedish model here where the individual
sex workers are not criminalized
although they are pathologized and often
treated as victims when they're just
trying to make a living but the John's
are the managers and like everybody else
in the industry is still criminalized
the deaths of sex workers we are talking
about full decriminalization right cuz
am i under static Lee is if Kamala
Harris opens the door a bit that
obviously makes it easier for yes others
Kamala Harris who feels that she has a
liability she's on these things she
needs to do something that may not be
quite as controversial as being incest
the FASTA but will provide her with some
measure of credibility I mean that's the
thing
each politician makes this calculation
based upon the liabilities and the
assets that their particular brand you
know then I'm being a little bit crass
in this but just to make it easy where
it sits and so I mean that's you know
that's the trade-off these politicians
make I'm not necessarily endorsing it or
criticizing it's just the nature of
trying to win you know fifty thousand
votes four hundred thousand votes four
million votes you know a hundred and
twenty million votes as ever I would
imagine that even in this area when it
comes to things like appointments and
some and exercising executive power in a
way that has a greater likelihood of
being better on these issues my instinct
would still be Bernie well certainly but
also like he's supposed to be better
than most other Democrats and he's not
afraid to take ideological and unpopular
stances on things so it was surprising
to me that he voted this way and if we
don't even try to push him on this it
will be kind of a slap in the face to
these marginalized communities that we
have been organizing with all along I
mean I think there's value in in in
trying to push them I mean sometimes you
know it also actually you know comes to
their benefit that they are resisting
right I mean that's just the unfortunate
reality of of politics speaking of the
unfortunate reality one guy I was hoping
would jump into the race because I do I
am a fan
Jeff Merkley he was the one senator in
the Senate to to endorse Bernie Sanders
but yet managed to maintain
relationships with all the other
senators in a rather tricky political
situation the only thing I can tell you
is that I would like to see him be the
new Senate Majority Leader we have won
but I would would see it as a big trade
up to go from Schumer to Merkley
he is what they call a workhorse here is
his announcement that he's not going to
run for president today I'm announcing
that I am not running for president I
believe that there are Democrats now in
the presidential race who are speaking
to the importance of tackling the big
challenges we face but what I'm also
sure of is that right now the Senate is
not prepared to be a full partner in
this fight my best contribution is to
run for re-election and do all I can to
help the Senate be a full partner in
addressing the challenges before us so
over the next two years while is
Oregonians to reelect me to the Senate
I'm going to help elect a president
senators and other leaders who will live
and breathe the fight even more
especially when that means standing up
to very powerful opponents I'll work to
help build coalitions around bold policy
solutions and I'm going to work to fix
our broken and dysfunctional Senate so
it isn't just a graveyard for good ideas
to fix America we must fix the Senate
two things or three things occur to me
one I think he's a great senator - not
exactly a overwhelming charismatic
presence three if I ever never ever see
that second angle on a video again it
will be too soon
what why can't we just have videos where
you shoot when people are talking to a
camera you do a medium and a close-up or
a wide but why do I have to have like a
view as if like I'm somebody in the room
on the shoot like oh this is the gaffer
perspective he's the guy who's standing
by to do the lighting and is watching
him talk to camera I cannot stand that I
thought you were gonna say that you want
that jacket I like to just what I'm
surprised by I like the jacket handy man
Jack what hurts honestly with you
shooting this way out that well I wanna
know what's going on it's now it's
time to endorse bernie homie no you know
the democrats yes
plural he's trying to set himself up for
a leader if I were to stage an interview
I probably would use that method just
because I've seen it so often and I
would just probably copy it it's
horrible
I just for the life of me I don't
understand like why people think that's
even remotely interesting you're doing a
thing it's not a thing you're not doing
anything you don't see it god soon I'd
see it no I see it no no it's filmmaking
so it's not film it doesn't make any
sense I wasn't really buying it until
that until that happened well I have no
opinion on this here is this is a poppy
Harlow she is a CNN host and she is
interviewing Jamie Raskin and the idea I
mean this is just sort of stunning the
idea that you could actually in any way
compare the Republicans investigations
during the Obama administration to any
investigations that Democrats would be
doing now I will remind you that not
only did the Republicans vote over 50
times to repeal the ACA and never ever
once they controlled the government did
not do that
right let me talk about empty promises
there were how many committees that
investigated Benghazi 7-8 when they got
into power and had complete authority
over the government you know what they
did about Benghazi nothing because there
was nothing there listen to this so let
me redo some of the push back that is
not just from the president who just
fifty two seconds ago tweeted in all
caps presidential harassment
it also comes from some Democrats who
point to this
David Axelrod for example former senior
adviser to President Obama makes the
point about your committees wide-ranging
document requests by writing maybe I'm
missing some
thing but the hazard of an omnibus
document demanded by the House Judiciary
versus discrete serial ones is that
however legitimate the areas of inquiry
the wide-ranging nature of it too easily
plays into the witch-hunt meme are you
concerned about that are you concerned
about playing right into Republicans who
can say this is a fishing expedition
look for two years the GOP has
controlled the house and done no
oversight at all so we're catching up
for lost time
most of these are requests I made that's
not totally accurate congressman and and
micropenis are you are you wait tell me
about are you which investigations do
you have I would like congressman the
question I have is whether you're
concerned at all that this closet for
one second let's just remind you what
the question is the question is even
recruits are saying this and the only
person she's citing is one paid
Democratic former consultant who is a
CNN contributor now David Axelrod and I
don't even know how long he lasted in
the in the in the White House right he
was in the White House for like two or
three years as a senior adviser to the
president in terms of politics yeah I
will I will remind you that within the
White House the record for the Democrats
while he was advising the president not
very good not very good in fact hard to
imagine how you could calculate a worse
one at all that this can be viewed as a
fishing expedition that's all well
obviously that's what they're gonna say
but the people who spent more than two
years on the Benghazi investigation or
Hillary Clinton's emails are make very
bizarre champions for the idea that
we've gone too far when all we've done
is send out document requests and the
vast majority of documents have already
been turned over to other prosecutors
and other investigations already yeah
you know what might be a clue that this
is not a fishing expedition would be
literally the dozens of indictments that
have already
been proven like the fact very
successful fashion that right that it's
a fishing expedition the sheep's getting
fish his chief his top lawyer and his
campaign manager going to jail that
might give a hint that maybe I mean it's
a fishing expedition to the extent that
you're going fishing but it also seems
to be that you're like going fishing in
a like like literally like an aquatic
factory farming yeah going fish farming
speaking of which you know this is hard
to parse but there could be an
increasingly interesting story behind
this the relationship between Fox News
and the Trump White House is I think on
one level fairly obvious right I mean
you have the the guy who oversaw the all
of the sexual harassment that took place
at Fox News he is now working in the
White House bill shine you have Sean
Hannity as a direct adviser to Donald
Trump but nobody called Sean Hannity but
and so maybe it's not terribly
surprising that there is a deeper
relationship according to a Gabriel
Sherman who was on on Chris Hayes
program last night I mean the funniest
part about this on some level is just to
watch Hayes is like sort of complete
shock at the possibility that there was
this deep of a relationship between
Rupert Murdoch and Donald Trump other
point I want to make is this is not just
about politics this is about big
business right Rupert Murdoch the media
mogul who controls Fox News has a
personal relationship with the president
the Democratic Congress might want to
find out what favors potentially did the
Murdoch family get because of this
access I've reported in the past that
Trump asks Rupert Murdoch to submit
names for the FCC Chairman close Murdoch
associate told me that in fact Murdoch
Rupert Murdoch reached out to Donald
Trump and asked if his ex-wife Wendi
Murdoch was a Chinese spy and the
allegations that murder that Trump
talked the intelligence agencies about
her connections to the Chinese
government
so is that you reported that yes I mean
that's what sources are telling me so
wait but have that been in print yet no
wait say that again just I want to make
sure I understand this
the allegation is what that sources
close to Murdoch told me that in a
conversation with the president he asked
him if the intelligence agencies could
look into whether his ex-wife was a
Chinese asset and this is in the context
of a divorce between the personal baby
but yeah they've already been wrong
divorced but this was just you know hit
yeah I saying hey this is my ex-wife
could you look into that that's a crazy
thing yeah now I don't know if Trump
actually did follow through on that and
as Jane Mayer reported Trump also you
know vented about we should get the
Justice Department to stop the CNN
merger nothing was followed up on that
but the fact that these conversations
and these these mutual relationships are
happening is something that crosses the
line from just access journalism to
whether there is an abuse of power yeah
and there you go a good a time as any to
remind people that it's very likely a
Tony Blair slept with weren't Wendi
Murdoch at the same time that Rupert
Murdoch was giving him millions of
dollars for his Institute
she's just props the Tony Blair total
spy it is pretty cool we need to find a
third way to have donations to my
Institute yes your wife wants to see you
our God she wants she spies on her she
wants she's cool have you ever you've
not lived two you've slept with a
Chinese spy who's married to one of your
main patrons you're calling from a four
seven nine area code you are the final
caller of the day who is this this was
Jo from Arkansas jo from Arkansas
welcome to the program Jo hey guys ah
just real quick before I get started I
just wanted to let you guys know a
couple years ago my early 30s I got
diagnosed with the extreme liver disease
we've been kind of going through that
since 2016 and you guys have really
helped me out just enjoying the
programming and smart uh calling to
thank you guys Michael Jamie Matt Rossum
well I'm sorry going through that and
I'm glad we can be of some
some help now if you definitely help me
keep my sanity I spend a lot of time in
and out of the hospital so I keep her
keep up on all the shows and there's one
thing over the last week that's just
been driving me nuts and I weren't a
caller and talked about it so I lost the
testimony last week with with Cohen I
mean Jim Jordan is a half floor piece of
 I think we can all agree on that I
think so but the just the way he started
that with the indignance
that were we're gonna start this
Congress with witness who's a liar to
Congress just to go back to you know
Ilhan Omar she basically did the same
thing with Elliott Abrams who's also an
absolute piece of and you know has
lied to Congress it's just I don't know
I guess the hypocrisy is just it it
almost makes you want to carry you on a
Volvo yes I would agree I would agree
and I did have a little arm will maybe a
synthesis from the collar from earlier
stuff with Bernie and and some
legitimate concerns that women might
have I think it's at this point in time
it's just it's the most important that
we get the most progressive candidate
and that's all agree with Jamie that you
know you want to people want to see
themselves in the candidate and that's
totally valid but I also agree wouldn't
my goal like the you know the attacks on
Bernie are ridiculous and I think just
where the country that now that's the
most important thing is to get the most
progressive leftist candidate elected
yeah I mean I think you know you just
got to be aware that it's also possible
for people
listening to say yeah it may be easier
to say that in terms of you know being a
male and not having the same you know
perspective on this as someone who's not
a male but I think you know it's it's
just important to keep that in mind but
no I'm agreeing there like as far as
genuine saying like that that's
important overall the things that need
to be taken in but like I can just tell
you from living in Arkansas and being a
leftist it sucks dude sorry I I really
Tibet that there's a breakdown to in who
finds representation more important and
who finds policies like single-payer
health care more important between more
well-off women and less well-off women I
totally agree and being a poor person
myself and rely on Medicaid I mean it's
been hard you know that's turn 36 and I
need a liver transplant so it's like not
having genes in that situation it sucks
well hang in there I wish you had a
lucky while I map I'm sorry well I hang
in there and wish you all the luck
thanks thanks for calling call back in
please man workshop my Sam cedar
impersonation oh great I would love to
have to hear that damn this is Sam cedar
and I really like that murkly care but
he's got a very very suitable coat well
that's an excellent impersonation a
little Woody Allen ish but I
I understand why you might go I'd like
to I like the video by Jeff Markley it's
like an impression it's like how now
when everybody does an impression of
George W Bush it's just if Jon Stewart
go more more song like Jon Stewart's W
impression has completely overtaken the
real W in people's minds and it feel
like Michael don't you mean what's it
will farewell Pharaoh no I've never he
did it wasn't as good as Farrell's but
he did Jon Stewart had a serviceable
Bush I don't know I think it's either of
Jon Stewart or Will Ferrell all right
well appreciate the call either way
thank you call in with more that was
good
don't let Sam crush your initiative
you're early
your early attempts at your
Impressionists your well-developed
impression more people doing Sam cedar
impressions in Arkansas the better
that's not that is probably true you're
trying to kill the crusade here when I
the first man Mike I ever did was in
Louisville Kentucky and I was quite
drunk walls and when hello went to the
bathroom went to the bathroom
and a guy came up to me and he's like
yeah you were pretty funny I I don't
know why that's not how he sounded to
think it was hey man you were pretty
funny reminded me that guy what's that
guy's name you know the comedian Woody
Allen or Jerry sighs I said well this is
this is 1989 other Woody Allen yeah it
was and Woody Allen's that plz 'those
she's like oh what's that guy
Woody Allen yeah yeah I can understand
that I can understand why you probably
said
we're gonna do five IMS and get out of
here
ramble on I'm sorry the most important
thing is beating Trump that's probably
also true that is also sort of the the
hardest thing to assess in many respects
right I mean you could go straight by
the polling as it stands today and then
it would be Joe Biden but I can assure
you that Joe Biden is not necessarily
the best chance to beat the down Trump
Big Mama hi Sam how about just
instituting Michael free Mondays
well it's it's possible anything is
possible
Wow producer Lauren regarding Bernie
Sanders alleged hypocrisy do you know if
gun rights advocates were allowed to
bring in their open carry or concealed
weapons into CPAC game set match whoa
[Music]
the Hanan team should investigate mash
the fash Chomsky LA Times last week
Virginia Democrats are facing a meltdown
as many more politicians that discovered
have won blackface at parties forty
years ago meanwhile 25 years ago the
kids and teenagers brought up on gangsta
rap while calling women and hoes
as a matter of course
somehow misogyny 25 years ago was okay
and still allowed in lyrics Ice Cube
head of with attitude called
women and hoes in his art comes
on to Bill Maher show to lecture him on
how using the n-word in a
self-deprecating way is uncool pot meet
kettle
why are the limits of violence against
women fine but we draw the line at
minstrel shows is this a serious or as
Ice Cube running for governor this is
this is also he texted this in February
12 yeah I think you're mixing apples and
oranges a little bit there
I'll buy no ninja a while ago I seem to
remember there was a libertarian study
about the effect of regulation on
business economy showing pretty much
none do you did you we talked about this
the other day
we've read this the other day Susan
Feinberg hi everybody
Lukas turned six today congratulations
oh that's right so Susan's grandson we
go in Saul gets born we go into the
maternity ward and listener Susan's
grandson it's in the next room being
born as well
happy birthday Lucas yes Saul turns six
on Thursday indeed that's very exciting
that was very funny walked out and met
met you know I didn't know them until I
mean walked outside like Sam cedar yeah
that's pretty good I love Sarah Palin I
want to commend the do to punch that guy
at Berkeley that was pretty good shot
and criticized the one who got punched I
noticed this with younger kids listen
when someone punches you square up not
run for your phone misdemeanor Sammy if
you ever choose to vacation in adams
massachusetts your room and board are
covered
thank you melissa meaner street-legal
all tax records should be public America
asked Jeff in Georgia to slow down on
the bong rips and the final I am of day
[Applause]
[Music]
drill if you're Mexican citizen over the
age of 21 and or the child of a US
citizen are looking to get a
family-based visa to travel the u.s. do
you know how long the waiting list is
currently according to the State
Department 22 years you would have had
to applied in 1997 and right-wingers
claim there's chain migration is an
issue see you tomorrow
to get to where I want but I know son
I'm gonna get
[Music]
yeah no clock is ticking
[Music]
the choice
[Music]
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
