with Sita the destiny of America is
always safer in the hands of the people
than in
conference rooms of any of these apps
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it is Monday April 1 2019 my name
is Sam cedar this is the five-time
award-winning majority report we are
broadcasting live steps from the
industrially ravaged Gowanus Canal in
the heartland of America downtown
Brooklyn USA on the program today khaled
badoon on american-islamic obeah
understanding the roots and rise of fear
also on the program today official
whistleblower status the White House
career security staffer who blew the
whistle on 25 security clearance
reversals meanwhile Trump threatens to
shut down the Mexican border and route
to cutting aid to Central America Mitch
McConnell decries the Democratic
obstruction to his nuking of Senate
rules Elizabeth Warren's finance
director quits over her refusal to court
big donors meanwhile Pete Budaj
raises 7 million dollars since
announcing Joe Biden meanwhile claims he
never believed he acted inappropriately
to women I'm sure he did it weird way to
phrase that
Sandin not my quote his quote Sanders
vows to slash drug prices in half
an Arkansas responds to federal courts
tossing their work for Medicaid by
tossing Medicaid meanwhile speaking of
campaign finance ACLU will spend thirty
million dollars in the upcoming election
and lastly a trumps a rumored pick for
the fed a deadbeat dad all this and more
on today's majority report first off
it's almost impossible to say this on
this day and have you believed me for
good reason but we will not be doing an
April Fool's show today we were we were
trying to think about like what we would
do and and then you know we were going
back and forth and then Michael
supposedly and I cannot guarantee that
this is not that this is not an April
Fool's joke or that this isn't this is
definitely not a setup but he may be
playing a joke on me or on us as a way
of just like staying out of work today
but supposed okay good suppose I don't
know isn't it appropriate for me to say
what the cause is
because it's pretty a patient-doctor
confident show is it really I don't know
expert he's got something that sounds
pretty benign but he had to go to the
emergency room for it
so I'd it's it's nothing serious as far
as I can tell but we hope I think he
liked it was I don't know I don't know
what it is but so so I'm sorry we're not
doing an April Fool's version of the
show and I know you're all expecting it
to happen right now and it's so awkward
everyone saying you said that on
Halloween Sam did I say that on
Halloween I don't remember if you did
but people say and you said it all right
well once wait did we do one on
Halloween we did do on a Halloween okay
all right well I'm sorry I shouldn't
have said that that time because now but
I think we're probably just gonna move
it to to Halloween so I mean who needs
April Fool now I keep thinking
something's gonna happen so awkward see
a world is enough of a joke already so
we obviously got some feedback from the
the and I specifically didn't call him a
guest I hope you know that when Michael
Tracey came on the show because he was
you know insulting the show insulting a
guest from the show solving our callers
and and I brought him on I think
arguably I got a little bit too hot too
quick I lost my patience with him but if
you look at any of the debates there's a
couple of debates out there one with
Mehdi Hasan one with Amy Goodman the
question of should there have been an
investigation comes up very early in
fact a Glenn Greenwald addresses it in
the second time he speaks in the Amy
Goodman thing first they set the table
now that debate happened three or four
days before Michael Tracey came on the
show so I thought like we didn't have to
go through all the history that was
there he wanted to take it to my having
to apologize for marcy wheeler coming on
the show and incidentally I went back
and I listened to at least two of her
interviews and I think the other one the
other ones I don't even think we're
directly involving the Mahler
investigation but I'm not sure and I was
quite impressed and I remain even more
convinced that she was a great guest on
this topic and has read into it more
than anybody who is critiquing the
existence of the investigation I have no
doubt and believe quite strongly that
the media certain elements of the media
not Fox Fox I think went the other
direction
but certain elements of the media
overplayed the significance of it
I mean on this program what we've said
consistently he's not gonna get
impeached to the extent that there is
any collusion we would be shocked if it
was no you know knowing and I think to
the I think there is a very good case
and we'll find out of course because we
don't know what's in the Muller report
all we know is that in a very narrow a
question one which I think no one here
thought that they were actually like
working with the Russians to time to you
know like how to hack like do this do
that well I did well except for Jamie
April Fool but doable and and so you
know the the media critique I think is
valid and we've always said that and and
the way that we've dealt with that
critique is rather than spend a lot of
time on the critique we've mentioned it
in passing we've just simply actually
done something different right like I
get the argument that in some ways you
know I'm not I get it I'm not convinced
of it necessarily but that the the broad
agenda of the left had been consumed and
whatnot well you simply need to go back
and look at our the programming that
we've had on this on the show and and
you tell me what we've been consumed
with you've probably done more on Social
Security literally Oh
without doubt labor I mean just every
topic and so but yes I probably should
have you know been you know let Michael
Tracy go on for 35 minutes without
answering the question and and and yes I
found the idea of being agnostic about
whether a investigation to take place I
don't know what that means really like
you can be agnostic as like I can't
figure out the existence of
something but as to whether it should
happen if you think it should happen
then your critique is about the media
coverage fair enough and about how some
people went out ahead of it fair enough
I think that's all accurate if you don't
think it should happen then you need to
explain like what should that response
have been to things like you know
Michael Flynn and two things about you
know what we ultimately found out about
the the who hacked the emails I mean
whether it impacted the election is
something that we litigated many many
times over and over again and to the
extent that we talked about things that
impacted the election far more about the
economy and race were the issues and you
know tactical things by the Clinton
administration s is according to his
Twitter feed according to excuse me to
his tweet notable people that he can't
note well I have no doubt about it
but my response to that would be why do
you think they're doing it in private
are they afraid that I'm gonna fire them
from something I mean I I hope this you
know I know I hope this doesn't ruin
people's perception of me but my media
power these days is fairly limited to
like almost literally my the remote
control for my TV beyond that I don't
wield a an enormous amount of media
power so there's no way you're going to
in any be intimidating anybody
people seem to think you're like the
president of MSNBC or something I can
assure you folks that my relationship
with MSNBC literally I don't think could
be I don't say tenuous although that's
that's possible but it couldn't be there
they there are filing cabinets in 30
rock that garner more attention their
presence there than than I do
yeah well maybe you're just trying to
get more attention I you know after 15
years of appearing on that network and
having a filled in for Olbermann and
Hayes on his shows almost nine or eight
or nine years ago I've pretty much you
know come to you know reconcile myself
for the role that I have if I was ever
going to try and leverage something and
and I'm perfectly happy with that if I
was ever gonna try and wreck you know
leverage something it would have been
when they wanted to hire me back after
the siRNA vich thing and I literally
asked for nothing I think actually I
wanted to just be able to include what I
had to say in the press release that was
it all right so with that so and I
should add as part of the fallout from
the twitter exchanges that we were
having when people were chastising me
for being rude to Michael Tracy I said
I'm not rude to - really any guess that
don't deserve it but I have made it
absolutely clear in an official Twitter
disclaimer that if you start your
solicitation to come on this show by
being an a-hole it would be irrational
for you and you should to expect and in
fact you should not expect me to be
anything but rude to you when you come
on
and yeah it's my show
and I can put instead of you know the
majority port I could put the rude show
but you if you want to read it that way
you can't but if someone's gonna be an
a-hole and I and and that's the way you
get on guess what I'm gonna treat them
like an a-hole and if you don't like
that then I suggest that you change your
YouTube channel or you listen to a
different podcast this is not being bad
because this is not being back so we
really got to change that a decal to the
rudeness report very rude and so anyways
out of that some exchange I can't even
remember exactly how it happened but
Glenn Greenwald reand reached out to me
in a very nice way and was like I'd be
happy to talk about it and I was like
great I'm happy to talk about it with
Glenn so he's gonna be on sometime this
week or I'm not exactly sure we're
working on the scheduling right now so
all right on to and what the amazing
thing about this is that we have spent
far more time on the Muller report as a
function of people criticizing the
Muller report for you know whatever for
for not should have for being agnostic
about existing and then being mad that
it existed I feel like we were the real
agnostics we totally were the real
agnostics yeah I believe that's called
the Streisand effect although you know
that might have a different meaning now
that she's cancelled the Muller effect
what does the Tracey effect what does I
mean the more you about something
that you don't want people to pay
attention to the more they pay attention
to it right try not to think of an
elephant
um The Tracey effect
I mean look there are people who
suggested to me that because Michael
Tracey started his patreon a month and a
half ago a thirty-five days ago that
this was an attempt to get people back
to his Twitter feed so that they would
see the patreon sales uh I I don't know
I mean no you see started as patreon and
so there are people who have implied to
me or no specifically said he's
doing this because he's trying to build
his patreon and I look we're all in some
form of that business one whatsoever and
it I don't know if that's the case
anymore than you know my letting him on
was to help our membership but it's not
working for him so you know anyways
ladies and gentlemen this is this is
pretty astonishing and this is why you
tune into a news outlet like Fox News
that wouldn't get caught up in the malla
report because they're blowing the lid
off of what's going on with this foreign
aid
everybody says foreign aid is like less
than 1% of our budget yeah that's true
but why why are we giving why are we
giving foreign aid to to Mexico three
times over what what's going on
it's the screen is black where we're
about to play the clip my bad never mind
okay so this whole thing where we are
paying one country three times this is
just crazy this is based on the story
that the White House not only thinking
about closing down the border but is
going to punish Central America because
the best way to deal with the to the
extent that you know to deal with the
idea that people are streaming towards
the American border because our foreign
policy over the years has completely
destabilized these societies is of
course to withhold money unless these
the leaders there start to crack down on
the weakest and most vulnerable people
in these countries cutting payments aid
payments to El Salvador Guatemala and
Honduras over the fact that those
countries are have been unable to
contain the flood of migrants heading
through Mexico to our southern border
so yesterday we talked about potentially
shutting down this other border there
two days ago excuse me no that's
yesterday two days posit I'm gonna read
to you the chyron from Fox & Friends
so this is not just someone speaking do
you know what I mean like it's not like
a Trump cuts US aid to three Mexican
countries first of all its Mexico been
posing it's three countries to get three
times the aid what's going on they're
blowing the roof off this so we're in
slightly different sombreros what
exactly it's just not it's just
unbelievable isn't it I've been to all
of the Mexico's and I find them all
quite unique in their own way
it would probably be too punitive for us
to find out who is writing the Chiron's
but it might be interesting from like if
we got a public Ombudsman say this is
how this happened we how we called El
Salvador of Mexico just keep on does
anybody notice it on the show
actually shutting down this other border
there two days ago
no that's yesterday two days but
yesterday we also heard that this is a
big move this is the one of the few
punitive measures the executive branch
has still to these countries to say get
it under control we've been giving you
aid for decades we want your societies
to be better your economies to be better
because right now there's a huge
magnetic pole to our southern border
that's that's gonna be we'll see if that
leads to any changes in policy in those
countries yeah see this this is the
belief that these lunatics have that
it's just simply the magnetism of the
United States that is pulling them there
as opposed to report after report after
report of the incredible amounts of
violence and danger that is in these
countries for these people it's it's
grotesque it really it really is but
gosh which Mexico is your favorite Matt
Uruguay you know I would like to go to a
Mexico in my own mind and as you know
stress is a worldwide epidemic I was a
wreck throughout last week and then
Friday came and then it was just like
finally the week oh not the weekend
we're working longer hours were
inundated with the constant news cycle
tell me about it and we're more
connector connected than ever before
stress is a part of life and it can
easily affect our overall health and
well-being that's why we're partnering
with calm the number one app to help you
reduce your anxiety and stress and help
you sleep better more than 40 million
people around the world have don't let
don't download it it if you head to calm
calm / majority you'll get 25% off a
compromise on issues like anxiety stress
and focus including a brand new
meditation each day sleep stories which
are bedtime stories for adults designed
to help you relax can head to the
magical lavender fields of southern
France the allergies like I have with
Stephen Fry or you can explore the
moonlit jungles of Africa with Leona
Lewis they have soothing music and much
much more
right now majority report listeners get
25% off of a calm premium subscription
at calm calm / majority that's e al
m.com / majority get unlimited access to
all of calms content today at calm
dot-com
/ majority get calm and stop stressing
also have you heard about joy bird they
got it they get a store right around the
corner you've been there I've checked
out their furniture quite a bit and I
have to say with a longing I it's the
company behind the revolution of online
furniture shopping joy bard offers a
one-of-a-kind furniture made to your
unique tastes you turn your ideas into
reality with hundreds of styles and
options from mid-century modern to
contemporary classics all customizable
in an amazing array of fabric choices
from rich buttery leather to plush
velvet
every color imaginable there's even a
wide range of kid and pet friendly
upholstery available
I wish back in the day we knew it was
something like that
my children had destroyed destroyed all
of the furniture over the years as well
as a free personal design consultant to
help you nail down your perfect design
and with joy Birds 365 day home trial
you can skip the furniture store and
bring the showroom home sleep on it
sit on it break it in if you don't love
your joy bird return it for a full
refund refund in home delivery is hassle
free they'll even remove all the
packaging materials and returns are free
within two weeks of delivery see how joy
bird is revolutionising online furniture
shopping create the furniture that
brings you joy today at joy Bird dot-com
/ majority go to joy bird dot-com /
majority and receive an exclusive offer
for 25% off your first order by using
the code majority check it out folks joy
bird dot-com / majority they have a
couple of chairs that that's swivel that
I have been eyeing yeah you just gotta
use that spray keeps my children off of
the furniture that's you don't have any
children
oh they're cats right same same great
water on your cats are on your kid yeah
I just don't want to be around for that
oh and lastly folks there's no need to
suffer through another sleepless night I
use this last night
do you notice oh yeah I am a little more
refreshed than normal there is some
spring in your step today I must say I
had my calming comfort I opened the
window a little bit got it a little cool
in the apartment
drop the calming comfort by sharper
image on me it's a luxurious way to
blanket
it's made with supersoft Velveteen
material and designed with high-density
comfort Phil to promote a sense of
calmness yeah
I don't know how calm I was but I
definitely slept better by applying an
even amount of pressure over your body
calming comfort helps the production of
serotonin and melatonin it mimics the
soothing feeling of being hugged for a
restful night's sleep like I say hey
used it last night slapped when I was in
the Phoenix I had a my hotel room had a
very light comforter on it and I had
trouble sleeping because I'm used to
really heavy I have a very drafty room
in Brooklyn here so I used a lot of
heavy blankets and it's much more
pleasurable yeah so you got that
that's the Dakotan way of doing it right
now you throw the window open it's
cozier that way calming Comfort weighted
blanket comes with a 90-day anxiety free
stress free best night's sleep of your
life guarantee from the sharper image
right now our listeners can go to
calming comfort blanket calm that's
calming comfort blanket calm all one
word well not the calm part is the dot
and then come and use the promo code
majority a check out to receive fifteen
bucks off the displayed price again
that's calming comfort blanket calm
promo code majority because you cannot
put a price on a great night's sleep
calming comfort blanket calm promo code
majority we're gonna take a quick break
when we come back we'll be back with
Khalid badoon right back
you
you
we are back Sam cedar on the majority
report on the phone it is a pleasure to
welcome to the program professor of law
the University of Arkansas and to author
of American Islamophobia understanding
the roots and rise of fear
Khaled badoon welcome to the program
thanks for having me
let's start with the your book basically
argues that Islamophobia is actually
rooted in our law and policy and I think
most people you know sort of tend to
think of it is as as sort of a a private
disposition and and you talk about the
sort of the different areas where it
manifests itself but how is it rooted in
our law and policy and and I guess maybe
as a second part of that is this unique
to American society
well first it's critical to understand
that Islamophobia is a state-sponsored
structural process that is rooted in
long-standing American law and not only
American law but the way in which legal
institutions have perceived Islam as a
religion and Muslims as a people
so in the book I talk about how many of
the founding fathers Thomas Jefferson
George Washington individuals who
drafted the Constitution essentially
looked at Islam as being this
antithetical civilization that
represented tyranny that represents it
you know on democratic principles that
they wanted to shape their country the
United States into the mirror opposite
of so they saw Islam as kind of the
representation of everything
undemocratic so let's let's go back
let's go back from a historical
standpoint to see the development of
that well where does it start we what
starts you know at the very earliest
embryonic stages of the creation of the
United States and you know what one one
piece of law that sort of I guess
highlights how was Rama phobia was
embedded in early
those structures was this Naturalization
Act of 1790 which was enacted
you know shortly after the the drafting
of the Constitution which effectively
stated that you have to be white to
become a naturalized citizen and because
Islam is a religion with as a as a race
or a rival sort of civilization
individuals who adhere to you know it's
them could not would not be deemed white
and therefore cannot become citizens and
this wall persisted all the way up until
1952 so you had immigrants coming from
the Arab world through the early and mid
20th century who were freely exercising
the religion in line with the First
Amendment but because they identified as
Muslim could not become naturalized
citizens because Islam would to be
antithetical to white identity and
obviously see that rhetoric reemerging
with not only Donald Trump but this you
know new form new brazen form of white
supremacy white populism let's I just
want to stay a little bit with the
Naturalization Act of 1790 and then the
the the two major Supreme Court cases us
versus thinned and and ozawa yeah and
just we just tease that out for us in
terms of how the because the
naturalization Naturalization Act of
1790 did not specifically say you have
to be white did it I mean in many
respects it created a concept of white
no it did specifically he said yeah he
had to be white it was written into the
excellest was a letter of the law itself
whiteness was a full-fledged
prerequisite for naturalized citizenship
and so basically what happened is that
civil court judges effectively had to go
back and they had authority over
defining what white meant you know
obviously white was very fluid that you
know one juncture iris Americans who
came in the middle of the 19th century
were not deemed white human Americans
were not deemed white on account of
religious identity so mobile or
specifically said one had to be white
and then judges had again the the
latitude in determining what why
mint so the Supreme Court decisions you
you highlight one involving a sick a
sick immigrant individual from India
you know Warrick urban had the beard
brown skin 1922 case came before the
Supreme Court argued hey I'm from the
South Asian Peninsula this is where
Aryan identity originates from I should
be somebody who fits within the
statutory definition of whiteness and
what's critical to understand is that
civil court judges had different
conceptions as to what white actually
meant some of them look to the actual
physical appearance of the individual
some of them look to geographic origin
some of them looks into religious
identity so there was an arbitrary sort
of assessment as to what white meant
depending on who the judge was in the
thin case the judge said that this man
Bhagat IND would not pass what he called
the common man test meaning that the
common American would not view Sindh as
being white because of his phenotypic
allure physical appearance so he was
denied whiteness a year later in Hosanna
this involved the Japanese resident of
California somebody who was you know
assimilated in almost every way a tenant
University of California Berkeley spoke
perfect English could even pass his
white in some respects and in terms of
the way dressed and sort of performed
his identity and he was denied whiteness
and then denied citizenship on account
of him being of Japanese origin
so these to support Supreme Court
decisions demonstrate how much authority
judges had in exercising what the
definition of whiteness meant and so how
I mean how what made Islam or Muslims
unique in that context of that that
function I guess yes you know some
Muslims were betwixt between this sort
of position where religious identity was
central to what whiteness meant up
through the naturalization era you know
Christianity was very much a cornerstone
whiteness you know for a long time
Protestantism was almost synonymous with
whiteness Catholicism was obviously for
you to be a religion that could not be
messed with whiteness same for Judaism
now Islam definitely up until not still
today is viewed as a religion that is
inimical or antithetical to whiteness so
Muslims in some of them who could pass
physically pass as white based on the
way they look many of them from you know
modern-day Lebanon or Syria
for instance oftentimes have to change
their name had to convert to
Christianity or at least perform that
they weren't Muslims before civil court
judges in order to fit within the
statutory definition of whiteness
because Islam up until 1944 was
categorically viewed to be a racial /
religious identity that could not be
meshed with whiteness interesting so so
so Christianity was just one piece of
evidence that you would put into the
docket I guess but but it but Islam was
one piece of evidence which would
necessarily disqualify you yes and I
would also not limit the importance of
Christianity as a gateway for the
whiteness I think that it was a one
might even say a piece of evidence that
could be determinative and like you said
Muslim identity would be something that
would disqualify you up until 1944 there
was a pivotal case called ex parte
memories which shifts that determination
for Arab Muslim specifically largely
based on the United States
you know forging this new relationship
with Saudi Arabia and the immigrant in
that case was Saudi Arabian so it's a
really complex history yeah I mean I
guess I mean I'm just you know like you
know I mean I guess it's it's it's quite
obvious that our you know say anti black
racism is also rooted in our legal
structures right I mean like we
literally had
you were literally had to you the law
said you could be a slave and so in and
what what does that do in terms of its
durability I mean as we move forward in
time what what does that do in terms of
the durability of Islamophobia I think
what it does is in what I what I try to
highlight in the book is that there's
this deeply embedded you know immense an
extensive sort of treasure trove of
tropes and stereotypes that exist that
are not new I mean the idea that you
know Muslims could not be assimilated
the idea that Muslims are savage and
backwards and sort of like are Wed - you
know tyranny you know everything we hold
dear in the United States is them as a
democratic country these have been
routed by legal decisions removed by
legal discourses so when something
happens in the States in terms of let's
say hello terror crisis or we have a
culprit that's Muslim with some sort of
DB and act these things are readily
available
deep within the American imagination
that are then redeployed alright so
let's talk about the and so the the the
law provides this sort of the structural
basis for this Islamophobia and then it
gets it gets sort of I guess I don't
know what to say it's a downstream from
that law is private Islamophobia and
then this dialectical we explain explain
the private and the dialectical of
manifestations of Islamophobia yes I
think I think if you were to watch the
news right and you know somebody like
Anderson Cooper talking about
Islamophobia or you know mainstream
punitives you know discussing the issue
there's always a fixation almost an
exclusive sort of fixation on private
Islamophobic acts by private
Islamophobia I mean you know violent
acts that are unleashed by a individual
great a hate monger a bigot of some kind
you can look at what happened in New
Zealand with terrorists walking into
Linwood in Elnora mosques as a queer
example of private Islamophobia is what
I try to demonstrate in the book is to
not view these acts or incidents a
private Islamophobia as being aberrant
as being untied to state action
state-sponsored Islamophobia by way of
law and policy things like the Muslim
ban for instance or surveillance with
mosques counter radicalization policing
are embedded upon the same presumption
but the presumption being that Muslim
identity or expressions of Muslim
identity are somehow are in some way
connected or correlated to terrorism
that's typically the the idea that sort
of drives private Islamophobes what
happens right the idea that Muslims are
this kind of you know terror and hiding
community sleeper cell or whatever that
warrants then engaging in vigilante
violence so the dynamic is one where the
Omaha sort of endorses individuals
having these negative stereotypes of
Muslims on the ground and during moments
of crisis more than endorses but
actually emboldened private actors to
partake in this broader sort of
civilizational project of punishing and
policing Muslims right and we see this
happening during moments of you know
intense Islamophobic rhetoric so when
somebody like Donald Trump is saying
things like if flan hates us or you know
Muslim immigrants are invaders that is
more than just rhetoric from a
politician or a president in the book I
talk about how that's actually a dictate
right from somebody from high office
effectively communicating to the broader
polity or his broader audience to take
action of some kind to be vigilant or in
some respects that's the sort of the
audience member is somebody who has
violent proclivities sort of authoring
authorizing indirectly the kind of
violence we see unfolding in New
Zealanders the kind of violence we see
unfolding couple years back at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill where three Muslim American
students were murdered not far from the
Chapel Hill campus and that is the
dialectic one in which the rhetoric the
action the law from the state
functions to authorize an emboldened the
vigilante violence we see from hate
mongers bigots and terrorists
was there a I mean talk about this or
the the interim period or you know
because it feels like I mean I am old
enough to remember the Iranian hostage
crisis and the demonization of Iranian I
mean I just
Ron Ian's kids who were you know growing
up and that was horrific for them but
where was there an ebb and flow in terms
of how our law saw Muslim folks and and
Islam and did we see any commensurate
sort of change in the sort of the
private this is all of course pre 9/11
where I think you know many respects all
bets are off but I'm curious just how
you know when we're talking about the
sort of the the the the middle part of
in the middle and late part of the 20th
century like what was what was this the
status of both is llama phobia within
the law and you know amongst you know
within the private sector no a great
question I think one way you can frame
it is I've been flow the way I like to
think about it is in terms of priority
how is it a prioritizing Muslim or you
know perceived Muslim threat in terms of
its national security sort of objectives
so the for 9/11 and especially before or
during the Cold War Muslim threat wasn't
as much of a priority for several
reasons right we were engaging in this
kind of civilizational strife with the
Soviet Union would sort of occupied you
know positionality of being the primary
American threat on the on you know its
geopolitical stage when the Cold War is
over then you see a shift both in terms
of rhetoric from the state but also in
terms of you know marshaling actual
resources and energy to fighting Muslim
threat you have the beginning of the
Iraq war with the first Bush
administration continued on onward with
a full-fledged war obviously with the
second Bush administration
but 9/11 is it's critical in being a
sort of flashpoint that enables the
state to do two things it sort of
formalizes the idea that Muslim threat
is our primary civilizational and
geopolitical concerns you see that with
the naming of the actual war is a war on
terror but also there's also I think a
second shift the idea that Muslim threat
is manifested by this new wave of
transnational terrorist at did not exist
or we're not as sort of you know
pervasive and is prominent before 9/11
before 9/11 we were more concerned with
nation states specifically Iran in Iraq
Iran being you know its Twelver Shia
government Iraq actually ironically know
being a secular bottie regime but the
threat was coming specifically from
governments or individuals within those
governments that held a lot of authority
Saddam Hussein in the Ayatollah Khomeini
Iran in the Iraq and Iran respectively
after 9/11 were not concerned as much
with nation-states were concerned with
5io we're concerned with Isis were
concerned with these networks that we
think can then radicalize Muslim
American citizens stateside so Muslim
Muslim threat before 9/11 was
represented by governments after 9/11 by
terror networks that have some sort of
deep connection with Muslim Americans
and communities here in the States
and so we have this dynamic and and and
I imagine you know things like like
actual movements I mean there's there's
there's a sort of there seems to me to
be like almost like a subsidiary
structure to the law right and into
policy which are almost you know I don't
know what to call them networks cottage
industries you know they didn't you know
that that we saw like manifested in like
the Ground Zero the Ground Zero mosque
protests and you know there are there
are sub structures that are not
governmental but are not you know sort
of
they're private but they're they're more
than just you know individuals and more
than just people expressing Islamophobia
like the Frank Gaffney's and the
structures that seem to be around it and
then and then I want to talk about sort
of like almost you know sort of this new
era of intellectualized Islamophobia but
but let's talk about that sort of the
Gaffney style stuff yeah well you know I
think that you know when when vilifying
Islam and when the war on terror
developed into a primary commitment on
the part of the state what you have is
you know like you framed the subsidiary
emergence of a of an industry right in
academic industry a pundit or II think
tanks who wanted to cash in I was going
into in sort of developed you know I
would say thinkers with quotes around
thinkers who could speak on what's
happening in a way that was palatable to
the state so before the development of
the Islamophobia industry as we know it
today with people like Frank Gaffney
year Spencer likes of these kinds of
characters you had these sort of
established oriental it's people like
Bernard Lewis and progeny who sort of
laid the foundation right they were
already you know kind of established in
developing you know academic works that
legitimize the idea that the Islamic
world was in fact a model if the fact
that you know Muslim identity was
foreshadowing of some sort of terror
threat and you saw these guys having
close relationships with the
presidential administrations all the way
up to the Bush administration and also
becoming really influential with think
tanks in Washington DC so these we can
call them the sort of founding father is
Lama folks you know Samuel Huntington
I'd include in that same sort of class
opening the door for the likes of
Gaffney in the likes of even the pundits
we see on television Brigitte Gabriel
comes to mind on Fox News this new wave
hardline atheist Islamophobe Sam Harris
who was engaged in a really interesting
communication with Juan Cole romic
studies professor at University of
Michigan yesterday I saw that
featuring you thought that I saw that on
Twitter that was quite it was started
Mehdi Hasan and Juan Cole was it was it
was fit was pretty good it was it was
really good and I think I think I think
that conversation like really highlights
sort of problems with the Islamophobia
industry is that these are individuals
you know whether it be Gaffney or San
Harris these are individuals who don't
have specific training don't have the
education in Islam or Islamic studies to
make you know expert objective
assessment of what it is they're talking
about alright well professor let me just
just for the sake of fairness I think
Sam Harris would say really professor
well then alert my friends and then he
would list five friends II had who are
either Muslim or former formally
identified as Muslims so he's got that
yeah but but you know but Muslim
identity
look at my dentists by no means a
credential right being a Muslim does not
make one you know an expert on study how
long I'm a Muslim Eric and I study
American law I know said he outlawed you
know generally but I can't speak to the
nuances I can't speak to the distinct
schools of thought and that's the
problem right I think that's right well
I'm an American and I am also not an
expert on American law exactly there you
go so identity is by no means expertise
so Sam Harris's argument is an easy one
to sort of dismantle but what I mean so
what are the because you know like I
look at the Gaffney's and the Harris's
is that they are they are in many
respects part of the same animal I'm not
saying they're coordinating with each
other or in any way affiliated but from
a sort of a from looking at like the the
structure in society some are working
sort of the more inside game the more
policy game and then others function to
to provide almost like a foaming the
runway you know more maybe you know
foaming the runway
for sort of the intellectual acceptance
of this I mean it was have we seen
has there been has there been a a
project like that specifically the like
let's work on this aspect I mean it's
one thing to say you know sort of like
brute in terms of brute proclamations
associating the you know Islam with with
terrorism and we do that by saying you
know we can have a Muslim Band we can
have extensive spying on on people who
are you know in in Islamic youth groups
in college or whatnot but but has there
been a project like this where we're
going to really sort of appeal this
level of like a soft Islamophobia that
we're going to sort of dress up as an
intellectual exercise because because
you talk about you talk about anti
blackness in the relationship with
Islamophobia and we've had in the past
intellectual movements to describe why
why whites are so uh you know why white
supremacy is actually intellectually
justified not just morally or you know
in terms of god I mean this is this is
this a phenomena we've seen before in
terms of Islam in terms of Islam I think
so but it's obviously catching steam and
I think the reason the fact that it's so
popular now and also you know I think a
mode of thinking that is not only
exclusive to the right but is that
definitely pervading the center and also
the less is because there's political
will and sort of power behind these
quasi intellectual disseminating these
negative ideas or even flat ideas of the
slamming of Muslims and that connection
is really important I think the work of
I would never you know try to understate
the at least the the influence other Sam
Harris were imagine the wise these are
individuals who are you know selling
books New York Times bestsellers you
know filling stadiums they have millions
of followers on Twitter so their message
is definitely effective in his resonate
and a large reason why it's effective in
residence
because they have a president like
Donald Trump in movements within
Washington DC that repackage their
message messages in ways that are
palatable to lay voters right so what
what Trump says in signing the executive
order known as the Muslim ban is not
it's sort of a translated sort of
version of what Sam Harris imagined was
sort of like no petal off as being real
academic work so the connection between
what they're doing is really really
important really hope in terms of you
know having real effect in the political
sphere has it happened before not to
this extent not to this extent I think
that Islamophobia Orientalism is more
profuse today for a range of reasons I
think part of it is tied to we can talk
about the sort of inverse of white
supremacy taking place today with this
this new moment of white anxiety you
know some people you can call it white
paranoia because of shifting
demographics so the landscape is really
right for Islamophobia in both message
and policy to be very resonant because
of demographic shifts because of you
know a new sort of racial justice racial
consciousness awakening on the left and
I think third most importantly and I'm
not sure if you want to discuss this
more closely but this rise in sort of
identity politics that is taking place
on the far right in the far left where
there's a I would say dangerous fixation
and identity in ways that facilitate the
rise of forms of bigotry like
Islamophobia anti black racism white
supremacy and anti-semitism in ways that
we hadn't seen in a really long time
yeah I I do want to get into that but
let me that's that sounds fascinating I
want to get into that but it's before
but like it just me I want to make sure
that I'm clear in terms of the idea that
rising white anxiety is it's almost as
if like you know we there's less
latitude for us to express anti black
sentiments in the context of or anti
racist sentiments so
we're going to sort of we're gonna
whitewash it or launder it through a
anti-muslim sentiment because that's a
that's a choice that people are making
or that's we're talking about now a bad
idea not a we're not being as so
essentialist is that is that the theory
there is that me is that what you mean
by that I think that's part of the
theory I think I think what Sam Harris
and I would like to say he's like look
Islamophobia and they don't even call it
Islam funky they dismiss the entire sort
of framing right they don't think the
word means anything right exactly they
think that they think that anti-muslim
animus is a rational form of
discrimination based on the threat that
is being posed by Islam and by Muslims
so they would not analogize Islamophobia
anti-black racism I think if he sat down
with sam harris enmesh Nawaz they say
look racism ingens black folks is wrong
they would also say that being
anti-semitic is entirely wrong these are
individuals who you have to sort of if
you were to out kind of classify them
along the political spectrum they'd
probably be a lot closer to the less
than the right on most issues right
right right but they but they think that
discrimination against Muslims is
rational and also serves the best
interests of the state so they view it
is entirely distinct from these other
forms of bigotry right and that's not
you know there's a lot of bigots I think
you probably feel that way about their
own bigotry right like it's a perfectly
rational thing I mean God
God did not mean us to co-mingle and
yeah but okay so well so talk about this
theory that you have about identity
politics I mean I it's it's clear to me
that you know identity politics on the
far right Jemmy translates into a
certain amount of white supremacy all
right and so that's a pretty
straightforward
that's a pretty straightforward roadmap
to being anti-muslim how how does it
function on the left in your opinion
well there there's a range of sort of
perils that also exist on the list and
I'll mean two of them
for the sake of brevity number one the
idea and we saw this you know manifested
an exchange between Harris in Juan Cole
so Harris and the laws both critiqued
Juan Cole for not being an expert even
though he has a PhD in Islamic studies
and studied in Cairo at you know can
boast a resume that if you have with
regard to study of Islam entirely based
on him being a white male so him being
the white male excludes him from being
able to speak on these issues and this
is this is a view that's pervasive on
the left to be frank with you I think
many many far-left activists and you
know even pundits have very sadly sort
of conflated expertise with identity and
in some respects supplanted the
importance with expertise with this
fixation on identity there's a brilliant
piece by federal law professor Nancy
Liang called racial capitalism which
does a great job sort of you know
meticulously analyzing this phenomenon
so the danger with that sort of position
in representation is important and I'm a
critical race theory and I can tell you
how important representation is but
there's been a disposing of expertise
for the sake of racial optics in
bringing in somebody to speak on issues
just because they look the part if that
makes any sense
yes I mean and I think and and correct
me if I'm wrong that's not to say that
you know that's not to say that that's
not the same argument as just because
I'm a white guy doesn't mean I can't
have an opinion on this it's to say that
expertise counts and ok and that's it I
mean if something like Juan Cole was the
white male but has been studying Islamic
Studies for his entire life you know it
is in the sort of like upper 1% I love
these issues his opinions that's not
only count but it should be seriously
considered a nerd right so there's right
so there's there's a certain amount of
you you get a certain amount of
credibility for having a lived
experience but expertise still has
a huge import in these things yanno live
experience matters considerably matters
considerably right but so but so does
craning so does expertise and again you
and I are both American right being
American does not make us no experts on
the First Amendment does that make us
experts on you know American
Administrative Law does it make us an
expert in a whole host of issues so
identity might be sort of a segue into
knowing about a specific subject matter
but expertise should be considered to be
the most salient sort of metric of
knowledge it is sort of fascinating to
me that identity politics is I mean we
see it wielded obviously by by you know
white supremacists right I mean that's a
fairly obvious calculation yeah but to
see it leveraged by someone like Sam
Harris as he did in that exchange and we
see this all the time you know I'm not
you guys are caught up in identity
politics you're so worried I mean we in
a political field you're so caught up in
this idea of identity politics but look
here I have a black friend
and so yeah I mean that type of dynamic
is it's sort of it's fascinating to sort
of see how much it's being utilized as
in many respects the justification for
some type of either discriminative
discriminatory actions or beliefs no
definitely and I think for me who you
know somebody who you know thinks about
these issues really closely I think the
most unfortunate sort of development in
the political discourse is there's
really no more nuance right there's no
more sort of you know careful criticism
and look there's we can we can carefully
critique specific segments of the
broader listen global milieu that is
dangerous that is vile and that should
be considered you know an element that
we have to confront you know whether
it's the Saudi regime whether it's
terror networks whether it's specific
interpretations of Islamic doctrine that
is problematic that is true but that is
only a sliver of the broader population
reality that we have in this discourse
right now
is people are talking in terms of
hyperbole people are flattening entire
experiences and people are discussing
entire groups as monoliths in the sad
reality is that it's not only happening
at the sort of bottom of the political
discourse the individuals that are sort
of being wielded out as our thinkers of
the day and our you know most
influential pundits are also engaging in
that you know very flat in a you know
that big sort of conversation as well
and it's not just simply a question of
the the quantity even in the context of
something like Saudi Arabia we're
talking about the interplay of Islam
with the whole host of historical and
economic contextual issues and and power
dynamics and it's really I mean to
examine that stuff is really to examine
how these various factors I guess in to
relate with each other and and play off
each other exactly I think that we
definitely see that with the present
sort of discussion on Islam globally
speaking we see domestically with the
way Islamophobia is framed I would just
you know somebody who wrote this book I
think what I'm trying to do with this
book specifically is to counter what
people like sam Harris Gaffney are doing
on the Islamophobia side and bring some
care bring some you know you know
against some careful analysis to what's
going on in a way to hope you know
hopefully bring some thoughtfulness and
back to the conversation if that's not
an impossible sort of objective well
it's it's I mean I think it's I guess I
guess hope springs eternal right but
lastly so let me ask you that I mean
that's that's the to some extent the
private realm what is what is the
opportunities for structural change
well the opportunities for structural
change I think hinge considerably on
what happens politically right so if we
get a let's say a Democratic
administration succeed this one the
Sanders administration
typically which I think is the most
robust encountering Islamophobia we
could see a doing away with the
executive order known as the Muslim bad
with a subsequent executive order that
quashes it or does away with it so
that's you know one imminent hope that I
have that again hinges on this next
presidential election also the the shape
of the Cork's right the Supreme Court is
one that upheld the Muslim ban largely
because it's now been packed with
originalist or conservative justices
brought in by the Trump administration
so you know another objective in the
short term is to sort of cultivate a
court that is more I would say keen on
delivering the promise of the First
Amendment specifically free exercise of
religion and Establishment Clause that
enables sort of a structural dismantling
or at least diminishing of Islamophobia
khalid badoon author of american
Islamophobia understanding the roots and
rise of fear thanks so much for your
time today we will put a link to your
book at majority dot F M real pleasure
talking to you know thanks so much I
really appreciate the conversation
bye-bye all right folks all right folks
that is our first half of our program we
will head into the fun half of the show
Michael is going to be joining us we
maybe he'll fill us in on the yeah well
it's April Fool's so I pretend to be
concerned about the okay he brought his
medical bracelet the broom he was
actually in the hospital I'm sorry that
camera's not working that camera's not
working or it's not on
I didn't think Michael was gonna be here
so didn't set up the shot oh well there
it is maybe we'll take a photo and we'll
print it here I'll tweet it out put it
on the blog oh look at the wide shot
look at that he's brought his
and a good excuse for what but bring it
over here
Michael hold your bracelet up for this
we thought you might have been pranking
us by not appearing on a Monday uh
patient named Michael Brooks attending
caregiver Holly we're not gonna give her
last name excuse from work school or
physical activity Michael Brooks needs
to be excused from check work beginning
now through the following date April 1st
2019 he or may she may return checked
off to full activity as of 4:00 to 2019
all right so actually that's the whole
day so so am i up Matt okay I'll see you
guys for two Bs tomorrow take care guys
and also a live show in LA the show help
you get over your case of the Mondays it
sounds really serious don't actually
read I'm not gonna read it but this is
oh my god I might pay you to put this on
our Instagram this starvation pages from
you anymore so I'm not going to I don't
have that level of desperation for you
abuse me with three words three words
which describe the malady and then the
worst cover-up ever oh my god if I'll
tell you what Nikki suicide
if if the if anybody on Twitter can
guess what the three word you know
they'll they'll never guess but that's
what I'm saying that's why I'm going to
offer $50 cash
just tagged Michael and guess the three
words on what it is I won't get your
notifications anyways also folks it is
your support that makes this show
possible you can become a member at join
the majority report com join the
majority report calm
also don't forget just coffee co-op
Fairtrade coffee tea or chocolate use
the coupon code majority get 10% off
Michael has as far as I can tell a
doctor's note that will allow him to do
a show tomorrow I asked the specialist
if I could do my show tomorrow night and
they said yes but to limit my exposure
to Sam
tomorrow night Kim Ives investigative
reporter and editor Haiti liberation
we're talking I don't know does anybody
remember the story that happened a
couple of weeks ago or several weeks ago
we were on vacation I was in Puerto Rico
and this group of mercenaries was
arrested in Porton Haiti three Americans
one you don't remember the story so it's
actually they were arrested with like a
massive van filled with weapons they
told the cop we answer to somebody
higher the cop said no you don't they
arrested them but then they were
basically flown out of the country a day
later and the US said superficially like
oh we'll look into it and they
immediately returned and so we're gonna
go into what the true story behind that
was then Malaika jabal he's joining us
to explain why Hillary actually lost
Wisconsin and why that matters for
winning 2020 patreon.com slash t mb s
michael brooks show on youtube didn't
you write that piece already she is a
new piece in the route okay ah but
deaths yes I would say the color of
inequality is a great piece yes Jamie
this week on the anti Fattah we gank
splain brexit with the help of our
friend neural Shah also we released a
bonus for our patrons where a few of our
valued valued patrons call into the show
including a really awkward call from
Paul Joseph Watson so that was that was
interesting and over the weekend we
recorded a show about the Julie Joan
uprising which is still ongoing in
France so check it out folks
the
fada yeah also check out the literary
hangover the episode recorded last week
on this oscar wilde's the soul of man
under socialism will be out on Saturday
hell yeah
Oh with uh with Griscom with that David
Griscom of the Griscom economic
maintenance on TMDs alright folks see
you in the fun half six four six two
five seven thirty nine twenty
you
our back ladies and gentlemen we are
back Sam cedar on the majority report
let's go directly to the phones calling
from a two one zero
area code who's this where you calling
from good afternoon Sam is John from San
Antonio John from San Antonio how are
you sir
I'm okay excellent Ring of Fire episode
that you hosted over the weekend I
particularly enjoyed two interviews that
one was with Jeff house or runs the
revolving door project which is an
initiative with scrutinized scrutinizes
executive branch appointees to ensure
political appointees served the broad
public interest rather than corporations
narrow political agenda or personal
advancement at the Center for Economic
and Policy Research and the second was
Sara Nelson who is the president of the
International flight attendants CWA SLE
CEO thirteen thirteen days ago we had
our debate over impeachment I stated
though it started stated that Democrats
are failing to carry out their oversight
duties you said give them time you seem
a lot more open to Hauser's criticisms
he talked about in night 2017 how
protesters are mobilized and the women's
March and the March for science as well
as large protest against Muslim ban in
2018 the energy went into the midterms
and now that the Democrats control the
house there are expectations that they
will perform oversight and the Democrats
are failing they seem that they need to
start issuing subpoenas because Trump
isn't giving them any information
they're requesting Massachusetts
congressman Richard Neal who is the
chairman of the Ways and Means Committee
hasn't asked Trump for his tax returns
which are the Democrats promised they
would do even if they do that now the
court battle may be over until after the
2020 elections the Nelson interview is
available on two clips on your YouTube
channel called how to end a government
shutdown
do we have your attention now and the
other title the wave the wave of labor
unions across the America fighting for
their rights are both excellent clear
she actually she showed up on the NOC
haze green new deal thing which we why
don't we have any clips of that no we do
okay good
yeah that was actually my next line no
you're her her segment her segment
wasn't actually on the actual show but
it was on the immensely MSNBC website no
I said and I'd highly recommend that
section it's an 18 minute
clip so in the same clip I wall-e Shadid
who's the communications director of the
Justice Democrats ask her about her
colleagues in the house and I'm
paraphrasing here who don't support a
green new deal behind the scenes what
did they say about why they don't
support it so Poli Sci professor Leah
Stokes who had an 18 page paper with two
other professors called legislative
staff and representation in Congress the
same three professors also put on out an
article in the New York Times called
Congress has no clue what America wants
published on Halloween of last year
here's some tweets from miss Stokes on
the subject on Chris Hayes is Joe AOC
congressional colleagues tell her they
can't support a green new deal because
the district won't go for it
she didn't buy it and thought corporate
money was the problem turns out there's
evidence she's right first we know
there's a majority of Americans in every
congressional district supports co2 as a
pollutant that's every single district
most reps are shirking the public's will
on climate we also find that 45% of
senior staffers in Congress have
admitted to changing their mind on a
policy issue after meeting with the
corporate lobbyists so maybe if you
spend time with the fossil fuel industry
you start thinking the green New Deal is
a bad is a bad idea
in some a OC is right her colleagues
don't know what the public wants in a
wide variety of issues including climate
corporate money is disrupting or
distorting their perceptions of public
opinion the fact is the public wants
action on the climate crisis when will
Congress start listening so I want to
see what
she think about both of those subject
most of those those interviews and maybe
talk about you know the distortion that
miss Stokes was talking about as far as
money influencing Congress I think I and
I appreciate the college on let me let
me let you go and let me just I'm gonna
address the let me let you go at address
some of that I think there there are two
factors right that how money influences
the maybe maybe three how money
influences the decision-making of
Congress and I think it's it part of it
is you know the electoral implications
of it and it's not just it that doesn't
just mean we will give you money for
your election it could also mean we will
give money to your opponents in your
election I think that has that plays a
significant role but I also think just
the access plays a big part of it the
access to the members themselves and to
the environment around the members and a
long time ago we had Adam green on from
the p triple c and he explained how
early on in the you know what they were
trying to do as an organization and they
had done this you know they had worked
with elizabeth warren quite closely was
to convince members of congress and the
senate obviously early on in their
careers maybe as candidates that there
are these positions which they have been
told by basically people coming out of
washington which are that which are
problematic to getting elected are not
as problematic as they are being told
and in fact in many instances are are
are helpful to getting elected but you
know people are heavily influenced by
the narrow
not just social networks that they're in
but also the you know the the networks
they're involved in I mean that's just
and did you know it becomes I think
clearer and clearer to see this you know
I mean just wade into my Twitter feed
this weekend and the the the the tribal
lines and the sort of the the the flow
of information people are just
completely convinced of things convinced
of things about various topics convinced
of things about about me convinced of
things about you know Michael Tracy
which as far as I could tell them mostly
right but and and so there is a
particularly in Washington there is a
groupthink and I think part of that has
been a function of a very narrow set of
media outlets like I didn't if people
just do not appreciate the difference in
the media landscape between today and 15
20 years ago is so dramatic that I think
even even people who were around then
unless they were like right in the
middle of it just don't even sort of
contemplate it and you know Atrios was
tweeting some of this stuff and it was
it was dead-on like the media situation
and this is part of the reason frankly
why you know I I took such issue with
the with the comparison of of WMD and
the media in the run-up to the Iraq war
with the media today is that there is so
much more so many more outlets and the
corporate media is the
makes sense to sit but when I like for
instance when I say the corporate media
now right
that is a mabh taxonomy now corporate
media is over here and then there's
literally three other types of media I
could talk about when we would say
corporate media in 2000 that was just
descriptive of the media there were no
alternate there was no alternate media
I mean Democracy Now was existed it was
very small but there was literally no
other media and I don't know that people
fully grasp this the implications of of
YouTube not just in terms of like us
amplifying stories that are on page 8
you know because look in the run-up to
the the the Iraq war
I mean I'd still have my my folder from
when I went on to FM you and did the
first majority report in February of
2003 and I have a fold a binder full of
stuff that were that you know reports
from McClatchy maybe one or one other
outlet or two that made it very clear
the case for weapons of mass destruction
was was bogus but there none of that
stuff got any exposure outside of page 8
on you know some papers and some papers
right and the entire media because it
would be redundant to say the corporate
media at that time the entire media was
towing that line the opposite line and
literally the only voices of dissent
within that media that were allowed to
go on were Janeane Garofalo
and and ultimately two or three other
actors Mike Farrell who was unmask
I mean this is this is just the reality
of and the reason why and particularly
jeanine because you can see it now with
the way that they demonize aoc after
going through Pelosi Pelosi is not
effective anymore we're gonna go to AOC
we're gonna go to alon omar we're gonna
pick out a woman young woman outspoken
best catnip for for cable television
particularly then and now specifically
ALC I mean Fox I would say and they
would only allow Janine on she was
recruited by wind without war they would
only allow Jeanine on because they could
easily dismiss her and she took a lot of
care to change her wardrobe to to dress
up and in a way that made her look like
almost like a businesswoman in these
instances and knowing full well she
would get a huge amount of abuse and
push back on this and this is in the
run-up to the war and there was
literally no outlets that would even
raise any dissent whatsoever I think
Donahue had a show briefly on MSNBC but
that entire outlet that was Scarborough
country and it was is it true that he
was you know they got rid of him because
yeah if he were stance and that's the
story I've heard that I I I that is the
sense I mean you look how do you ever
establish this is there a memo that says
the Shoreham because but know that it
broadly understood is as as the case I
remember and I won't say your name she's
not involved in politics anymore as far
as I can tell but she I think worked at
MSNBC and was feeding some information
into a group and this is back in oh four
and when Frank Luntz worked at MSNBC and
that you know it was owned by GE I had
51% of that I mean so there are they
they might argue interest I think the
largest military manufacturer
the country pretty close certainly top
five and so people just don't appreciate
that they it nevermind like you know
there was just simply you know now we
can talk about figures who offer a
contrarian view on you know within a
narrow subset of views like right it's
not just left and right it's like we
have we have halls who impact the
national discourse there was no Twitter
there was no there was nothing there was
nothing and I don't think and they were
you would see a lot of reporting on the
burning of the Dixie Chicks albums
because one of the Dixie Chicks on tour
in Germany said we're embarrassed at the
president United States and there was
book there was album burnings where you
had Ari Fleischer in the wake of 9/11
telling people they better watch what
they say uh the and he was you know just
as libertarian then as he is now maybe a
little more so even Bill Maher was fired
because of saying of questioning the
narrative about 9/11 not it wasn't a
truther he was just simply saying like
people are saying these guys not brave
they flew there themselves into airplane
into buildings that's pretty brave yeah
I mean that's basically the okay and so
what implications does that have for the
issues around the Russia coverage now
well it has every implication it seems
to me because it's not it's simply not
well it's two things one is is that that
coverage and that mentality is dominated
with in Washington and that's why I
guess where I was going with this with
with with John is that you can actually
talk about the conventional wisdom
within Washington and it has less
relevance now than it did twenty years
ago because there's a whole nother
ecosystem you know a network of
communication outside of what is
dominated on cable television
there's also a whole nother
mechanism so you can operate outside of
that which is not to say it to the
exclusion of that but you can you can
actually maintain a career outside of
that and that is dramatically different
both as a politician and as a media
figure you can operate outside of that
and it still and I mean oddly enough the
only people who are still influenced by
that I think are half of the Democratic
Party or three-quarters of the
Democratic Party think that that and yes
and and if you talk to people and you
know you phrase this guy's not around as
much anymore but he wrote up I think was
called twelve bankers it was he was a
critic of the recovery Simon Johnson he
taught at MIT anyways but he had this
phrase called cognitive capture right
like intellectual corollary to just
outright money corruption and I think
that's what you're talking
when wiggler had that quote I keep
referring to it in the Paul Waldman book
I think it was it just sort of they
Democrats largely largely because of the
largely because of sorry the the
Democrats largely because I think the
Democratic base for a long time
wanted compromise and that's changed and
we can see that reflected in the polling
but for a long time the reason why
Democrats compromised all the time was
because that's what their voters wanted
I mean you could see it in the polls
Republican voters would say no
compromise and Democratic voters would
see compromise and so they were more
susceptible it seems to me to what you
know not necessarily Chuck Todd but
those before him who are on Meet the
Press I can't remember his name now Oh
russer russer yeah they were more apt to
be influenced by what Tim Russert was
saying than what was happening out in
the world
and that is becoming less and less true
it seems to me now there are there
people who still do that yes but you
know the thing is with the with the the
so-called Russia gate coverage yes Adam
Schiff gets on MSNBC all the time and
half the three-quarters of the people
who are on there all former prosecutors
yeah
believe me nobody has more of a problem
that myself because you know I I have
less to do and nobody's talking politics
but the and also broader problems in
your own career trajectory right just
just good just to help you out there
frankly I'm happy I got to go I would
totally John Britain but I'm put it this
way I'm completely aware of it and
conscious of it but it's also there is
no indication that this became this
influenced the Democratic Party in terms
of way they ran in 2018 every reporter
we've talked to out there said the
biggest argument was Medicare was was
well you can't see this the polls
started see you know there's a broader
argument to be had about this which i
think is me beginning overdone but I I
did to that specific point because we do
have some disagreements on this but
that's that specific point Chris Murphy
of all people was on TV in early 2017 I
want to say maybe in 2016 and he said
like very diplomatically to a Russia
question like yeah with all due respect
this isn't really what people are asking
me about town halls and as soon as you
saw that the I think that's in some ways
that's why I'm most concerned it's
almost the conversation and that's what
that's why in some ways I'm more
concerned you know I'm Mike I am very
very very into the media critique but I
think you're right from a congressional
campaign standpoint except for you know
there were specific races like I think
what's his face that really crazy guy in
Orange County lost because of this Bob
Barker yeah but he had his own like
weird connections to like Oleg arcs
directly independent of any right stuff
but as a national campaign was on health
care it was a health care issue and
um it reversed themselves they didn't
even run on Trump is disgusting and
release tax returns they ran actually
pretty standard-issue Democratic pie
it's very hard to argue I mean you can
say that it is you know that there are a
lot of people who are disappointed who
watch MSNBC who are disappointed and I
agree yes and there's a media critique
but again I think the stakes of the
media just broadly speaking on any topic
of the of the cable of cable news being
heavily invested in something is much
less than it was back when that was the
only media and you can see it in so far
as the behavior of the Democratic Party
yes it's true atom shift has made a
career out of it and that can be
assessed and judged but frankly I
haven't even spent the time to care
about it and I do this on a daily basis
and it has not hurt our numbers to not
talk about it
it helps actually I think it's just that
it is indicative of how little influence
its had within I'm not saying has had
none and it certainly it's become like a
sort of a you know a mimmish thing and
culturally but it's not like you know
it's not like people aren't driving in
their cars and you know we we don't hear
our stories like we've heard stories of
guys driving up to you know someone of
brown complexion going like get out of
this country in this net you don't hear
a lot of those stories of bloods it's
liberals that are in time ago like you
you you just stop into fear and I'm
gonna go get my NPR topic in his own UI
I don't know that's but but the the well
there's a huge amount of but but all of
that is a very very long detoured way of
saying to John I think that the
evolution and the progression of the way
that our politicians
our influenced is changing and that is
why you get someone like a OC and why
they go after Omar Elon and it alone oh
my and it does not work in the way that
it would have worked I mean first of all
I don't know that she could get elected
Congress ten years ago but if by uh by
chance she was there that would have
been far more effective than it is now
you know not just because a change on
the perception of Israel but because of
the change in like how much what happens
in Washington is actually reflective of
what's happening at when brian schatz
I don't even remember what his bill was
but it was for maybe college or
something it was some nice liberal bill
but they asked him to score it and he
was like no like I'm not doing that was
like think that was a year ago that was
another pretty significant cycle to so
it seems like there's been a bit of lag
time then in terms of who's losing faith
in corporate media would you say like
conservatives have sort of retreated
into that well it's definitely still
corporate they like Fox but they have a
bubble and they don't trust the
mainstream media and progressives now
too are starting to trust the mainstream
media less and also just care less what
happens on cable news I mean I just
think that it's III think that the
distrust in the media has been pretty
pronounced for years I mean that that
was the case a decade ago and you know
it's conceivable that there was a missed
opportunity I think it's fair to say you
know like the a III think there are show
maybe show on MSNBC broadly speaking
that if every show was modeled after
that we'd have a much more informed
electorate on the you know sort of
center left to the left
without a doubt if that but I also am
quite convinced that if that was the
case they may not be there it'd be weird
to me to think of like anything on cable
to to be
appointment viewing for the left at this
point for me I eat just also I mean just
I mean I don't have any particular
inside information there's a big public
record as to where MSNBC wanted to go
and thought they were gonna go following
you know in the 2016 election and I
think they were attempting to go there
you could see it in the context of their
hires right I mean people forget that I
can't remember her name now but was from
you know there was one or two Fox
castoffs and two megyn kelly and also
the other one the legal one what's her
name gretchen Greta Van Susteren people
forget she was on at 9:00 p.m. or 8:00
p.m. or 10 p.m. on or 7 p.m. on Fox and
they brought her over at MSNBC she's
really talented you can't if I could
boil this down then is what you're
saying that like the assertion that you
are covering the Russia story at all or
giving it any credence for your own like
career that that's just ridiculous and
also when when when me and Michael and
Matt get accused of that that it's even
more ridiculous well at the the III
didn't even mean to address that but
it's also indicative of why it has
nothing to do with me per se it's just
like why I think the the media critique
I think in terms of the Russia coverage
is perfectly valid I think the stakes of
it are different than they would have
been 10 15 years ago because the the
cable news media just simply does not
play the same role in society that it
used to that's just I think indisputable
yeah but just like the idea that we are
incentivized to think that anything
happened with Russia by the desire to be
on MSNBC or have a career or whatever
that's like clearly false I I can't even
imagine people really actually said that
oh yeah well that's really because well
I'm taking money from proper not so yeah
yeah well I mean yeah I I don't know I
just think there's well yeah let's get
into another territory I can tell you
that I mean in terms of my country our
the the four or five appearances and
maybe it's down to three even that I
make a year on Bob's Burgers Dwarfs
anything I would ever anticipate yeah
but Larry Murphy has pretty strong bias
about Russia that is necessary I get
those names by the way it helps a man
it's helped him on on Bob's Burgers but
like but I think like as an example like
I agree a hundred percent about the role
of people not just on MSNBC but on all
of the cable networks who are former
intelligence and military people
dominating the airwaves and I think like
frankly you could correlate that with
you know programs between the CIA and
Hollywood to cooperate in movie making
like AI think there's incredibly fertile
ground for all sorts of critiques of the
militarization of our media and society
which if that's your launching point to
get you that's a whole book that your
talent is smart and you can find that
book yes
fifteen years ago no I know literally
absolutely I think I interviewed I think
somebody who wrote that book maybe it's
even the context of bin Laden's killing
to context of bin Laden you don't even
see it in the context of like stupid low
stakes movies where it's like oh but
they're using all this military
equipment right and all of them you know
like if you it was even talking like on
a pop-culture level like that's not I
mean I think like that's indicative of
it that's a a problem that is not a
function of not a photo Russia's not no
it's a no I think Russia gate had big
problems and I think they're mostly
symptomatic versus you know causal and I
think that is another analytic
difference
let's hear Mick Mulvaney go and explain
why the Trump administration has to cut
funding to the three Mexican countries
as Fox would call them the rest of us
would refer to them as
Central American countries do that with
let me ask you because the State
Department told CNN yesterday that the
u.s. the Trump administration is going
to cut off aid to the northern triangle
countries the Central American countries
El Salvador Guatemala Honduras your own
border experts in your own
administration say that investing in
those countries is working for instance
in El Salvador
USAID money has gone to El Salvador the
homicide rate has gone down and
migration from El Salvador has gone down
as well isn't this also self-defeating
taking away aid from those countries
ultimately will make the migration
crisis worse
look there's there's there's a lot of
good ways to help solve this problem
Congress could do it
but they're not going to Mexico could
help us do it they need to do a little
bit more Honduras could do more
Nicaragua could do more El Salvador
could do more and if we're going to give
these countries hundreds of millions of
dollars we would like them to do more
that Jake I would respectfully submit
you is not on a reasonable position we
could prevent a lot of what's happening
on the southern border by preventing
people from moving into Mexico in the
first place right but that's AI D money
does is it it is it makes those
countries more stable this is not
according to me this is a 42 experts in
the administration okay about career
staffers but let's talk about let's talk
about that for a second if it's working
so well why are the people still coming
why are these historic numbers again a
hundred thousand people will cross the
border this month alone that is that
that is a crisis it's a humanitarian
crisis it's a security crisis I think
that he's not even here anymore
this guy such a ghoul right like I mean
so decrepid in his soul he's just been
told well first off they know this okay
people the vast majority these people
are not coming to America because it is
the you know a paradise they're coming
to America because their country has
been so destabilized over years there's
so much violence there's so much danger
they are afraid for their in their
families lives and when you invest in
these countries you may
their society better and they are not
they're not pushed out of their own
country for fear and he knows it but
that I mean they don't even have like
the integrity of a full-on race
supremacist who would do anything if it
cost them just a little bit of money to
keep these people out it's the they are
ghouls who know that this is a huge
political driver for them and they want
these numbers so that they can then try
and knock them down and they want to do
it in an authoritarian sort of sadistic
manner like we're gonna pay Mexico just
to stop these people who are literally
running from a Bert it's like literally
it's like a burning house analogy the
wait there's two ways to do it we can
either pour water on the house and make
it not burning anymore or we can just
lock them in and then they won't come
restaurant also there might be you know
because I just want to agree completely
but I want to clarify the kinds of help
we're talking about here because as I
see it in addition to the xenophobia and
the white the ethnic cleansing of
America there is you know the other more
just sort of like violent trend of like
keep labor pools in cheap labor pool
countries and exploit them when there's
you know all geopolitics against them
and there's no freedom of movement yeah
and so it's like that could be the next
steps like yeah and now we're opening up
some new footlocker factories here and
you can't go anywhere you'll be totally
protected while you were right and we
can in why like that is a source of the
alliance between trumpism and the crazy
white nationalist right and the more
traditional conservative a probe
unfettered capitalism right because
there are gonna be undocumented workers
here no matter what people are gonna
make it over the border no matter what
and anything that can marginalize those
people further or make them more afraid
is good for the bosses
meanwhile Mick Mulvaney is out there now
and there this is I I don't know what
drives Mick Mulvaney to think that
opening up healthcare again is going to
be a helpful debate for the Republicans
and I can't imagine there's anything the
Democrats could have dreamt honestly
like I think I think if somebody had
gotten up in the Democratic caucus
meeting when they all got sworn in in
January and said hey I just want to say
guys just wait till the Republic to the
White House tries to repeal and replace
Obamacare again because then we're gonna
this is going to be great for us and
everybody in the room would have gone
like hey newbie have a seat the idea
that they would ever ever reopen this
debate
it would just be astonishing political
malpractice and however Mick astonishing
political malpractice Mulvaney was on
ABC's this week as he's doing his rounds
I want to ask you we are eight and a
half million people that are enrolled in
Obamacare in 2019 you also had another
61 million at the very least who have
pre-existing conditions and I posit for
one second I just want to clarify I
don't know like Carl put it that way
there's eight and a half million who are
enrolled in the in the exchanges I think
that number is up to like eleven and a
half but I don't know where you got the
ain't half in but and then there's
another about ten who are on Medicaid as
part of the expansion of the Affordable
Care Act because that will go to that is
part of the law and so if the whole
thing is deemed in that court case to be
non-separable that will go to and then
of course as Carl makes the point the PP
part of the PPACA
is the patient protection 61 million
people are protected by that provision
specifically on pre-existing conditions
that's why
has such salience because that's
actually now you're talking about a big
chunk of the population that is not
covered by Medicare and Medicaid regular
Medicaid and existing Medicare now
you're talking big numbers now and and
that is just a pure benefit that's not
like we've made it marginally more
affordable and so but continue listing
conditions and have been able to get
health insurance in part because of the
guarantee that they can get health
coverage without you know under
Obamacare but even if they have
pre-existing conditions and also about
six million Americans who are twenty six
and younger are on their parents health
plans because of Obamacare can you
guarantee that if you succeed in court
that all of those tens of millions of
people who have health coverage
guaranteed because of Obamacare will not
lose their coverage I don't yes here's
why let's talk about pre-existing
conditions because it gets a lot of the
attention and rightly so every single
plan that this White House has ever put
forward since Donald Trump was elected
to covered pre-existing conditions every
single plan to that Republicans the
house voted on in the previous Congress
covered pre-existing conditions every
single plan considered by the Senate
covers pre-existing conditions the
debate about pre-existing conditions is
over both parties support them and
anyone telling you anything different is
life's new political you know it's
raining there you go he he's joking it's
April Fool's he's April's he's joking
about that now you don't need to take my
word for it the fact is is that the
pre-existing conditions forces insurance
private insurance companies to basically
destroy their business model which is
let's ensure people who will never use
our product and if they use our product
too much we boot them offer for going
over the lifetime cap limits or the
yearly cap limits or the way that we cut
down on the odds that this person is
going to need our services to make sure
that they're not sick as they enter in
because you know one one-fifth of the
population is you know has had
problems in the past which is a
actuarially a an indicator that they may
have problems in the future and so we
can boot them off and that is that's the
whole game there is you know that you
you need to basically say to insurance
as an institution you can't discriminate
everybody gets it and private insurance
there's no business model for that to
the extent that there is a business
model they have to lay off the costs on
the government so the government has to
subsidize it and that's what's happening
in the exchanges or the employer has to
subsidize it or the government has to
subsidize private insurance by having
Medicare for people at 65 and older
because after pre-existing conditions
age would be the next indicator of your
likelihood of needing health insurance
whether it's prescription drugs or
whatnot and so that's why Joe Lieberman
was all in favor of a 55 and older buy
into Medicare before the ACA because the
business model was broken as the baby
boomers aged the business model became
untenable it was great when all the baby
boomers were thirty and there were less
people who were you know ages 40 to 65
business MA was better but it was
untenable and so this is just a business
that cannot work without government
subsidies and so if we're subsidizing
these companies at one point you're just
like why why why every dollar we give
them we're basically flushing 20 cents
down the down the toilet you wanna tap
into the miracle of the profit motive
Sam I mean it's literally we're flushing
would start kicking in probably more
technically sixteen cents per dollar
down the toilet and getting a subpar
product to boot yeah but what about the
post office they're competing to see who
can rip people off the worst yeah but if
you think about it that is literally
model that's how they were awarded by by
the stock market which then just feeds a
handful of people who whose whose
compensation is a function of that so
people could always decide to not go to
the doctor so if they were good
consumers if they were good consumers
I'm just speaking of which Bernie made a
vow last night and I hope that we are in
a position to play this to Bernie
Sanders and say what about this buddy
yeah I remember
shut up I got it down to 55 percent yeah
what do you want here is Bernie Sanders
the practice going on say station it
tapes and you know the dynamic here is
is is is is great because as the rest of
the field the the majority of the field
of the Democratic primary contenders
move to the left on these questions of
health care and whatnot
Bernie is forced to move to the left and
get more aggressive with what he is
promising and and understand it look the
there's a lot of academic research on
this frankly and it's counterintuitive
but politicians keep their promises they
tend to and because they're it sets the
expectations of their electorate and
sometimes they hedge but more often than
not they just become smarter about what
they promised exactly but this is a
pretty this is pretty straightforward
promise Bernie Sanders on Face the
Nation I want to get to the issue of
health care the president this week said
he wants the courts to strike down
Obamacare the Affordable Care Act but to
be fair senator you want to replace
Obamacare too you wonder
place it would medicare for all this
government Roz you know listen to be
fair it's really the wrong way to to be
relentlessly yeah
to be fair Bernie you seem to have two
legs to beaver has two legs to what's
the difference to be very superficial
about this because it's easier to be
cool endlessly disingenuous it is so
weird that they feel like they have to
structure a question like that but go
back to the beginning ooh the issue of
health care the president this week said
he wants the courts to strike down
Obamacare the Affordable Care Act but to
be fair senator you want to replace
Obamacare too you want to replace it
with Medicare for all this
government-run government finance
programs so if the courts strike down
the ACA does that ultimately help you no
no look yes
Trump has an idea on health care his
idea is to throw 32 million Americans
off of the health insurance they have
doing away with insurance for kids who
are 26 years of age or younger who were
on their parents plans
doing away with the protections that the
ACA has for pre-existing conditions
warrant that means if you have cancer
you have heart disease you have diabetes
if Trump gets his way the cost of health
insurance for you will be so high that
many people literally will not be able
to afford it thousands of people will
literally die that's Trump's health
insurance plan my plans just a little
bit different I think we should join the
rest of the industrialized world
guarantee health care to all people as a
right and the absurdity of the United
States spending twice as much per capita
on health care as any other nation while
our life expectancy is actually going
down and our health care outcomes are
worse than many other countries and by
the way we pay by far the highest prices
in the world for prescription drugs
Margaret let me make a campaign promise
to you and you can repeat this play this
tape over if I'm elected president and
that is if I am elected president
I'm gonna cut prescription
drug costs in this country by 50% so
that we are not paying any more than
other major countries are paying maybe
gonna do that because we will look at
the average costs of prescription drugs
in Canada UK Germany Japan and France
but we will look at their average costs
which are 50% lower than they are in the
United States and we will do that and if
they the problem a suitable industry if
the pharmaceutical industry which made
50 the five major companies made fifty
billion dollars in profits last year
they pay their CEOs outrageous
compensation packages if they don't like
that they will take a look at their
pattern when are you gonna realize your
medicare-for-all plan in this Congress
so you've already got five will go to
deep supporting to do that within the
next couple of weeks next couple of we
are gonna do yes hmm like how she like
making it like she's like digging on
something but you failed at it got you
he gave you a great promise there is a
proposal there's no like there wasn't
even a bad exchange for you just accept
that it was positive instead of negative
I will see your gotcha and raise you
something even better that's like the
other thing about private insurance last
week when Bernie's on his best foot when
he's up in the ante a little bit
absolutely yeah
it's very hard to arm whatever others
once you get out of that like but you're
changing you know you want to change let
me it's like Trump wants to lower the
threshold or lower the number of people
who are eligible for overtime you want
to raise it but you both want to change
it both you know who I hold not I'll
individualize this I'm sure not
big-picture failings of journalism wise
but a specific individual do I hold
responsible for that I cut my teeth
getting a little high and watching Tim
Russert and he was the master of like
but no he you would notice like this was
your position on taxes you said this
about Iraq there was never a thread of
like
is there a difference between uh
supporting and illegal invasion or
opposing one is there is there it was
all you were here now you're there
what's that about that's that was his
shtick
in fact he would say that is my job it's
just to record what they said and read
that back to them but here's the dick
cheney cheney was just like I lied to
you about today I'm doing again I'm
lying but you can you imagine someone a
an announcer you know a host saying okay
your proposal is to lower taxes but to
be fair your opponent wants to raise
taxes okay we do around here anybody
even offering that in Bell that
structure of a question you know to be
fair you guys basically had the same
proposal you want to lower taxes he was
she wants to raise taxes or even frankly
like in the context of this debate you
know you're somebody maybe wants to
raise taxes a bit to provide full
complete no BS coverage for every single
person in this country you on the other
hand want us to pay a bunch of middleman
fees to these companies that aren't
serving us well the best phrase from
that though was when he said thousands
will literally die like you could not
frame it in a more clear way than that
yeah that has been so the first part
where he's just like oh whoa whoa whoa
all right all right I see the
that's coming I personally like the idea
we'll take a look at their patents no
that's the that's you that's
authoritarianism Sam I mean it's a
promise well no the idea is this is like
look really on some level frankly there
should be that that should be the first
place that he's going I mean the the
other argument is is that Bernie should
not be negotiating against himself the
they should not be implying that in any
way you would take a patent reform off
the table if they drop their prices the
patent reform should be on the table
period that should not be taken off the
table and should not be contingent upon
bad acting by the the drug companies but
on Friday night Chris Hayes had a ASEAN
for a town hall on the green new deal on
and here is a OC reminding people that
we basically deserted all of the people
in Puerto Rico 1.5 million losing food
assistance because because and the
ongoing colonisation and resource
extraction of Puerto Rico is not just
going on unabated but has been kicked
into high gear now so it's a nice mix
between sort of colonization and
disaster capitalism I have a version of
just coffee
exactly and here's ALC basically putting
the what happened to Puerto Rico in the
wake of Moorea into perspective you know
on the events of September 11 2001
thousands of Americans died in one of
the largest terrorist attack on US soil
and our National Response whether we
agree with it or not our national
response was to go to war in 1 then
eventually two countries 3,000 Americans
died in Puerto Rico in the aftermath of
Hurricane Maria where is our response
yeah uh none not what we did we have out
of response no vulture funds and paper
and cutting and cutting food assistance
it's just sort of stunning but priming
she needs I mean that's the main reason
I think she actually won I bet if you
really I mean in addition to all of the
hard work but I think that one of the
most potent hits on Crowley forgetting
his name was the fact that he
represented such a heavily puerto rican
district and was a bagman for these
ventures funds out there
I mean that's part of it and I mean I
think like to a certain extent there was
a whole range of factors in terms of who
got mobilized in that election but he
was clearly very comfortable he's gone
on to have a lobbying career landed on
his feet yeah don't worry I've joined
all right there's nothing like playing
some Bruce at the bar after getting it
all expensed I like to loosen up before
I play a couple of tunes and I put it on
my literal gold card it's not the
plastic version it's not the metal one
they have now like my gold cut made out
of gold and away was still competing
with each other goodies keep them busy
keeping keeping the race on a little bit
see which one of us see how we do we
actually have to put some points on the
board here is ASE also commenting on
what I noted earlier which was Fox News
is ongoing search for the latest woman
to demonize on the center-left
anyone left of them ALC is just one
they've there's a there's a writer who
got hired at New York University as an
adjunct professor making I think a full
four figures mid four figures she's
making is my understanding and they have
demonized her and attempting to get her
fired I can't even remember what the
offense was she if I remember correctly
it was I think she said a veteran was a
Nazi sympathizer for having an Iron
Cross on like his shirt or tattoo or
something like that but now she type of
observational abilities that you're
supposed to have in journalism but she I
think in generally issues a fairly good
watcher of the far right and so here's
ALC she's surprised at how
what kind of a fail understand that they
just did a a poll of name recognition
she has something like 80 some odd
percent name recognition on the right
and like 60% on the left which I will
say this
they are inept in many respects but the
fact that they are able to define her to
a generation if she does I mean like
they did this with Clinton to obviously
the politics are not the same but uh but
they did this they there was a 20 or 30
year campaign to demonize her on the on
the right and highly effective I think
to it to a certain extent also one of
those reasons why Clinton was a not a
great candidate a lot of people thought
like oh well she's very experienced at
dealing with these type of attacks but
that's not the way it works it is rather
what it was is her negatives with these
people are not only very very they're
there they're not only extreme they're
deeply deeply ingrained like this is
like this is how you get it into the DNA
of people on the right that ASE is to be
feared despite whatever material
benefits her candidacy wherever that
leads might be offering it's almost it
becomes almost Pavlovian the way and and
and the left needs to figure out a way
of dealing with this you need one of the
the the primary and first order of
business in the context of a campaign
and this is you know you can look at all
of this as an ongoing political campaign
and movement over over you know over
time is to define your opponent first
and they've already got there but
shanshu nevertheless Anshu say
nevertheless it is pretty laughable at
how hard they go at her and fail I just
want to give a little taste of like it
is a 24-hour on on Trump TV it's a
24-hour in the conservative movement
it's 24 hour AOC GND like that's that's
what it is here's a little taste of what
it looks like what is this green New
Deal answer radical and bona mental
socialism a real serious threat to our
way of life absurd socialist manifesto
take green socialist manifesto say
socialist experiment it's like your kids
spew nonsense at you you're like quiet
quiet learn something before you come
back to me he was a bartender like two
years ago he's kind of adorable it's
sort of been the way that a
five-year-old child can be adorable and
she's ranting and raving like a lunatic
they're trying to get rid of all the cap
I support cows and I've got a hundred
channels what a notion cheeseburgers a
milkshake will become a thing of the
past we're gonna ban hamburgers they
want to take away your hamburgers this
is what Stalin dreamt about but never
achieved
you've missed Stalin five-year program
were you expecting that yeah 100% that
well I mean there's they get to 11 it is
next level I didn't expect them to make
total fools of themselves that's a
little bit concerning that she didn't
expect them to make total fools should
profit naive s a little bit nice to get
here that's what whoever is your
pressure
she's like a five-year-old that how she
anticipated you expected a grown-up
response from the GOP yeah people aren't
calling it a a Oct MZ now because Fox
News covers her it's that much no
offense to TMZ no offense to progressive
voice all right we're gonna I want to
play one more clip and then we'll get
back to the phone this empty-headed
chuckle oh no I was actually a different
empty-headed chuckle I was talking about
all right may he'll play two more but I
want to see this talking points turning
points I should say turning points us
Josh Marshall good I mean turning points
USA I have it's the whites country one
of the things with these guys that are
really great is they are so on brand it
is always hammering their core brand
proposition this is an internal like a
corporate retreat for turning points USA
and they brought on Benny Johnson he is
a is he a writer no no he is a turning
points USA official if you recognize the
name you'll recall that he was at one
point a BuzzFeed editor BuzzFeed
politics editor but politics editor and
it turns out that he was plagiarized a
lot of the stuff and so turning points
said oh you sound like our type of guy
cuz we talked to college students a lot
and so things like plagiarism you
understand the call the college
experience and so we're going to hire
these late at night yeah right
Serg so we're gonna hire you as because
we understand being the plagiarist you
are we understand how what your
perspective is on doing you know a lot
of work the busy work so we're gonna
make you chief
what does it position now a creative
officer yeah we're gonna make you chief
creative officer so you can come up with
different ways of plagiarizing things or
something like that but here he is this
is what's they call this a little too
on-the-nose posit this is the opening
comedian I guess is this a comedian or
just like sort of impresario okay as
this somebody this is the the emcee of
tonight Turning Point we know how to get
the best the best people I gotta tell
you ladies and gentlemen without further
ado the one the only Betty Johnson okay
how are we going to talk over that
because we don't want to get caught they
played somewhat unusual yeah yeah you're
guessing
listen
yes amazing oh my god I've never seen so
many white people in one room this is
incredible
that is the best he says I've never seen
so many white people in one room it's
incredible and they start cheering and
their sites not a joke they're confused
because they're like wait a second are
we supposed to cheer for that or they
don't know they can't it's one of those
things where it's like oh I can't even
acknowledge that he made that joke
because it's so planned and then I guess
apparently they're doing some type of
documentary about him or something with
that camera phone yeah yeah but that's
gonna be a very inspiring shot like that
and porn is what away it's disgraced
public figures all right let's play one
clip beto or Roark out on the campaign
trail there's some video out of of him
at the town town Zoning Board meeting
from his days back in El Paso we got to
go through that first before we play it
but here he is and you know he's getting
getting a lot of enthusiasm out there a
lot of the candidates are Bernie's like
getting a lot of enthusiasm Kamala
Warren let's hear what Beto has to say
because that's what the proof is in the
pudding folks the full political
democracy is only possible if we
vigorously pursue a true economic
democracy every child every man every
woman in this country must be able to
see a future for themselves in this
country otherwise this country will have
no future
as a democracy that means that this
extraordinary unprecedented
concentration of wealth and power and
privilege must be broken apart an
opportunity must be shared with all stop
stealing my share why Paul I mean the
you know the rhetoric is you could pull
it apart the rhetoric is you know
there's some platitudes there you know
the here's the thing is that at the end
of the day the the real trap here is to
talk about opportunity because it means
essentially like no structural reform it
means that there's really no way to
measure if you've succeeded
right because conceivably everybody has
opportunity now the only way you can
assess whether people don't have
opportunity is to look at the relative
change in outcomes and even then that's
a a mushy metric you just simply can't
because look I mean my argument like
everybody has the opportunity to do what
I'm doing here they're just the reason
why they're not doing it is because
they're not smart enough and they're not
talented enough and whatnot and I can
assure you that is not the case which
one you want to steal from me or the old
Joe plagiarist what do you think he
thinks economic democracy means it
sounds like a good line to use like
speech I think he answers it yeah
opportunity opportunity that is
literally not what that means well well
that's right I think that's exactly
right I mean it sounds good it sounds
good it sounds like what Bill Clinton
said in the nineteen nineties II think
where if you work hard and play by the
rules you should be able to raise your
family it's the same message there's not
there is no change the basic message
structure or ideological presupposition
yeah I mean I guess the issue is that
the words he is saying do not mean much
of anything well there's also the
problem of the Cold War which is that
democracy became synonymous for
capitalist democracy absolutely there's
also problems of branding like if you
look at like like even books on like
ran strategy from like the 90s and the
arts it was super trendy to like you
know even use language from like maoism
and like apply it to creating like a
social marketing campaign I think it's I
think it's possible for us to sort of
like over dwell on this stuff but the
but but the the point is is that there
needs to be real proposals that are on
the table that define for us what he
means by that rhetoric and that is
ultimately the problem is that I'm sure
we could find clips of Elizabeth Warren
saying something similar and we could
find clips of Bernie Sanders saying
something similar and we could find
clips of Joe Biden saying something
similar the the problem for for beto is
that we could find all those clips of
those various people but then we could
look at their policies and to assess
directly as to how you know what those
words ultimately mean and for some Joe
Biden in the past it meant things like
empowering credit card companies to make
sure that you couldn't escape your debts
or empowering loan institutions that
made sure that like you your student
debt couldn't be discharged or but for
someone like Elizabeth Warren or Bernie
Sanders it means we're gonna start
producing generic drugs and as a
government or we're going to do patent
reform so absolutely true but we should
say that every time that bado has
indicated on this any time he gets close
to policy it's usually not good so it's
the extent he ever does get specific
it's a bad signal and I got to say like
I'm not into the Buddha jig thing at all
but it's very clarifying to have him in
contrast with bado because he really is
making like even he in his interview he
had recently he said that because of his
age which is a very interesting
generational argument that he's out of
that Cold War mindset that Matt was
I'm about essentially and he's not
certainly not a socialist he's not even
particularly left what he's
triangulating actually and he's saying
well we're the generation that actually
understands that capitalism and
democracy clearly have tension and he's
banking a very different argument to get
out of it but I'm just saying like
having him there really reinforces not
only how empty Beto is but that when
Betty
Beto goes to his comfort zones it's to
the right and it's not even really a
triangulation between left and right in
the modern Democratic Party it is not
democratizing our economy to propose to
cut Social Security I can just tell you
that those liked by any definition of
the word that would not be the case
now I he's obviously I don't think he's
promoting this on the campaign trail I
don't know where he is on Social
Security maybe he's talking about
expanding it but I'll tell you something
that is quite a turnaround six years
seven yes it's also not democratizing
the economy to expect people to pay ten
percent of their income for health care
what about 9.5 let's go to the phone's
calling from a 509 area code where who's
this where you come from hi I'm calling
from Seattle Ethan what's on your mind a
week ago Matt had mentioned that he was
interested in people calling in or
mentioning any organizations that dealt
with prison literacy and now's a good
time because the lossing here in
Washington the Department of Corrections
just very quietly rolled out with almost
no effect no media coverage it I've seen
a policy where they are no longer going
to accept used books for prisoners they
so any books that prisoners or
incarcerated people in the state
received to read must be new and so um
Wow obviously I can only speculate I
think I sort of heard that you know much
like they privatized a lot of phone call
system so like if you want to talk to
your family or like you know any
outbound phone calls have been
privatized and so they kind of squeeze
prisoners for money on that end
or you know perhaps they have like a
like a prison commissary
you know in fairness the um the
statement that you know the
rationalization in the memo on the
Department of Corrections website is
that it's a security issue and so I I
wanted to call mention it because I'm
not affiliated with the organization but
I volunteer there there's a nonprofit
called books to prisoners and I want to
thank Matt for retweeting them last week
but I volunteer there and you know
they're they're kind of counter
statement was that you know books to
prisoners has been around for 1973
providing donated books to incarcerated
people without incident they've donated
tens of thousands of books over the
years and there's not been a security
issue obviously you know you can't you
know some like a map around the prison
or or you know like a wired notebook or
something that nature but but um but
it's an issue and you know it feels very
punitive and so I just kind of wondered
if you if you live in Washington I just
kind of wanted to point people towards
the organization you can find them on
Twitter at at b2p Seattle if you're
interested in volunteering if you have
court-ordered volunteer service hours
you need you can you can do that there
they also have sister organizations in
Portland Olympia and Spokane if you're
interested in the ban if you find it
offensive as I do because you know
literacy is an important part of
rehabilitation and reduces recidivism I
encourage you to organization or excuse
me I encourage you to volunteer at the
organization if you live in Washington
and they also need donation of books
they do donate nationally so uh please
check out their website at books to
prisoners net and as I said their
Twitter feed okay great we will like the
quitter we'll put that on well we'll put
book two prisoners on on the site and
we'll try and retweet their their
Twitter feed I appreciate it
thank you can I say one more thing yeah
I let you go yeah I'm also James Lee our
governor is running for president he's
generally been pretty progressive on
issues like this
his office can be contacted at three six
zero nine zero two four one one one and
we appreciate all the support okay
thanks man
appreciate the call Colin from a13
excuse me a three one three area code
who's this hello can you hear me yes I
can
who is this where you call this is on my
name is Nader I'm a palestinian-american
calling from Detroit
hello Nader what's on your mind um so
Michael is sort of well-versed in this
as well
um so basically growing up I'm gonna
speak about the palestinian-israeli
conflict but the broader issue at large
oh so growing up my parents told me that
our house got taken away from us and
there's nothing we can do about it and
it's all we should just move on so where
did you ever really thought about it my
sister where did you live
oh I lived I lived in a village called
theta half the village guy expelled to
the West Bank in Jordan and other half
got expelled to Gaza okay sorry
okay I'm sorry I'm just kind of nervous
I understand oh oh yeah so I never
really thought about the conflict much
until I was 18 when the 2014 Gaza
conflict happened and I saw people who
like look like me share my culture and
everything and I saw a talking point
going around about how human shield so
Palestinian they were pissed he
attempted the humanization basically
thing like Palestinian mothers and
parents don't care about their children
so I was really frustrated obsessed I
wanted to learn about how the conflict
started so I went back to the 1800s and
I started studying the conflict and I
was kind of shocked to learn um when I
got to the 50s and 60s I got to the Arab
cold war and that's when I basically
realized what is going on or the
palestinian-israeli conflict is sort of
in your intertwined with the Middle East
at large
um so I think basically what I'm trying
to say is all what I learned that
America essentially controls right now
are most of the Gulf states excluding
Yemen it controls Egypt
it controls Jordan and the country they
didn't have control of they tried to get
control of which was Libya Iraq Syria
Lebanon is time today during the Civil
War but right now there's sort of like a
imagine a 30 year Mexican standoff it at
the moment and the only country that
basically independent of American
control is uh kinesia
it's uh yeah justjust Tunisia and its
own country that independent and I don't
have to get the moment so basically what
I learned is instead of speaking about
the testing is really conflict I think
it's kind of fruitless if we don't speak
about the bigger picture imperialism at
large yes I get it I mean I think that's
I mean I think that's a good point I
think you know this I think that has in
many respects been the dynamic in the
second half of the twentieth century and
a big part of it at that time was also
the Cold War right where Israel for the
United States was a beachhead or a like
a firewall to make sure that Russia or I
should say at the time the Soviet Union
could not yeah have hegemony over that
area I mean look the bottom line is this
it was a very sort of glib thing to say
or easily dismissed when it came to the
Iraq war but the bottom line is the
United States it's not just a question
it's not a question of wanting cheap oil
it is wanting to have the ability when
push comes to shove to control the flow
of oil out of it it is it is not look
it's like this when I have a party on a
Thursday night
and I got a keg I'm just putting in the
Thursday night keggers I want to have my
buddy
pumping the keg and holding the the
spigot that's a rock - and it's not it's
not because that guy's gonna drink all
the beer or I'm gonna drink all the beer
it's just like I don't want those jerks
coming from that other dorm and coming
and drinking our beer so I want to
control the keg I want to control and
that's basically what our strategy has
been and and and look there's other
elements to it I don't think it's just
exclusively that because a lot of this
but very quickly in the and the
formation of Israel there was and maybe
maybe tick you know it took some time
for the United States to come around and
realize that this was going to be you
know a yes and no political yeah and
right I mean you're talking nineteen
twenty years and I think to a large
extent because there was a sense of you
know you still had sort of the the
colonial influence on that on that
region and it wasn't quite I think it
took a while for both of the the cold
powers to the Cold War power is to sort
of like start to exert influence in the
region
but I also think that in this funding is
oh go ahead I'm sorry people keep
talking about today but they keep acting
as if the Cold War was something that's
past and it doesn't have any effect
today because I understand today
um sudah and aegis he basically he was a
successor of Nasser but he managed to be
Palma he he basically all lay online
with America imperialists and they got
subsidized subsidized by America so as
it stands right now these treaties even
though the citizens they still like for
example Egypt set up a pipeline to sell
natural gas to Israel in Egyptians they
advertise that pipeline 15 times until
the government just gave up so even
though people are saying the Gulf states
are becoming closer with Israel it's
more of the despots are ruling
for those governments they're the ones
that are making ties with Israel but the
actual citizens themselves all over the
Arab world still pull over 80 percents
and I want any ties so what I'm trying
to say is once the Arab world actually
gets real representation on this
conflict isn't just going to disappear
in a couple years or a hundred years I
know Israel's run out right with it
listen the only thing I will tell you is
that I think and I don't I don't know
this good I haven't looked at the
polling a long time but I am quite
convinced if you went back 30 years 40
years in the polling from now right if
you went back to like 1980 you would see
a very different polling in terms of the
people I think that the leadership of of
all these countries have done I've been
quite effective in creating animosity
amongst its civilian populations I mean
when I mean I remember in the early 80s
the complaint was the government's you
would hear that quite a bit and now I
don't remember you know looking at the
data but I think I think if you were to
go back would be interesting to check it
out but appreciate the phone call I did
good job thanks to the call and this is
the same guy who just last week said you
have failed to a caller which is
beautiful well he set it up like I'm
gonna do X Y or Z and whoever you are I
really hope that was a prank phone call
because that was awesome was genius
caller who's this 509 hey Sam this is
Ronald Reagan Oh Ronald Reagan how's it
going it's going good how are you doing
good
hey did you see the story about the
family behind Panera Bread and like
Einstein bagels
cristy cream dance you hear about this
story wait say again the yeah so the
there's a family that owns all these
companies right and it turns out they've
got ties to the third reich oh okay is
that a big deal yeah well I mean I just
I mean it seems like a big deal they
donated a bunch of money to charity when
they it was discovered that you know
they're Nazis that they used to be but
um just kind of like unrelated I found
out over the weekend that David Pakman
was born in Argentina and I thought
that's weird
what kind of name is pac-man right
pac-man pac-man so do a little research
pacman it turns out is a German name
right so you know German born and I'd
heard that pac-man is Jewish so are you
actually suggesting in addition to a
very disturbing familial history some
stolen valor here well I just want to
say like you know it's bad enough that
we have to worry about intellectual
property theft but now we have questions
about all right the left is eating
itself
just a reminder folks calm and comfort
by sharper image calm and comfort by
sharper images the luxurious weighted
blanket that's designed with
high-density comfort Phil to promote a
sense of calmness for a restful night's
sleep the calm and comfort weighted
blanket comes with a 90-day anxiety free
best nights of sleep of your life
guarantee from sharper image right now
our listeners can go to calming comfort
blanket calm use the promo code majority
at checkout to receive $15 off the
displayed price again that's calming
comfort blanket calm
promo code majority because you can't
put a price on a great night's sleep all
right we'll get time for one more phone
call then we'll do some Iams you come
from a 6-1 to area code who's this where
are you calling from
six one two hello hello hello hello hi
Brenda how are you hey I'm doing pretty
good how are you good what's up I just
before I say anything I just want to I
just want to note that in my entire work
history I have always been on time and
never had six days sick days oh there
you go blue way don't wait to be asked
where I have no respect that anyway
anyway the other day was trance
visibility day and and so I wanted to
address a couple of things maybe a month
or two ago you had a transphobic caller
come in and the way you've handled that
caller was simply an excellent example
of how to handle that kind of trans
caller and instead of for instance
putting him on your your your podcast
you simply hung up on him and I think
that you could cut that call and and
publish it on YouTube as a PSA on how to
handle transfer the caller's and not
give them a five minute a spot
on your on your YouTube channel how
about that
well are you thinking I'll somebody in
particular I am I am I don't need to
know okay I don't need to know how
people refer to me because I already
know and and I don't appreciate you know
it doesn't help anything when people do
that okay I'm sorry for the language I
got a little bit more agitated than I
anticipated myself well I mean I can
understand I mean you know the it's not
like there's not an opportunity for
people in our society
to to to express bigotry towards trans
people we see it all over the place and
it is I think you know to the extent
that there is a there's not a lot of
bigotry that is you know okay in society
as much anymore but trans bigotry
towards trans folks I think is like one
where there's still not enough frankly
societal you know disdain for that type
of bigotry and so yeah I don't need to
hear somebody explain to me you know I
can i can switch topics a little bit
here another talking point on the right
it is about the X X versus X Y
chromosomes you're always emanuel ways
will be type of thing the PZ Myers who
is a developmental biologist has a
youtube presence and has a video
recently released on why the right wing
talking meme about you're always a man
and always will be because you have XX
or XY chromosomes and he pretty much
goes through the biology of that and
explains why this is not actually really
as important as people think basically
everybody has an X chromosome women have
two X chromosomes one of which gets like
deactivated and males have a Y
chromosome which has influence in early
development and then is pretty much
pretty much inactive for the most part
for the rest of your life so when you
look out on the street you shouldn't see
people who have xx and XY you should P
people who have X chromosomes and that's
pretty much it the human females have an
extra chromosome that got
activated and the human males have a
y-chromosome that is pretty much
inactive for the rest of their lives
we're all we're all created by X
chromosomes and sexuality in humans it
is not something that is like decided by
your your your DNA it is heavily
influenced by environmental factors and
even cultural or social factors and I
would encourage people to look up PZ
Myers video obviously explains it far
better than I can
it is it would be a useful thing for
people to learn so that they could
counter this meme that oh well we're all
we're all either male or female and
that's just that's just it is just a
binary thing and that solid it biology
isn't a solid as we like to think it's
you know beautiful I mean I gotta say
Brenda like you know I I also think that
the idea that there are there's a
movement of biological purists out there
you know what I mean just seems
ridiculous to me like like you don't
like you don't hear people rail against
I mean you know and what you're saying
in terms of the chromosomes and the
science I I have no reason to doubt but
I also I don't feel like it's necessary
for me to even to frankly to educate
myself on that beyond maybe it is for me
you know as you know someone who does
this rhetorically and and and and and be
in this position and I might have that
debate but as a society we don't hear
people who are you know are so concerned
about biological integrity that they
rail at the idea that people would color
their hair or that people would you know
you know changed their eye color with
contact lenses or this at it is just
bigotry that is they they will use
biology in the same way that bigots have
used biology in
the past to justify a societal bigotry
that they have one that is really just
comes from a place of hate and an
imposition of their own moral values I
just don't even accept the idea that we
should be compelled to to make
biological of physiological arguments as
to why trans people should not be
discriminated against
like that's just now and I you know and
I and I I mean and I'm saying that as
you know to the extent that I think
that's a position that laypeople should
have like and maybe I'm not a person I
should be more you know read in to these
type of arguments but I just think that
the I just think that those people who
are making biological arguments in this
way I doubt their sincerity that's
that's I guess what I'm saying yes that
it's I think it's just bigotry that is
founded in some type of like you know
fundamentalist vision of the world and
that that vision is is dying out and
it's it is you know it's horrific that
people have to continue to suffer from
this bigotry when it's it really is a
function of we just haven't progressed
enough as a society but I appreciate the
phone call Brenda Brenda have you seen a
great show I so much appreciate your
presence I get stuff from you that I
don't get from any other left-leaning
YouTube channel or podcast and I thank
you very much for everything you
contribute thanks Brenda appreciate have
you seen the new contra points video I
have not really like she goes over some
of the arguments made by trans
exclusionary radical feminists and just
like takes them apart piece by piece
it's very good my problem what Koch
points is I just don't have her her
theatrical Flair and and I don't have
her back
in academia so I have to find a way to
distinguish myself in other ways so
alright I'm a little bit jealous I'm a
little bit jealous of her it takes all
kinds to make a world and you know what
don't underestimate yourself
okay hi bye bye alright folks I am sorry
that is it that is all the time we have
for phone calls today I know we've had
people hanging on the line for 94
minutes the tops let's go through some
items and then we'll get out of here
we're running late today Mac Matt sex PO
cap Matt Matt's expose cap Oh max oh
okay all right
Matt's Expo cap all right big fan of the
show a Trump will be in Southern
California on Friday in my home town of
Calexico California I want to encourage
people from socha from SoCal to greet
them with eggs only if it's not
considered too violent left is best
water boat from Kashmir Michael Tracy is
a schmuck nay is the worst kind of
schmuck a lazy unprofessional schmuck
Brock from VA April Fool's is not
telling us Michael left majority report
after that schmuck caller exposed Sam's
complicity in Russia gave Friday also
Chiron is exactly how Fox viewers view
the rest of the world below Texas v spa
what's up with a debate with destiny are
you guys going to join him have we
gotten an email yet okay I don't know if
I fully understand it but uh we'll
eventually get there redbull enthusiast
Sam I'd like to ask Jamie what it was
like working with Ben Stiller if she's
in reference to a tweet from a hater
calling me a dime-store
Janeane Garofalo I believe and you know
what I'll take it a square Sam thought
you would do a Russia gate Jimmy door
April Fool show today love the Dixon
Judy gold combo Friday
Emma always gives me life Mike good
interview attire B but it led me
to his interview with reason guy with
the black leather jacket that's the free
market Fonzie arguments my first apology
for anything on my show then I'm sorry
for that algorithm the Fonzie guy is
still around
Oh Sam before you interview Taibbi would
be good listen certainly appreciate some
of the Toby's points but it was also so
perplexed at his explanation of what
what was clear a female objectification
in his past writing it's almost to the
end of the interview is huge
disappointment
Steve cedar more people don't speak out
about the Biden thing because most
people are his victims most of his
victims are children
what Maxine Waters good afternoon Sam
you heard you to debate with debate
Michael Tracy was disappointed in your
performance if that little punk came at
me like he you'd have left the debate in
a body bag you come with the Queen you
better not miss pajama boy hey Sam I
watched Elsie Gabbard getting
interviewed on t YT and found barely any
redeeming qualities am I missing
something I haven't seen that interview
Chris verdict the number one reason you
should be skeptical of Michael's medical
paperwork under attending physician it
names dr. Sebastian Gorka Vince Foster
is Michael Tracy the source that Marcy
disclosed to the FBI I doubt it
I asked because even Taibbi spoke to the
Russian spy lawyer so maybe these
borderline trolls have more at stake
come on that's Rick Scott latest example
of the Smoot Court Tracey's thing about
the origin of the investigation is red
herring
they haven't justified the premise it's
at all relevant
who cares if it started with a tip
called in to the Home Shopping Network
the investigation immediately began
uncovering serious facts I don't know
where the what was the impetus of the
investigation for the the intelligence
investigation criminal one pound that'll
be a good question to ask Marcie who
actually reads into this stuff
Winnipeg Craig three words to describe
Michaels reason for visiting the
hospital jumped by Canadians Communist
dolphin
wasn't a spa day I was at the hospital
incremental ISM based on fear of Jamie
Peck is the only way forward DSA 2020
Jonathan Armstead Sam don't apologize to
getting upset at Michael Tracy he did
something that irritated me when talking
about marcy wheeler he mocked how she
was afraid that violence would come to
her because of her reporting on russia
we don't know what marcy knew but with
trump sending thugs to shake down stormy
Daniels that's true that is actually
true we can't discount that possibility
this type of gas lighting making women
doubt their own experience isn't
something that people with his politics
should be practicing well look there's a
story in The Times about an inside look
into the assassination attempts from the
Russian government at different things
and just like dragging on someone for
admitting that she feared for her safety
is utterly distaste I don't know that
she was afraid of getting killed I think
she was afraid of perhaps like somebody
hacking into her her site and posting
you know pictures ostensibly of like who
knows what I mean you know I don't know
anything about Marcy but everybody has
stuff that they would not be made wanna
made public who knows TM and I imagine I
imagine
Michael Tracey does to TM BS is my jam
Sam awesomesauce show I get a show car
so far for the recuse rabbit named
Darryl the family reviewed many do dork
forever I'm not a hundred percent sure
but what you're talking about
Helen from Troy tyranny I have to agree
with Michael trace here Sam points out
the Marcy wheeler interviews amounted
just three episodes of the 600 since the
mauler investigation kicked off but that
a half a percent represented a giant
mammoth overwhelming least Aguilar and
mind-boggling tidal wave of distraction
from mrs core program of devoting the
entirety of every episode to a
pathetically steamrolling brandon Straka
i know who brendan Straka is hi Rand
Paul Ryan did you guys watch any of the
Alex Jones deposition with the Sandy
Hook lawsuit it's over three hours long
so don't blame me if you haven't watched
but I can email you some timestamps if
you want highlights yes do
terney Andrew sup Mike on reparations
than William dirty piece forty acres and
a mule in the 21st century estimates the
proper accounting of the money owed from
slavery was somewhere one point three
four trillion in addition he estimates
that black Americans lost out on roughly
one point six trillion based labor
market discrimination between twenty
nine sixty-nine all these dollar amounts
from 2008 said likely be higher now the
estimates do not account for land and
housing policy during the Jim Crow Area
era which I would guess is higher than
one point six trillion due to labor
discrimination so for a full accounting
reparations that need to be close to a
five to ten trillion dollar payout now I
think this gives us a better way of
framing the question of reparations to
dem candidates not just do you favor
reparations but how do you favor
transferring or paying out at least five
trillion dollars to black Americans do
you think Julian Castro wants to push
that about yeah I totally agree with you
and I did actually I read the Dority
priests and I really enjoyed I accept a
borrowed arns view on this and I
guarantee you once you I mean as we are
now there is not gonna be a single
candidate maybe Marianne Williamson who
will embrace the plan the way you just
phrased it but I think you're right and
I think everybody should read the
authority piece I'll take a look but
none of them will I'm still kind of
forming my opinion on reparations I'd be
happy to read it I like the Marissa bar
darn I as well because I think as with
something like Truth and Reconciliation
commissions there's also at just a
broader yeah I don't want to
dematerialize it but there is a cultural
and historical dimension to it as well
it's important in my view but
sub Gorkhas business card could you
summarize the main issues with Adam
Schiff I know he's obviously camera
hungry but what else
what would you say Michael I would say
that if you are the head of the
Intelligence Committee and and I do not
have the help for the last three months
but if you're the the the minority
minority leader that he's spoken again
with a huge amount of surety on and and
not in the capacity of marcy wheeler as
a journalist he's also implying like i
haven't you know when you say
unequivocally that there is collusion
which i believe he's actually directly
said i just think it undermines his
credibility frankly when it when as of
now that is not what has emerged from
the investigation right just think he
should be a lot more careful a lot more
strategic now collusion is not a
criminal i understand so that I know so
Giuliani was the had the most prescient
statement about this at all no no we
made fun of Giuliani when he said you
collision isn't a crime several months
ago well no but I mean that's been
that's been yeah I know her she said
that even in here yeah but I mean what
we made if it was found out that that
the let me ask you this if it was found
out that the Trump administration was
pursuing policies because they thought
it would encourage the Russians to
continue hacking would you consider that
a crime I would imagine that would be
some form of crime I mean I don't think
it is you know maybe the I don't I am
absolute you consider that collusion I
then I would need then I'm I'm not
trying to be pedantic here but then I
wouldn't know and not necessarily I
don't know what that no actually that's
a good question legitimate that's the
thing I'm not trying to be evasive cuz I
don't because I think it but it but I
will say for me even when I've heard him
say these things as somebody who didn't
take them at face value and when you
heard people like Maddow say asset or
even David K Johnson who I think is much
better but he actually said agent and
has since apologized and said he meant
asset rush and so on and actually
his and greenwalls debate and Mehdi
Hasan did a very good job of both
growling him and Maren masse both on his
show but I think there could be a
problem of what this means in a broader
vernacular versus what it means in a
more narrow technocratic sense that's a
valid point but to me someone like Adam
Schiff is in addition to the other
problems I have with him around things
like Yemen which I take a lot more
serious right is primarily identified as
someone who has hyped this and I and I
would say by the way even if we were to
come to the conclusion that this is you
know we'll read the report okay then but
that's just it would have been better to
probably under play how dramatic it was
and wait for a better payoff but that's
just the criminal I understand right I
got that he's the house Intel I
understand so the I get the well then
let me explain it to here the the house
Intel committee could be looking at the
results of an intelligence an
intelligence investigation that could be
radically different from what was
pursued in the context of a criminal
investigation and certainly the measures
of what would be a security threat would
be different than what could be
criminally charged so I mean I think to
a certain extent what he did I think is
maybe just simply overplay things in a
way that he could not deliver even in
the context of even if he's what are you
saying was actually true but by the way
I would say like you I I was like I want
a guy who's head of the Intelligence
Committee is also a lot more skeptical
of the intelligence process as well
because whatever happens with the Steele
dossier I'm not even I'm whatever I'm
not making a comment one way or another
on it the process of how that like
that's not terribly dissimilar from how
these like government agencies do it so
even the idea that like these
intelligence agencies produce something
more analogous to like math or science
is not necessarily at all true here
eating in places maliciously with Iraq
where it's lied about or but even with
Iran I mean Iran is a place that for a
year
it was spoken of as a matter of
empirical reality that they had an
advancement in their weapons program
never constantly undermined and never
demonstrated so even you know again I
would want someone who is less media
hungry I would want somebody who did not
overplay his hand and even if he is
overplaying his hand based off of
intelligence reports I'm wary of that
too frankly I think indicative of like
it's a matter of taste as to how much
else is okay because as well for the
life of me I don't know that I could say
that I have seen one full appearance by
Adam Schiff on any news outlet I don't
know that I've ever watched an entire or
engaged in what he's saying has he
exploited it no the problems we don't
watch cable and though frankly yeah I
mean my own in this room watch stuff my
way of dealing with his damage would be
to go up to someone like Judy gold and
ask them who gave you the most hope in
all this that's leaving you the most
pointed right well I will say well again
that's one of the reasons that I like
the Taibbi critique so much because am I
like touching in on the terrestrial
world of people who have been sitting
and feasting on the stuff all day they
thought that this event would be a form
of salvation and and also thought about
in a highly conspiratorial way and not
in like the money changing hands let's
see how this thread links to this thread
type of thing right an actual like
Saturday I think they should have been
they should be more focused towards
corruption frankly but and then you
would open up now what do you think of
this argument that there were specific
votes that if the Democrats had played
it more low-key had not made it about
Russia John McCain votes like this for
health care yeah that's that was very
persuasive to me made by the John McCain
by the who's I'm health care happened
well at least McCain who was huge into
Russia gate stuff his justification for
voting as health care was all Senate
procedure
that was what he talked about so but
that's one that and I said actually on
the unwove Rose which we titled lock him
up
wasn't I argued about this and the
strongest case that I had for somebody
who was more pro-russia gate than me
which I actually agree because I'm
pretty politically expedient is if you
want if if you could convince me that
this landed body blows on these guys
then great I don't have any probably
think AB I'm I'm not sure by the tab
sent that I think we have I think the
Affordable Care Act it goes down in
flames I think John McCain was so
clearly associated with that stuff I
think that in his mind he's the one who
delivered the dossier he's the one who
delivered exhausted he quoted with
trouble on many other things so I also
just think that it's also this was well
I also think frankly it's part of my
little McCain being a total oh and
wanting without a doubt another couple
of days of attention without a duck
without a duck lock up John McCain's
good I mean but let's say it was I mean
it was it came down to that day and
let's say it was ten percent right like
I'm gonna sink temperature it could
totally have been ten percent and I
honestly you know and it's funny because
I don't I don't want to bring that back
up because I think and so I don't hold
Tracy thing but if you go and look at
the Doomsday Clock thing that people
refer to there is an executive summary
of it now maybe we should demand the
full report actually you probably can
read the full report but it's like an
eighteen twenty page summary of it and
they do talk about stuff with Russia and
they talk about the INF treaty and I am
actually totally open to having a broad
atmospheric argument that this process
does not help conduct a better
relationship with Russia but most that
report is about Iran and North Korea
so in fact napkin I think the peak was
in in 2018 with winter in North Korea
with Korea why are ye thing oh and the
Hawaii thing the false alarm Hawaii
which nobody talks about which is
horrifying so remember there was a day
where we thought like Hawaii I've always
held by I said that from the beginning
yeah you forget about that I I have said
I definitely have said both let's wait
till the report comes out
if this can be used to chop some points
off of Trump's approval that's cool
Declan ater hey Sam
Michael shows his mr dedication by
coming in even after having to go to the
hospitals that cancel out is next for
Michael Monday phonons also I think
Michael should offer a sick note as a
peace offering having not eaten his food
bucket yeah that's the food bucket baby
we've located it it will be happening
soon doe link I agree too much
speculation of Muller coverage need to
address other issues but I spent 20
years as an investigator for attorneys
all right Melbourne Matta were most
meticulous in research with experts in
law government policy explaining legal
filings Melbourne also had Trump
supporters on we don't know the results
yet wait for facts and don't
underestimate the findings it wasn't
wrapped up tied with the bow the right
loves that progressives and other left
are upset about that H a Hoodman how
should we go about determining the
minimum wage when different places have
different price indexes 15 an hour in
San Francisco is nothing versus $15 an
hour in Youngstown Ohio so they get 30
an hour
I think $15 minimum wage should be
baseline and then you can adjust just
upwards in a place like San Francisco in
New York frankly Gregory from Oklahoma
y'all really need to start paying
listeners who defend y'all on Twitter I
defended Sam and Jamie on Twitter this
weekend and my mentions were destroyed
sorry about that for Ben it'll be for
your service if you'd be cool if you had
Glenn Greenwald on to debate the rush
probe not that Jobrani all we had to
suffer from on Friday we're gonna we're
working on the scheduling right now two
more okage achhi sam remember there was
a group of CIA analysts who were
speaking about saying there were no
weapons of mass destruction scott ritter
scott ritter ray mcgovern and bits i can
tell you that Janine was recruited by
Scott Ritter's organization when without
war
that's who basically recruited her to go
on television because she was the only
one who could get on and that dude was
literally speaking and I saw him as a
teenager in the basement of Unitarian
Church yep
uh the final I am of the day
Congressional baseball fan in the spirit
of burying the hatchet I'd like to
extend an offer to michael Tracy let's
go play catch park I promise to take it
easy on you all right folks
see you tomorrow
but I know some
feel any better
yeah no clock is ticking
the choice
yeah
