[Music]
we're and we'll talk about this in the
fun half but there really does seem to
be and I'm not being conspiratorial here
it's quite possible that one entity
takes lead and then others follow
because they all feel that this is this
is the time but there does feel like
there is an attempt by the I don't
particularly like this word but the
establishment of the democratic party to
attempt to heal h ee l not h EI l the
progressive wing of the democratic party
and saying they're gonna bring them to
heel well there I think there's an
attempt to I mean if you look at over
the past several weeks the d-triple-c
announcing publicly that they will not
do any business with anyone who is
working with a primary challenger to
their incumbent candidates now we can we
can argue as to the merits of that or
the appropriateness of that entity doing
that it makes some sense right there
they're basically saying we're gonna
protect our own membership and to some
extent it's been talked about that
they've done this in the past they just
have done it sort of submerged in some
way but the fact that they would make it
such a public statement of it is an
attempt to intimidate and they're well
within their rights of course I mean
this is what political actors do Nancy
Pelosi not defending Ilan Omar and
certainly there are other aspects to
this other than her progressiveness that
is at issue here obviously because she
is a Muslim and there is there's a lot
of donors who are highly sensitive to
Muslims saying things who would that
they perceive as being anti-semitic
well the
they love Muslims when they can use them
in photo ops but then when they have
well then you know damn agree we're
talking about the establishment
Democrats because ALC is Democrat sure
okay
so the so the we have that example of a
lawn Omar and instead of rallying around
Alon Omar what the Democratic
establishment and leadership does is
open the door for more attacks from
Donald Trump and the you know the the
Crenshaw guy we also have that
simultaneously Think Progress which
ostensibly is editorially independent
from the center for american progress
although center american progress pays
the bills for Think Progress I saw that
it was a Union victory to get that
editorial independence from 2016 yes and
i and i'm and i'm not it would be and in
the past there has been a lot of
controversy that think progress some
writers have been leaned on particularly
in the in the arena of writing about
Israel and in Palestine but nevertheless
even if we assume that there is some
independence editorially that doesn't
mean that people don't know where their
bread is buttered and when your bread is
buttered from a certain place it doesn't
some that's I mean that's arguably not
independent I mean you know George Soros
could give me a million dollars tomorrow
to run this company with the prospect
that after I burn through that million
dollars because our burn rate here is
about a million dollars every month and
a half after I get through yes that's
why I get so uptight about me where's
that but let's just assume a seraph
right but yeah the commissary it's most
that money goes into the food here but
if I know that I'm going to need that
extra on that other million dollars in a
couple months or in a year or whatever
it is
there may be an attitude I don't I don't
think of
personal writer cares about it but
listen your bread is buttered you're
going to you're gonna flatter that
butterer in some way and so there was a
video put out by Think Progress which
ostensibly was a was ostensibly a
journalistic piece noting that around
the time Bernie Sanders made what people
suspect is a million dollars off of his
book he dropped the term millionaires
from his typical millionaires and
billionaires assessment of who's
controlling the the country's politics
now I think there's also a there's you
know put aside the debate as to whether
why he did that I think there's a decent
argument that having a newly formed
billionaire class is more problematic
than millionaires I mean people have
seen a lot of data of analysis saying
that like look there's ever-expanding
number of millionaires in this country
and their net worth I don't know I
didn't dig into it too much but even if
that's the case that he did drop the
word millionaires because his book
landed him as a millionaire you can
articulate that in obviously in a couple
of sentences and if you have some
journalistic thing in there would be
interesting to do but the video was no
one I have talked to even the most
ardent anti Bernie people are have
argued that it was a fair video or not a
hit piece and it is a maybe fact I don't
know how relevant of a fact it is I mean
we have people at the Center for
American Progress and at Think Progress
who arguably asked for higher taxes
but if someone was to write back like
why don't you just donate your money
they would miss the point I mean I think
Bernie Sanders I think is arguing either
you should tax millionaires more that we
have a policy failure when we have this
many millionaires in billionaires even
if he doesn't say millionaires so you
know I think it's it's the real point is
and it's perfectly within their their
rights to do so you have aspects of the
Democratic leadership and the Democratic
establishment attacking the progressive
win wing and what we just saw is Bernie
Sanders hit back and basically a shot
across the bow if you want to make this
a bloody war it will be a bloody war but
there is not going to be a situation
where we sit back and allow you to
attack us
and not have it framed as youfo mating
fomenting an internal battle amongst
Democrats there is going to be a fight
over ideas in the Democratic Party
there's no doubt about it and there are
you know two very clear camps maybe you
could argue three but let's just call it
two on on each side of the divide but
and this is a fight that should be had
in the Democratic Party I think it's
fine to have this fight but each side is
responsible for maintaining some type of
balance here and if they don't then it's
going to be a big war and so Bernie
Sanders is hitting back and is basically
saying like look we just showed you what
we're willing to do because they went
through the whole litany of things that
arguably have made the Center for
American Progress corrupt font of
funding from corporations funding from
horrible governments like the south
Arabia and in the past editorial
decisions that were made based upon
those funding and so this is Bernie
Sanders basically saying this works two
ways
and we are no longer in a position where
we can't do that Bernie Sanders the
biggest fundraiser and on the Democratic
side at this point so it's it's
fascinating that this is happening but I
think frankly the best time for this to
happen is now because I'd much rather
have this battle right now then in you
know this time next year in the in the
run-up to the convention I have a
feeling though that we will be but who
knows this is beanbag this is being back
call the cops when you see Bernie it's
great to see how non ad hominem his
response was to that ridiculously odd ad
hominem video - right but I mean who's
he gonna ad hominem Ratan Yeah right
I mean poeple they act like he's doing
whenever he criticizes her for anything
yeah whenever he criticizes any centrist
establishment for anything or like let's
expand that to progressives in general
we're being ad hominem but when
they do an ad hominem video about Bernie
they're just being like sensible
well this is very strategic - of when he
the first communications that came from
the campaign that basically were like
look be nice on Twitter calm down like
advocate for your candidate but like do
it in a classy way it's beautiful
because first of all that should just be
the approach to begin with because the
initial approach yeah and then secondly
it's like what a great opening because
anybody who's even remotely fair-minded
would be like you know they've been
pretty well powder dry but here's the
thing is that there this is it's more
credibility for his complaint that's
what I'm saying
yes but but people should also keep in
perspective that if we walked out this
door and walk down the hall and talk to
someone who has voted in every election
and since they were 18 and they have
voted for a Democrat the chances of them
knowing any of what we've just talked
about is somewhere between zero and
maybe two percent I don't think you
should imply that Frank is misinformed
like that I'm not talking about Frank
okay geez
and so people should understand that
this is an internal battle that has more
import for people close to you know
things like Twitter and frankly Twitter
and it's not completely meaningless
because Twitter is part of real life the
so idea that Twitter is not real life
it's not it's not all of real life it
may not be the majority of real life but
it is real life and people are
influenced by this who are closest to
politics and I've said this many times
before there is value in preaching to
the choir because the choir is really
particularly when you're talking about
you know administrative stuff that have
it has to happen around the church and
if you want to talk about what's
happening in the community they're the
ones we're gonna go to the bake sale and
raise the money to go get that new thing
down the street that we want to buy to
make the community better the bench the
benches in the park or whatever it is
and so this is basically arguments over
who gets to control the choir and that's
pretty important so it's very important
and may I do another Sopranos reference
sure do you remember this episode
tracksuits no no ad watching Sopranos
Michael's whole life has become a
supreme yeah exactly the episode where
Polly's hearted by ghosts and he goes to
the priest that he's just like the
contributions the general fund should
take yep
all right
