[Music]
so you know the other day we talked
about the story of the the billionaire
who gave somewhere between 10 and 40
million dollars to the graduating class
of 2019 from Morehouse College to
relieve them of their college debt and
Fox and Friends sort of their brains
melted a little bit in contemplating
this it's a bit of a curveball it was a
bit of a curveball because they had
already crapped on the idea of forgiving
college debt when suggested by Elizabeth
Warren they also sort of like this idea
of like well it's good for billionaires
to do this but we don't want to go too
far to the point where they're compelled
to do it but it's we can see the huge
benefits it's going to have for these
people and then they were so off off
kilter that they you know because they
want to praise a billionaire right and I
think they also because this guy is
black they feel like they definitely
need to praise him because they praise
billionaires generally so much so they
there's certain self-consciousness and
they in their attempt to sort of argue
that white schools are somehow better
for some unknown reason they told the
story of this black billionaire who was
bused as a child to a white school and
it was all of the benefits that accrued
to him there that he in many respects
attributes his success to so they were
very confused about that but here is Fox
still super super unbalanced about this
they don't know how to praise this and
at the same time avoid endorsing this on
a mass scale generous gift of pay off
the student loan debt for nearly
400 graduates may be worth a whopping 40
million dollars but it raises a bigger
question is the student loan debt crisis
so bad that we need to rely on people
like Smith Jessie what do you say I just
like watching the guys face in the
corner when he heard you got his debt
cleared I was pretty good I think it
summed it up it's funny to hear people
like politicians that have driven this
country into 22 trillion in debt lecture
everybody else about now they have to
solve the problem of debt usually the
government creates the problem and then
they have to come in and solve it also
the positive for one second that's
complete incoherent gibberish I don't
know what he's even like trying to argue
there there's nobody in government who
are saying that billionaires need to
just give money directly there are some
who say we should tax billionaires so
which is the way that government does
things government government does things
by essentially expending money but God
looked at usually the government creates
the problem and then they have to come
in and solve it also the press all these
journalists they're up to their ears in
credit card debt and they've been saying
it's not a crisis at the border but we
have a student loan private crisis
please why don't we just get a bunch of
billionaires you know like vaso spill
gates born before and Buffett maybe they
can pony up a few billion to clear the
student loan debt or how about these
universities they have tons of endowment
posit we should just tell you that the
student debt crisis and I think maybe
this makes jessee's hurts Jesse's case
that it's not a crisis he thinks it's if
they can pony up a few billion we need
actually what is a trillion a thousand
billion and it's actually 1.5 trillion
so we need 1500 billion which is not
pony up a few billion maybe that's what
makes it a crisis a few billion to clear
the student loan debt or how about these
universities they have tons of endowment
money they can do the same thing top 10%
of your class graduates they can get
their student debt cleared or all these
great companies Amazon
great company Jeff Bezos he could pony
up a few dollars thank you so why should
happen that's whole thing should he have
to be a tax write-off why go to Michigan
we're out of state and it's a goal of a
lifetime to go to Michigan at 72
thousand dollars my parents really can't
afford it so I take out a loan as a
parent and then the kid takes us alone
and they have a great time and they look
around and they get their first jobs
$50,000 and next you know their payments
five hundred and five hundred fifty
dollars a month and that's after you've
already paid your taxes so if you make
fifty thousand you're probably taking
home thirty two thousand and then you're
paying that much it's hard to pay for
rent utilities phone so maybe it's in a
possible equation there's got to be some
pushback so we don't near the beanie the
billionaire commencement speakers I mean
I feel like Brian Kilmeade it's another
one of those situations where yesterday
he was praising busing and now he seems
to be working his way to like we need to
do something like on a policy level so
that we're not like hoping for the
largesse my theory is billionaires we
need to do something concerted because
this is really a crisis for people nice
oh my god niece or nephew niece or
nephew right is that what you're saying
definitely he's got a family member he's
got there's some young person in his
family somebody's just graduated from
college and all of a sudden he's like
the numbers just don't work
yeah kilmeade does not have the ability
to throw off a hypothetical like that
that has to be basically I've changed
the names to protect my niece I mean the
innocent yeah say there's somebody by
the name of Lisa goddammit Brenda Brenda
kill me I'm not kill me - Ken Ken's at
Kensington right there kids he can't
read the credit King but it could also
be Kathryn Donegan yeah it could be
could be anybody who'd be melissa
stranger look it doesn't matter I think
we've hit on one of the contradictions
in right-wing populism here right
because populism is about hating elites
and blame us and the way that right pops
define elites is often extremely
nebulous and based more on culture and
values then like who's actually got some
money and the power you know but like
sometimes you blame elites too much and
you start getting bumping up against
some redistributed solutions and you're
like wait no nevermind
right exactly let's cut to a commercial
what's going on with Fox by the way
what's going on there well no but you
can tell that that Kilmeade it's sincere
because he wears like what Tucker would
have done a whole segment where he had
maybe even really put together the
student debt crisis really well and then
he would have just be like well no I
think it would be it's impossible and
then Saatchi and Saatchi hire Somalis
for their PR job it's impossible for
four college students to get those jobs
that we all had when we were in school
by we I mean not me and that we had when
we were in college to pay their way
through college but now they have to
take loans because of immigrants Jessie
water still seems to be under the
impression that when he says take Jeff
Bezos as money the left is upset about
that right it's weird
well he you know Jesse Watters of course
he's trying to talk to Trump so he
doesn't he's not there's nothing
coherent in what he's saying he just
knows a movie which is why Bezos came up
twice in that rant of his he got lost I
guess presumably what he was talking
about but so that's going on at Fox now
like I say Donald Trump is listening he
is very very concerned about what's
going on at Fox in fact so much so that
during his speech last night in
Pennsylvania he's been to Pennsylvania
something like 40 times um
because apparently he's a little bit
nervous that his numbers are not good in
Pennsylvania right now but here he is
talking about how I mean it's just weird
this is sort of like it just feels like
it's like a like a like a barroom and
he's just sort of like occasionally
piping up and occasionally people are
paying attention to what he's saying it
just sort of it's weird but here it is
where Trump is boom moaning what's going
on with Fox with a Peabody Judge is
showing up there and people are talking
about the melt
not about Sanders a couple we'd say did
so well he was just like where why'd you
ask me to do suppose dude this is you're
supposed to be my network not give time
to the only to a town hall now you saw
that last night I watched Alfred E
Newman
what's going on with Fox by the way
what's going on they're putting more
Democrats on then you have Republicans
and something strange is going on at Fox
well something very strange did you see
this guy last night I did want to watch
I always have to watch the competition
if you call it that and he was knocking
the hell out of Fox and Fox's put him if
somebody's gonna have to explain the
whole Fox deal to me Democrat something
strange going on a fox oh I love you
don't we talk about yeah I think when we
first played this Matt said it was some
like fascist disciplining reminding like
the the network's like hey that's not
your job and what's so great is that
Trump is such a baby with such a
horrific emotional state that it doesn't
even require the like hey you know maybe
you should send a little bit of a shot
across the bow at Fox because he's doing
it during executive time he's sitting
there getting himself worked into a
lather I think I think he is genuinely
worried I mean I think I think that it's
partly just disciplining but I think
it's not I think it's it's born out of
fear on his level it's all emotional
right it's always a lot of fear it's
always fear and insecurities I mean now
alfrid he knew was awesome one no the
fact that he is afraid that what has
operated as essentially a rear guard and
of I mean in many respects as the front
a propaganda arm perhaps well I would
say a prop a full-bodied propaganda like
it's almost like propaganda arm implies
that it's sort of like fulfilling one
role but half of his administration came
from there right like it's it's it's and
I think he shop I think he's afraid that
there is like a there
sepsis in the blood system that there is
some type of infection I'm gonna wake up
and kill me it's gonna be wearing a
dashiki yeah Obama's gonna replace
Tucker what's gonna go on there I'm
gonna go on again a tough I'm gonna get
some type of question was it Chris
Wallace going on I don't like what's
going on needs to just be Shep Smith
like Trump's worst nightmare is Obama on
outnumbered yeah or or if one of them
yeah
joining us and outnumbered say we have
Barack Obama well you know for the week
ahead of me
Kennedy that works in theory or maybe if
you're doing a top 10 countdown now the
real world oh my god I think it's smugly
advocating for brookie can we get to
she's idea Tom Styer to basically just
you just buy an equity stake in flocks
30 million dollars just to put Obama in
there that would be that dude
Tom Steyer could almost literally would
be anything would be a better use of
money than hi I'm well you know what Tom
Steyer once again is proving and yet
another version of the lesson that just
because you're wealthy does not mean
you're politically sophisticated well
it's the only use but I will also say
this it also is it reinforces what I've
said about the the center-left in terms
of the way they spend money like there's
no way the Koch brothers if they were
looking for impeachment would be like hi
I'm David Koch you should be doing it
sit there is it is a function of people
of the left and I mean Center to the
left that when they expend their money
there has to be some element of like
creativity involved in it like personal
narcissist well but but but but that's
not necessarily creative it's just
nurses no no but creative in the sense
of like literally I CRO I'm doing
something that's project yes I'm starter
as we involved yes where is that Koch
brothers would have been like well I got
Kennedy on Fox what about that Bill
Bellamy Mellie
we intend to become how far away from
can we expend this money but have it do
what we want it to do the popularized
world school the money is micromanage
down to the point where like I'm the
best person to give this talk not not
any of the millions of people I could
get to deliver this message
Tom Styer me I am the best person to do
this as opposed to like I don't know
higher higher you know the guy from the
West Wing
you know like I mean I'm gonna get alan
alda to deliver this or I'm you know
whoever it is you know there
it's just that mentality on the left but
I digress
Alfa Dean Newman
