with
the destiny of America is always safer
in the hands of the people than in the
conference rooms of any elite
they are unanimous in that hate for me
we must guard against the acquisition of
unwarranted influence whether sought or
unsought by the military-industrial
complex so much our day report with sam
cedar it's Monday October 21st 2019 I'm
Michael Brooks on a Sam Michael hybrid
day this is the five-time award-winning
majority report we're broadcasting live
steps from the industrially ravaged
Gowanus Canal in the heartland of
America downtown Brooklyn in Brooklyn
USA on today's program a brand-new
interview that Sam just concluded just a
couple days ago automating inequality
how taught high tech tools profile
police and punish the poor by Virginia
Eubanks Silicon Valley apparently not so
liberating when speaking of which Pete
Budaj edge is being secretly advised by
Mark Zuckerberg another yeah right no
another reason to hate mayor Pete
although I have to say I don't think he
needs the advice to help with
conductivity Brendon and Jamie here Matt
on a water boat trip Kurdish forces
deport border as the as part of a
so-called ceasefire with the Turks US
troops redeploying to Kurdish Iraq where
they are greeted with epithets and
stones for abandoning the northern
serious Kurds Trump reverses course on
hosting the g7 at his club after
learning that impeachment weary
Republicans are tired of defending him
fine whatever
Bernie Sanders packed Queensbridge
potentially 35,000 people
the largest rally of the election so far
with speeches by among others AOC
Michael Moore and my personal hero Nina
Turner incredible momentum alright it
was alright was not bad
peace now activists suggests that the
warren campaign in addition to its
public shakiness on justice for
palestinians is playing a double game
between public statements and a pack
chill a anti-austerity protests take aim
at the economic reforms that never
happened even after the removal of the
Pinochet regime solidarity in Lebanon
and in Iraq antes austerity protests
which reflect what happened in Syria are
taking place across the Middle East and
in Iraq and Lebanon taking place across
class and sectarian lines that very same
agent of Facebook Peabody jej is surging
in Iowa UN chief strongly condemns a
mosque attack which killed 62 in
Afghanistan Evo Morales leading in the
polls in the first round of voting in
Bolivia but they are likely headed to a
second round and Elizabeth Warren I
guess is going to release her own health
care plan I thought she was on board for
Medicare for all we'll see what she puts
together all that and Joe Biden still
hemorrhaging money from private flights
maybe if that isn't even true I just
want to say it again because it's very
funny all that and more on today's
majority report Brendan on the board
Haddie Michael how's it going how are
you feeling I'm doing well I am assuming
the Leki and powers of the board today
and feeling very powerful you feeling
that energy I really am
you were not at the Sanders rally this
weekend you were out living good life I
I had some prior engagements but
everything I heard and all the people I
saw on the subway who I talked to going
throughout the city seemed to have a
great time and you know we got a lot of
clips from it today so stay tuned and
one major one major missed opportunity
at the Sanders rally and I I was talking
about on my show how the television
advertisements for Sanders are not as
good in this cycle and they really need
to up that game TV still matters and not
bringing him out to one mic in Queens
Bridge was an incredible missed
opportunity Black was good though
that was hilarious the fact that Bernie
actually did come out the ac/dc cracked
me up but I'm back in black it should
have been one Mike he was right
literally next to the Queens bridge
projects and he's a 1 mic guy like all I
need is one health care plan one mic one
movement like that's
he's a very Bernie's been one Mike for
decades while everybody else was being
mediocre Jamie what did you think I
thought it was pretty good I got to say
you know I'm skeptical of electoral ISM
as you know when someone it's the phrase
of working-class revolution at the
ballot box kind of
kind of kind of makes me sad at the end
of it but I think this is really
important
he's the best chance we got on a
presidential electoral level and he's
talking about class politics and unions
and it's and and racial justice and it's
really good I loved what Matt Chrisman I
actually ran into there I loved that he
just tweeted out can't think of a much
more privileged can't think of a much
more privileged and seeing the single
best chance to shift our political
horizons and provide real material
benefits to millions of people than
we've ever had and go man
those are precisely my sentiments
Chrisman definitely gets the retweet and
quote on that all right but there's also
an election taking place in Canada today
you know Canada has the advantage of
potentially being able to elect
coalition government I have no doubt
that is a NDP leader jug meat sing
surges in the polls Justin Trudeau will
be you know first Justin would ignore
him then he will ridicule him then he
will put on makeup to look like him and
you have an opportunity to vote for NDP
by the way I jog meets Singh is the only
leader certainly not the greens the
greens which are a horrific bourgeoisie
mess with incredibly embarrassing
marketing they are the only party leader
who has said that he will never
coalition with the conservative
ascendancy so you are voting against
Andrew Shearer if you vote for NDP and
likely it could be a liberal NDP
coalition here is jug neat sing jug meet
sing the last rally of the campaign I
believe last campaign video is campaign
released look I mean you know I have my
critiques but he's putting something on
the ballot in Canada that is
unprecedented and reflects this broader
global pattern and it's been nice to see
him take off
friends I want to talk to you about
what's at stake in this election and why
it matters so much people tell me again
and again they can't wait four more
years for help and they're demanding
that governments take action on October
21st no matter what Canadians choose I
want Canadians to win in your life think
about the times you made a decision
where you chose something out of fear
think of other times and he took that
chance what happened and how much your
life became better I want to see in this
election you can vote for what you
believe in the Conservatives have made
their choice to help out the rich and
powerful Justin Trudeau has made his
choice to help out the big polluters
while these corporations they've chosen
those at the very top miss election I
choose you
[Applause]
he's also faced you know a lot certainly
a lot of racism and and discrimination
because of his you know seek identity
and you know of the kind of expected
stupid sort and disgusting unacceptable
sort that you see you know everywhere
but also very specifically the highbrow
version of people on trying to connect
him with Sikh separatist movements and
Calais Thani politics from the 1980s and
I think it's worth actually noting that
the there's actually us very strong
Wellspring in the Sikh tradition that
overlaps and reinforces the type of
social democratic message that he's
putting forward this is a religion that
really does actually preach and talk
quite a bit about interconnectedness and
um community base of solidarity in fact
so I I think the way he has carried
those things together in a very seamless
way in a way again that really is not a
just you know a signifier but is really
deeply connected to his politics his
clarity about anti racism and his call
to fundamentally expand the Canadian
health care and safety net and start to
move in the right direction on
indigenous people and First Nations
rights and environmental rights is
extremely laudable and deserves our
support if I was in Canada I would vote
NDP one of today's sponsors is news
voice which is the first-ever entirely
open crowd sourced and democratized
platform for news you can download the
app for free at news voiced calm slash
majority in a country where the vast
majority of news is owned by the same
five huge corporations it's important
for us to always pay attention to where
our news is coming from who owns new
which news out who owns which media
outlets and what political buy seized
may be in play and that's exactly what
news voice helps you keep track of news
voices a free crowd-sourced website and
mobile app that lets you create a
personalized news feed and maintain a
clear picture of where your news is
coming from and what political
may exist it helps you aggregate news
from corporate outlets international
outlets local news and independent media
giving you access to every side of every
story news voice is fueled by its
community of users who contribute to the
platform by fact-checking submitting
stories and sources that are missing up
voting stories up up voting stories and
writing story summaries you can also
comment on stories and debate politics
with other members of community and
through and through staying active in
the community you can level up and earn
perks on the platform news we news voice
play feature lets you listen to your
personalized news feed every day through
customizable audio news playlists it's
your own personally tailored radio
station for news very lucky in news
voice is a next-generation news
aggregator and social media platform
that values transparency good journalism
and productive political discussions get
totally free access by going to news
voice comm / majority I'll put a link
underneath this video if you're watching
on YouTube and today's show is also
brought to you by proactive it always
seems like that on the Daisy of
something important a pimple appears but
now a proactive you have the solution
with America's number one act a number
one acne brand Proactiv has helped fight
acne for almost 25 years and now they've
introduced their next generation acne
treatment system Proactiv MD which
contains dermatologist recommended which
contains a dermatologist recommended
topical retinoid called
at the ha ha lean adapt alene adapt
aleem I use it
it's abilene a topical retinoid called
adapt alene it's the newest acne
fighting innovation made available
over-the-counter to consumers in over 30
years old Kelly will used to be on the
boards this is her testimonial on
Proactiv I
been using Proactiv on and off since
high school the formula has improved
over the years but the ideas remain the
same Proactiv is a program of skincare
that gives you short and long-term
results it's the best acne fighting
product that doesn't require a
prescription and it's been that way for
a long time I have sensitive skin and
proactive program has made my skin
smoother and clearer without causing
redness and peeling this is the perfect
time of year to start proactive program
for many people because school is
starting up soon and it only takes a few
weeks to achieve a notable difference in
your skin confidence makes all the
difference and going back to school
noticeably clearer skin gives you one
less thing to worry about
Proactiv is reliable it fights acne it
approves brightness and overall
appearance of my skin it's the best
regiment I've ever used that is a
powerful testimony from Kelly you got to
follow that advice and get on it right
now our listeners can go to Proactiv
dot-com / majority to receive an
exclusive on-the-go bag which features
proactive t-zone oil absorber body acne
wipes and green tea moisturizer that's
close to a 100 percent value that's
close to a $100 value and there's a
60-day money-back guarantee again that's
Proactiv dot-com / majority Proactiv
dot-com / majority to order and get
clear skin for the win we're gonna take
a brief break and we will be right back
with Virginia Eubanks on automating
inequality
you
you're on the majority report on the
phone it's a pleasure to welcome to the
program
Virginia Eubanks she's an associate
professor of political science at the
University of Albany SUNY and the author
of among other books automating
inequality how high-tech tools profiled
police and punish the poor Virginia
welcome to the program Sam thank you so
much I'm really excited to be here now
your first chapter is from poorhouse to
database just will you remind people
just because you're using it as as an
important metaphor I think here what
what what is a poorhouse
yeah so it's amazing because we we all
kind of know what a poorhouse is because
it shows up in our language right like
oh you kids are gonna send me to the
poorhouse or it shows up on our roads
right there still roads and many
communities called like poor farm road
or poor house Road but we also kind of
don't know what they are so it's this
really interesting sort of cultural
phenomenon I think of the way we we we
the way we think about poor houses and I
use the digital poor house as sort of a
metaphor in the book because I think the
tools that I'm looking at in public
assistance are really sort of more
evolution than revolution and I really
wanted to put the tools in context and
that context ends up going way way way
back in our history like as far back as
1819 if not earlier and basically what
was happening in 1819 is this huge
economic depression this economic
dislocation and economic elites did what
they do when this happens and they have
they sort of put out a bunch of studies
and the question they were asking in the
studies was like what's the problem
really is it poverty that is sort of
lack of access to resources or is it
popper ISM which meant at the time sort
of that you would ask for help when you
were struggling struggling economically
and not surprisingly for a bunch of
studies that came out of Harvard and
Yale studies all came back saying you
know the real problem is not poverty
it's paper ISM it's the fact that people
are asking for support and so they
invented at the time sort of a solution
for that problem which was to create the
system
County poor houses which were
brick-and-mortar institutions that
basically incarcerated poor people as a
condition for receiving help so in order
to enter the poorhouse if you have the
right at the time you had to give up
your right to vote and hold office you
couldn't marry you're separated from
your children who were then sort of
farmed out as free labor for it as
domestics and agricultural laborers and
also the death rates at some of these
institutions were really astronomical
like 30% a year so that distinction that
poor houses created the sort of deep
social programming I think we invented
at that time is this idea that the first
thing our public services should do is
make distinctions between the sort of
deserving and the undeserving poor and
that is why I use that metaphor to place
these new tools in sort of that history
that what they do is the same thing the
county poor houses were doing in 1819
which is raise barriers to receiving
help so high that nobody but the
absolute most desperate people well yeah
it's fascinating and I have to admit
like you know be like I I was exactly
one of those people who would you you
know sort of new poorhouse I was in the
the concept but I had no idea until
reading your book about the you know
where I start to that that notion of
poor houses being basically
reformatories and we definitely hear the
the echoes of that just rhetorically I
can't help but think of Paul Ryan and
sort of like his story about the the kid
who would rather have a lunch rather
than you know a brown bag lunch rather
than free lunch at school like there
there is some type of moral
righteousness to not being poor
essentially or and asking for help is
you know is is a sign of some lack of
moral righteousness or righteousness
period and and so the the argument
you're making is that
we no longer have these these poor
houses but that technology in I guess
you tell me if I'm wrong about this is
is creating is in some way sort of
allowing us to reconstruct of the poor
house without it being so clear that's
what we're doing right yeah so I'd say
that what we're really doing is building
so talk about it in the book is a
digital poor house with these sort of
new statistical models with artificial
intelligence with machine learning
algorithm ik decision-making
specifically in public service programs
so I look at conscious suspension and
supplemental nutritional assistance or
food stamps I look at homeless services
in on house communities and I look at
child protective services as well that
we're building a sort of invisible
institutions that contain people like
it's physically in space that profile
their future behavior and that police
and surveil they're sort of everyday
lives and I think that's very similar to
what the poor house did in 1819 so yeah
I do think we're starting to sort of
recreate those systems but in a much
harder to see way which is I think one
of the things that makes these new tools
though dangerous yeah and I want to
return to that sort of a broad critique
but first let's let's go through the
examples that you you use you start in
Indiana and like you mentioned you are
you basically recount the introduction
of a new system that essentially governs
these various benefits that folks living
in poverty yet from via the indiana
state government and and you look at and
before you get into the details I mean
with specifically I want to talk maybe
about the the stipes family and you also
a woman Omega young but you you you made
a decision to sort of enter into these
processes sort of from the the customer
base rather than sort of looking at it
the the perspective is from the customer
base if you will as opposed to sort of
like the managerial perspective yes I
think it's really important I
particularly just in the last sort of
year or two there's been some really
incredible work that's come out that is
sort of taking a second look at
technological systems like machine
learning like artificial intelligence
like we're in the middle of like a
critical reexamination I think it's
really important this moment but one of
the things that was frustrating to me
about those conversations is that we so
rarely heard from the people who are
most impacted by these systems so I
think of it as you know we usually hear
from designers we often hear from policy
makers sometimes the users in the sense
of like frontline caseworkers who use
the systems but we pretty much never
hear from people who see themselves as
targets of these systems and I think
it's just really crucial to hear their
voices both in terms of understanding
their experience and understanding that
sort of analysis of what's happening
because I find they have a lot less to
lose and sort of playing nice around
these arguments and they have some
really compelling analyses of like
what's happening in the world and one of
the stories I tell at the beginning of
the book is actually about some work I
did in this area long time ago not
20-plus years ago now it was probably
2000 and I was sitting in a tech lab
that I helped build with a community of
women who lived in a basically a single
room occupancy hotel and I was sort of
shooting the breeze with one of the
women who had worked on the project with
me and we were talking about technology
and I was asking her about her
electronic benefits transfer card her
EBT card which is a sort of debit like
card you get public assistance benefits
on now and they were new at the time and
so it's asking her about them and she
said oh yeah you know it's good in some
ways it's a little bit more convenient
maybe there's less stigma at the grocery
store but also my caseworker uses the
sort of digital record of my purchases
that it produces to track all of my
movements and question all
my spending and I must have had this
like crazy shocked naive look on my face
because she just like pointed at me and
laughed for like two solid minutes and
then she got really serious and she's
like Oh Virginia you guys should be
paying attention to what's happening to
us because they're coming for you next
and I really feel like that
analysis is really spot-on and like 50
years before anyone else had it so I
think there's really important reasons
morally to pay attention to what the
experiences are of people who are most
affected by these tools but I also just
think if we want to be smart about
what's going to happen in the future
around these tools we need to be looking
in these communities that are seen as
sort of where it's okay to experiment
exactly right and it's fascinating
because I I have a system with my
daughter where I give her allowance on a
like a debit card and I see wherever she
spends and I try to tell her like here
just let me give you some cash to so
that you might just have this ability to
go and you know I don't know go to
Starbucks and buy a coffee without me
knowing it or something to that effect
and this is it's becoming ubiquitous I
think in many respects but all right
let's so let's go into this the story of
of Indiana
there is a 1.4 billion dollar contract
with with high tech companies and there
there seems to be like sort of like
competing narratives going on here with
this that are both like they do this
because this is a way you know
there-there's the sort of the classic
story of like oh the way we're going to
deal with our school is to build more
stuff because I'm friends with the guy
who owns the cement company in town and
also there is this is a way where we can
we can impose our biases in our we can
make political decisions that don't look
like political decisions yeah I think
that's exactly right it's one of the
things that happens when we look at
these tech system
it's not that the tech systems you know
that they're necessarily six are
necessarily better or worse than the
current politics we have it really
depends on the system I think one of the
real dangers is they pretend they're
like stories pretending they're not
stories or it's politics pretending it's
not politics like oh this is just like
an administrative change it's just a
little tweak it's more objective it
doesn't it's we're not making policy but
the reality is these are political
decision making pains
I'll give you an example from Indiana so
in Indiana in 2006 then Governor mitch
Daniels contracted with IBM and ACS at a
number of other companies to what they
called what they said at the time was a
modernization of the public assistance
eligibility programs in the state of
Indiana
meaning how you applied for and were
judged eligible or not eligible for
public services like cash benefits or
food stamps and the system that they
built one of the sort of understandings
that got built into the system was that
if you at any point failed to give the
system information it needed to make a
determination in your case then that was
a failure to to Stata to basically
cooperate and establishing your
eligibility for the program which could
then be used as a way to take you off
the program because there's this really
old rule on the books that basically was
there if somebody who was applying just
like refused to come to meetings over
and over or or you know was just being
so difficult that you had to deny them
they basically built that rule into any
kind of failure in the system was
understood as this intentional failure
to cooperate with establishing
eligibility in the program which was
enough reason to deny youth services so
for example Omega Young was an
african-american mother of two grown
sons she was on Medicaid she had after
the new system had been brought online
they knew
moved from one-on-one meetings with
caseworkers in person to meetings that
were scheduled through sort of a
telephone scheduling system and that you
then received a call from a call center
from a worker and a call center to do
your eligibility or your recertification
interview so she was unable to make the
time they picked for her she called her
County office to say hey I can't make
that time they somehow didn't get that
message they called her at the or the
call center called her at the set time
she wasn't there she wasn't there to get
the call and so they checked the box
that said failure to cooperate and
establishing eligibility and they denied
her all of the benefits that she was
already on so Medicaid food stamps free
transportation to medical appointments
and which put her in incredible jeopardy
because the reason she missed the
appointment was she was in the hospital
with terminal ovarian cancer so she was
denied all the benefits that were
supporting her while she was sick she
actually died on March 1st 2009 two days
later there was a hearing on the denial
of her benefits because she did actually
appeal that decision there was a hearing
and they recognized that it was their
mistake and returned all of her benefits
two days after he died and and so this
is the you know the I guess the the in
the alternate universe the older
universe she's meeting with a caseworker
she has a direct relationship with them
they understand that she's in the
hospital the this is not a time we would
schedule it for I would never cut this
person off the caseworker would would
would react theoretically you would hope
so right and certainly described
frontline discretion in casework has
historically been a place where racial
discrimination has entered the system
and also discrimination against single
parents or people who are sexual
minorities or migrants like lots of
places for human bias to enter the
system the reality though of the system
in Indiana is that it denied 1 million
applique
in the first three years of this
experiment which was more than a 50%
increase and that there were from the
three years before the experiment so
that it basically all rather than
shifting the way public assistance works
it just sped up sort of the worst part
of the system which resulted in just
incredible human suffering for these
families and and and to what extent I
mean when we look at something like this
this seems to me to be and and certainly
you know I have some familiar with pence
as governor in Indiana this seems to be
like mission accomplished right like we
were able to privatize these funding by
by paying these tech firms and we were
able to call our Medicaid rolls I its
block grant I would assume they were
working on a block grant and we were
able to call our Medicaid rolls and we
can divert those funds where we want et
cetera et cetera like this is mission
accomplished
yes so I often say when I talk about the
book that I don't know what was in mitch
Daniels his heart when he made the
decision to sign this contract
so I can't speak directly to his
intentions but one of the folks I
interviewed for the book this Medicaid
attorney in Bloomington I think put it
really well he said look if we had a
system that had been built to deny
people on purpose it wouldn't have
worked any better than the system that
we got and so at a certain point
intentions don't really matter what
matters is the impact on people and
that's why sort of as the cases in the
book develop the sort of intention gets
much murkier is because I wanted to step
people through this process of
recognizing like it's not necessarily
that they're politicians are you know
misusing technology it's that this deep
social programming and the technology
keeps reing in a way no matter what your
intentions are and that acts that forces
us to ask some really tough questions
and and what ultimately I mean what
ultimately happened with the probe
well there's good sort of good news in
this case which is the people of Indiana
like sort of found out what was
happening and just wouldn't stand for it
and so there was basically a big
movement in the state of Indiana that
came out of a series of town hall
meetings where people who were affected
came together to talk about their
stories they pushed back on the governor
he was forced to cancel this 10-year
contract three years into the contract
and in many ways that people of Indiana
won the sort of afterward is a bit sad
though which is after the governor broke
the contract IBM turned around and sued
the state for breach of contract and in
the first several rounds through the
courts actually won they finally worked
it out that the damages went in the way
of the state but it wasn't much is a
maybe a hundred million dollars coming
back to the state they you know spent
half a billion dollars to deny a million
people benefits in the long run
unbelievable
all right well so let's move to Los
Angeles where you where you look at the
the question of housing where where does
the where does the automation where does
the algorithm come in here yes so the
system I studied in LA is a system
called a coordinated entry system and
it's not just happening in Los Angeles
actually sort of standard practice just
about everywhere in the United States
and increasingly abroad as well but it
was really interesting to look at it in
LA because Los Angeles County has one of
the highest on house populations in the
country I think it's something like as
the last point in time counts close to
60,000 people who are on housed in Los
Angeles County and something like
seventy five percent of them are
completely unsheltered meaning they have
no access to emergency shelter they're
just living in tents or cars or under
bridges so it's an extraordinary
humanitarian crisis the housing crisis
in LA and I looked at that system so
it's known by its proponents as the
match calm of homeless services and the
intention is quite good the intention
- because there are so many unhoused
people in LA and so few resources it a
tent
the intention is to risk rape all of the
unhoused people in terms of their
vulnerability to some of the worst
outcomes of being homeless and those are
pretty severe death and medical issues
and mental health crises and community
violence all kinds of horrible things
that can happen to you in your own house
and then to match folks based on their
vulnerability score with a the most
appropriate available housing resource
that is out there for them and so it's
actually serving some people very very
well so people really close to the very
top of the scale basically weren't
served well by the system before because
they are hard to work with um and so
most of the time they wouldn't get
resources that caseworkers might say for
slightly easier to deal with clients
people at the bottom of the scale the
least vulnerable are actually doing
pretty well because they're being
matched with very time and resource
limited resources like what was known as
rapid rehousing but the reality is
something like 30,000 people in the
middle have been surveyed by this very
intrusive instrument that they use to
vulnerability rank people and aren't
seeing any resources at all come out of
it and I really wanted to talk to them
about what their experience is go talk
to a guy named Gary Boatwright he goes
by the nickname uncle Gary in Skid Row
in LA and he said he was really
concerned for example with where his
information was going because this
survey they have to fill out asked
questions like are you currently trading
sex for drugs and money are you thinking
about hurting yourself or someone else
if there's someone out there who thinks
you know they that you owe the money are
there open warrants on you and then they
ask if they can take a picture and then
they ask where you can be found at
different times of the day and uncle
Gary told me hey it's it feels like I'm
being asked to incriminate myself in
exchange for a slightly higher lottery
number for house
and it's actually a real again a really
good analysis because it turns out that
the database that they keep this
information and it's called the homeless
management information service system
sorry hm is under federal data law can
be accessed with no warrant based only
on a rural request by law enforcement so
there's some real issues about where
this data goes who it's shared with and
whether or not the people who are giving
up their data really have a choice in
whether it's really voluntary they sign
an informed consent form but the reality
is this is pretty much the only way to
get into housing in Los Angeles County
so everyone's going to say yes even if
they're not comfortable with sharing
such intensely personal information
about themselves and this is another
example of essentially the policing
right I mean that I mean I think we're
basically talking about policing without
police yeah so that's definitely how
many of the unhoused people I talked to
felt about it I mean they were
definitely folks I talked to who were
like this was a gift from God I'm so
glad it happened because they got housed
and that's a really big deal but a lot
of the folks who had gone through the
survey and had participated in the
system and had received no resources at
all started to sit back and sort of
think like wait what are they using this
for really um and I think it's a it's a
really legitimate question to ask about
the system there's no reason that law
enforcement should have access to that
information no reason except for if you
want to police on house people if you
want to be able to arrest and
incarcerate it on how people and and and
are we seeing that I mean in this
program maybe not in LA but in other
municipalities where they're using it
yeah the coordinated entry is actually
pretty common across the country it is a
fairly easy fix though like we could fix
the federal data rules that say that law
enforcement can access the homeless
management information system we can fix
that tomorrow we could just be like no
you can't
but we know but do we know that it that
there are police departments that are
accessing it and using it as a way of
dealing with their you know dealing with
their homelessness problem so currently
I only know about Los Angeles but
currently LAPD says they do not
themselves access data and HMIS but they
are legally allowed to walk into a
social service center and ask
caseworkers for information out of the
system caseworkers are not required to
give it to them and I think that's
really important but they are allowed to
give it to them and many of them do and
so I would say they are accessing the
system when they are looking at criminal
justice cases or looking at looking to
make an arrest
they'd absolutely go into homeless
shelters and ask for information out of
agent way out and we should say that
this is we can see what's happening with
let's say ice in many respects what the
implications of this are and when you
know President Trump says we're gonna
move into California he seems to have
dropped this idea for the time being but
we're gonna do something about the
homelessness there that would be the
mechanism they would use yeah I think so
I think actually I'm so glad you brought
that up because I think when we have
this conversation about intention one of
the things that's really important is to
understand that these systems will work
no matter what the intention is so the
best example I think is actually the
daca database the deferred action on
childhood arrival database right so
under Obama administration the idea was
to collect names of people to protect
them from deportation
but when the administration changed all
the sudden there is a database of
800,000 undocumented people that is are
in the hands of an executive with a very
different idea about what to do with
that information and so one of the
things that I think a lot about when I
think about solutions is having kind of
a what Dana Boyd would call a hacker
mindset which is like think first how do
I break this system not like how is it
going to work if everybody's like
holding hands and singing Kumbaya all
have the same idea about what's best but
like how do I
use this against its intention and if
you can do that but don't do it but how
do we harden these systems against uses
that even the designers would find
deplorable because once it's out there
it's out there right what what do you do
if Donald Trump is running it that's
basically all right well lastly let's
talk about the just briefly the
Allegheny County the you you went to
Allegheny County in Pennsylvania and
there's a system that Flags for
potential neglect abuse of children what
what was problematic about that system
well so the system is called the
Allegheny Family screening tool and it's
supposed to be able to predict which
children might be victims of abuse or
neglect in the future I think everybody
would agree actually that's a really
important question and so it really felt
like the stakes of this were incredibly
high both in terms of protecting
children and in terms of keeping
families intact and healthy so this is a
system that is built on top of a data
warehouse that the county built back in
1999 that collects information from like
29 different county and state programs
so like adult and juvenile probation the
housing authority drug and alcohol
services the police department office of
mental how bunch of a bunch of other
things school districts for example and
then on top of that data they hired a
team of economists and computer
scientists from New Zealand and on and
off of the u.s. to design a system that
could red flag who they think are the
most vulnerable the most the riskiest
families in terms of potential future
abuse or neglect the problem though is
so it's basically comes up on like a
thermometer or sort of green on the
bottom and red on the top and if your
score is in the red if it's high enough
on a 0 to 20 scale they actually
automatically open an investigation on
your family so that it refers your
family for for investigation unless it's
overridden by a supervisor the problem
though is that it doesn't actually model
I'll treatment because we have actually
very limited data on children who are
actually physically emotionally or
sexually abused what it does and not
enough information to basically build a
viable model so it uses proxies which
basically just means sort of a stand-in
for actual neglect or abuse and
originally one of the proxies it used
was called call rhe referral and
basically all that means is a call has
been placed on the child to sort of
hotline its screened out by their call
screeners is not sort of crucial enough
to step in or as not actually abuse and
neglect and then there's a second call
placed to on the same child within two
years and that seems reasonable except
that it's really open information in
most poor working-class neighborhoods
most neighborhoods that are affected by
child protective services that vendetta
calling happens a lot so like a neighbor
has a party and you're pissed you call
Child Protective Services you're
breaking up with somebody and it's not
going well you call Child Protective
Services like sometimes children call
child protective services on their
parents like exert some control and
their and their family divorce
I would imagine two is two doors all the
time absolutely and so the fact that
they thought this might be an
appropriate
stand-in for abuse and neglect actually
occurring is actually incredibly
troubling because it says that these
data scientists and economists actually
don't know a lot about the system that
they're trying to model so they're
modeling the wrong things and that get
those choices are made invisible when
all call screeners are seeing is this
thermometer that says Oh 17 out of 20
right like it's out of your hands we're
just opening an investigation like that
doesn't show up so again it's a way that
we like we hide these actually political
decisions behind the sort of math logic
facade of like clean objective numbers
and the the the lack of sort of like on
go
in contact right that would that would
make these it's true it's really the
lack of discretion in the in these
context or is it I mean it's just abroad
now the the the discussion as we start
to wrap up here a little bit the the it
seems there's like a a multitude of
problems with these things that range
from the assumptions that people make at
the beginning that are both political
and just sort of I guess maybe detached
right I mean like lives there's a
quality to that that Allegheny system
which is sort of indicative of like
maybe some elements of education reform
where it's you know we're doing this
based on data and we don't have any real
world educational experience and so we
just you know I guess apply a metrics
that don't really have anything to do
with this I mean so there's there's
multiple different levels it seems to me
that this can go wrong is how do we how
do you fix it or can you like it is it
is it possible to to rely on technology
to do these things without it obscuring
the problems yeah so I think one of the
big points that I want people to take
away from the book is that we often sort
of talk about these systems as
disruptors or as equalizers even right
like this is evidence-based policymaking
this is what this is more objective this
is removing human discretion but in the
cases that I look at in public services
the reality is they act much more like
intensifiers or amplifiers of the
systems we already have in place and so
changing the way these technologies
operate is not as easy as you know
having better intentions at the
beginning or even you know two three
computer engineers to understand more
about sort of social inequality but it's
going to require really deep cultural
and political change but in the meantime
we need to create systems that do less
harm or we need to give people the
ability people in communities to give
the ability to have the ability to say
no to things that don't fit their
community values so it feels like rather
than trying to go the route of taking
all of our values out of these
technologies which just means you're
building them for the status quo but
what we need to do is actually build
them with our values front and center
unfortunately right now by default we're
building these systems with only values
like efficiency and cost savings but we
should be building them from the point
of view of equity justice and fairness
and human dignity and self-determination
so you get a really different system if
you design from the principle that
public services actually should be a
floor under everyone that is a human
rights approach that says no one is
allowed to you know have their family
broken up because a parent couldn't
afford a child's medication or like
allow someone like Gary Boatwright to
live in a tent on the street in Los
Angeles for two decades at any point we
can say that's unacceptable the reality
is these tools just reproduce this idea
of the moral thermometer right they just
say we're gonna we're coming at this
from a triage approach which says
there's not enough resources for
everyone we have to decide who really
deserves them when in reality the most
complicated math is what activist Cheri
honkala calls the belly button algorithm
which is like who deserves housing do
you have a belly button then you deserve
housing right is there food do you have
a belly button right the reality is I
believe we're using these systems as a
kind of empathy override right they
allow us to think the most horrifying
situations are getting corrected but
everybody else maybe kind of deserves it
and maybe they should go to jail or
maybe they should lose their kids and
the reality is
no one should go to jail for being poor
and no one should lose their kids for
being poor and that's the that's the
basic assumption we have to make when we
build programs or these digital tools I
mean I guess these these tools they both
function to obscure the the values that
are inputted into them but they also I
guess your book helps put them in stark
relief and certainly is an argument like
you say for for the for something like
the belly button rule well where maybe
we don't need a process to determine who
is eligible for this maybe we should
just provide enough that making that
process obsolete on some level so that
everybody is eligible and we just put
our resources into that yeah I think we
all deserve better that's why I wrote
the book it's a fascinating piece of
work Virginia Eubanks the book is
automating inequality how high tech
profile police and punish the poor we
will put a link to that at majority dot
F M thanks so much for your time today I
really appreciate it thanks so much for
the conversation I've been advocating
the belly button role for over 40 years
duh some of us have followed suit some
of us thought that there should be a
testing mechanism to see how your belly
button
how much lint was in it before you got
healthcare that's not my belief testing
as to whether or not you have an innie
or an outie the of it any do you have an
Audi we have a weird one is a twist of
all we need to spread the lint around
whether or not it's a disgusting belly
button or normal one you should be able
to have health care in my opinion
alright folks we're gonna go to the fun
half gonna touch a little bit on well
obviously this great Bernie rally Mike
Pompeo having a little bit of a tantrum
what kind of energy do you say he
brought Brendan a big Paul Manafort type
enter the world nano fourth type energy
I used to think I don't know yeah
Pompeyo such a bag of he's so
disgusting he's Jesus God don't want to
contemplate with that guy's belly button
is like yuck but housing health care how
yeah Mike Pompeo deserves housing and
health care and I mean you know there
could be some parameters around the
housing and health care that he deserves
speaking of which I would like to
acknowledge that I was the one of the
ringleaders of the lock him up chant at
the Bernie rally I I heard that was me
that was me I was proud of you I was
trying to get this started for a long
time and then finally when the mayor of
San Juan was talking about Trump in
Puerto Rico it broke out oh yeah there
were some real energetic folks near me
to like just yelling all sorts of nice
heckles it was great him up lock him up
but of course it's like no no no load
him out come on we need that libidinal
energy and incidentally like literally
dude should probably be locked up
oh yeah like if we're gonna lock people
up if we're gonna happen we should
definitely put Donald Trump in one oh I
hope you really actually would be even
more funny to sent him to some type of
like enlightened Swedish prison where he
had to take like emotional enrichment
courses and had like mandated
watercoloring no stab at him in any
respect
okay today's show is brought to you by
proactive introducing proactive
next-generation acne treatment system
proactive MD which contains an
innovative dermatologist recommended
topical retinoid called adapt alene
right now our listeners can go to
proactive com slash majority to receive
an exclusive on the Go Bag which
features proactive x' t-zone oil
absorber body acne wipes and green tea
moisturizer that's close to $100 value
and there's a 60-day money-back
guarantee and again that's Proactiv
dot-com slash majority Proactiv dot-com
slash majority in order to get clean
skin for the win
all right folks of course become a
member of the majority report that's how
this ships sails that's how we give you
unbought unbiased news
do you see on Tuesdays tea MBS last week
we had a couple of great guests as we
always do and tomorrow joining us are
John iadarola and artesia ball drop I
will say some very big league upcoming
guests and the first one I will tell you
about is the long-awaited return of
Adolph read which I'm incredibly excited
about get your tickets to the TMB and
also I'll save because I've said this
before Abby Martin very excited to have
her on check out her Gaza fights for
freedom documentary could not be more
important the humanity of Palestinian
people subjugated in a pretty unparallel
way in the modern world it's horrifying
and necessary to understand that issue
and center it patreon.com slash t MBS
that's how you get the whole show we
have 83 thousand subs on YouTube and we
want to get to a hundred thousand as
quickly as possible helps us spread the
word of what we're doing so Michael
Brooks show on YouTube where you are um
well over halfway sold out with only
we're still over four weeks left to go
before the Philly live show so I'd snag
your ticket World Cafe November 23rd our
tzo ball throw up crystal ball and the
Vig 'ln World Cafe link in the show
description no age limits on this one
folks so people who weren't 21 who
wanted to come to other shows come along
bring your folks with you we'll see you
Jamie so this week on the anti Fattah
Andy and I discussed the extremely on
brand day that we had is got Socialists
in which we went to the Bernie rally and
then we saw the misfits at night it's
pretty cool we had on two guests this
week we had on our French sean.conner
the editor of commune magazine to talk
about what's in the new issue of commune
and we had on Josh strong of the duo as
erst want to talk a little bit of spooky
music and punk music and generally good
music
you know October is a very important
month for goth socialists there's also a
bit of a tie in there wait what happens
oh I'm sorry
dumb question um there's also huh I
thought there was gonna be like some
hidden history that I was going to learn
about okay risk all the culture I I'm I
was actually trying to really respect
your culture I thought I was gonna learn
something oh well well if you listen to
the episode you learn about all kinds of
spooky music of my people but um yes
there's also a tie-in because I am
throwing a benefit show on Friday that
trans-pecos
just rollin mm-hmm this coming Friday
it's a resurrection of my Halloween
party death rites that I didn't do last
year but I did it for like seven years
before that and it's going to be raising
money for El comedor which is a mutual
aid kitchen into wanna that helps
migrants stay alive while they're trying
to get into the u.s. and going through
all the horrible that they put
people through when they're in that
situation and II actually did some
interviews with people there from the
migrant caravan and people who were
working to run it a while back that ran
on my show so ever since then I've felt
a connection with them and wanted to do
something for them so I am and it's
gonna be super fun and super freaky and
super goth and as your swan is the
headliner and their new album is very
good I've heard it so if you want to
come get freaky for good cause come to
trans Pecos on Friday that's awesome of
course Matt lek does a great podcast
called literary hangover expand your
horizons get literary check out literary
hangover Brendon is working on a you
called it the New York Jets meets a
Phish show yeah that's gonna be
definitely real and happen and so now I
got some cooking up you guys might just
hear about it I'm excited can you give
me is it writing or podcasting me him it
would be a podcast yeah awesome
Matt took up a big slot of what I would
consider doing a podcast in but I'm not
gonna let that you know that cornering
stopped me
you got your own voice you tell it
everybody's unique in a certain sense
we'll see on the funhouse Jamie and I
may have a disagreement yeah you can't
just say whatever you want about people
just cause you're rich I have an
absolute right to mock them on YouTube
he's up there buggy whipping like he's
the boss I am NOT your employer you know
I'm tired of the negativity I'm sorry I
didn't mean to upset you
you're nervous you're a little bit upset
you riled up yeah maybe you should
rethink your defense of that you're
 idiots we're just going to get
rid of you all right you want to smoke
this joint yes do you feel like you are
a dinosaur
[Laughter]
I'm happy now five times yes all right
take quick break I want to take a moment
to talk to some of the libertarians out
there
dick whatever vehicle you want to drive
to the library what you're talking about
is jibber jabber silastic I'm feeling
more chill already Donald Trump can kiss
all of our asses it's a free speech
issue if you don't like me thank you for
calling into the majority report them
we'll be with you shortly
welcome back to the fun half Lula Libre
everybody Michael Brooks here along with
impact Brenton
that's how they'd say it on and boxing
times right or am drive time too but
sometimes that that's what I do see does
because let us be your am drive time so
welcome back everybody we're West Coast
AM drive time I guess welcome me back if
you listen to it in the morning that we
can be morning Drivetime for anywhere
like traffic looking a little stuck at
the Golden Gate Bridge because of all of
the Google buses that should be bird
folks all right
satire all right folks um let's actually
get to it I I was incredibly inspired by
the Bernie rally of course other than
the incredible missed opportunity of not
taking Bernie out to one Mike which you
know I mean it should have been at least
one Naz reference you were literally
right by you know you were in the heart
of that creative emergence the visual is
extraordinary actually you're at a park
where you have I believe it's the
largest public housing plaque in New
York City which of course is the victim
of NYCHA and under investment and all of
the things that we talk about of which
Bernie's housing plan would radically
address in a completely unprecedented
way in modern politics then you look
across the bridge and you see the core
of the problem Wall Street then you look
straight ahead behind the stage and
there is a power plant like right there
I mean it was so right there that the
first time I ever was in Queens bridge I
knew the power plant existed but in my
just naivete I remember asking a friend
it was like that is that it like that
like this giant monstrosity that looks
so obvious of what this is of the racism
the class dimensions the Centers and
peripheries that it represents like oh
yeah they know that that big thing yes
that's right there this thing that
hovers over this neighborhood of all of
these families yup that's it it's almost
a little on the nose
it was quite on the nose you have so it
was a very powerful visual of everything
that is represented really by modern
capitalism and all of the things that
you know that are so basic and so
fundamental that Sanders has been
fighting for for decades including at a
time when and an AOC I was very I'm
really glad that she made this point
that being inside the halls of Congress
is no joke in her words and she noted
the pressure that comes from every
single sector in every single way and
then correctly identified the fact that
this guy held the flame for decades when
now we've got people copying Bernie and
trying to co-opt a message we've got
some Nina Turner in a second but it was
you know I mean this is really even the
difference in framing between being in
your 30s and like even your late 20s
versus being you know a Zoomer or
whatever we're calling it like calling
for national health care was considered
weird extreme and eccentric through 2016
when Sanders put it on the table and
there are these little there are these
sparks and shoots Occupy Wall Street
fight for 15 black lives matter Kshama
Sawant getting elected to the City
Council in Seattle and Amazon is dumping
an insane amount of money to try to get
her out so we need to have solidarity
and fight for her that's an incredibly
important leader there and so on so
let's play actually these two clips from
AOC let's start with number three
because I think that this really
distills what I'm talking about I'm so
glad she highlighted it this is
significant a ocl on Omar and almost
certainly rashida to lib I'm sure she's
gonna be endorsing Sanders too they're
really showing that they are here for
this
this isn't branding it isn't politics as
aesthetics it isn't a shift in
priorities once you get a position of
power it is we are of a movement or of a
mission and we're going to take these
serious political and media risk and
dissatisfy a lot of people who frankly
are fundamentally disrespectful of AOC
and L on Omar because they know nothing
of their politics and what drives them
we're gonna dis satisfy them and we're
gonna stay committed to our mission
this is AOC it's not just about standing
up and saying these things but behind
closed doors your arm is twisted the
Vice pressure of political pressure gets
put on you and
trick in the book psychological and
otherwise is used to get us to abandon
the working class it is in and it has
been in that experience over the last
nine months that I have grown to
appreciate the enormous consistent and
non-stop advocacy of Senator Bernie
Sanders
there's a great clip of a former
Republican congressman Bob ney who in
2016 he was like look I were to Bernie I
think was on Veterans Affairs and he was
like this guy was amazing like no one
had the consistency of purpose or
delivery for people and he said one day
Bernie came in asked him to do something
to help veterans with him and they said
um that sounds good I'll co-sponsor
Bernie said no no you should take the
lead on this this isn't about priority
of authorship we need to get this done
you combine that with everything from
fighting the forces of modern
neoliberalism for decades as a mayor as
a congressman as a senator even down to
the erasure and contempt that just this
entire disgusting media class has for
him I mean I think he enjoys it on some
level I do think there's like a genuine
FDR like of course if you're you know
some schmuck who doesn't care about
working people on CNN fine but that
would take a psychological toll on
anybody and it takes an enormous amount
of commitment an enormous amount of
bigger vision to keep showing up and up
and up and up and up and up and he's the
one who needs to do it right now
look can anybody doubt for a second like
let's be real for two seconds if Bernie
was ten years younger and AOC was ten
years older he would be backing her for
president he's a mission-driven
oh yeah and now is when he is in the
position he's the leader he's the
candidate that just as the historical
circumstance because he's the guy who
held the flame for all these decades we
miss generations of leadership AOC is
only 30 years old Elano Mars in her 30s
where she totally Abbas in her 30s you
miss generations for this actual
commitment not Third Way stuff not you
know technocratic progressive tinkering
but structural reform let's take a look
at AOC acknowledging that mass
mobilization is the only way to even
have a prayer of achieving these things
[Applause]
how we're going we're going to do it is
with a mass mobilization of
working-class people at the ballot box
that's the only way that we are going to
win this thing because our number one of
our top priorities is not just defeating
Donald Trump but defeating the symptom
the sick the symptoms of which he isn't
of which he is a symptom that we cut out
before I well of course she's absolutely
right
and now IOC elevated and you need that
will get to Bernie who actually I was
incredibly moving the way Bernie close
to speech um Nina Turner might be the
most effective political communicator in
America
she was good she's always good and how
triggered she makes whiny people who
don't appreciate like that this is a
campaign and in a campaign you draw
distinctions even amongst people that
you're friends with it's called a
campaign we're not you know I don't know
what people think we're doing we're not
playing foosball together though even if
whose ball you still compete but she the
reason that there's this triggering
though I think is is is a definitely a
testament to her power she is an
unparalleled clarity she is an
unparalleled sense of purpose and she is
bringing it in a real direct morally
inspire
way and it's actually that fusion of
here is an absolutely real down-to-earth
no BS person who has basically
off-the-charts oratory skills and
charisma that you know I'll put it in in
in my terms she reminds me of this guy
and there could of President Lula major
compliment coming from Michael basically
the highest compliment I could give
somebody the Lula of Cleveland Nina
Turner making some basic distinctions
that again this is the truth don't freak
out about it either have an answer or
absorb it but these are real things we
got a lot of copies there's only one
candidate in 2016 who told the multi
millionaires and billionaires in this
country
keep your money I'll raise my money with
the people
[Applause]
there's only one candidate who's been
marching with the working-class people
not because he's running for president
but because it's right hello Marriott
workers hello Amazon workers hello
Verizon workers hello teachers come on
somebody and I don't know about you but
I hail from a tradition that says that
you will know the tree by the fruit that
it bears and senator Bernie Sanders
bears good fruit
so there are many copies people want to
talk about a framework
people who stand up in other folks
living rooms and say to them
multimillionaires and billionaires that
nothing will fundamentally change for
you
well Queens I got a message if nothing
fundamentally changes for
multimillionaires and billionaires to
nothing fundamentally changes for you
and you and you do that's exactly what
she also talked about who why did
somebody vote three times to give Donald
Trump the military budget he wants this
stuff matters it matters domestically
and my god doesn't matter
internationally and I'm only gonna talk
about that more there's a reason why the
report in Politico came out several
months ago that leaders from Bolivia to
Spain from the UK and across the globe
of everybody they could talk to were
excited about Bernie Sanders because in
him when he calls her freeing Lula when
he calls out the military-industrial
complex as he did the prison industrial
complex when he talks about cutting
defense spending when he is the only
candidate to say we will cut aid to
Israel not if they formalize what
they're already doing in some distant
future scenario but we recognize today
that the policy towards Palestinians is
in a daily dehumanization a daily abuse
a daily act of apartheid and murder in
Gaza the only person treading this water
is Bernie Sanders and Nina Turner told
it as it was she's so great she's like
one of the most politically talented
speakers I think I've ever seen
also I love how all those people on
donut Twitter are like so terrible to
her it reminds me of that McSweeney's
headline I support strong women of color
unless they are politically to my left I
mean that's it there's nothing there's
literally nothing more than that and you
know it's like and left anti-racist
politics you have fundamental as adolph
reset its constituent parts of a
struggle and then you also have a basis
upon which you recognize that there's a
huge diversity of political opinion
within different communities and you
understand people as peers and
colleagues not to totemic signal of
symbols to
validate your view or to be discarded if
they don't and that's all these people
do and then now they have to do with the
squad which is riven more awkward but
they've done it with me Anna Turner from
the beginning and donut Twitter is
literally named after their like shitty
meme that they did about her she's a
fantastic leader she deserves our
respect and she did a really good job
tying economic issues to racial justice
and I think Bernie did too actually they
all did it's there I mean again you know
this is the point now where it's like
you got to just be watching I mean ALC
literally said imperialism colonialism
and I've had critiques of AOC on foreign
policy specifically and that's an
example of what I mean I'll provide the
critique when it's there if she keeps
moving in that direction then I won't be
leveling Sam critique because she will
have adjusted her positioning so you got
to watch what they're actually saying
Bernie closed this I think in a very
powerful way with a message of
solidarity and compassion are you really
fight for that person who you don't even
know as much as you're willing to fight
for yourself
are you willing to stand together and
fight for those people who are
struggling economically in this country
are you willing to fight the young
people drowning in student debt even if
you are not are you willing to fight to
ensure that every American has
healthcare as a human right even if you
have good healthcare
are you willing to fight for frightened
immigrant neighbors even if you are
native-born are you willing to fight for
a future for generations of people who
have not yet even been born but are
entitled to live on a planet that is
healthy and a half
because if you are willing to do that if
you are willing to love if you are
willing to fight for a government of
compassion and justice and decency if
you are willing to stand up to Trump's
desire to divide us up if you are
prepared to stand up to the greed and
corruption of the corporate elite if you
and millions of others are prepared to
do that there is no doubt in my mind
that not only will we win this election
but together we will transform this
country thank you all very much by the
way looking very good
I've guys looked very good since this
heart attack it's almost bizarre he
looks great I mean he looked the same as
usual which is to say great but he
actually nobody feel like he actually
has dropped a few pounds and he look his
face looks like I don't know he looks a
little bit a little leaner a little bit
less red a little bit he's easy he needs
to get that rest Bernie you work your
ass off everybody needs to rest he's
working twice as hard as people half his
age needs to get a little sleep ya know
he puts the rest of us to shame I wish I
had half as much energy as Bernie
Sanders Jesus Christ seriously like I
get tired from doing this part-time job
yeah I remember after the heart attack
happened and they were saying that he
was scaling back his you know ground
operations a little bit they made it's a
certain outlets made it sound like oh
he's not gonna do anything and then you
know on the ground reporters like no
he's doing more than everyone else yeah
that's right like he's gonna do like
three major rallies a day instead of
five yeah and still fight the end the
genocide in Yemen
all right let's touch on let's do this
and there was at least one reporter
speaking on MSNBC who at least had some
anecdotal reality to share with MSNBC in
a slight interruption from their
relentless erasure of Bernie Sanders
going to be tricky now because
I think some folks on MSNBC want the aoc
brands but they don't want the AOC
politics Reed Bosch Carson Cara if you
like AOC you should like Bernie Sanders
not that complicated all right let's
check this out ray your thoughts on the
AFC endorsement Bernie Sanders you said
you had some news to share about not so
much news but I mean I just checked in
with a couple of Latino supporters for
Bernie Sanders who actually turned away
from Bernie Sanders and who were with
Castro mm-hmm and so I did a little
check-in so how does AOC endorsing
Bernie how does that impact
I wasn't expecting them to say that it
was going to move them surprisingly they
said to me surprisingly because I felt
that this was a very political move but
they were like you know what AOC we
follow her if this is happening if she's
backing Bernie it may impact what I
decide to do in the primaries so not
necessarily good for who Leon Castro but
really good for Bernie Sanders so we'll
see how it plays out with voters in the
coming months I mean I you know it's
funny is it there's two ways of looking
at the politics of a hill sees move so
one yes from the perspective of her base
and the movement it would have been a
disaster for her to not endorse Bernie
Sanders that's always been my position
disastrous like who's knocking on doors
for her absolutely for people who have
powered her and gotten her into office
and what she emerges from that's Sanders
no doubt and she understands that
obviously and she not understands that I
mean she's proving again and again that
she is of that right she said as much in
her speech as well where she is like I
don't think my campaigns happening if
Bernie Sanders doesn't happen in 2016
Bernie said there's no question that I
mean you know any number of that people
forget about these calculations
well they forget that and they erased
that and then there's a bubble DC
conversation where yes I have no doubt
that there's gonna that this reasserts
that she isn't playing nice with the
powers that be in the Democratic Party
that she's gonna get a lot of thrashing
and a lot of whining from a lot of
different pundits and think-tank people
and so on
so in that sense it absolutely is a risk
and it's certainly you know it's
significant that she's done it while you
know Bernie has faced some stumbles so
III think it's it's it's both um it it's
politically necessary in the context of
what powered her to endorse Bernie and
frankly from my view just bluntly like
all of them should have been onstage
with him at the announcement I mean you
know there there was no no reason to
even play around with this I mean this
this election is so clear in terms of
the stakes and the choice but I think
that from the perspective that you hear
on MSNBC
this is a big risk and it's funny
because they're half right because it is
a risk because the defends power brokers
and on the other hand it just shows
again that so many people who comments
on politics in this country have no
connection to politics I mean it's it's
extraordinary it's like oh no I thought
you know AOC was gonna sign with a
different franchise no AOC has
democratic socialist politics as does
Bernie Sanders there's no other
candidate that has that politics Elaan
omar has articulated the need for a
multiracial working-class coalition to
overcome structural inequity in this
country better than anybody else in
modern politics with the exception of
Bernie Sanders at his best
so she's endorsing the candidate who's
done that I mean guys it's not not that
hard to figure out but it really shows
you the you know they talk politics is
you know politics is inste and and
sports I mean it has this is like the
clearest conflict of politics as a
spectator sport entertainment process
and politics as an actual movement that
does things and that's what a OC and
along our of yeah I mean it's nice to
see them building out a progressive or
social democratic wing of the Democratic
Party which hopefully soon will be
larger than it is right now absolutely
and hopefully they'll be able to achieve
at least some of their goals absolutely
all right let let us take a call or two
if yeah if you couldn't go there I would
just watch the rally um on the Bernie
YouTube channel you're calling from a
475 area code who are you where you
calling from job guys Luke from
Connecticut hey Luke what's going on
what's on your mind I was at the rally I
had my eyes peeled for you guys and I
miss you so I was super bummed out about
that oh oh by the way to everybody that
I met at the rally and I'm sure Jamie
rants plenty people to thank you awesome
to see you guys still very much getting
used to the idea of people recognizing
me so but I'm yeah yeah and don't be
scared to say hi I got some tweets from
people who are too scared to say hi I'm
like I don't bite also I have stickers
I'll give them to you as long as you
just avoid eye contact that's cool I'm
happy to say hi what's on your mind man
I want it you guys are just mentioned in
Neenah and if we don't make a t-shirt
that says hashtag come on somebody then
we have no right living in this country
that's that's a gold mine I drink
come on someone somebody that was what
was so satisfying about that is it was
like that's you know that's what an
amazing political oratory is right like
I've been saying that in a less good way
for months like what it like what the
what the is going on here like what
you know like um it's like yeah come on
in somebody like people have been asking
if they claim to be on the left for this
policy set for decades
and now all of a sudden somebody who's
not you know 2 percent in the polls is
putting it on the table and he's been
fighting for it in an unparallel way for
40 years come on somebody absolutely
yeah and it's pulling teeth yeah I agree
with see--we guys I love what you do I
got a run on my break from work I just
wanted to let you guys know that I was
looking for you didn't see you by the
time I left I felt like I was on like a
mess bender it was like you know that is
crazy okay
maybe a little bit more positive all
right all right I don't know a Molly
bender okay yeah I could see that if you
love the person next to you and you feel
connected with them spiritually I'm
materially yeah those of kind of like
I'm a cuddle Jared armored cuddle a
piece of candy even if your mouth isn't
dry will you give the person next to you
a lollipop you're coming down but maybe
you'll handle them a slice of orange or
something else thanks man
take care bernie is plur Bernie's
amazing peace love unity and respect you
are calling him a two one five area code
who are you weird calling from hello yes
you are
what's your name where you calling from
hi my name is uh my name is Vienna James
I'm calling from Cobb County Georgia I
wanted to just get a quick shout out to
Michael Owens he is a leading
progressive candidate running for my
district district 13 in Georgia he spots
a clip fourteen seats here in Georgia
Georgia
he's also far too organized for Lucy
Macbeth and Stacey Abrams I went to have
a $15 minimum wage a green new deal and
medicare-for-all not Buddha judges the
Medicare for who wanted in that nonsense
cycle so I urge Georgians who are
listening to get out and vote and for
viewers to support Michael Owens one of
his opponent is a conservative and
during a forum on Saturday to an
audience of predominantly black people
including myself this guy said that
blacks in the poor area were most likely
poor because they like to rely on
government and they don't like business
he said that who sleep already tried
reparation under the lyndon b johnson
administration who has to do the war on
poverty who is this person I think I
forget his name I think it's John
something defined who this guy is at
some point yeah right
and then he said that he wants to
propose a plan where we work with the
State Department about is a volunteer
program for blacks who are poor to be
able to get repatriated back to Africa
with small loans to start small
businesses because if they haven't
figured out and he said assimilate if
they haven't figured out how to
assimilate into the American economy
maybe they could do a better and a
culture they could understand absolutely
Wow wait what I got I'm some shock that
that hasn't been picked up that's
 unbelievable it's a bonus
Steve crying like that's full-on race
science exactly I can the
businessman afterwards and I told him
you know for one thing I told him that
you are pollicis and when you got a
plate to the room and you're in a room
full of black people it's probably not
smart to tell us we need to go back to
Africa and that we don't like business
one thing my mom runs a farm so let's
get that out of the way
- let me just say this to you you do
know that in this country when we work
together we get good things done and he
said well I mean I don't know well let
me just tell you this he brought up the
classic Benjamin Franklin line he said
that Benjamin Franklin likes free
enterprise and I told him well Benjamin
Franklin also like to tax people and
spend that money on public schools and
on public libraries because an educated
America is a prosperous America that's
right therefore and and therefore like
how you were ripping on Medicare for all
you said it wouldn't work if we tax
people to pay for Medicare for all we
will have a healthier Society therefore
we will have a healthier America and we
must stop this match so see what seat
again is this person that you just
talked about Michael Owens
dr. Michael Owen's he's running for
district 13 here for here in Georgia for
state Senate for Connors the United
States Congress okay and opponent and in
a poll
running for the United States Congress
said that that mm-hmm
okay we need to find out we're gonna
really need to find out who that person
is so could somebody is this someone in
running in the primary on the Republican
side something yeah he's running in the
part me on the Republican side okay can
someone please tweet out the name of
that particular person because I I think
that's something that we're going to
need to keep track of and and before I
get off because I do want to close I
want to take too much of your time you
guys are totally right politic is not
about spectacle politics is about power
and I told this man politics is about
power either we use the resources of the
state for the many or we use it for the
few absolutely and disclose on that I
appreciate and I love you guys you guys
are amazing
and keep up the great work alright thank
you so much I appreciate that I was a
little I'm sorry I was I mean I was its
mask off time I shouldn't be so thrown I
feel like the Southern Poverty Law
Center probably knows who he is already
Jesus Christ
oh no Republican challengers their
primary candidates declared in this
district which I guess lost twenty by
the way so I mean I think the guy who it
is was maybe just trying to be a
I mean clearly Queens Park was a great
choice for the rally I know the area
very well my studio is just a few blocks
from there so Michael briefly in the
park sorry I didn't make it to the mural
are you willing to fight absolutely
absolutely
and yes the mural I've been there
Warren's rolling out her plans soon to
pay for Medicare for all her plan for
mental healthcare on her site not only
leaves mental healthcare to the private
insurance companies it seems to so
assume pretty big role for them in
contrast Bernie's Medicare for all
includes mental health along with dental
vision as necessarily covered pretty big
distinction yeah it blows my mind that
you would leave any part of health care
out of your health care plan right I
mean also I would just say like you know
I know people will go easy
when it's rolled out but this is the
same dynamic with Harris like there is a
medicare-for-all plan do you support it
or not sorry I mean I don't know I mean
the reason I have I get so frustrated
about this is because it really like it
first of all it like actually does
matter I could tell you though because
somebody who's been without health care
for years of my life
who knows people who struggle with this
type of thing who like this isn't a joke
you need to actually take care of it in
a in a full and comprehensive way and
also that even on the complete opposite
even the Biden plan which is really like
that's what Buddha judges plan is and
Biden's plan actually like relative 208
Obama is quite to the left it's a robust
public option introduces new regulations
and subsidies that bill as things stand
now would never pass Congress right like
the only way this language of like
movement and mobilization is literally
the only option that is left for
achieving anything might as well go for
comprehensive answers to that I'm you
know I'm very wary because in my view
she's equivocated on this issue and I
don't see why you need to I mean there
is there are two bills there's the
Jaipur bill there's the Sanders bill
they nail it and you know if you want to
unwind some type of like French style
option as I said before that will
require even more money and even more
quote unquote taxes and I don't and I
you know it's funny I actually I like
that Warren's been pushing back against
these stupid tax questions and I'm with
her on it in terms of it's a question of
costs not taxes and that's what I used
to say that Sanders should say and
people pushback against me and I've
actually become convinced because the
truth is is like you have to just
immediately acknowledge the truth and
then make the bigger point I think
getting into endless games about it you
can always push back and say as she does
which is correct this is basically a
stupid question distracting from the big
point but to just have multiple sound
bites where you can't just say that word
and acknowledge the obvious looks very
political
and I think this effective message good
name disingenuous people like Buddha
judge can make it about that
like oh why won't you answer the
question like Bernie Goetz right out in
front of it he explains it very clearly
and it's done and but and Buddha judges
getting mileage off of that I have no
doubt that you know he's picking up
votes from from Warren because he shares
that that wealth pool with her all right
let's do a second of this I literally
couldn't sit through this debate but I
know many of you would enjoy this I
can't sit through it for two reasons one
I'm legit uncomfortable watching Tim
Poole deal with Sam I'm not gonna lie I
don't know much about Tim Poole he seems
like he's you know some type of IDW
adjacent guy his space has always been
very bizarre to me like what space he
occupies in the online discourse or
whatever you want to call it because I
mean I worked with him at when I was at
fusion okay I hired him to a huge
contract nice guy I guess I mean he's
the type of person who it's like you
know and and it's funny cuz it's like
the type of dynamic that I I get annoyed
with woke scolds with this and of course
I oughta ly loathe reactionaries on this
but like the type of guy who would
probably be like you know I don't know
from what I've seen of him like you know
global corporations are burning the
Amazon but like have you seen this new
thing that the Oberlin students are
doing that's ridiculous folks like kind
of that sort of Lane um you know
basically uh just utterly boring I off
the ball and probably probably
whitewashing for some of the worst
people in this country what's his deal
is he a conservative I think he's one of
these people who like always happens to
align with conservatives but isn't
conservative I don't really I don't
really know I haven't done the deep dive
on Tim poll yet and after watching this
if this is what he has to offer it
literally makes me embarrassed to watch
and you know Sam here clearly is like oh
I live finish
stupid arguments that make no sense over
Skype yes please I'm gonna lock my
children in the other room all right
guys I honestly this watching Tim will
say this literally makes me embarrassed
also shout out to Brendan carrot I think
I'm on Twitter who edited the video just
slightly Jesus Christ look at Sam oh my
god the eyebrows look amazing shop shop
slicking big glasses nose everything is
just oh oh oh debate okay I would vote
for someone who is gonna create less
concentration all right pause I'm sorry
this goes back to what paws hate this is
a piece of majority report lore uh I
think it was like I think it was during
the Obama election where basically Sam
said you know if one kid it's proposing
thirty concentration camps and another
proposes ten I'm voting for the one who
proposes ten now I understand why people
find this particular experiment to be
off-putting but the very obvious and not
particularly hard to figure out point
here is that voting unless you have the
opportunity to vote for like a Bernie
Sanders is and certainly in 2012 who is
a highly utilitarian activity and you
are putting a choice there is a column a
column B choice both are gonna cause a
huge amount of injustice and suffering
one less than the other so what you do
is you go and you opt for less suffering
because voting is not really about a
personal expression of your essence it's
about a practical activity so I you know
I might have used a different metaphor
but that's all Sam is saying it's it's
pretty frigging simple but let's let's
uh let's see how this goes in a freshman
philosophy bong joke direction I would
vote for someone who is going to create
less
concentration camps so your your
willingness to put your weight behind
somebody who's gonna make concentration
camps no I'm not willing to put my I'm
willing to put my weight behind
diminishing the number of concentration
camps I think that before you go it's a
really great point that I think may
separate its utilitarianism versus
deontology ISM that you you're
quantifying versus I'm not you see that
I'm not saying you're wrong I'm saying
your philosophical standard is the
minimization of harm and mine is more
about the individual is the small you
know I mean like yeah
I'm curious about the second part of
that you said you know what I mean
because I really don't know so minimize
you the two velocities about yulian of
violating the ethics of an individual is
violating ethics regardless and yours is
minimization of harm is better so
utilitarian versus deontological from my
standpoint committing one on ethical act
is a violation of principle and ethics
that can't be crossed but I will admit
there's not like a hard line I think
that is silly I mean I respect you know
but they're very strong philosophical
positions I believe that less suffering
is better and that I am willing to I'll
tell you something you want that's the
outcome but about I'll tell you
something you're not gonna want to hear
and and I admit it's it's a I'll call it
dickish utilitarianism is typically the
villain in most movies I don't hear yeah
so so for instance like Thanos always
the was utilitarian and Captain America
was deontological I didn't so vanos
willing to reduce the suffering by
killing you know hundreds of trillions
versus the you know thousands of
trillions which would be living better
off so or
like well I'm movies i I'm not having to
kill anybody
I'm just voting and true I mean if you
vote in favor of something is gonna
build a concentration camp you are no
one of these people is going to win Jim
you don't understand that I'm like
physically embarrassed watching that
down to the point that like we've all
done a dumb reference we
you've all done you know we've all had
something in our head we thought was
funny or more clever but oh my god the
dude is talking about voting and you
think like you know Sam I hate to spring
this on you but you're the villain in a
Marvel movie you've never seen sorry to
give you the bad news and then of course
like this is the day you know it's funny
because I look I know I can be a dick
sure but the difference between me and
Sam is that I depending on the mood I
was in might actually laugh
uncomfortably and go uh-huh I guess I
got to see that movie
Jesus Christ who am I talking to
Sam is just gonna give you know I don't
care and just give you his best like I
did three and a half semester I did two
semesters at Boston University Law
School it's devastating
hashtag bully the right people I mean
you know what I have no doubt that I'm
gonna read more about him a pool and
feel totally comfortable that bullying
session but as a on a human level that
to me was like that was like watching
LeBron like stuff a fourth grader like
if that gets that type of just visceral
like alright LeBron like wait for it
like you know throwing the ball up not
even shooting it throw up and then and
then instead of being like the nice like
you know what you're supposed to do
which is like catch it and then dunk it
and go oh look at that LeBron just goes
like LeBron just treats the kid like a
Hong Kong protester stuffs it in his
face that was what washing that was like
to me it was just like I know that he
thought that that was a gotcha premises
argument in support of like the Avengers
with Sam is like one of the worst things
you can do amble dismiss like
like at times like important theoretical
distinctions in the pursuit of like his
you know OJ attorney argument and you're
gonna come at me or come at him with a
frigging Avengers movie argument I'll
Avengers movie um I am still embarrassed
from seeing that and he giggled like he
had something and Sam never gets tired
of it's either nose like Sam is like
texting H John it's like extremely his
 but you know what better Tim pool
than me
so I'm happy about it I can't believe I
don't think that that exchange attempt
pool is gonna help steven crowder or
dave rubin agree you know you know you
kind of like the guy in the New Avengers
movie oh good point if he's trying to
get Crowder to debate him maybe he
should pretend that he's like a nice
debater for a while you know one guy
actually he said to me he's like he say
and I'm not trying to get myself in this
but somebody recommended that Sam and I
dresses college students and Romer a
looking for a Crowder we just were like
no we're not from the jari report for
college students yes change our minds oh
my god I don't know why I maybe I'm
overreacting but I found that to be so
unbelievably uncomfortable to watch that
I don't even know how to put it into
words but maybe I'm he seems like he
sucks dude of course he sucks but Jesus
Christ I mean I don't know I don't a lot
of Joe Biden Joe Biden sucks I didn't
enjoy watching his blood vessel pop I'm
sorry I'm not an edge lord on this I did
not enjoy watching an old man have it be
like hello my son dude you were any
crime yeah that made me uncomfortable
watching that guy go well I hate to rain
on your parade about tactical loading
but have you seen vanos that is
that is truly embarrassed by my
knowledge Issa it's like the blood
vessel pop into bait form said literally
and we've seen Sam do a lot of these
debates at this point I would posit that
maybe the joy was not exactly in this
one as much as it has been I you know
that is actually true Sam did look a
little bit more long on the tooth likes
it what I guess it just isn't the same
joy is like just the pure expression of
like well guess what tell you what what
if we didn't sign a civil rights bill I
think we would live in a transracial
utopia now yeah you know like when you
get that real like I'm Alex ich weiß
bulbs are Stalin like that is more fun
than Thanos oh my god you're calling
from a not I cannot watch all that
debate you're calling from a 972 area
code who are you where you calling from
hey this has been in Seattle hey Ben
what's going on what's on your minds nah
not much I wanted to give a shout-out or
thanks to you for giving a shout-out to
Shama Sawant
and then Shama so once I saw that Shama
I apologize Shama Sawant very important
candidate
okay yeah I'll buy you some real yo
she's awesome
I regret that I left the Community
College where she was teaching economics
and I could have taken a class with her
before she became a council member but
it's okay but I just want to bring up
cuz there was a obviously no one really
cares about her anymore kirsten
gillibrand
or is it Kirsten Gillibrand's I don't
know but she had brought up a possible
sort of like money in politics reform
and we have a program similar to that
here in Seattle and as you can see being
able to give a few hundred bucks to a
city council member doesn't really mean
a whole lot when Amazon can dump 1
million here 2 million here 3 million
here and yeah it's a little bit part and
I'm kind of wondering what I state is on
holding national politicians
accountable for maybe not supporting the
left-wing challengers in their own City
and I'm kind of wondering what sort of
strategies you would maybe recommend or
other ideas I'm mainly thinking of
privilege i appalled haven't really
named named it oh she hasn't she hasn't
she hasn't stood on the right side of
that City Council race well I gotta say
today so it just so happens I mean you
know obviously I never missed an
opportunity to support the Bernie
campaign but I did notice I think just
today the Bernie campaign tweeted out
support of someone so I think there's
another real distinction there for you
but no I think it's a big problem I
think that you know this is where the
rubber meets the road right like yeah I
mean I you know I I don't have much to I
think the first question on campaign
funding is interesting and I'll admit
that I'm I'm less oriented around
campaign funding than other people not
in the sense I think it's extremely
important but I do think that some
people talk about campaign funding in a
way that is isolated from capitalism and
I don't think no matter how many
regulations you can have can you
fundamentally reorient power in society
which capital represents that said and
so that's a great example of just like
what Amazon can do in terms of
terrorizing politics in Seattle as for
your second I don't know the answer to
that other than you know people power
which includes grassroots fundraising
obviously but um but I think you know as
far as endorsing Sawant yeah that's like
the type of thing where you you know
that's a real obvious distinction look I
would still support Jay Paul I think
she's a great congresswoman but I think
it speaks volumes that you're not
willing to get involved in a local fight
like that with somebody who really
represents something incredibly positive
and important and I think it applies to
you know a lot of these congressional
races too frankly all across the country
I get messages regularly now we get
messages from people you know I I
hesitate to even start naming people
because there's so many great candidates
but I
think of people like you know Makayla
Wilkes and Shai had blue tar who
obviously that's even more guts because
they're taking on like the two you know
Democratic leaders the horrible
sclerotic Steny Hoyer Nancy Pelosi but
there's a there's a candidate you know
taking on of that Clark and Brooklyn
there's be all across the country Lauren
Ashcroft those are the candidates that
you would speak out with in support if
you want to start changing the ballgame
and then I actually just want to say
really quick it's not a quiet snarling
or represent something new because on
the flip side you know Kennedy's gonna
use all that rhetoric against Mark II
and Mark II is absolutely the
progressive choice in Massachusetts
Kennedy sucks vote ed markey but anyways
yes Jamie I was just gonna add um that
you know I like I've always said I'm
skeptical skeptical of what electoral
politics can do on their own however I
did see it firsthand what electoral
politics can do in the vote on de
Blasio's gel plant last week which was
very narrow but it passed and it just
makes me extra sure maybe I wasn't so
sure before tell people about it
oh well bill de blasio
are very progressive Big Bird mayor had
a plan to shut down Rikers Island and
replace it with four new jails although
but he's not gonna call them jails he's
been called them justice hubs
their jails they're still being overseen
by the Department of Corrections which
is notoriously resistant to oversight
and reform and this passed over the
objections of competing plan to spend
the eleven billion dollars instead on
Dakar serration investing community harm
reduction programs education all the
things that have been shown to reduce
jail populations and and the jail
population of any given city is not this
like inelastic number by the way
studies have shown if you build the
jails you're gonna fill the jails
if you close down a jail like what
happened in Cincinnati the cops actually
arrest fewer people
they figure out a way to do without
putting all those people in jail do you
remember a couple years ago when the
NYPD decided they were all pissed at the
Blasio and so they said we're gonna stop
we're seeing all of these petty crimes
which as you know the secret sauce of
terrorizing poorer people oh no you know
more broken windows policing right so
they did that and all of a sudden people
weren't getting arrested and harassed
for smoking pot or graffiti or whatever
and guess what
nothing happened from the perspective of
serious crime it's like great go away we
don't need you terrific um but it just
it made me like super sure that we need
to do this plan which passed at the NYC
TSA convention last year to elect a
socialist City Council in 2021 because
my city council rep for the new jails
and I don't want them representing me
anymore we say that the calls what's
your name again
we know you thank you Ben yeah Podcast
to Ben yeah yeah unpopular front okay oh
you're cutting out
check out unpopular front thanks Ben
yeah thank you
all right is Mick Mulvaney trying to get
fired last week or a couple days ago he
said yeah of course we were holding up
to aid to Ukraine it's called a quid pro
quo that's this is kind of like the line
that makes me like Chris Matthews
sometimes like sometimes Chris Matthews
will get very honest about like yeah
it's called a quid pro quo
you're holding up aid for political
intelligence that's what Tip O'Neill did
it's called a quid pro quo now Mick
Mulvaney is on Fox News and he's
responding to basically a trump wanting
to host the g7 summit at his private
golf club which he's no longer doing
which he is no longer doing after a
apparent exhaustion of Republicans being
like dude how many different corrupt
self enriching things can you do we've
got our own disgusting things that we've
got to defend give us a little space
this is Mick Mulvaney I think not
exactly helping and of course remember
McMurphy nee is a extraordinarily
disgusting horrible horrible person
President Trump has decided after he
puts you out there at that briefing you
announced Corral
he is back he's decided that he's not
going to hold it at Doral he blames it
on both the hostile media and their
Democratic partners but again he was
getting hammered by Republicans so why
did he cave I we talked about it a great
length last night and it's not lost on
me that if we had made this decision on
Thursday we wouldn't have had the press
conference on Thursday regarding
regarding everything else that's fine
but we didn't talk about it last night
and I honestly think what you saw in the
tweet was real the president isn't one
for holding back his feelings in his
emotions about something he was honestly
surprised at the level of pushback at
the end of the day though he still
considers himself to be a in the
hospitality business and he saw an
opportunity to take the biggest leaders
from around the world he wanted to put
on the absolute best show the best visit
that he possibly could and he was very
comfortable doing it at drow and I think
we're all surprised the level of
pushback I think it's the right decision
to change we'll have to find someplace
else and my guess is we'll find
someplace else that the media won't like
either for another reason I just have to
pick up you say he considers himself in
the hospitality isn't it because he'll
be a silent partner in the other place
like say wait let's do the one that
Ivanka owns and make sure to say that
everybody will hate that too because
they will because they're so unfair if
for another reason I just have to pick
up you say he considers himself in the
hospitality business he's the President
of the United States
yeah but he's it's his background it's
like I used to be in the real estate
business I don't know what you used to
do before you worried
nothing that's all I've ever done he
wanted because you're a trust-fund baby
nepotism case go ahead and mediate
nothing that's all I've ever done he
wanted to put on a show he wanted to
take care of folks that's the visit he's
in the hotel business released he was
does he understand forget the the media
and does he understand that it look
lousy I I think he knows he thinks that
think people think it looks close it
could we put on an excellent g7 at
drought absolutely will we end up
putting on excellent g7 someplace else
yes we will
oh my god it's got Mulvaney in the
hospitality industry now what's more of
a hospitality job than being president
you were in here on Friday but we played
a clip from the press conference where
Mulvaney basically gives like a
timeshare like sales pitch of why to go
to Doral and it was it's like Diamond
Resorts International except exclusive
he's acting like Trump's gonna be like
running around making all the canapes
himself like you never know you're not
doing dude no you own the things
that's fantastic it's also great like
what friend Frank khatoun makes the best
lasagna he used to be the Bonanno family
is everybody excited to be here I really
wanted everyone to meet George at the
prime rib counter he's such a nice guy
such a nice guy's a terrific guy hasn't
been paid in 20 years still loves it he
lost a finger didn't have good hair you
know he's pretty good with nyeh we
bandaged it right up and he's still out
there is he's still making the cake
isn't that unbelievable amazing terrific
guy it's like when you pull a totally
boner move that you know is bad and
someone gets annoyed and you're like oh
did you not want me to pee on your leg I
didn't realize oh oh I guess we don't
want great hospital you know
people are always saying that we should
be kind to everybody and not racist and
then I tried to do the g7 and give
everybody no matter where they're from a
great time but I guess we don't want I
have friends in the g7 have a great time
by the way I'm not gonna talk unless
somebody calls or AIIMS about it but
Trump's tweet on the tulsi a sh RC drama
was the
funniest thing I have seen a day oh my
god did you see that one no he said I'm
paraphrasing maybe we have to find it
but he said crooked Hillary is now
accusing congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard of
being a Russian asset and Green Party
candidate Jill Stein I as you may
remember it was accused of being a big
Russia lover and he goes in parenthesis
because actually I do like Russian
people I like all people she's got it
crazy so good
I let he did one specifically for Jill
Stein which included the phrase thank
God we have a gut greed party because
the Democrats disastrous environment
[Laughter]
he's been shining the last few days on
Twitter that's really all he should be
doing it's like just just try to do
corrupt deals and tweet testing Iams
Mike what are you talking about Mike are
you gonna be talking about the rally in
more detail this week I will definitely
be talking in more detail on TMDs I
think with John I'd it rola we need to
stop at the Tulsi yang nonsense and get
these people behind Bernie apps so
 lutely please Tim pool can be
described as a grifter lefty whose
entire built a career is built on hating
a left okay it sounds right he's one of
those like I am left-wing okay I see I
get it I mean I think I already
basically knew that I just didn't know
like the specifics of how he but I'm
starting to get his specifics are kind
of hard to pin down I think ultimately
you're Thanos you you you'll hate to
find this out we use the bad guy in the
Marvel movie I will say though I will
say following Liz forensic uh why is it
though and I wouldn't have known about
Thanos if I didn't listen that podcast
because I don't watch Marvel movies but
the why is it that the sympathetic
villain is a Malthusian population
control guy and why is it that we give
Bill Gates a total pass on his obsession
with developing country birth rates as
Jadakiss would say why seriously I just
want to put
that in the mix Oh people are telling me
that I should let everyone know that I
did an episode on prison abolition
recently on the anti Fattah with an
organizer from no new jails so check it
out if you're interested in learning
more awesome all right let's take
another call you're calling from a 308
area code who are you where you coming
from hey hey Kowalski how are you my
friend you remind me in some ways it's
very different but my friend Luke
Mayville from Idaho there's a slightly
he used to say like you want to go get a
birth slightly similar yours a little
drier but I like the accent I like the
voice Kowalski what's on your minds my
friends yeah I just wanted to give you
guys a little bit of like just some good
news for a Monday please I love it so
all right I believe I told you guys
about how like social media was pretty
bad a few weeks ago well something
interesting is going on the hardcore
defenders of Trump along our Facebook
like the our local news media has
Facebook like reports and stuff out they
usually have a lot of hardcore Trump
defenders on it they're going away
they're hiding they're running for the
hills
that's fantastic why do you think that
is it's just indefensible at this point
word which I mean like just so your
viewers are aware if that continues that
is going to give senators a lot of you
know like okay I need to district myself
this guy's a liability not an asset the
Trump defenders have logged off from
your lips to God's ears Kowalski
although I I think that I think there's
something to it I appreciate that they
are just not going to be public I mean
they're still there it's just you know
they're not going to be open and about
it so they're not going to be a now you
got an arrogant idea yes but before I go
just real quick okay it's my birthday
over the weekend we've had a wedding and
while I was there I was discussing my
views on Medicare for all
absolutely everyone loved it the small
business people loved it the elderly
that were retired love that these are
all right wing like evangelical people
if you can explain to them how this is
going to help them they will go for it
so yes we didn't just warns an idiot to
tell them their taxes will go up but
explain me how the better aspects of it
would they vote for a pro-choice
candidate do you think no but that's not
really like a main topic I think
anybody's really concerned with like
that's just something people pull out
you know they grandstand on but uh not
to mention like I have explained to a
couple people who have asked me that
Medicare for all would reduce the number
of abortions because it would you know
give you availability of more
contraception while at the same time
plummet the cost of prenatal lawyer yeah
it also flies away good grounds on which
to defend it though well for the people
you say there's no guarantee that it
will I think where the people is talking
to that's worth mentioning I also would
say even more scientist that you care
about life it would plummet
infant mortality and which is you know a
huge problem in this country Kowalski
you firmly in the in the Bernie camp I
am firmly in the camp I you know for
political reasons I'm probably not
getting out publicly say it and what I
win the primary in which case is it's
going to be a very interesting blog fest
I love it the Republican I am free
learners anything we are it is
persistent Kowalski you're amazing happy
birthday thank you so much here's a
shofar
but you are a boy
free Loula Thank You Kowalski Kowalski
by the way I I really do think
especially if you're running a local
race in a certain part of the world
insert part of the country run is a
leftist than a Republican primary I
think that's such a good that's what
I've been saying
yeah we've been say you and I have been
on that train for a while I just wanted
to reiterate it it's a great idea you're
calling from a nine one seven area code
who are you where you calling from
Oh Michael this is water from casket
hey how you doing what's going on you
know nothing's great but we're fine and
I was glad I bought Bernie gives me hope
for the future mom a couple of things
one from the I got the eastern side of
the border and one from West aisle from
the West
I don't know if you guys been following
this but things are getting a little bit
kinetic between India and Pakistan
that's the engineer along the border
there yeah and six people have done
civilians civilians on both sides in
Pakistan and and in India or six people
that and on the Indian civilians and on
the Indian side so far one confirmed
dead but there isn't much information
coming out from there because well
there's no media so right it's hard to
tell on it yeah yeah so this is not a
joke because it's it's not they have
rules of engagement that it has the past
30 years and it's not like something as
sinister persons gonna be like alright
let's start a war when things escalate
it's like hard to come back it's like a
machine onto itself right it's really
hard to describe so so yeah keeping that
in mind I'll just mention and stuff like
a actual big update just like one aspect
of what's happening and the on the
Indian side there's an article and was
it an MP uh-oh a telegraph India
this morning that I was reading that
four days after the shutdown happened
and on August 5th
so people realized why the shutdown
what's happening it took a few days but
people threw it out that basically the
economy was gone and obviously people
were distraught and this one part of the
rate slowed down so I'm sorry so the
Indian economy is running into big
headwinds right now oh yeah okay and uh
oh it's actually some analysts are
saying that's that's probably one of the
reason why they accelerated this because
this was not supposed to happen
according to the same analyst for like
another year until Modi was furthered
more situated but you know the perfect
storm I suppose the Indian economy is in
fact slowing down a lot they've lost
over I don't know how many millions of
jobs this year so far I don't know what
the actual number is but it's it's in
the millions okay it's a it's a billion
people so it's the numbers just magnify
anyway so this is four days after and so
people like the local people including
women went to the mosque because you
know for them it is it's a to use the
Palestinian term it's in knock ba
happening in front of their eyes you
know it is a catastrophic they just it's
hard to describe so and their crop
nobody's saying anything Jesus go and
you know they they pray and then
everybody just like starts crying so
they had posted soldiers everywhere
throughout the city and so they heard
you know like these wailing sounds
coming from the smallest and so the
soldiers kind of got nervous and they
went up there like hey what's going on
and then nobody wants to answer what's
going on because they're really knows
what the reasoning is and then the
officer there is like listen just no
more of this we don't want to see this
again and then don't cry just think I
mean they can no one's thing but just
think about this like don't do this in
public
yep right and same article they're
saying that these soldiers were actually
and they're like new they're like they
were not the veterans of the occupation
so to speak so you know they weren't so
harsh and I believe that because the
people that have been there for a while
the soldiers they would not have told
them to stop crying they've got broken
into the mosque and start beating up the
people so it is a psychological toll as
that goes up people will react and if
things are getting kinetic at the border
things will get out of control so I'll
catch you tomorrow thank you for the
call man yeah
solidarity thank you sorry Jesus
all right um let's do we'll get to some
stories in a second but let's do let's
follow up on Mulvaney Mike Pompeo is
rapidly changing from I mean look he was
the congressman from Koch and Kansas in
Congress from Kansas you know extreme
far-right fanatic corporatists and the
thing and he was Trump CIA director and
now Secretary of State and it's always
like is this guy on the side of the
equation of like a quasi competent
person who knows how to manipulate Trump
or is he basically just another long
line of empty sacks of nothing that
Trump has cooked and at the end of the
day it doesn't really matter because of
the you know it's all one Republican
global corporate Empire agenda but it is
funny to watch him get increasingly
pressed and stressed as this process
goes on here he is this is clip number
six talking about Mulvaney basically
saying on television you know the Chris
Matthews acai was a quid pro quo
quid pro quo do you agree then with
Senator Murkowski that would have been
inappropriate to withhold the military
aid and unless this political
investigation was pursued George I'm
telling you what I was involved with I'm
telling you what I saw transpiring and
how President Trump was working to make
the evaluation about whether it was
appropriate to provide this assistance
but that's what I'm what I'm asking is
would it be appropriate to condition
that George I'm not going to get into
goals and secondary things based on
someone what someone else is said George
you would have never done it when you
were the spokesman I'm not going to do
it except it's not hypothetical we saw
the chief of staff the it is George you
just said it you George you just said if
this happened that is by definition the
chief of staff said it did George you
asked me if this happened it's a
hypothetical I've told you what I
observed what I saw the process related
to this very funding what we did and how
we thought about that was aimed at the
strategic interest of the United States
of America in the right and appropriate
way to ensure that there wasn't
corruption in Ukraine that would divert
these resources to an interval in
appropriate lock them up maybe more
people are saying though ever people are
saying lock them up and by the way I
always say there's no contradiction
between recognizing the unbelievable
corruption of this White House in its
encroachment and every step of the
process with understanding that we're
not CIA Democrats and that the
intelligence community is a structural
threat to our liberty and always has
been from the very foundation of all of
these agencies that always violate our
rights these are all part of the same
process in fact if you care about civil
liberties and it's hilarious I'll just
say I'm trying to think of a tasteful
way to see this I think it's very funny
how pressed Mike Pompeo is looking that
is the only entertainment value I'm
seeing okay let's go to clip number 15
in Chile there have been mass
demonstrations going on for several days
now the immediate precipitating cause I
believe was a fare rise in the subways
the first response from the Sebastian
Pinera government which was elected a
couple years ago he's a right-wing
businessman he represents the right in
Chile was that people of lower incomes
should ride the subways and use public
transport in non peak hours if it was
too much for them so in other words I'd
go to work or
earlier and earlier and go home later
and later you should suffer as a person
and as a social economic class because
of new austerity now the demonstrations
have been aggressive and powerful and
you have military control of certain
parts of the city which have not in
certain parts of the country which has
not been the case since the formal end
of the Pinochet dictatorship Augusto
Pinochet of course came to power in 1973
with the backing of the United States it
was Chile September 11th there was a
powerful leader in Salvador Allende and
associated social movements the CIA in
the Nixon administration helped put an
end to it and a ghost of Pinochet would
go on to kill thousands of innocent
people in Chile the Chilean government
would actually commit an act of
terrorism in Washington DC when they
blew up I'll tell a former ambassadors a
car and a car bombing was speaking out
against the regime and they would
coordinate well along with the United
States with other right-wing hunters
across Latin America and something
called the Operation Condor where they
coordinated across borders to murder
liberals and leftists and commit
atrocities so there's a huge amount of
visual and political power and seeing
the military back on the streets let's
play a little bit of footage here from
some protests in Chile and then come
back to me I guess does this have sound
or no I guess not
[Applause]
[Music]
sopia Panera has backed down on the
subway hike but the bigger context that
exists here is that you know unlike in
Brazil where because the labor union
movement led by Lula in the 80s was
instrumental the military dictatorship
was in no small part was brought down in
the main by the labor union movement its
democratic constitution did some real
things to ensure labor protections
that's under assault today the Chilean
transition did not it got rid of
Pinochet it formalized democracy but it
did not have corresponding reforms in
the structural inequities that have
defined Chile for hundreds of years I
mean Chile is relatively wealthy and it
might be the most unequal if not one of
the most unequal in the region so you've
had some social democratic governments
which have done some decent reforms but
they are certainly not radical they have
not had the same types of achievements
in terms of poverty reductions that
other pink-eyed governments had as an
example and now you have a right-wing
oligarchic government which certainly
has remnants that go back to the
Pinochet era and this follows the World
Bank IMF pattern I mean we're gonna get
the Lebanon in Iraq in a second I've
been following Haiti and Ecuador
extensively on TMDs please look up
what's happening in Haiti very
specifically it's extremely important
these are all World Bank IMF guided
austerity policies that still terrorize
most people across the globe in
conjunction with local elites that's the
context of what you see in Chile and it
corresponds with existing radical social
movements that exist in the student
sphere that exists in the communist
sphere that exist in the indigenous
sphere so we'll keep following this as
it plays out obviously seems like things
are popping off all over the world right
now they are popping off all over the
world in Lebanon and Iraq
I think these protests really parallel
what's happened in Sudan the Sudanese
movement of 2018 which is still ongoing
and still in conflict was fun
Italy about reversing austerity it was
reversing these profound inequities
you're seeing it in Iran Iran has one of
the highest Gini coefficients in the
world in spite of the rhetoric of
equality of the Islamic Republic so
there's and even as there's always us
attempts to destabilize Iran there are
organic labour movements inside Iran um
Lebanon and Iraq maybe are particularly
significant because of the non sectarian
nature of the uprisings right so in Iraq
and Lebanon you do have much more
relative openness than say the Gulf
monarchies with out any of the same you
know corresponding wealth that is able
to be spread around the place like the
United Arab Emirates or Saudi Arabia
which are you know particularly Saudi
extremely repressive that all literally
monarchies in Lebanon and so on there's
a much more combative press in
journalistic culture there's much more
argument but it's a system that is based
on representation of the ethnic bloc's
you have a Sunni in one position you
have a Shia in another position you have
a Christian and another right and it
reflects Kurdish along with Sunni and
Shia so that obviously is a lock on
democratic possibility because it is in
narrow sectarian terms in terms of what
can literally happen it disincentivizes
professionalizing operations because
things are in-stream ly narrow patronage
networks and it blocks what the dream
always is right which is cross boundary
cross identity class organizing in
extremely unequal societies Iraq does
have a communist party Lebanon has
Marxist factions and these protests in
both places particularly in Lebanon
which I've seen more of but I think also
in Iraq have this very powerful
anti-austerity cross sectarian
class-based component and they've
already seen in Lebanon some real
reversals the government has agreed to a
set of reforms it's announced a
it's pulling back from the austerity
measures that it had been trying to push
through before and basically the Prime
Minister Hariri has addressed the nation
and said that they're gonna try to put
the country's finances in order
obviously that's complicated because
they're also talking about deficit you
know shrinking the deficit which you
don't want to have rolled onto most
Lebanese people of course hundreds of
thousands of people taken to the streets
some people waving flags saying they
want to bring down the regime which as I
say is pretty significant because this
is the sort of regime placeholder regime
that has basically kept peace in the
country in a way since the civil war
ended I believe in 1990 but has locked
in these really dysfunctional
distribution systems I'll cover most
I'll cover these stories more of the
people have been asking me so I wanted
to do a little bit as best I could to
get people up to date a little bit on
Lebanon and Chile the old world is dying
the new world struggles to be born how
long one thing this show points out
regularly is the fact that one of the
biggest areas of influence and power
president actually has in the area of
foreign policy and diplomacy in addition
to this I don't think it can be
understated how important the power of
choosing department secretaries is for
example having a HUD secretary believes
billionaires are a failure of the
government and rent control should be
mandatory versus having a department
head who believes the quote unquote
market can be incentivized to do good
and penalize good to discrepant lies
greed to discourage bad behavior is
crucially important difference yes
Colorado guy much love em are crude Lula
Libre jazz ID WTF okay
new polls showing blue to judge and
third place Bernie and fourth has
methodology of only 500 landline and
only polled I smell a setup that is a I
mean that is a funky methodology I'll
give you that I'm not really obsessed
with unschooling the polls but that I
mean look this is also though the same
there's a poll that just came out that
shows that that Biden and Warren
statistical ties in Iowa would trump and
Bernie's beating Trump by 10 points and
the hill leads with Biden and Warren
struggle against Trump in Iowa and now
the next phase is New York Magazine and
Washington Post and several others took
quotes that Bernie said in the debate
and attributed them to Warren so the
bias Harry erasure is very clear I mean
it's yeah it's totally discrediting and
embarrassing they're telling on
themselves telling on themselves every
second staff from Chicago as anyone as
someone who's been a social worker your
guests phrase empathy override resonated
with me there were times there were
times I broke the standard protocol
because I knew it wasn't best for my
client I easily could have lost my job
and blacklisted if my superiors
discovered that I exercised individual
discretion absolutely all right let's do
one more piece of sound this is funny
basically Rahm Emanuel who was one of
the worst human beings in global
politics who has a record of racism of X
creasing inequality of attacking
teachers unions of being an advocate for
war and against healthcare I guess he
needs to somehow keep his brand slightly
relevant so here he is on ABC News
speaking in support of a very modest
wealth plan wealth tax that Warren has
put forward and something that he has
never supported and never done anything
too forward in his entire career that's
still shocking for George Stephanopoulos
who does have a split second of deranged
self-awareness the 2% tax on people that
earn about 50 million is a winner in the
prime winner and they tell ya the well
tech and why winner in the channel
definitely majority and all the poll
seeing all the polling on it independent
voters because the Republicans gonna
fight it and people are gonna say this
is both equity and fairness yes it shows
I live in new Manhattan yes
laughing a little bit too hard zatia so
hard that I want to know his net assets
oh yeah yeah I mean that is just like
yes any sentient human being who's not
an oligarch would support more than that
I don't know how delusional you have to
be what do you think of the Republican
base that wouldn't support a 50 million
dollar tax I don't think it exists I
think most of them do I mean I that's
just it is an objective pole winner as
insofar as you can be objective about
these things I mean that that's
mind-blowing
that's weird nobody I had lunch with
that Balthasar today Yeah right tax you
sure about that yeah exactly exactly um
all right let's take a final call see
you're calling from a 602 area code who
are you where you calling from me am I
out
yes you're on what's your name where you
calling from all right thank you this is
John from Phoenix Arizona hey John
what's on your mom I wasn't wanting to
talk about when you guys were talking
about a OCS endorsement of Bernie it
really comes down to just two things
that you or I or anybody else Jews and
we support Bernie and that's he's got
the best policies we know a team can win
you'll know and it's not that simple
yo makes URI or a or C's enforcement of
him pretty much unbeatable when you just
stick to those two facts you could talk
about you know whether or not that's the
right pool strategy for her or you know
be shocked about her johanna marshy you
should have believed you know remaining
justice democrats that they were elected
as you know I don't think that shocking
I mean is right inspiring that we have
politicians that are sticking to their
values yeah but um right I want to tie
in something from the debate last week
that I think highlights the the courage
that they chose
when they choose to endorse now back in
the debate last week at towards the end
it's probably the last time they asked a
second the last time they asked Bernie a
question they Anderson Cooper asked
Bernie why is your approach the best to
take on Trump and Bernie says I'll tell
you why Anderson it's because it's what
the American people want and as soon as
he says that Elizabeth Warren has a hot
mic where she says yes right so does she
know that Bernie can win does she know
that Bernie can beat Trump I don't know
obviously I can't speak into her head of
course not I mean I I think but you know
I mean obviously look with each step I
mean she's been you know she mimics and
sort of duplicates his rhetoric I think
you know the argument about how they
plan to approach these problems and the
scale at which they have to address
these problems is very very different
but clearly you know look as I always
say they're radically different things
Bernie's the left choice obviously and
obviously relative to the field they
stick out on a lot of these questions on
the debate stage because the vast
majority people in the debate stage are
basically saying like American people
don't deserve we can't do anything
and so you know right that's and I think
that's as basic as it is you know and I
think you know the only interesting
argument is between Sanders and Warren I
mean that's it and obviously I think we
know one set of arguments are weak
relative to the others but everything
else
Biden Budaj edge Club Bashar it's you
know it's all just you know yeah we
should just keep having a system that's
terrible for most people and we'll make
it slightly less offensive thanks for
the call man I appreciate it all right
final call of the day as always we
cannot get to all of you I'm gonna pick
trying to find someone who's waited for
a while you're calling from an 8:02 area
code who are you where you calling from
hi this is Abby from Vermont hey Abby
how's it going what's on your mind
oh great payoff I've never thought I'd
get through but here you are I just want
to give a shout out to a group in
Vermont called migrant justice okay cool
um they do a lot of work with the well
they are the farm workers they do a lot
of work within the dairy industry it's
kind of so much of that farm working
group with the tomato so I can't
pronounce I don't know in Florida I
don't know yeah but they're having a big
day of action on October 2nd November
2nd if you just google Micah and justice
you can find out all the Hannaford
you're targeting the hint Hannaford
grocery chain in the northeast yo you
get them to change their supply lines
because all the milk that they they've
done it with Ben & Jerry's the milk with
dignity program if you just Google
migrant justice milk with dignity you
can see what I'm not sure exactly what's
going on that day or what's that release
public yet but you can find out pretty
easy online thanks Allie appreciate it
no Pam go appreciate it thank you bye
bye alright folks sorry no more calls
today tomorrow will be the same deal do
you know the interview is tomorrow
Brendon
it is diversity Inc by Pamela Newkirk no
that sounds like it sounds like a Walter
Ben Michaels book also a great author
people should check him out alright few
more IMS and we will get out of here I
love Sarah Palin hey guys listen I don't
like Trump as much as the next guy but
we have to treat him fairly and this
Ukraine thing the story sounds similar
on iran-contra to me and we didn't tap
each Reagan if that why should we treat
Trump differently I don't even
understand your point I mean I would
actually say iran-contra was infinitely
more serious than this and we should
have impeached Reagan and treat Trump
fairly are you trying to joke I don't
get it why would I treat Trump fairly
this has been Chris from Taiwan this has
been an effective way for me of framing
the Bernie rally for people who are
undecided the large
political cycle of this election was not
broadcast on a scene Yule news outlet
and was buried in the back pages of
every newspaper ask yourself how you
think such a rally would have been
covered that had been used by any other
candidate and then ask yourself why
that's perfect that's a hundred percent
right that's a hundred percent right
I mean look Elizabeth Warren had a big
rally in Manhattan it was less people in
Bernie it led every type of thing
all of these press showed up there works
in the media as they absolutely make
sense well Warren is identity politics
for journalists but beyond that I mean
an even more seriously I mean the same
you know media outlets that profess all
this concern that are absolutely
disgraceful in their treatment of
Sanders and working people across this
country gave and still give Trump
unending unearned media so indeed that's
a great question uh let's see final I am
of the day it's a little too much I like
that one though a congressional baseball
fan um let's see final I am of the day
see full Prague my favorite classic
movie Friday was when John Benjamin went
to the theater to give a live report
from The Avengers I have no memory of
that but that sounds absolutely
hilarious alright folks thanks we'll see
you tomorrow in that state
[Applause]
[Music]
I was
[Music]
feel any better
No
take it
[Music]
[Applause]
I just see where the choice is made so
the option where you don't get paid
[Music]
before
brakes
[Music]
laughs we try
[Music]
