[Music]
you know the in Alabama they have voted
now to outlaw all abortion with no
exceptions but for the if the life of
the mother is jeopardized of course that
is a very difficult thing to fully
assess and it's unclear what what is the
threshold it's not merely what a doctor
says and at least in terms of you know
legislatively speaking here is a clip of
the argument on the amendment that would
make an exception on this full ban on
abortion in Alabama for rape and incest
do you know what it's like to be raped
no ma'am I don't do you know what it's
like to have a relative commit incest on
you on me no ma'am why would you not
want a woman to at least have that
exception for such a horrific act
because I believe that when that unborn
child becomes a person and we need legal
guidance on when that is but that's not
your business that is not your business
you don't have to raise that child you
don't have to carry that child you don't
have to provide for that child you don't
have to do anything for that child but
yet you want to make the decision for
that woman that that's what she has to
do I want to make the decision for that
child
there she goes
there's a lot of that
you know this mirrors the the the fight
in South Carolina as they are arguing in
their abortion ban bill there was a
Republican woman Nancy mace gave a
speech about two or three weeks ago
persuading the house to allow exceptions
for rape and incest in their proposed
six-week so-called fetal heartbeat
abortion ban she ended up getting left a
card by a fellow lawmaker that said it's
twisted logic that would kill the unborn
child for the misdeed of the parents
speaking of the rapist committing the
misdeed you know is absent of course
from that sentence entirely out of that
equation is the victim I mean it is
stunning that as far as Republicans and
conservatives go their biggest cry about
any type of criminal justice reform or
whatever it is is you don't pay
attention to the victim the one time
where they feel incredibly comfortable
in not paying attention to the victim is
when it is a woman who is raped but as
grotesque as it is the the nullification
of of women in the context of a rape or
incest and abortion is that question I
mean the bottom line is it's the women
are being nullified regardless in just
passing a a ban on abortion even if
there was an exemption for rape or
incest this is you know we've been
talking about this now for a couple of
weeks every new story every new state
that does this and there's gonna be more
Ohio Georgia
now we have Alabama soon South Carolina
there's going to be
by the time we're done in a couple
months it's gonna be probably about 12
maybe they'll be more certainly will be
more we also get this the other day in
the Supreme Court and a completely
unrelated case a road map by the five
conservatives on how you simply ignore
the concept of stereo dices
maybe I'm mispronouncing that stereo
dices which is a basically respect for
precedent
so they're basically providing a road
map for overturning roe v wade but we
don't know if they're gonna do it that
way or some other more genteel way but
this is what we're looking at and this
is the reality this is the Republican
Party that's going to have the epiphany
as Joe Biden says if Donald Trump loses
here is a clip of on Fox in front an
excuse me Fox News and what's this guy's
name metaxas he's he's a writer and Eric
Metaxas is a New York Times bestselling
author and also an expert on what women
should do with their reproductive organs
here he is on Fox News bring Eric in
here because Eric would that's what
we've seen in a number of states have
gone the other direction they have
relaxed any regulation or different you
know restrictions on abortion so we're
seeing the states tackle this some glory
for the right some yeah they're left on
that yeah that's exactly what's supposed
to happen that's why roe v wade is an
abomination
it is not itself constitutional for the
people it is constitutional the Supreme
Court has decided on that he wants the
Supreme Court to overturn that ruling
the idea that the federal government
does not have
a right to protect the privacy and the
sovereignty of the bodies of its
citizens is absurd it's absurd I mean
the same guy would argue that states
don't have a right to outlaw guns
because of the Second Amendment
this guy's not out there are worried
about state rights when it comes to
things like legalizing marijuana no this
guy's just a religious zealot who wants
to impose his religion on the rest of us
via this moral code no for the people of
Alabama to be told by federal
legislators shut up we don't care what
you think we don't care who's in your
legislature we're gonna tell you what
your laws are and they said no the
people of Alabama have spoken and the
beauty of this first of all I'm thrilled
this happened but for many reasons
because as an American this needs to go
to the Supreme Court and people in
America need to argue is this a human
life if it turns out that this is a
human life can we all agree that it's
wrong to take that life we have to have
that conversation because it the
question isn't whether it's a human life
the question is whether this is a person
who is protected by our laws or whether
it is a a life that is contingent upon
another life and is part of a woman's
body
and not just her body but her destiny
and that's the question it's not whether
it's human life another question of
whether its life we don't have these
arguments about plants which are life
it's not a question of whether it's
human life at all
it is a is a question of whether this is
a person who has individual rights that
are distinct from the rights of the host
that is is feeding them and allowing
their viability after you have that
conversation the abortion activists have
said we don't want to have that
conversation you're on the wrong side of
history shut up shut up shut up Alabama
has forced us to have this conversation
just like many men are forcing women to
have abortions because it's legal and
the women themselves don't want to make
the choice oh let's not kid ourselves
that this is empowering women
okay there is every single opportunity
in the world under our laws for a woman
to stop a man from forcing her to have
an abortion but what we are seeing is
now many many men forcing women or
trying to force women into having
children forced pregnancies that's what
we're seeing
that's literally what we're seeing and
they are using the apparatus of the law
to do it whereas to the extent that what
this guy's claiming is true and I don't
know that it is true if there's any men
who are forcing women to have abortions
there is recourse for that well look I
mean it does happen right I have heard
from people whose abusive partners have
coerced them into having an abortion but
the answer to that and if he really
cared about women's agency is to take
steps to give women more power over
their own lives right so socialized
medicine education child care things of
that nature
and I'm pretty sure he doesn't support
those things so this is where we're at
and I don't know I wonder how Joe Biden
explains this away
I'd be
folks very very the elections over the
sky's not gonna be a fox talking about
stripping away woman's basic autonomy
well Donald Trump leaves he leaves or it
becomes a different person besides I met
him once at a dental restoration hatton
I don't remember the name of it too but
in this joke but he was very nice to me
there
