[Music]
all right let's go to this you know I've
been really struck and how Dave Rubin
has been so sportful as you know we
spoke yesterday about Devin Nunez a a
member really of the Republican
leadership when you are the chair of the
House Intelligence Committee as he was
before the Republicans lost the house
and you are suing obvious satire sites
on Twitter
satire handles which prior to the
lawsuit had virtually no followers but
that shouldn't even count whether they
have a million followers or a hundred
followers Devin Nunez is Cao and Devin
Nunez his mom bridges satire sites Nunez
seems to claim that their BOTS but
they're clearly thoughtful in their
satire whether you think it's funny or
not and tell your mom that way now
here's the thing as you know it has been
a pillar of everything that Dave Rubin
is about to protect free speech to allow
ideas to flourish to allow criticism to
not be a snowflake
this is what's tearing America apart is
the snowflake ISM so I want to
compliment Dave Rubin for his tweets and
his support for those people doing the
satire do we have that oh we don't have
that clip I'm sorry my apologies we do
have a clip of him with what's-his-face
Dennis Prager and where Dennis Prager
thanks him for pretending to be a
liberal so that they can use him as some
type of of Trojan horse breaker also has
some self assessment in this as well
about how potentially he's used right
and now Dave Rubin also you know to be
fair says wait Dennis
you're hurting my boyfriend proposition
by reminding people of how I think my
money we're filming there is a new thing
to say this out loud I mean you do
better than me but as confusing what's
in your cigar some type of wacky tabacky
good you because you're a great use to
two good values well do I'm not doing it
for your way to thinking you're trying
to say you're making money off me I'm
making money off of it is gonna see I
mean doing it I'm doing you're saying
that I'm doing it cynically and I just
want to say actually I really am doing
it cynically it for me but I want to
make it clear that I'm not I'm not doing
it for your benefit I'm a businessman
it's like FUBU you know for a spy 644
day by day oh wait a second we should
have done it I'm gonna take a nice long
puff on this stogie whether you continue
you insult me to my face you good value
well don't way I'm not doing it for
yours like Christians who say to me you
know all we would love you to come to
Christ but you are so valuable to us as
a Jew when you defend those Christians
and they're right you are valuable and
in the best sense of the word because
America what is the valuable in the best
sense of the word you have value to me
one of the bad senses of men we can
leverage you in the set other than in
the sense that if you accept that
cosmology that you literally burning in
a lake of hellfire for eternity is worth
it any because tax cut so fortunate for
Christians in this country that Dennis
Prager is here or God knows what could
happen to the Christians here don't
choose to be Jewish right like you could
always find like some stupid trader
member of any group to be a conservative
but like you do choose to be a liberal
so I don't really know what that even
means is it just that he says he's a
liberal and that's what makes him one
exactly it's about ideas I'll tell you
where I get it certified but my bank
account yeah you when you defend those
Christians and they're right you are
valuable in the best sense of the word
because the America needs people who are
clearly a liberal and who and to be
honest and fall into the category of
kosher as gay yeah to say hey hello the
Conservatives are not hate mongers hello
they should so another word gay
impression in other words it's great
that you're gay because even though
you're all against the idea of identity
you can leverage that identity of a
sudden in last couple of years anal sex
became acceptable if it evolved banning
Muslims from the country
super-interesting these people are
interested in maybe is to say hey hello
the Conservatives are not hate mongers
hello
they should be hello and maybe every so
often you should read National Review
right or watch a preview video the Witte
is thinking what about my videos also
Ruben report may be much labral video
recommender Dave Rubin yeah I do because
there's that ideas about you know um I'm
not kidding enjoying a big Dennis
finally I see that as a gay person there
you go kid what up you dumb little
what's fascinating about this too I mean
aside from the fact that Ruben realizes
that it's not just himself who's using
his identity to let to sell a bill of
goods that others are exploiting him to
hello but but the thing that's the thing
that's sort of fascinating about this
too is that they do this the
conservatives I've talked about this
many times I went down to that Glenn
Beck rally ten years ago and there were
very few black people brown people there
I mean virtually none really and there
was I know that comes as a big shock
there was a black eye I did see a black
eye and he was literally walking around
with another guy a white guy
who was I think his buddy who had
brought the black guy to the rally and
had a sign that says with an arrow
do I look racist because he's with a
black eye
there's a video of this you can find it
on our YouTube channel hello and and I
swear to you you can see like a half a
dozen people lined up taking photos to
prove that this was not a racist rally
and so they have they this they have
they they elevate the way but anybody
who is not a white male to ostensibly
prove that they are I don't think this
is it but quick question in light of
that should we change the basic sim
chyron well hold on the they they do
this to prove they think that it proves
that they're not racist but it's really
just for them
right cuz Dave Rubin is not convincing
any actual liberals that conservatives
are not hate mongers now he is I think
effectively probably steering some
misguided immature white males for a
while down a possible road that is
pretty ugly
but the idea that he's telling America
that conservatives are not hate mongers
because he's married to a man is just a
self delusion and that's all that they
want I like I like two holes though it's
like ben shapiro is like i okay i won't
cut your anniversary that's never gonna
happen
and pretty soon you're like yours right
about you I mean let's face facts here
yeah yeah yeah what's your friggin gay
and you call yourself
liberal and that might help with some of
the analytics mi Prager you videos get
dumb little bit your beautiful dumb
little prick hello less convincing to
liberals than Candace Owens is to black
people
I don't think Arizona does convincing to
her own family little bit of like mmm it
doesn't exactly sound right it sounds
like you saying I would complete empty
vessels whose only useful for Y identity
and pretend to be something I'm not is
that you would be say that we could
agree stricken good I'm sure that we
would be really open to having our views
changed on this and an opening ideas
with you
you have to bait us
