there is considerable there remains
considerable controversy in New York
about the whole Amazon headquarters
I guess the breakup if you will the
short-lived romance and relationship and
we are in you know fortunately nothing
was official and so the divorce was was
clean there were no children involved I
think the people that took the question
Sam is will Amazon Cuomo keep his name
after the divorce much like many many
many do or will he change it back to
Andrew that's correct
we don't know that that is unclear I
have no insight into Amazon Cuomo's of
thinking on this the the biggest losers
well I mean it depends on who you talk
to but the most definitive measurable
losers at this point right because we
were always talking about hypotheticals
in this situation if Amazon actually
delivered the jobs if you know there was
a lot of hypotheticals but the most
material losers at least in the short
run
are those Amazon executives who knew
that New York and Queens was going to be
picked and bought real estate in that
area now with that said but no well at
first blush I would actually argue that
that's wonderful but I would argue that
the the biggest losers are actually
large corporations because what this
entire sweepstakes auction whatever you
have want to call it did was lay bare
this economic race to the bottom where
cities have to grovel and beg and offer
bribes to corporations to get them to
move their locations and Amazon just
raised the awareness on this a million
fold and every other company
that's going to come after and and seek
these millions of dollars sometimes
billions of dollars are going to have to
come up against the fact that the public
just doesn't like this idea yeah and and
I want to talk about this struggle
that's going on with Nashville but and
but staying on New York I think I think
that was part of the reason why this
this happened in New York in terms of
its setting a precedent because you know
people and we can get into some of the
the details here but at the end of the
day regardless of whether you believe
the claims that Amazon was going to
create these jobs regardless of whether
you believe the claims that there would
be a net positive in terms of economic
activity for the city the reality is is
that New York City a the arguably the
most vibrant you know ten mile radius of
economic activity in the country and one
that is a very strong Union City one of
the most sort of a economically powerful
buyers if you will of corporations
coming for headquarters if they gave the
store essentially to the wealthiest
company you know more or less in the
world the wealthiest guy in the world
who could come there that's basically
saying that New York's is not in a
position to deny anybody and that if if
if Jeff Bezos is worthy of a subsidy
what company wouldn't be and if Jeff
Bezos didn't have any do you have to
give anything for a subsidy what company
would be and that was one of the big
sort of like I think less
covered aspects of this is that the
precedent that was being set in Amazon
surely knew that too about the president
yeah and I mean I I also think that you
you have to look at this in the in the
sense of where who has the value does
Amazon have the value by virtue of being
a company that can cite X number of jobs
in a portion of New York City or does
New York City have the value by virtue
of being New York City being a place
with a huge workforce incredible amount
of talent the entertainment location in
terms of being the world financial
sector having access to all these other
industries that the idea companies like
in Amazon are interested in that that
the value is in New York value is not in
Amazon and the idea that New York with
all of these factors in its favor needs
to pay for anything is is really just
ridiculous and the the idea that it's
actually made plainly ridiculous by the
fact that Amazon has 5,000 employees in
New York City they are not leaving and
in fact Amazon said in its announcement
that it would not cite hq2
in New York said that we will be
expanding our operations in New York
City and adding more people so right
they they they they get $0 for those
additional workers but they're doing it
because they know they have to be in New
York City and that's the real point and
I would add that despite the fact that I
was being a little bit glib about those
Amazon executives who went and bought
real estate in Queens in Long Island
City you know in anticipation of of
Amazon moving there when I'd say that
they're losers it's only insofar as like
the rate the pace of the increase of the
value of that property because
indicative of the strength of New York
City is that there is
no doubt in my mind that whatever they
bought in in terms of real estate in
five years is gonna be worth
significantly more than anywhere else
probably they could have bought in in
the United States and it's just not
going to do reasons number number one is
is is what you just said that you know
Long Island City is a gentrifying area
and it's going to attract businesses
because it's New York City and that
money will be put to use and that those
properties will be developed and and and
cost out higher than them when they're
about and number two Long Island City is
a federal opportunities owned and what
that means is it's a giant tax dodge to
buy properties and develop properties in
Long Island City the site where the
Amazon location was going to be this is
a separate kind of boondoggle from the
Trump tax cuts that created these
federal opportunities owns and had a
seemingly no standards on where those
would be put including and gentrifying
areas but you know these these
individuals are going to make out great
on this this real estate deal just not
in the way they thought they would and
so that's a completely separate subsidy
and just to be clear here on the New
York stuff and then you know we'll take
a break and we'll talk specifically
about Nashville but we heard the number
three billion dollars and there I think
about five hundred thousand I mean five
hundred million of that were direct
payments were actual payments or
subsidies to Amazon the other 2.5
billion were essentially taxes that new
york city new york state would not
collect assuming the same amount of
economic activity was to go on there and
i guess the question is like how much do
you believe there will be economic
activity that will go on there i think
you got to believe there's going to be a
lot I mean it's not I think people I
agree with you and I I think people like
Andrew Ross
can are embarrassing themselves when
they say that that New York City lost 27
billion dollars in tax revenue the idea
that there won't be 25,000 high-paying
jobs that New York is hard up for
high-paying jobs in the corporate sector
is ridiculous
and this this idea that there's lost you
know lost tax revenue coming in is is
just inaccurate New York City is going
to have the number of jobs that are able
to be supported by the city and it
always has been that way it always will
be that way and and and New York is not
you know each podunk Ohio where they
need the company to town to come in and
and and revitalize the city it's New
York City
right this is going to have a problem
filling that office space New York is
not Detroit and it's also not you know
1975 in New York and so alright well
look we got to take a break let's talk
about Nashville because Nashville gets a
little bit closer to that sort of model
where hey maybe this is maybe Nashville
doesn't have the same sort of like
bargaining power as New York and we will
talk about that when we return
I'm Sam cedar this is wearing a fire
radio talking to the great David Dan
