[Music]
all right before we go into the fun half
I want to talk about this warren
proposal because we have talked about in
the past the idea of how would you break
up how would you break up these big
companies and at the time I think these
big tech giants and at the time I was
like I don't know I know there is way
and there are policy there's policy
apparatus that are that are working on
this and at the very least this is I
think from anti-monopoly folks and
antitrust folks they would say this is a
very measured somewhat moderate proposal
I think math still are made a point on
the on Twitter about the Sherman
Antitrust Act actually having criminal
liabilities as well but Warren announced
the the proposal I guess to today she's
announcing it and it calls for the
appointment of regulators who would
unwind tech merger mergers that
illegally undermine competition and it
would also this is sort of consistent
with the the Sinn f√©in laws that we used
to have this indication laws which first
I think came from movie theaters back in
the early 1900s or mid 1900s where you
could not be a movie studio and own
movie theaters and the reason was
because obviously you're going to favor
your own movies in these movie theaters
you're going to crowd out the
competition of other people making
movies and so and then we saw this in
television as well
Bill Clinton rolled this back in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 where
Studios NBC Studios could not sell to
end
see television because obviously they
would be incentivized to only put on
projects made by NBC television and now
you know the theory I guess was that
well and it was problematic for several
years and then I think cable basically
opened it up quite a bit the reason why
you got that Union Cafe show that Jim
fallows did was a perfect example of
like what happens when NBC produces its
own shows garbage I was offered it but
let's not get it there all right so
here's the point
she she's proposing that you cannot you
cannot have a platform that both offers
a marketplace for commerce and
participating in that market so for
instance Amazon Marketplace cannot every
time you search for something provide
you with something that is an Amazon
either an Amazon product or something
that has been promoted by Amazon right
so because Amazon now is the number one
search function for products people
don't go to Google when they want to buy
a hamper for their apartment they go to
Amazon and they buy a hamper and then
Amazon pushes the product that they have
the most financial interest in that's
problematic on YouTube YouTube if it's
going to be a marketplace for videos
should not be promoting products or
video products that they have a
financial incentive in you cannot be
both the distribution mechanism and also
a supplier to that mechanism this is
what net neutrality is about
fundamentally the idea that Verizon has
the pipes that they're sending to your
house and they cannot disadvantage
competitors to what goes through those
pipes to what they are sending through
the pipes
they build information sorry how's that
going to work with Facebook because the
product there is your personal
information well it would force back
force the rollback of some acquisitions
by Facebook so their deals for things
like whatsapp and Instagram and/or
Amazon's edition of Whole Foods in
Google's purchase of ways are examples
of what they would do to unwind these
things companies would be barred from
transferring or sharing user daters with
third parties which is everything that
Facebook is right I mean that's
Facebook's model so those are the major
elements of this and what would happen
in terms of like how they would
determine on some level which companies
are subject to what level of scrutiny
and regulation warrants plan creates two
tiers of companies those that have an
annual global revenue of twenty five
billion or more and those that with an
annual revenue of ninety million to
twenty five billion the yes the upper
tier would be required to be to
structurally separate their products
from their marketplace smaller companies
would subject to regulations but would
not be forced to separate themselves
from the online marketplace so you could
have smaller entities and the thing is
you know what is the what is their
product on Facebook
right it is like the data and you're you
that's it and it's you and so you can't
both collect this data and monetize it
in the way that Facebook would want to
in remain that big and so there may be
other proposals that are released to
this hopefully this is one of those
situations where like warned again and I
saw a quote where foster care who is now
the campaign manager for Bernie had said
just weeks ago before he was a point of
the campaign manager that Warren seems
to be winning in the marketplace of
ideas in terms of rolling out new
policies Bernie's not not quite there
yet in terms of
starting to introduce new policies of
course many of his old policies have now
been adopted by everybody in the field
which is great one sort of but you know
so far secure first Muslim porn it's a
management campaign indeed but you know
it's always what have you done for me
lately is in this business as it were
but Eddie Murphy right I mean that's
what I mean it largely is what happened
like with Woody Allen with this comedy
like you watch a Woody Allen movie now
and it's like all these jokes are old I
hear these everywhere and it's because
they all were basically derived a whole
generation of comedy writers yeah that's
my issue with watching Woody Allen
movies there's other tangential issues
and to be honest I haven't watched one
in a long time but but that's that
literally is my issue he's not funny no
there you go I don't want to get too
sidetracked by at that point
Warren but so this is great I mean this
is exactly in a perfect world the only
thing that's different in a perfect
world from this one where we are seeing
candidates try to outdo each other with
making government a tool to do good and
empower citizens not as consumers but
not just as consumers as citizens
because much of this has to do with
democracy as much as it does has to do
with material benefits for people and
and we should understand that material
benefits for individuals is not just a
function of you as a consumer when you
have this type of concentration of
wealth you there's two things that
happen one being that you you lose
political power or they gain too much
political power but also the economy
becomes far less dynamic and you get far
less development of new companies and
new companies provide more opportunities
for people both in terms of waging
creases and in terms of just you know
opportunity to spread the wealth so this
is encouraging to see this stuff and
this is stuff I think I feel like Warren
would have rolled out two years ago if
Clinton had been named president and she
would be just championing this in the
Senate yep she's gonna make a great SEC
chair under president Bernie precisely
uh
or Treasury secretary or just be in the
Senate and get these proposals in I mean
true she will be if she stays in the
Senate she'll be one of the great
senators I mean that's a given
