[Music]
well Jacob wall the guy who you always
think like how is this guy not in prison
yet no but Sir how is he like an
intelligence asset I well I don't know
it on here I don't know I mean I think
like there's sort of like you know the
yes men he could be like I don't know
the no men I have no idea I have no idea
what this guy's scam is I don't know
like there could be somebody out there
who says like hey I've got a lot of cash
to burn I'm just gonna see like what
happens with this oh I think he's an
artist I think he does it for you know
just for self-expression yeah I mean
honestly not not a true artist you know
one who's not doing it to be remunerated
III think that's actually possible
because I can't believe that anybody
thinks like investing in him at this
point is worthwhile
here is a Jacob wall who had a press
conference introduced the world to a
twenty six seven year old former Marine
who apparently is or claims to be a male
prostitute who was enlisted and
compensated it sounds like by Elizabeth
Warren and apparently according to this
male prostitute
Elizabeth Warren is a little bit rough
let's play we should just say this is
super cut put together by Badham who's
also behind creationist cab okay this is
a creationist Katz
super cut or it was so violent that he
actually bare with us uh please folks
mad I need to know the deadline here and
Senator Warren was so violent that he
actually obtained scars on his back so
why show us the scars there you can see
two scars here
that was from the cat-o'-nine-tails and
Senator Warren engaged some lesbian sex
with my friend from high school
using a lime-green strap-on dildo
so I can remember I'm sorry I'm sorry
lime-green strap-on dildo bet she bought
it open that box never used and the
distinct rubbery smell this device was
quite overwhelming I usually see a
bigger tip can you give us a dollar
amount thousand for just the initial and
then she paid 1250 Trump is a peak alpha
male and so when you look at President
Trump him engaging in an extramarital
affair would be understandable would be
normal would be average we know that
women are more home worn up hormonal
than men well listen I will tell you
this may come as a surprise to you but
we're actually at a political operation
get that guy out of here he's crazy
what but when you look at Elizabeth
Warren you're talking about a very frail
very old woman who's going to be more
morally challenged as always to the
whatever remove him Louis hit that guy
out of there he's freaking me out hit
that guy out of there she's very more of
a dominatrix if you understand is it is
it just I mean it's just performance
yeah honestly I followed Jacob wool from
the beginning and when he teamed up with
Jack Burkman like that's just you know
that's just when he started creating
just master works like this but what is
work men used to be like a sort of like
a standard conservative talking head
something like that yeah I don't really
remember what Jack Burkman
I think I got into a fight with him on
on an MSNBC show years ago with with
what's-her-face good Crowley
Monica Crowley was it was over over deep
throat oh really yes I did I I don't
understand any of that
if anything this makes me more likely to
vote for Elizabeth Warren because now I
think she's maybe not such a nerd
honestly if I wanted to Dom people in
the bedroom III mean I did a TV thing
with Jack Burkman once and I had no idea
he was and he started saying that I
needed to be marshal law declared
specific cities to ethnically cleanse
him but how do they make a living at
this like I mean like I like who's
underwriting oh yeah that's what I find
beauty campaign right I mean I can
understand it like they get hired like
one of those things like on Craigslist
were you like oh you know I'll do it
it's an interesting question because I'm
not sure if it will even solicits
donations
I've not that I really doesn't have a
patreon okay so walls you like just some
rich kid walls dad is a run-of-the-mill
conservative guy from Southern
California and probably has like a
decent amount of money but not limitless
resources would be my guess yeah and you
know the originally what I thought was
you know his dole his dad was a
conservative like talk radio blowhard
something like that
and that the dad just basically
brainwashed the son and just the son is
just like totally nuts because Jacob
wool when he first started out was
pretending to be a millionaire VC guy
there's a lot of guys who pretend to be
venture capitalists because it sounds
like that's what what powerful smart
people do and then that's actually I
believe up Tommy who's a venture
capitalist when I first met that's how
we over the course of it and over the
course of it I guess he committed some
crime and now he's under indictment and
I still like laying low during the
indictment so then uh that ended and I
guess this happened while Trump came up
so he pivoted to being a Trump guy has
so many guys did like right like Mike
sort of itch for instance went from
being this MRA guy to being a Trump on
mullen yeah yeah it hurt his business
yeah and it like it expanded their
audience you know and then you know what
I think wall somewhere along the line
you know the
liberal sign him and then we find out
his lies and everyone just makes fun of
him and then I don't know he just
continually doubled down on it and then
got really into these stunts once he was
with Berkman I want to say wall went
with Laura Loomer and that alley weirdo
to Minneapolis to find that the truth
Omar Omar incest yeah
and that in my mind was funded by you
know what Laura Loomer gets to go around
the country doing these stunts but she's
actively soliciting donations she
actually has a cash flow from her
audience whoa I'm not so sure I mean
maybe he has a handful of just very
wealthy patrons the Bitcoin millionaires
or something like that who enjoy his
antics kind of uh you ever read the
magic Christian yes yeah kind of a magic
Christian type situation that would be I
mean that's my guess but I do think he's
in it for the love of the game and if
you've never been a few have the
opportunity to see a wall of the wall in
Berkman show like you should not pass up
that opportunity it's mostly in the DC
area but sometimes you know like when
they go up to Minneapolis or New York
City
you should go you saw how much fun that
audience was I'm somewhat sympathetic to
it and I certainly like I was you know
at least tangential to that world we
were in Gleek like there's no experience
like being in a Jacob will press Robin
we got the chance to do that when we
were at CPAC oh nice and then right
after we got to see a full or Loomer
show that's pretty good
I knew SOI bomb really do you know SOI
bomb Eric Michael Portnoy
he was the one who on that live Dylan
song came out and the Grammys right yeah
it was those two credits right it came
out and had soy bomb on there and like I
always understood that because he was a
performance artist but I mean there's a
sort of rich complexity to what wool
does that I that I appreciate and as
well this is probably as big as success
so far because a few days ago the he did
this he said he was gonna unmask the
whistleblower and then he didn't do it
right this time I mean he has he has a
marine he
skaars is a script it's lurid and all
the Warren people cannot resist riffing
on it for Warren t-shirts right now do
you think he went out and I'm just
curious from a creative process do you
think he went out looking for a Marine
with scars or do you think he found a
Marine who happened to have scars and
built it around that or do you think
that he had the idea of a Marine with
scars found a marine and actually with I
think he found the Marine and used the
scar it's like you know he found he
found his his his his creatures model
and saw the scars and said yes beautiful
wonderful and I'm gonna work with this
his creature and I don't think it's an
open casting call I kind of think it's a
word-of-mouth like the role he hangs out
with a bunch of alright weirdos on a
discord right and that that that
constitutes his base that would be my
guess how much do you think you would
have to be paid to be that guy that
marine guy to come out and say that I'm
a male or maybe he's a male maybe is
actually a dancer you know he could be
like Benjamin yourself emotion John
Benjamin would do stuff like that
would what you would get this looked for
a gig and just send a male stripper
that's him that's really fun that's one
of the funny sensitive cost a lot of
money
what is the iPod that makes even funnier
what what it what was the actual I don't
understand even though like what I guess
that she cheated on her husband like
what's the problem here well she had she
and she had a really good I was gonna
say it sounds like nothing but a
compliment I don't know I don't you
square the circle bite between saying
she's an old frail woman and as she
leave Murray I will say that bored she's
hormonal so it overrides for LT I will
say that you know III said at the
beginning of the year that that Biden
would collapse and I think I said it on
your show too I don't know if you can
officially say that Warren is the
frontrunner now but I mean I would
perceive her as such and she really
hasn't she really hasn't taken any hits
in a while you know like everything
isn't him now everything's going in very
very swimmingly for her including get
the wall treatments which has been
frankly a boon that is the best honestly
like I like it would be a very very bold
move to actually hire Jacob ball to do
something you can add more noise to make
any signal but but yeah this type of
stuff helps big-time I would hire I
would hire Jacob wall but that's like
hiring Banksy to paint your apartment
right how are you saying it's just
overkill yeah it's the practice that's
very hockey to do that you got to see if
he'll do it spontaneously oh well he
spontaneously makeup that Bernie was
involved in some type of orgy where
people are dressed in Isis costumes as a
yeah the money really ruins the whole
artistic process I think it looks like
Jack Burkman actually does Lobby still
which is mind-blowing
yes
