[Music]
now with that said let's turn our
attention to how hypocritical AOC is
apparently she has not because in her
democratic socialist utopia where she
imagines everyone getting health care
without having to go bankrupt for it
without having to have an accounting
decreed degree or the idea that there
would be a opportunity for free college
or the idea that we would protect the
planet she's not only coming from your
uh your cows folks but she's actually
taking airplanes that's right AOC was at
the airport flying even though she's
talking about we need to take high-speed
rail she was taking the Delta shovel it
looks in New York last time I checked
there's a pretty robust line why are you
taking a plane and not not taking the
car chain and she said cuz that would be
wasting my constituents time so she's a
ship with her own time man this is even
more controversial than Bernie Sanders
wears a winter coat she is she's trying
to hoard a time surplus so she can
profit from time you call yourself a
socialist you know what you hoard time a
little me that they just like they build
a fake print like you need a demented
premise right like the green New Deal is
gonna get rid of air travel and it's
like okay that's not true but obviously
that doesn't matter we'll be right all
programming with that just it's like a
lie but also like a paranoid fantasy
fever dream and then the next step is
like well you're a total hypocrite for
not observing the band that we made up
that you support in our heads that you
support what's also walk everywhere
what's right and what's also astonishing
is that
the Fox and Friends who expect her to
take a high-speed rail would never
support high-speed rail there they are
it's really is like an Escher painting
you know one of those graphics right
where they just keep it keeps flipping
over on itself but there it is least
they're not hearing sure to take a
chauffeured Suburbans everywhere so they
can have maximum waste at all times
speaking of Tucker Carlson and his
obsession with ASAE he apparently is
well having he's been on a bad streak as
of late Tucker Carlson he was
embarrassed because that Dutch historian
Bregman embarrassed him then friend to
show Adam green embarrassed him on TV
and so he's he's he's looking for a safe
harbor and of course he looks towards
the dayside programming at Fox here is
Tucker Carlson with Melissa Francis the
outnumbered co-host but Tucker I mean
you made the point before think about
what socialism is like the very
definition is a government takeover the
means of production it's a power grab
yes that's what she's been all about is
a power grab I'm in charge I'm in the
boss I'm the boss we go to Washington we
decide we get the means of production we
get control and we tell you all what you
get it's all has the same theme if you
boil it down to its most basic sense so
she doesn't want other people using
planes but she'll use a plane going back
and forth between DC and York because
she's important it means she's she's the
ruling class she's powerful she's
important so she gets to do these things
but for you and me we're just you know
the serfs along the way so we we
shouldn't you know have a carbon
footprint we should know these other
things and I wish it these billionaires
are the serfs the Delta shuttle the
Delta shuttle of course is the ruling
leads Delta shuttled between DC and
LaGuardia T it's like yeah that's
definitely a Marathi air right there
yeah usually the serfs ride private jets
more than their ruling class right
exactly
that's the whole pad is out of the surf
you want me to campaign for a neoliberal
shield will gas up the jet you son of a
 I think but also let's be pathetic
for a second that is not the definition
of socialism it's just straight on power
grab yeah it's close to one definition
of socialism but it's uh it's not the
government it's not a top-down thing
right it's the workers who marketers who
make the stuff should decide what
happens to the stuff and the conditions
of our own labor and insofar as the
government is doing this it's the
government as the elected
representatives of the people from the
bottom up a grab
she wants did she wants to be the only
one to take the Delta shuttle I want
complete space it's not gonna be Delta
shuttle anymore it's gonna be a OC
shuttle a OC one she's just gonna be
living like a dictator and well Tucker
Carlson has to like fan her and feed her
grapes
