[Music]
on the phone it is a pleasure to welcome
to the program legal historian of
criminal law and procedure the 20th
century United States teaching at the
Iowa University Iowa law school author
of open road how cars transformed
American freedom Sarah
sayo welcome to the program thank you so
much for having me it's great to be here
this is a fascinating story and it
starts with the well let's actually
start with with how you came to to
choose this topic because it's not the
implications of the the advent of the
car on our law is not you know something
that's necessarily floating around the
ether right I mean it's just full of
unintended consequences I don't think
they contemplate it beforehand and I
don't think it gets much attention after
the fact but how did you come to write
about this specific topic actually I
started from the end of my book I got
interested in it because I wanted to
look at the history of the war on drugs
it's the question really started forming
when I was clerking in New York City for
two federal judges and much of the
criminal docket in federal courts of New
York were drug cases I was really
interested in how the drug war shaped
our Criminal Procedure and criminal laws
and so what I further doing is and I was
really interested in the law enforcement
of the war on drugs and so if you wanted
to study law enforcement as a
constitutional matter really there is
one provision that is most directly
relevant to governing what the police
can do and that's the Fourth Amendment
because the Fourth Amendment prohibits
unreasonable searches and seizures and
most police encounters with citizens
begin with a seizure which is a stop
police stop someone
immediately the Fourth Amendment kicks
in and in that encounter a search can
happen as well and so the Fourth
Amendment governs that police citizen
encounter and so what I did I'm a
historian so I just started reading all
Fourth Amendment cases from the very
beginning us tree and what I found when
I pulled up all these Fourth Amendment
cases in West law was really surprising
to me I can go on well I mean I guess
let's yeah tell us what was surprising
about these Fourth Amendment cases and
then you know then I think we can circle
back and talk about why there was a need
for the development of this law you know
in the era as cars were being introduced
in a mass way but what were those Fourth
Amendment cases that were were so
interesting well so there's two things
that really stuck out to me one was that
Fourth Amendment cases were really rare
until the 1920s some years some decades
there were one or zero Fourth Amendment
cases in state or federal courts they
started popping up a bit more in the
late 19th century but there was an
explosion of Fourth Amendment cases in
the 1920s which goes to the topic of my
book it coincided with a mass production
of cars and when I was reading these
cases from the 1920s on so many Fourth
Amendment cases had to do with car stops
and searches and so from the very
beginning I realized that this really is
a story the story of the Fourth
Amendment
it's a 20th century history first of all
because they were pretty rare before
them and second of all it's a story
about cars policing cars it's
fascinating and let me and before we get
into sort of the the the sort of the
what the implications of the of the of
the of the introduction of the car in
such a widespread way impacted our
society in policing well why what why
like give me a sense of like what the
Fourth Amendment cases were before it
started to involve a car I mean
obviously you know it's the Fourth
Amendment it obviously was on the minds
of folks when they're drying up the
Constitution what was the what was the
original construction or I guess impetus
behind the Fourth Amendment and why was
it so underutilized
I guess urn why was there less of a need
for it in let's say the 19th century
sure so I think you're asking two
questions one was what was an original
need for the Fourth Amendment why did
the founding fathers include the Fourth
Amendment as one of the amendments to
the bill of rights I think that's one of
your first questions right and then the
second question is about what were some
of the cases the few cases that did
arise what were they about that's kind
of the second question okay so starting
with the original purpose for why'd the
founding fathers included it so it went
back to the experience during that led
up to the American Revolution we we've
all studied about how American colonists
protests the taxation without
representation right England imposed
taxes on the American colonists they
didn't want to pay and so a lot of them
didn't pay their taxes and so what
Parliament did was they passed these
general laws they basically passed a law
that allowed agents of the king to stop
and search anyone anywhere any place
these were and they were called general
warrants
I gave agents and law enforcement agents
to search for tax evasion basically and
so in the tax evasion just to be clear I
mean my understanding is the tax evasion
was a function of basically goods that
we would you know that would be that
from the Kings perspective were smuggled
so if you had certain goods on you that
had not you had not paid tax on maybe
didn't have the stamp or the the wax or
whatever it was that indicated that you
had already that you had paid taxes on
these they were contraband exactly
exactly
and so what the Fourth Amendment
requires is a specific warrant but it
doesn't take away law enforcement
ability to search and to see what the
Fourth Amendment says is if the
government wants to search and seize
they need to have a specific warrant
specifying who they're going to feed or
arrest what they're going to search and
where they're going to search so no more
general warrants that are enacted by law
law enforcement have to go to a judge to
get out of the Pacific warrant the idea
being that you need to be aware that
there's been a specific you know a case
of smuggling or / tax evasion however
you want to call it as opposed to I'm
going to search every home and person
and just fishing up expedition at any
and all times exactly what they what the
founding fathers wanted to prohibit were
general exploratory fishing expeditions
but and so what another requirement of
the Fourth Amendment specifies is that
to get a warrant to get a specific
warrant the law enforcement needs to
make out a probable cause right there's
there's a reason why they want to look
at certain places or to make an arrest
they have to articulate probable cause
in front of a neutral magistrate so that
was a protection to prohibit general
warrants from being enacted the original
purpose go ahead well and then I guess I
mean the the so the absence of needing
the fourth amendment after you know the
the idea of we don't have an outside
force I mean what did what does they I
guess the lack of an invocation of the
fourth amendment during the 19th century
tell us about the dynamic of policing
sure so there's two things one is so the
Fourth Amendment
I've only to the federal government
before the 20th century the federal
federal government didn't really have a
police force a general police force they
had a really small state with very few
law enforcement agents that really
focused on discrete federal crimes and
there weren't a lot of federal crimes
most of the crimes were tax evasion
types of crimes Treasury crimes so you
know before the FBI which is the main
law enforcement agency today the FBI was
founded and I believe 1908 before then
most of the law enforcement agents in
the federal government were part of the
Treasury Department and so the the the
opportunities for federal law
enforcement agents to need to
investigate crimes and it was just not a
common occurrence before the 20th
century so you don't really have the
twenty you don't really have the Fourth
Amendment coming into play all that
often so that's the federal government
story my book also looks bad what's
going on in the state courts as well
right because there are local police
departments or local law enforcement
agencies at the local and state level
and all states have their version of the
Fourth Amendment in their state
constitutions and so the question is why
don't we see more Fourth Amendment cases
at the state level until the 20th
century there's different reasons for
that even at the local level there
weren't a really big law enforcement
presence there were sheriffs and
constables some of the big cities by the
mid 19th century did establish police
forces but they weren't as heavily
staffed as one might expect and that's
because much of criminal investigation
prosecution and fourth met was done
privately and what I mean by that is it
was often private citizens and private
businesses who investigated and
prosecuted crime against
the people who committed crimes against
them it wasn't a public police
department or a public prosecutor and so
the Fourth Amendment really doesn't come
into play that in those cases in either
so the development of modern police
forces which happens in the 20th century
leads to more Fourth Amendment issues
before then it didn't really come up
well and that's and that leads us to
this sordid story of the development of
the cars and I mean just give us a sense
I I couldn't help but think when I was
reading about the development of sort of
the widespread adoption I guess we
should say of cars in society that one
of the major sticking points in the
libertarian primary presidential primary
debates was the the argument that we
shouldn't have driver's licenses and
certainly the introduction of cars in
the early 1900's we I can't remember the
statistic on my table ahead but the
number of like deaths and pedestrian
death I mean give us a sense of what was
going on with cars as they were widely
adopted right so one thing to point out
is that the mass production and also the
mass adoption of cars has been really
quickly I think the tipping point in
terms of a majority of American families
who owned a car you know getting past
the 50% tipping point was happened
sometime in the mid 1920s so the the
infiltration of cars in American society
happened really quickly and cities and
towns throughout the country were not
prepared for the influx of cars on their
streets and highways so that's one thing
that and so what that led to was this
mass chaos in terms of traffic jams in
terms of just all the cars on the
streets but also like you mentioned
traffic accidents and the fatalities
rate was it was declared a national
crisis by the Secretary of Commerce at
the time Herbert Hoover
there was once
justic that said that from 1913 to 1930
the death rate by car accidents
increased I want to say 400% or
something like that whereas death by all
other types of ex accidents decreased
40% and so the the traffic accidents
from cars made front-page news on the
New York Times in newspapers throughout
the country it was a really big deal and
immediately Thomson City started
regulating the operation of Motor
Vehicles including driver's licenses so
so we have this we we we adopt basically
regulations and laws on how to drive and
and what constitutes traffic violations
for the safety of individuals but we
have no mechanism at that point to
enforce it everybody violated traffic
laws a huge process and so so at that
point what is it just like a ton of Help
Wanted sign you know signs like we need
more cops I mean like what happens at
that point because this is the first I
mean basically the introduction of
technology and on some level like this
is like the story of society's right I
mean the introduction of this technology
creates a whole almost entire new
universe of potential like you know
obviously a lot of positives but
obviously a lot of potential negatives
that the the only the state is able to
step in and in any way you know make it
function in a way that you know there
has to be some type of I guess for lack
of a better term monopoly of force here
but there was literally no force no
force to I guess execute that monopoly
of force right so one of the main
arguments that I make in the first half
of my book is to show how Americans
xiety as a whole shifted it's very
method of governing society because of
cars we went from a nineteenth-century
voluntary Association self-governance
types of organizations that govern
society to what I call 20th century
police law enforcement of the mode of
governance so the problem of how to get
people to obey traffic laws right how
did how did American society get people
to obey laws in the 19th century it
wasn't through police ma enforcement it
was through voluntary associations like
churches trade unions common law courts
people suit each other and you know for
trespass or contract violations or
things like that those were the types of
needs used to make people obey norms of
society and as in the first decade and
two or so of the automobile American
society tried those nineteenth-century
forms of governments to get people to
obey traffic laws they had associations
like you know cuts like the California
development Association the automobile
and the National Automobile Association
the traffic officials associated all
these different associations try to get
together to try to convince people to
obey laws people volunteered to direct
traffic they had people there was a
safety pledge drive in California they
tried they tried to get people to sign a
safety pledge pledging their honor that
they would obey traffic laws they there
was one county in California that put up
the Billboard Bank our speed limit is 30
miles per hour beyond your honor obey it
we don't need to hire more traffic cops
and then so these they're there the
whole premise of these voluntary
associations is that your bad citizens
are a part of a community and part of
the local organization and you could
appeal to their reasonableness or their
honor to follow the rules and they tried
that it didn't
work and so the thousand cities had to
hire more traffic hubs and what they
were realizing was that all the fines
that they could generate from traffic
violations would pay for more traffic
officers and so that's how these modern
IR did these modern-day people
departments grew it was through it was
through traffic law enforcement so and
and and then I mean this is fascinating
cuz we they start as almost like these
like you know I guess traffic cops and
it becomes you right the first time
that the law abiding for lack of a
better term right like this sort of the
average citizen who is not causing
enough of a problem that other people
say hey this guy's causing a problem
have begin to have interactions with
police on a regular basis
exactly it's actually mom fighting
citizen is not for lack of a better word
it's the phrase and they use themselves
this is the nineties throughout the
twentieth century what do we do with
these law-abiding citizens who violate
traffic laws so it's that's that's a
term that they use themselves and and
one of the main arguments of my book is
you know it's no it was surprising to
find that the development of modern
police began because of the need to
discipline the respectable ordinary
law-abiding citizens it wasn't because
of the need to discipline the poor or
the foreigners or immigrants of the
population that we focus on today in
today's literature about the the
vulnerable population subject to
policing as the the story the history of
policing of modern policing begins with
the small abiding that
memory that's fascinating and and then
what what turns is essentially starts
with Carol vu s right I mean this is
where at some level like this is the is
this the original sin is it I mean I
don't know maybe it's not even a sin but
this is this is where the dynamic
changes where essentially the court
can't come up with a better way of doing
this then basically allowing police
discretion
exactly it's Carroll versus United
States was decided by the US Supreme
Court in 1925 and then what the US
Supreme Court's first car case it
actually came up before the US Supreme
Court in 1923 but the issue was so hard
that they thought for another year they
asked from the parties to argue the case
again the next year and they decided in
1925 and the reason why the issue was so
hard but because it's the juxtaposition
of these two car stories one about cars
and freedom it democratizes democratized
transportation to large numbers of the
population it was you know the early
adopters of cars were from the
law-abiding class so you have that story
about cars and freedom and dependence
them all of that and then you also have
cars and not just the need for policing
for traffic law a regulation and
enforcement but you also have cars that
really transforms the commission of
crime the 1920s which is when the mass
adoption of cars is really gaining speed
nineteen twenty fall so when national
prohibition is becoming import or is
enforced becomes the law of the land and
microwave a mode of transporting their
their liquor was the car right they
could the cars basically one way to
think about it as a humongous movable
container that can conceal liquor or
other contraband and it's easy to move
move a box of the liquor and
the cards that you have law enforcement
trying to enforce those laws as well and
so on the other hand you want to be able
to the court once to want it to be able
to allow law enforcement to go after
bootleggers gangsters and all that so
then there's these two two different
stories about the cars - tensions that
the court was trying to grapple with and
they had a really hard time grappling
with it in and that's the idea that one
is like your property it can't be
searched and the other is that there's
you can't be searched without a warrant
I guess and the other the mobility is
such that you can't it's tough to get a
warrant because you go to court they
drive off and deliver their liquor and
and so the police are now armed with a
with a certain discretion and it's like
the courts trying to split that
difference between the I guess the
British agents who would come by and
just do a total fishing expedition and
the idea that you know that that people
could just drive off exactly so what the
court did in the Carroll case was to say
you know we're going to create a warrant
exception for cars right just like you
said cars are private property and so
they are protected by the Fourth
Amendment which requires a specific
warrant but because of because of the
specific you know difficulties about
cars they're going to get rid of that
warrant requirement and the requirement
is that the officer be able to
articulate probable cause if I should
officer believe that he or she has
probable cause that there's evidence of
a crime inside the car they can stop and
search the car without a warrant and
what there's a huge thing that that
decision does is that it transfers the
decision of whether there is probable
cause from a neutral judge over to
an officer and not just you know and
Basking that's a huge shift for one
thing but also an officer on the road
can decide at that moment whether to
stop and search a car and so it
I argue this is the first time that that
the court constitutionally recognizes
the legitimacy of police discretionary
powers and I mean it's interesting it
just occurs to me that like you know
that that the sort of the solitude that
I guess a police officer would do this
in right I mean this is you know we're
talking about on the road it's not like
there's a high amount of density
necessarily right where this is
happening or is it I mean like the
freedom that an officer has at that
point seems to be pretty pretty wide
berth I mean the freedom to decide yeah
like that yeah yeah so the potential for
abuse gets pointed out right after
Carol's decided one commentator points
out you know an officer in the officer
doesn't have to be 100% right that
there's evidence of a crime inside the
car right the standard is just probable
cause which allows room for an officer
to be wrong about the fact that there
might be evidence of a crime in the car
and so given that wiggle room an officer
could fudge the probable cause
determination right he could have a mere
hunch
rather than probable cause right and if
if that decision gets challenged later
in court one of the commentators said
right after the Carroll decision came
out there's something called judicial
charity where judges will be charitable
towards the officers determination of
probable cause especially if they're
right if they turned out to be right
that there was evidence of crime in a
car so right after Carroll of
commentators are criticizing the
decision
giving too much power putting too much
power into the hands of police officers
on the road and this thing gets picked
up again it gets picked up in 1949 in
another Supreme Court case in a
discernment by justice Jackson and he
outlines his pretty poignant me he says
you know when an officer decides to stop
a citizen on the side of the road it's
done in haste I am a lot of these
traffic stops you know take place over a
few minutes there's nobody to oversee
the whole process and so the citizen is
pulled over can't I'm asked for a
neutral magistrate judge to make sure
that everything's kosher and and what if
it's an innocent person who stopped and
the police let that person go and then
the privacy privacy violations already
happened and the innocent person can't
challenge that police action because
there's no evidence of crime to
challenge and so innocent people have to
experience potentially unconstitutional
unconstitutional searches and seizures
without ever having a court of law
review that and if you're guilty and
there is evidence of a crime there's you
know what the commentator said in the
1920s judicial charity and so a court is
likely to see what the police said is
reasonable because the you know the
police was right then there was evidence
of the crimes even and suggestive
Jackson was worried about how the way
that the Carroll decision of played out
in practice would erode Fourth Amendment
rights over the Fourth Amendment rights
in cars and and and the problem then
becomes like there's really two
scenarios where that erosion becomes
really problematic I mean broadly and
that is one you either get a bunch of
police who are you know who become
obsessed with their power and decide to
do this to everybody across the board or
it becomes a mechanism in which to
- I guess act upon racial bias that you
have and that ends up being the it that
ends up being the problem right and we
see that play out in the history of
policing cars and the there's there's
two stories that are little several
stories that are coming together at this
point that one is you know the criminal
laws get developed over the twentieth
century we have prohibition that lasted
for a little over a decade and then
after that we had various drug laws
which turned increasingly punitive after
the 1970s and so a to enforce those laws
a lot of it which happened in the
context of cars officers need probable
cause and it's becoming increasingly
easier to meet that standard of probable
cause but in a way officers don't even
need to articulate probable cause that
there's evidence of a crime because and
this is the early history picking back
up again there's all these traffic laws
that everybody's violating and so the
police can basically pull over anybody
for a traffic violation and in the 1950
arting in the 1950s you see stories or
there are stories in the n-double-a-cp
archives the police using minor traffic
violations to harass and abuse and
double acp lawyers and activists and
when one famous story is how Thurgood
Marshall was pulled over for protection
stop right i'm mr luther king was pulled
over for a speeding ticket and and
there's all these stories in the
n-double-a-cp archives of people who
park right outside n-double a-c-p park
in double acp offices who are ticketed
for a minor traffic violation and so
there's there these stories about the
stories of traffic law enforcement and
criminal law enforcement are coming
together pretty early in the 20th
century
and so does this I mean it it feels like
the that this slippery slope I guess
which was a slippery slope I mean on
some level that the only thing that in
some way seemed to at least plateau it I
guess was really in many respects the
advent of cell phones and and perhaps
you know it seems like the case law has
actually probably continued down that
slope a little bit in terms of allowing
police these powers not the least of
which is their ability to confiscate
goods if they suspect you involved in
drugs in some instances almost like a
like a like a like a pre punishment but
there's also it seems to me to be the
problem that this dynamic this principle
in terms of giving the police discretion
cross is outside of traffic and cars
into just policing more generally like
when you start to get like stop and
frisk and stuff like that is is that is
that part of the story it is and I
talked about some of the new data
privacy cases in my epilogue because I
do see old themes about the car popping
up in these new cases about smartphones
and data privacy of an interesting way
and so for example one of the themes of
these Fourth Amendment cases in the 20th
century about policing cars one of the
common themes is every man or the
law-abiding citizen right if the court
allow the police to do this then that
means support of them that means that
the police can also harass the everyman
or the law-abiding citizen and this was
a theme that was made by Carroll in 1925
his lawyer argued you know if you allow
the police to do this who else is going
to be harassed the rule postman the
milkman then you know that every man in
1949 justice Jackson also said we have
to treat the search of this
bootleggers as a search of every man and
so there's this because of the way that
the car democratized mobility working
behind these court opinions is how how
this court opinion also been apply to
everybody else and I see that theme
coming up again in the smartphone cases
where the courts opinions point out so
many of us have smartphones and the
justices are probably thinking I have
one too right and so in the one of the
last marks from decisions Reilly versus
California the opinion points out is
like ninety percent of Americans own a
smart smart phones but whatever we allow
the police to do in this case is going
to affect everybody at the best one of
the themes that that are coming up again
the other interesting theme that I see
which is kind of a deviation from the
history of policing cars is comes from
one argument that I make in my book that
the conventional story that we have been
told about the Fourth Amendment is a
story of progress and triumph where the
courts are in been in a position to
expand individual rights and protect
individuals from the police that was a
story I was told when I went to law
school and it's a story that really
focuses on the warrant court the Warren
Court was the court under the Chief
Justice Earl Warren mostly in the 1960s
one the most liberal courts in US
history that that was the court that
decided brown v board of education that
eliminated or said of segregation in
public schools was unlawful or
unconstitutional and the Warren Court
was also the courts that started the due
process revolution my recall of
revolution because the court basically
started applying the US Constitution
which only applies to the federal
government they started applying it to
local police officers and so the US
Supreme Court started policing the
police and was a huge revelry
and it's a story of triumph basically
that was a story that I've had for ever
since in law school and what I realized
when I went when I read all those cases
those landmark cases that we celebrate
for protecting individual rights all of
those cases don't have anything to do
with policing cars they're all about
protecting the home or the house which
is the most protected space in
constitutional law and when I started
looking at all the other Fourth
Amendment cases that even the Warren
Court decided about policing cars it's
the car cases where the court actually
expanded the police's discretionary
power so it's that I add my book kind of
revises a little bit the standard story
about what the court did in terms of
developing the First Amendment in the
twentieth century so I go into all of
this to say how the smartphone
jurisprudence is deviating from the
history of policing cars what the court
said in the last one of the last
smartphone cases is to say smartphones
is actually not like you know not like
cars usually anything that you could put
into a car is considered part of a car
search like if you you know have a purse
inside your car that can be searched as
part of a car search if the one would
think that a smartphone in your car
could be smart that it could be searched
as you know it's found inside the car
but instead what the court said was you
know a smartphone is more like your
health because it contains books it can
take more bullets than a smart smart
phone has more booking when many people
have in their homes
it contains medical records that you
might want you might keep safeguard in
your home it has you know conversations
with friends and texts and conversations
that can happen in the home so what the
court did to say smart are not like cars
it's more like houses and therefore
we're going to require a warrant if the
police want to search your smartphone
and so that that metaphor of is more
like a car or is it more like a house
the
all shapes how the court decides whether
the Fourth Amendment is going to apply
to different and new technology
fascinating the the book is policing the
open road how cars transformed American
freedom Sarah say oh thank you so much
for your time today we'll put a link to
the book on majority dot F M
