[Music]
you know people don't give Donald Trump
we talk about housing people don't give
Donald Trump credit at all for the work
that he's done in dealing with the
homelessness with homeless people who
don't have any housing whatsoever and
apparently it was a super easy fix
people don't know about it because he
just hasn't had the chance to tell them
I know who can tell them there
well who could we get to maybe ask him
some very insightful
you know insightful and incisive
questions
oh maybe Tucker Carlson come to where we
are now Asaka or Tokyo and the cities
are clean there's no graffiti no-one
going a bathroom on the street you don't
see just very very different from our
city yep our cities but New York City
San Francisco Los Angeles they've got a
major problem with thirst with filth
very soon why is that it's a phenomena
that started two years ago it's
disgraceful I'm gonna maybe and I'm
looking at it very seriously we're doing
some other things you probably notice
like some of the very important things
that we're doing now but we're looking
at it very seriously because you can't
do that you can't have what's happening
where police officers are getting sick
just by walking the beat I mean they're
getting actually very sick where people
are getting sick where the people living
there are living in hell too although
some of them have mental problems where
they don't even know they're living that
way in fact perhaps what happened so it
started two years ago hey the world is a
scene from death wish in the 70s
what is he talking I don't know it's
really hard I mean Hawker with that
cleanliness I mean jeez to me the
wonders it because maybe they pay their
public workers they hire enough people
to clean up thee this is a theory I I
think it was actually Thomas Friedman
who
the 90s that Japan was gonna stop
needing to have jobs like that in a
global economy why because it would they
bring another local too much bureaucracy
well so who would do it well he I don't
machines OS or people all right so let's
pick it up for let's play through that
again because I'm trying to figure out
what he's saying I think that my guess
is this Trump what he thinks of cities
the only city he knows is New York right
isn't go outside he hasn't been outside
in a city God knows when so he's
thinking New York and of course he's
thinking New York in the 70s or 80s and
so when he says it started two years ago
I think that's a reference to maybe the
stopping of stop and frisk maybe right
and that's that make sense I mean this
I'm just a bit too much credit there I'm
trying to decipher this and but the
water good meeting but the four times
that Trump knows something it would be
like I'm in a complete fog but but there
was something when we stop doing
accepting races to cause problems I
remember it that's a specific I got it I
don't know if he's saying that things
started to get dirty two years ago with
things started to get clean two years
ago it's completely who knows time to
where we are now Asaka or Tokyo and the
cities are clean there's no graffiti no
one going a bathroom on the street you
don't see just very different from our
city yep some of our cities but New York
City San Francisco Los Angeles they've
got a major problem with thirst with
filth very soon why is that it's a
phenomenon that started two years ago
it's disgraceful I'm gonna maybe and I'm
looking at it very seriously we're doing
some other things you probably noticed
like some of the very important things
that we're doing now but we're looking
at it very seriously because you can't
do that you can't have what's happening
where police officers are getting sick
just by walking the beat I mean they're
getting actually very sick where people
are getting sick where the people living
there are living in hell too although
some of them have mental problems where
they don't even know they're living that
way in fact perhaps they like living
that way
they can't do that you we cannot ruin
our cities and you have people that work
in those cities they work in office
buildings and to get into the building
they have to walk through a scene that
nobody would have believed possible
three years ago and this is the liberal
establishment this is what I'm fighting
they I don't know if they're afraid of
votes I don't know if they really
believe that this should be taking place
but it's a terrible thing that's taking
place and we may be you know I had a
situation when I first became president
we had certain areas of Washington DC
where that was starting to happen and I
ended it very quickly I said you can do
that when we have leaders of the world
coming in to see the President of the
United States and they're writing down a
highway
they can't be looking at that I really
believe that it hurts our country they
can't be looking it seems like you see
in Los Angeles in San Francisco San
Francisco I own property in San
Francisco so I don't care except it was
so beautiful and now areas that you used
to think as being you know really
something very special you take a look
at what's going on with San Francisco
it's terrible so we're looking at it
very seriously we may intercede we may
do something to get that whole thing
cleaned up it's inappropriate no we have
to take the people and do something we
have to do something
right right so in other words I think
what President Trump is announcing is a
federal program to round up the homeless
and do something with them he's gonna
federalize this problem of course that
would be the only way that he could do
it in San Francisco and Washington and
New York and four cities also I don't
know if there is I don't know what the
specifics are for a polka ward or a
Pulitzer or any type of journalism but
if there's one for keeping a straight
face and not saying to the person you're
interviewing what the hell are you
talking about then I guess Tucker
Carlson should get that one because I it
was 90% of that
sorry there's no one in the world who
knows what he's talking about I don't
know if he does maybe he does and he's
just using some type of a shorthand but
this hadn't started until three years
ago it's bizarre by solving it in DC I
think he means like I instructed Secret
Service to make sure I never see a
homeless person in the motorcade right
let's drive a different way or put new
one-way windows looking in not out can
you say ice cream truck that falls to
the right of the car so don't have to
look at anything homeless I remember in
Trinidad somebody said oh the ride from
the airport to Port of Spain there used
to be these like homeless encampments
and shanty towns and I was like oh I
don't see them it's they've been and
they were like oh yeah they all
literally got built over before the
Americas summit that Obama went to in
2009 sure don't just come right now
let's do that that's a great model that
and that's also what happened during the
Olympics in right on most places
Olympics everywhere the Olympics goes
yes here's
