[Music]
this is California he had a big rally he
had a couple he had a San Francisco it
was LA and San Francisco Swing and here
is Bernie on that California's gonna be
a very very important stage for Bernie
because Kamala Harris is and I think you
know I haven't heard too much of it and
I think we're gonna get back to hearing
more about this as we get as we move
closer to the debates but there's gonna
be a big expectation game in terms of
Kamala Harris if she cannot win
decisively in California she's gonna
have a problem right because this is her
home state this is where she launched
her campaign she had 20,000 people out
there that's what created quite a stir
if Bernie keeps it close or even could
win California it's gonna go a it's
gonna be that's gonna be a signal to the
rest of the field that they have a
problem I'm here rallying the people
she's rallying a pack well we will get
to that in just a moment but here it is
without a bad life here is uh here is
Bernie Sanders calling for this hoax
report to be released before I begin my
remarks I want to mention to you I think
what most of you already know is that
the Bob Muller investigation was
submitted to the Attorney General
now I haven't read the report yet it
hasn't been made public I think I have
something in my email box right now
we're reading it after this but what I
know is that it is a summary of the
report well I don't want a summary of
the report
I want the whole report because nobody
especially this president is above the
law
there you go the first time we Brady's
been bleeped on this show I really made
it sound like a worse swear that we
actually wasn't just damn report I I
thought I want to read the
told everything
I think he should I think you should
even use certain adjectives I think he
should just bleep himself cuz it sounds
good every good ripoff every single
 die a day that was but that's
perfect
I don't to me that that circles the
square of this whole little argument
about it I mean yeah you know I'm a
critic of a lot of aspects of this that
we kind of went over yesterday but are
you kidding me that's our report and not
only that you also need to immediately
go in the counter offense because
whatever else this story played out
Trump is using this in an attempt to
consolidate his authoritarianism so the
only issue right now for people is
release the thing that's our report
buddy that's our report
