one other story before we go to the the
collars there was an important ruling
this happened I guess actually on the
28th a couple of days ago and again the
implications of of Elections are you
know go far much further I think than we
anticipate and some of the most
important dynamics that implicate policy
in effect the real lives of people
happen at a surface that it you know
below the surface in a way that we can't
see and and this is this story sort of
like combines a couple of things that I
don't think people think about enough so
in 2015 the National Labor Relations
Board which had a majority of
democratically appointed commissioners
because Barack Obama was the president
and they have a five-year terms and
unions have a lot more sway over a
Democratic president even if he never
put his walking shoes on and walked with
them in Wisconsin which was a huge
disappointment but unions have much more
sway over a Democratic president than
they do over a Republican president and
so those labor those commissioners were
very Pro labor and in a a pretty
dramatic ruling in 2015 the NLRB ruled
that companies and franchisors with both
indirect and direct control of employees
could be held liable for labor
violations committed by contractors or
franchisees so what does that mean it
means that the the McDonald's and Canton
Ohio owned by Brendon can be held that
that not only can Brendan be held liable
for punishing people who go out on
strike or for wage theft but McDonald's
headquarters can - because McDonald's
has enough control over what that
franchisee does even though he's the
owner
they set the prices they set a lot of
the standards they have enough control
that they are considered joint employers
this was this particular case was
centered on a business called
browning-ferris in California which is a
recycling company and they contract with
another company to provide workers to
sort and clean the recycled products so
in 2013 a union petitioned the National
Labor Relations Board to represent these
these contractor workers not
browning-ferris but the other company
lead point lead point but also
browning-ferris was named as a joint
employer so this is what these companies
do they hire basically temp agencies so
that they don't have the responsibility
the labor responsibility for these
people and the National Labor Relations
Board said no you can't get away with
that the Trump administration and is
obviously against that ruling has tried
to reverse it can't on its own they were
taken to court
well the DC Circuit Court a panel of
three judges just ruled 2 and 1/2 to 1
in favor of the National Labor Relations
boards ability and responsibility to
hold employers in that situation as
jointly liable for labor violations etc
etc and there's two things you should
know about this
one is the Trump national labor
relations board cannot reverse this in
fact they have a responsibility a
statutory responsibility to rule in this
way and so there is legal leverage
anytime they don't going forward but to
the judges the two-to-one decision in
this panel of judges were appointed by
Obama the reason why they were able to
appoint these judges and if it goes to
the entire on bunk as they say of the DC
Circuit Court the reason why they will
lose their - is because Harry Reid got
rid of the filibuster when Republicans
were refusing to seat more judges on
that court it was for four they wouldn't
seat the other three judges it's
supposed to have 11 members they said
that's eight is plenty this is the most
important court we've talked about this
court a lot this is one of the most
important courts after the Supreme now
this is the most important Court in the
country after the Supreme Court and in
some ways it's more important because it
deals with a lot more cases and the
reason why this is going to stand for
labor is because a Democrat with whom I
had many many policy disagreements was
there so in that Canton Ohio McDonald's
they're gonna be subject to two wage
increases or they're not gonna be able
to punish their workers for going out on
strike like fight for 15 there's going
to be a lot of justice for workers
because of this now it's possible it
could go to the Supreme Court and we now
have a republican-controlled Supreme
Court it's conceivable they'll overturn
it but I imagine if that happens it
won't happen for a couple of years and
who knows but these are the implications
of all of these things that happened
years ago that will have implications
going years forward and it's important
to be aware of like you know much of the
governing that happens happens on this
level and you know unless you read the
National Law Review you're not gonna see
it or I guess the intercept also
reported on Rachel Cohen did
