[Music]
the sort of narrative that has continued
on through that and this was of course
the the Talib Meadows dust-up as it were
where mark Meadows had found the
african-american who works for the
trumpet organization and brought her to
the hearing to prove that Donald Trump
was not racist exactly and to leave of
course said you know that's sort of
racist that you would do that and then
Meadows started to pretend to cry
because he knows that he's not racist
he's never uttered a racist thing in his
life he has nieces and nephews who are
people of color and then unfortunately
for him
videotape exists and there was multiple
clips of him basically saying we're
gonna send barack obama back to kenya it
was exhausting doing this segment
yesterday because everything you get
into the riff i and i'd be like all
right so there's mark meadows saying
that and then I would go and they'd be
like no no there's actually another clip
right and so here is Mark Meadows now
having to explain why he said this race
Oh would you have one more clip of it we
did play this one yesterday they did how
long is it it's it's shorter one let's
just play the short one and then we'll
go back to his response right just a few
minutes to talk with you and shared a
few things but you know it's interesting
when the more we find out the more we
realize how wrong the direction we're
going and so what we're going to do is
take back our country 2012 is the time
then we're going to send mr. Obama home
to Kenya or wherever it is we're going
to do
now Barack Obama of course was is an
American and well it doesn't look like
one apparently that was mark Meadows but
what let's before we judge him let's ask
him why he was starting his campaign
speeches by implying that that Barack
Obama should go back to Africa it was
early on in the primary and and
certainly it didn't indicate any
personal malice that I would have any
president previous or sitting president
anyone who knows me knows that there is
not a racial bone in my body not a
racial bone and yeah they'd said I don't
have the extra racial bone that makes
you be able to swim no I'm sorry I'm
sorry
oh that's racist to ask Elijah Cummings
don't judge me
on my actions judge me on the contents
of my bones right is literally like look
I just use race as a campaign tactic not
primary
down my sweet little nieces down and I
said listen Oh your uncle's gonna need
to say some things over the next couple
of weeks this is a primary he also says
it's not about personal mouth to Obama
but people aren't saying it's because
you're mean to Obama it they're saying
it's because you have Mouse towards a
race because that's right that's right I
mean he couldn't have been more sort of
naked Li non denying denying they're
right survives from him a little
what didn't know what does that mean
okay red face screaming right cuz they
emotionally unstable a profound midlife
crisis I mean Asians for other people
it's extraordinary and on some level
like you know Elijah Cummings should
come out it seems to me and say like I'm
a little bit disappointed to see that
video at the very least he there should
be a coda to this where he says like
yeah I gave them
her in the hearing and yes we're good
friends and but he put him in a bad spot
he was like saying you know mr. mr.
Chairman I was mostly mr. speaker mr.
chairman you can vouch for me right was
he gonna do no I can't actually even
though we have drinks the key you are
extremely race been like your good guy I
would say your racial not racist the
paraphrase Omarosa anyways I I think
though I think Elijah Cummings legit and
I know some people don't like this but
he is a Christian like honestly like
that's the whole way that exchange like
and with a lot of things he did on that
committee he's trying very hard to take
his faith seriously I mean if Cummings
did bodyslam him at that moment it would
have made it all worth it like actually
building their relational yeah he's also
now you realize we never were friends it
was all the build-up honky Democrats
2019 I don't want to blow past the fact
though that the the the reason why Mark
Meadows has to spend the next two days
defending the fact that he's not a
racist which you know is a it's a
difficult task for him is because
Rasheeda Talib had the the the
wherewithal and the strength clarity to
say this in a hearing where I don't
think that we have ever had a class of
of Congress people which would include
people who would do this on a regular
basis at least not in in the past 20-30
years I mean you you had people you know
call out Jeff Sessions but it was a more
formalized process this was like she was
just commenting on something that
happened in the committee didn't have
you know it was obviously off-the-cuff
and good for her but this is important
right yeah well I you know I part of
Pelosi shrewdness about you know I guess
I don't know how involved she is in
committee assignments but or the party
shrewdness is they put a cause
Cortez a Jana Presley receded to leave
these strong progressives on the
Oversight Committee so that they could
be just constantly attacking Republicans
as opposed to a lot of people were
really concerned about AOC especially
highlighting the hypocrisy and
criticizing the Democratic Party but it
is so nice to see these deeply
progressive Congress people like Roe
kana and the people I just listed have
this platform to go after the Trump
administration they can be the Bulldogs
and at the same time they'll still be
critical of the Democratic Party
so it's deeply refreshing and I think
that their interrogations or they're not
interrogations their questioning was the
most effective and the most memorable
out of all the the questioning and there
is a a broader context in which they're
raising these issues right like that
it's not just simply Trump bad or
Republicans bad it is there is a
foundation of a a proactive politics
from which this criticism comes like if
this was a Senate hearing and Cory
Booker was on the committee he'd spend
80% of it talking about himself and not
letting people answer questions but
Acacio Cortes especially was just trying
to get to the facts and I found that
refreshing
